The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015035394140
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.











*
    PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
                                   COMPREHENDING
            THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                    THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                                             AND
                                   COMMERCE.
                  BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
   HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY,                          &C. &C. &C.
     "  Nec aranearum    sane textus  ideo  melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nec noster
                                           "
  vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes       Just. Lips. Mmit. Petit, lib. i. cap. I.
                                     VOL. XIX.
                                     LOND        O N:
                  Printed for Alexander                    Tilloch,
                      By R. Taylor, Black- Horie- Court, Fleet-street:
  And   sold by Messrs.    Richardson, Cornhill i Cad ell and Davies, Strand;
        Longman      and   Rees, Pater-nosrer Row; Dxrrett, Piccadilly l
             Morrat, Fleet-street i Stmonds, Pater-noster Row;
                   Bell, Oxford-street; Vernor and Hood,
                      Poultry; Harding, St. James's street l
                          Bell   and  Bradfute,     Edinburgh;
                             Brash   and   Reid,   Glasgow ;
                              and  Gilrert    and  Hodcls,
                                         Dublin.

'
  \

                       CONTENTS
                            OP THE
        NINETEENTH VOLUME.
I. JiESEARCHES          respecting the Action exercised by Ca
   loric on the Vitality   of Animals.    By  Victor Miche*
   LOtti, M.D,                                          Page 3
II.  History of Astronomy for the Year 1803.        Read at the
    College de France by Jerome de Lalande                     10
III.  Letter from    John Flaxman, Esq.       to the Presiden.
   and Council of the Royal Academy of London                .20
IV.   Neiv Method of separating Tin and Copper from Bell-
    Metal. By C. Anfrye, Assay Master of the Mint 36
V. On the supposed new Metal lately discovered in Platina,
   By Jos. Hume, Esq                                           29
VI. Experiments on the Yolk of Wool; ivith some Obser
   vations on tlie Washing and Bleaching of Wool.             By
   M. Vaup.uelin                                               33
VII.   Letter  to Dr. Thornton from Mr. Arthur Aikin
                                                               39
VIII.    Letter to the Editor of tlie Philosophical Magazine,
   by the Author of the Review of Dr. Thornton's Illus
   tration of the Sexual System of Linnceus, given in tlie
   Annual Review                                               39
IX. Experiments to ascertain whether there exists any
   Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
  parately or as Compounds united with tlie Oxide of Iron,
  forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones, By David Mushet,
   Esq. of the Colder Iron-Works                               41
X. A Case of Typhus Fever cured by the Use of Yeast            50
XI. On the best hitherto known Methods of purifying Cobalt
   and Nickel from Bismuth, Arsenic, Iron, and Copper,
   which in general accompany these Metals ; but particu
   larly on the best Metliods of separating Cobalt from
   Nickel, or Nickel from Cobalt } in tlie large Way. By
   Dr. R'ichter                                                51
XII.    Ffteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton, re
   lative to Pneumatic Medicine                         , . . 54
XIII. Description of Mr. William Bowler's improved
    Chum                                                       56
XIV. Report made to the Class of tlie Physical and Ma
   thematical Sciences of the French National Institute, by
   C. Ramond, respecting a Memoir of C. Daubuisson on
   the Basaltes of Saa ony                                     58
                                                  -
Vol. 19. No. 7C. Sept. 1804.         a                XV-    <?»¦*

                        CONTENTS.
XV.     Curious Extracts from old English Books, with
  Remarks which prove, thai the Telescope, &c, were
  known in England, much earlier than in any other
   Country                                                   66
XVI. On the supposed Chemical Affinity of the Ekmeifts of
 .Atmospheric Air : with Remarks upon Dr. Thomson's Ob -
  servations on this Subject                                 79
XVII. On a distinguishing Property between the Galvanic,
  and Electric Fluids.      By Mr. John Cuthbertson '83
XVIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies                      83
XIX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles                 92
XX. Extract from a Memoir ore Platina, by Fourchoy
  and VAuauEi-iN              ,                            117
XXI. On Animal Cotton, and the Insect u hick produces it.
   By M. Baudry des Lozieres                               1 20
XXII. Report made to tlie Class of the Physical and Ma
   thematical Sciences of the French National Institute, by
   C. Kamond, respecting a Memoir ofC Da ubuisson
   an the Basalt es of Saxoriy, concluded                  122
XXIII. A short Account of Mr. Arthur Woolf's Im
   provement in tlie Construction of Steam- Engines    . . 133
XXIV. Experiments to ascertain wlwther there exists any
  Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
  parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
 forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
   Esq. of the Calder Iron-Works                           137
XXV- Dr. Thornton's Second Letter to Mr. Arthur
      Aikin                                                141
XXVI. loiter      from Dr. Thornton, Lecturer on Botany
   at Guy' s Hospital, to Mr. Tilloch, Editor of the Phi
   losophical Magazine                                     144
XXVII.      Qn the Freezing of Water in leaden Pipes, indi
   cating Means for its Prevention; with some Thoughts,
   relative to the increased Temperature of the Earth at
   small Depths.      By G. J. Wright, Esq                 147
XXVIII. Description of a Furnace destined for the Lique
  faction of Copal and Amber. By Professor
                                                Tingry 15$
XXIX. Parallel of Rome de L'Isle's and tlie Abbe
   Hauy's Theories of Crystallography                       159
XXX. On cutting Screws by Mtans of the commwi Turning
    Lathe.    By Robert Healy, A.B                         172
XXXI. On the Catoplrical and Dioptrical Instruments of'
    the Antients                                           1 76
XXXII.      A  Report of tlie Stale of His Majesty's Flock of
 Jlne-woolled Spanish Sheep, for the Year ending Michael
   mas 1803.     By Sir Joseph Banks, P.R.S.       ......  I&q
                   ¦'
                                                XXXIII. II-

                         CONTENTS.
XXXIII.     Illustration of Mr.   Dalton's Theory of the Con*
  stitution of mixed Gases.        By Mr. William Henrv
  of Manchester                                                    193
XXXIV.      Area of   the several    Counties         of England and
  Wales, in square Statute Miles and Acres, as measured on
  the Maps in C. Smith's " New English Atlas, 1804;"
  the Scale given on each Map liavingveen examined, and-
  Correction applied to such of the Scates us were fouudho be
  erroneous.   The Population of each County is annexed, and
  the Number of Persons to each square Mile              19J
XXXV. Notice respecting New Books                        200
XXXVI. Proceedings of Learned Societies                  208,
XXXVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles . . . . 208
XXXVIII. On the Mensuration of Timber. By Mr,
  John Farev                                             21$
XXXIX. Parallel of Rome de L'Isle's and the Abba
  Hauv's Theories of Crystallography                     225}
XL. On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical Instruments of the
  Antients                                               232
XLI. Sixteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
  relative to Pneumatic Medicine                         24f
XLI I. Dr. Thornton's Third Letter to Air. Arthuk
 "Aikin, Editor of the Annual Review                     248
XLIII. Method of preparing the Chinese Soy, by M.
  Grurrens : extracted from the Memoirs of the Academy
  of Sciences at Stockholm for 1803, first Quarter, by
  M. Lindrom, Captain of the Swedish Mines               260
XLIV. Memoir on some rare Fossils           Veslena Nova, in
                                                of'
  the Veronals, not yet described, which were given to the
  Museum        Natural History at Paris
                of                           M. de Gazola.
                                                by
     By Faujas-Saint-Fond                                          263
XLV.  Memoir respecting the State         of
                                         Vegetation on high,
 Mountains.    Read in the National Institute, June 804       1
                                                        268
XLVI. New Melliod           of
                          preparing        in
                                            speedy
                                                 a  Manner
 Nitrous Etlier, without the Application     external Heat.
                                                      of
    Broqnatelli
     By                                                         274
XLVII. Experiments        (0 ascertain ivlietlier there exists any
   Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
   parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide              Iron
                                                              of
  forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
   Esq.     the Colder Iran-Works
          of'                                                   275
XLVIII.     Notices respecting New Books                        283
XLIX. Proceedings      of   Learned and Economical Societies             '
                                                                   283
L.    Miscellaneous Correspondence                                 294
                                                             LI.

                         CONTENTS.
1,1, Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles             29<J
LIl.    An Inquiry concerning the Velocity of the calorific
   Rays which proceed from the Sun, with a View of ascer
   taining the Rate of it experimentally, though it should
   not be far short of the Velocity of Light, &c. &c. 309
LIU.    Account of the Object and Destination of the first
    Voyage round the World undertaken by Russia     .... 321
LIV.    Account of the first Russian Embassy to Japan in the
   Years 1 792 and 1 793                                 327
LV. Experiments to ascertain whether there exists any
   Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se-r
   parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
  forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
   Esq. of the Calder Iron-Works                         339
LVI. On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical Instruments of the
   Antients ; with Hints respecting llieir Revival, Reinven
   tion, or Improvement, in modern Times                 344
LVI I. Osteological Description of the one-horned Rhinor
   ceros, by Cuvier                                      350
LVIII. On the Antiquity of the Gealic Language. By
   Cuthbert Gordon, M.D                                  354
LIX. Fourth Letter from Dr. Thornton, Lecturer an
   Botany at Guy's Hospital, to Mr. Arthur Aikin,
   Editor of the Annual Review ,                         360
LX. Account of a Journey to the Summit of Mont Perdu :
   read in the French National Institute by C. Ramond 364
LXI. Account of an Aerostatic Voyage performed by
   Messrs. Guy-Lussac and Biot. Read in the Mather
   matical and Physical Class of the French National Insti
   tute, August 27, 1904                                 371
LXII. On the fascinating Power of Snakes. By John
   Topj.is, A.M.                                         379
LXIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies                  385
LXIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles    ......  38$
                                                     JNDEX

                                  THE
      PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
 I.    Researches respecting the    Action exercised ty Caloric on
      the Vitality of Animals.        By VICTOR MICHELOTTI,
          M.JD.*
 A HK necessity of caloric for         the maintenance of life has
 at all times been acknowledged        f
                                       in consequence of the in
                                           :
  genious experiments of Haller on irritability, which showed
  with what facility caloric excites the irritable parts of ani-
  inais, a very eminent exciting property has been ascribed
  to it.
     If the motion of the irritable parts increases in the ratio
  of the degree or of the dose of the irritants applied, every
  other circumstance being equal, it is no less certain that
."by heating the irritable parts their motion is increased.     It
  has also been found that the application of caloric to excite
  an animal or an irritable part ought only to be made by de
  grees, especially if the living being is in a state of torpor ;
  which agrees with what has been observed in regard to cer
  tain known excitants ; for to bring by their means a living
  being to a state of less excitement it is necessary to proceed
  only by degrees in removing the excitants. But caloric in
  this respect presents one difficulty to be resolved.
     From the Journal di Physique, 1'rnmairc, an. n.
      *
      t
      What Cicero says in his sublime work De Naiura Deorum, is very
 remarkable: — Sic enim res se habet, ut omnia qua alantur et quz cres-
cant, contineant in se vim caloris, sine qua nee ali possent nee crcscere ;
'i mi omne quod est calidum et igneum cietur et agitur motu suo; quod
-j linn alitur etcrescit, motu quodam utiturccrto et zquabili; qui quam-
diu rcmanet in nobis, tamdiu sensus et vita remanet; refrigerate autem eC
extincto calorc, occidimus ipsi et extinguimur     ....  Jam vero venae et
arteria: micare non desinunt, quasi quodam igneo motu ; animadversumque
szpe est cum cor animantis1 alicujus evulsum ita mobiliter palpi taret ut
imitaretur igncam celeriratem.     Omne igitur quod vivit sive animal si.-e
terra edirmn. id vivit propter inclusum in eo caiorem.    Etc. — lib.
                                                                    ii.9.
      VOL. XIX. No.                 A3                               The
                                               '
                       73.
         June 1804.

4              On the Action exercised by Caloric
  The experiments of the celebrated Hunter are well known*
By these he-found that several living'beings are more injured
by a successive and slow passage' to cold than by a rapid
change of temperature.      It is known that Hewson observed
that blood rapidly frozen still possesses the property of coa
gulating, which never takes place if it has been frozen
slowly.     It is certain that the arguments of Hunter for a
certain vitality in the blood, deserve the attention of phy
siologists.
    M. Dufay*     and the celebrated        Blumenbacht        have had
 occasion to observe that salamanders and frogs speedily
 frozen are preserved alive in the midst of ice, for they
.may be brought to life by exposing them slowly to heat.
 Besides, it is a fact well known that the men in several of
 the northern nations, after they have heated themselves
 thoroughly, immediately plunge into cold water, or even
 into snow, without arty inconvenience J.
     Whatever method may be taken to explain this phaena-
 menon, it appears to me that it must always be admitted
 that a sudden passage to cold can be followed only by a
 privation of caloric greater and more rapid, according as the
 two temperatures to which the bodies are successively ex
 posed are more distant, that is to say, when there is always
 a sudden removal of an excitant.
     Since the action of caloric does not here correspond with
 what has been observed in regard to other excitants, the re
 moval of which is the more dangerous to animals the spee
           is,
 dier it   it     will be necessary to seek for the cause in the
 action itself which caloric exercises on living beings. But
 before wc deduce from these facts the consequences which
  might overturn the opinion commonly entertained of the
 action of caloric> and which seems to be supported                     bya
  great number of experiments)       Ithink    necessary to make
                                               it
  better known, and more directly, what takes place to ani
 mals deprived slowly or rapidly of the caloric necessary for
  the state of life.
     The object here   in view will be only the caloric necessary
  for the state of life, and not that which       necessary for an
                                                 is
  organized being to retain its vitality, as         may be in the
                                                    it
• latter state, without being what      called alive.
                                       is
     To ascertain what would happen to animals during                        a
  slow transition to cold,     itappeared to me at first that in
        Mem.  de l'Acad. <ks Sciences Ac Paris 1729, p. 135.
    *
    f  Blumenbachii   Specimen Physiologic Ojinparats, &c.     j   Gotting,c
. 17H7, p.,XO.
    J  Coxc's Travels.
                                                                       setts

                   on the  Vitality of Animals.                   5
sects would be very convenient for my experiments, because,
as it was necessary that they should be comparative, I should
thus be enabled to. try several animals at the same time and
under a similarity or circumstances.
    The first which I tried were caterpillars of the phalcenia
chrysvlea.    The most favourable temperature for these ani
mals is between + 10 and + 20' '*, and the further it is di
stant from, temperate the less vivaceons they are, till they
become .entirely torpid at + 2, Oj &c.           I took twelve of
the most lively of a multitude of these caterpillars and made
them pass from the temperature- of -f 5°, at which they
were, to that of + 2°, O and — 2°, always. Reaving the
space of a quarter of an hour between each temperature.
Having left them at + 2° for four hours, 1 brought them,
in equal spaces of time, to -f- 16% in order to excite them
to life : but my attempt was fruitless, since the heat of the
tire was not able to produce in them any vital motion.
    But as my phaloenae were killed, by a slow passage from.
heat to cold, it was necessary to examine what would be
the'case by a rapid transition.      For this purpose I conveyed
twelve other caterpillars, as lively as the former, from a
place the temperature of which was -f 5° to another where
it rose to + 7°, in order to render more sensible the rapid
passage to that to which I intended to make them descend.
I then took the small phial in which they were and im
mersed it suddenly in pounded ice at — 2°.              Having left
them in this state for four hours, I gradually raised the
small phial, in which they remained completely torpid, to.
the temperature of + 16°, at which they gave signs of. life.
    I repeated these experiments on other caterpillars, with
results entirely similar.    I at length made the same experi
ments on spiders; but as they are much less sensible of
cold, it was necessary to keep them a longer time in a cold
temperature.      The results, however, were similar to those
given me by caterpillars.
   Sometimes I raised tlife temperature of the spiders to
 •f 30°, at which they were exceedingly lively, and then
threw them speedily into phials immersed to the neck in
pounded ice.      I always observed that these spiders returned
sooner to life than those which passed as speedily to cold,
but which had proceeded from a temperature much lower.
    It was therefore sufficiently confirmed that these animals
were more injured by being slowly rather than rapidly de
prived of caloric. But it was of importance to ascertain what
            *                     thermometer is intended.
              Probably Reaumur's
                               A   3                         would

6                On the Action exercised by Caloric
would take place during a continued privation of the ca
loric necessary for the state of life. This might serve to
explain whether the real death of animals rendered torpid
by cold arises from the want of that caloric necessary to the
state of life, or rather from the manner in which they are
deprived of it. I thought it necessary also to ascertain what
would take place by rendering torpid and reviving alter
nately the animals, or by making them to pass slowly from
heat to cold, and from cold to heat, or rapidly from heat to
cold.       •
   '
     Being desirous of subjecting animals to these three dif
ferent circumstances, I employed ants.         It is well known
 that these insects pass the whole winter in a state of torpor
 in their hills : those which I subjected to experiment were
 inclosed in the large trunk of an oak, where, notwithstand
 ing the severe cold, they were not in a state of great torpor.
     I exposed to the north during winter nineteen of these
 ants in a flask in such a manner that they should receive
 none of the sun's rays. During the warmest hours, the
 thermometer indicated + 5° and — 2° for the mean cold.
 These animals, in consequence of the continued cold, re
 mained in a state of perfect torpor during seven days.         On
 the eighth day 1 resolved to recal them to life by subjecting
 them gradually to the influence of heat; and I had the plea
 sure to see them all return to life.
     At the same time I exposed nineteen others to the open
  south, where the highest temperature in the sun was + 2.1)0,
 while in the shade it was only, -f 5° or + 6°, and the great
  est mean cold — 2°.      In this manner the ants were alter
  nately and slowly thrown into a state of torpor at sunset,
  and revived at sunrise.     On the eighth day I exposed them
  gradually to heat; and recalling some of them in this man
  ner to life, I found eight of them dead.      By these facts it is
  seen that in the first experiment the privation of the caloric
  necessary to the state of life was not fatal to ants though
  continued for a considerable time, but rather the slow        pri
  vation of     which they daily experienced,
          I it
      Before   proceed to other facts I   must take notice of the
  state of weakness into which living beings fall after the
  state of torpor.    It   to facts of this kind that
                           is                         I reduce the
  ingenious experiments of the celebrated Hunter, who ob
  served that blood, eggs, ike. freeze more readily after they
  have been once frozen.
      Not being well acquainted with the method of preserving
  ants alive,
            I     had left them all exposed to the open south
    iu
     a  flask, hoping that the beneficent rays of the sun would
                                                           preserve

                      on the  Vitality of Animals.                      J
 preserve them alive much          rather than a temperature con
 stantly cold.
     One may readily foresee that the fate of these ants, which
 I had thus collected for other experiments, would not be
 more fortunate than that of those which, for the bake of
 comparison, I had purposely exposed to the south ; that i$
 tp say, the mortality daily increased, and the vitality of the
 living ones was so much weakened that thsy could not re
 sist, with the same force, a continued state of torpor, and
 still less an alternate change of temperature.
     It was no doubt for the same reason that the attempts of
 M. Gleditsh * and others to preserve in life, swallows, larks,
 frogs, &c. after they were revived from their state of torpor
 proved ineffectual ; since this kind of weakness, which arise's
 in consequence of the torpor, takes from animals the strength
  necessary to resist new cold, and therefore in this state of
 weakness a small excitant may be mortal.
     1 shall   now relate the three last experiments which I
 made on these ants.
     Seventeen ants, contained in one flask, having remained
 for seven hours in a state of torpor exposed to the north,               -
 I revived them to life on the eighth day, and found sixteen
 of them alive : of seventeen ants contained in the second
 flask, which had been exposed to the south, two only on
 the eighth day were found alive.
    The third flask contained seventeen ants also. As soon
 as the sun appeared on the horizon I exposed                 the flask,
 and when the ants were well heated, the thermometer being
 often at + 25°, I immediately immersed the flask up to
 the neck in pounded ice.          I kept it in this state during the
 night   at  a c6ld  which   was   several  times — • 2°, until the sun
 had again risen.       The ants were exposed seven times suc
cessively to this rapid change of temperature.                1 recalled
them to life every day before I exposed them to the solar
 rays ; and on the eighth day, having attempted the same
 thing, I found thirteen of the seventeen alive.
     If we therefore take into consideration these last experi
 ments, in which the same insects were tried in three different
 ways, it is seen that if 9-9 in 100 died of those who were
 preserved in a state of torpor on account of the cold conti
 nued for eight days, 88-2 in 100 die of those who are sub
jected to an alternate and slow privation ot caloric, and that
 25- 5 in 100 die of those who have been suddenly and altcr-
 pately deprived of the calorie necessary to the state of 'd'e,
                    *
                       Mem.  de 1'Acad.  dc Berlin, 1769.
                                    A  4                           Suck

8                6n tht Action   exercised by Caloric
    Such are the results which I obtained by trying the action
of caloric on     insects : I shall here add what I observed in
regard    to frogs, reserving far another occasion my experi
ments on other animals.
    It is well known that Spallanzani several times reduced
frogs to a state of torpor even after depriving them of their
blood, heart, &c, and recalled them to life.           In repeating
the curious experiments of that philosopher, I thought pro
per to make the following variations : — I separated the thighs
of a frog by two cuts, and then buried them both in pounded
ice.     I in like manner took the heart, still palpitating, and
immersed it also in ice. At the end of an hour all these
        appeared to me to be exceedingly torpid and stiff: the
   cart not only had lost all motion, but on touching it with
Earts
a pin it seemed as rigid as the rest.          I threw one of the
thighs into water which was at + 20°: it manifested no
 sensible motion, and was also entirely pale.         I exposed the
other thigh slowly to caloric : it retained its colour, and
 even showed some signs of irritability.         In the last place,
the heart, an organ highly irritable, having been slowly ex
 posed to heat, resumed its motion, which was not weakened
 and did not cease till an hour after it had. begun to move.
    But it is still more remarkable that if vital beings do not
 return to life but when they have been speedily deprived of
 the necessary caloric, this law should be .general, as ani
 mals exposed to excessive heat do not return to life but
 when their temperature is rapidly changed. As this may
 be easily conceived, I shall mention only one example.
     Of four lively frogs, which appeared to be of the same
 age, exposed in water to a heat equal to + 35°, a degree
 fatal to these animals, onlv two, which were immersed sud
 denly at that temperature in water at + 16°, were recalled
 to life. It is always, therefore, a sudden privation of caloric
 which leaves organic bcinus in a state susceptible of life.
     Since our present knowledge of physiology inclines us to
 admit an identic vital principle throughout the whole of
 Jiving nature, it is very probable that the general laws of
 vitality are the same in all living beings, and particularly
 in animals.       For this reason, facts which relate to one only
  of the universal agents, such at calorie, cannot fail of being
  applicable to several other living beings. For if attention
  be paid to the difference which there is, for example, be
  tween the oeconomy of the spider and that of a caterpillar,
  one will be convinced that an a<jcnt which exercises its ac-.
  t;on in a manner altogether similar on these two species of
                                                            animals,

                        on the  Vitality of Animals.                     g
animals, ought not to vary much in its manner of acting
on others.
    In making experiments on ants, spiders, frogs, &c.,                  I
have found,
    1st, That       I  may consider as highly applicable to my ani
mals what was observed by Hunter and Hewson in other
vital beings, such as pullets' eggs, and even blood, which
one might suppose to have no relation to living beings if
this grand and universal principle, which communicates life
to all organic beings did not give, even in the blood, signs
of   its existence.
    2d, By inquiring directly what would take place in dif
 ferent temperatures,         I have sufficiently proved, in my opi
 nion, that we must not seek for the reason of the preserva
 tion of life during sudden transitions from one temperature
to another, but in the speedy privation of caloric.
    To explain the phenomena here related, I find myself
 obliged to recur to three hypotheses, and to consider caloric
first   as a   particular excitant.
     1st,   It   seems    to me that we must' admit that the slow
privation of caloric         produces a greater debility than rapid
 privation.        It is well known that an animal when kept
very warm, well clothed, &c., may resist more the debili
 tating causes ; but it is true that in this case the animal
 contains a greater quantity of excitants, and for a similar
 reason a greater degree of excitability ought to be ascribed to
.oxygenated animals *. Is it therefore a greater or less loss of
 the exciting caloric that deprives animals of liie or preserves
it ? But then it is seen that animals exposed to cold and at
equal temperatures during a considerable time, ought to have
lost only that quantity of caloric which is indicated by the
 temperature,         yet so great is the difference between them.
    2cl,   If   caloric be considered only as a modification of
 matter, a kind of motion for example, I can the less con
 ceive that the animal should be colder.              But how are ani
 mals preserved in life by losing in a speedier manner this
 kind of movement ? It is because the organic parts, by the.
 help of a slow change, assume dispositions which they
 could not acquire by a sudden privation.
    3d, A similar explanation may be given if we consider
 caloric as a matter which disposes living beings to motion
 and sensation.
    * I  shall make some observations hereafter on these facts, which have
 been treated in an able manner by     Dr. Bcddoes and M. Socquet.
                                                              II. History

                             t  10    ]
 II. History of Astronomy for      the Year 1803.   Read at th«
         College de France by   Jerome De Lalande.        -
                     [Concluded  from p. 221.]
 Astronomical geography this year has mad? some pro
 gress, particularly at New Holland.        This immense part
 of the world, which contains almost five hundred thousand
 square leagues of surface, might alone maintain four hun
 dred and fifty millions of inhabitants, which is more than
 half the number on the whole earth : This is sufficient to
 show the importance of the voyage.
     Captain Baudin, who set out on the 13th of October
  1800, from Havre-de-Grace,        wrote on the 12th of No
 vember 1802, that he had sufficiently explored, for the se->
 curity of navigation, Lewin's-Land, Concordia and De
 Witt's Land, cf'Entrecasteaux's      Channel, the island Ma
 ria, the eastern coast of the large island of Van Diemen,
 Basse's and Banks's Straits, and the whole of the south
 west coast of New Holland, from Cape Wilson to the
 islands of St. Peter and St, Francis. He proposed to direct
his course through Basse's Straits, in order to explore a large
 island discovered by English fishermen, King's Island,
 Kangaroo Islands on the south-west coast of New Holland,
the southern part of which neither he nor captain Flinders
were able to examine, and 'he expected to go thence to the
islands of St. Peter and St. Francis, to ascertain the direc
tion of the continent in that part which is unknown to him j
then to proceed to Lcwin's Island, to terminate the labour
of the large Bay De Geographe, and then to Dc Witts's
Land, the northern coast of New Holland and Carpentaria.
They hope to return in a year. If all this is not performed,
it will not be the fault of the astronomer Bermer; for he
possesses all the ze<d and ability which I announced when
I proposed him for the expedition, which I did with great
regret.
    The French have admired the immense labours performed
by the English during the twelve years they have been
established in Port Jackson ; and the splendour and opulence
of this colony, formed near our antipodes, which is the
fruit of a large navy, by which they can easily unite the
extremities of the universe, and which will long be\vanting
to the prosperity of France.       The observations of Bemicr
at New Holland, from the 27th of May 1802, are indicated
i» the Monitcur of August 15, 1803.            The examination
                                                             of

           History of Astronomy for    tlie Year 1803.       11
Of the whole southern coast, which is owing entirely to
France, has been completed.
     Captain Hamelin set out from Port, Jackson on the IQth
of November 1802. On the Qth of December he separated
from Captain Baudin to return to France with a collection
of natural history and curious animals, an account of which
has been given to the Institute by M. Lacepede.        This phi
losopher    is of opinion,  that there  must  be in the midst of
this immense country a sea like the Caspian ; but no infor
mation has yet been obtained in regard to the interior parts
of it.
     Bernier has sent me an observation of the transit of Mer
cury, made at New Holland.         He. concludes his letter by
 saying,
           " I beg of you, my dear master, not to forget your
 pupil, who, at the extremities of the world, renews to you
 the assurances of lasting respect and gratitude."       In this
 manner my ardent zeal for astronomy has sometimes pro
 cured to me great enjoyment, in which self-love is not the
 least sensation, but it is not the only one.
     This long voyage to New Holland is not the only one of
 which Lhave to speak : — On the 9th of August two Russian
 ships, the Hope and the Neva, captain Rasanon, set out on
 a voyage round the world. They will proceed to Brasil,
 Chili, the South Sea, Japan, and to China. There are on
 board naturalists and artists, who will enlarge geography
  and natural history.
      Captain Krusenstern, destined to circumnavigate the
  globe, has received from the emperor of Russia an estate
  worth three thousand rubles per annum.          The minister,,
  count Romanzof, has requested from M. Von Zach- an as
  tronomer for the expedition.
      The astronomer Homer writes from the island of Tene-
  riffe, October 25th, " Baron Von Humboldt, one of the
  most learned and most intrepid travellers that ever existed,
  after having visited the unknown parts of South America,
  says, in a letter dated November 25th, 1802, that he had
  traversed the snows of the Cordillera, to go to the province
  of Quito. On the 23d of June 1802, he was at Pinchincha
   and Chimborazo, at the height of 3015 toises, which is
   only 236 toises below the summit.       No person was ever at
   such a height before; the blood issued from his eyes and his
   lips ; he experienced retching, and an uneasiness which
   continued several days after this terrible journey." Yes
   terday M. Delambre received a letter of the 19th of July,
   from Mexico: — With M. Bonplan he has formed a herbal
   of six thousand plants. He has been of equal use to geo
                                                          graphy,

    12         History of Astronomy     for  the Year 1803..
    graphy. He hoped he should be able to return in the spring
    of  1 804, to publish the immense and valuable collection of
    observations he has made in the course of five years.
       The taste for travelling into Africa, which I strongly re
    commended, has continued to produce curious enterprises :
   —M. Domingo Badia, a Spaniard, sent by the Prince of
   Peace, caused himself to be circumcised, and assumed the
•
   name of Ali-Beik-Abdallah, that he might travel in greater
   security.     M. Durand, celebrated by his work on Africa,
   has communicated to me the observation of an eclipse at
   Tanger, and I have deduced from it the longitude.            This
   new Mussulman is at present in unknown deserts, where,
   supported by his zeal, he braves want, sufferings, and dan
   gers.    The depot of war, under the direction of general
   Sanson, continues its labours for geography; and details,
   respecting it may be seen in the Moniteur for Novem
   ber 9, 1803.       Five numbers of its memoir, for the instruc
   tion of geographical engineers, have beqn published.           M..
   Henry continues the map of Helvetia; Tranchot that of the
   four departments of the left bank of the Rhine; Nouet that
   of Savoy. Engineers are now employed on maps of Ha-,
  nover and the island of Elba.
      The maps of Bavaria and of Swabia will soon be con
  nected with that of France.         The fifty sheets of the map of
  Egypt     are  finished,  and  the  map of the Morea, on which,
  MYBarbier de Boccage. has been employed with, that know
  ledge of which he has given so many proofs.
      M. Lapie has published a beautiful map of general Bo
  naparte's expedition in Italy, from the passage of the Great
  Saint Bernard on the J 4th of May 1800, to the battle of
  Marengo on the 14th of June.
      On the 25th of December 1802, the vice-president of
  the Italian republic decreed that the three astronomers, de
  Brera, Oriani de Caesaris, and Reggio, shall continue the
  map of the Milanese, begun in 1788, and measure an arc
 of the meridian. They set out in the month of May to
 erect a portable observatory        at the extremity of the base
 measured in 1788.          They observed with a repeating circle
 which wc gave them, the angles employed for the map of
 Lombardy.         They will unite their measurement         to that
 which general Von Zaeh, brother of our celebrated astro
 nomer, made in the Venetian territory ; and with the tri
 angles of Beccaria in Piedmont, of fathers le Mai re and
Boscovich in the states of the church, and of Tranchot in
 Corsica.       Brassier is charged with the details.
     The legislative body of the Italian republic. has decreed
                                                                 the

            tlistory of Astronomy for  the Year 1803.         13
the establishment of the decimal measures ; the more ne
 cessary as Italy had in its measures an inexplicable variety)
 as may be ?een in my Travels in Italy.
    The king of Spain has ordered a map of his states to be
 constructed by a body of geographical engineers, under the
 direction of M. Ximenes.        We have already maps of all
the coasts j but it will require a long time to survey the in
 terior.   M, Chaix, an able Spanish astronomer, will be the
 first co*operator.    M. Megnie, an ingenious mathematical
 instrument maker, has settled at Madrid, and will furnish
 the necessary instruments.
     The king of Prussia and the elector of Saxony, desirous
 ef having maps of their states, M. Von Zach, who is at
 the head of this labour, will take advantage of it to measure
 a degree of longitude which is still wanting notwithstanding
 the efforts made for that purpose by Cassini.
    Since the longitude of Brest and Manheim is known, it
 appears to me, that, by applying the measurements made in
 France, we might have the 13° of longitude which there are
 under the 4Qth parallel to a six hundredth part, or 60 toises
 nearly for a degree ; but we ought to obtain greater precision,
 and the chief of the state waits only for peace to procure
 to the sciences this new benefit.
     In the month of August, Baron Von Zach established
-himself with Brug on the mountain called the Bracken, at
the height of 550 toises. He made signals with gun-powder
from the top of a tower ; they were seen at the distance of
 thirty-three leagues.    The astronomers took different posts,
and they were joined by Prussian officers, who served an ap
prenticeship at Gotha.       They were provided with sextants,
artificial horizons, achromatic telescopes, and chronometers.
They were able to take corresponding heights within half a
•second, and they observed by their chronometers the signals
made by night, and by day at convenient moments.             M.
Von Zach kindled only half a pound of gun-powder each
time. In the day the explosion and flame were seen at the
distance of thirty-three leagues, by means of a small com
mon telescope, which magnified only twenty times ; in the
•night they were seen by the naked eye.         The duchess of
Gotha, who is short-sighted, saw these fires in her garden,
•between nine and ten at night, without the assistance of a
telescope; they appeared like lightning, though the di
stance is nearly twenty-three leagues in a straight line. The
principal places which baron Von Zach has determined, and
\vhere there are observers, are the towns of Magxlcbourg,
lialberstadt, Quidlembourg, Bernberg, Coethen7 Dessau,
                            5                            Cassel,

   )4       History of Astronomy for     the Year 1803.
  Cassel, Brunswick, Wolfenbuttel, Helmstadt, Wernigorde,
  Ilsemburg, Naumburg, Leipsig, the mountains of Peters-
  berg near Halle, Weissenstein, the Meisner in Hesse, the
  Gleichen near Gottingen, and the Possen near Sonder-
  hausen. Each place will be determined by at least thirty or
  forty observations. Thus the celestial arc of the parallel
  will be perfectly determined. He will repeat the same
  thing in another manner the next year. Baron Von Zach
  expects that he shall be able to proceed gradually to Nime-
  guen, which is six degrees towards the west in the fifty*
  second parallel.    No arc of longitude will have ever been
 measured with so much precision.          The case will be the
  same with the meridian or the Brocken.       There are already
  three hundred observations     of latitude with a multiplying
 circle of nineteen inches made by Lcnoir, to whom we
 are indebted for the largest and best instruments of this
 kind. He has just constructed one for Palermo, in Sicily,
 where M. Piazzi proposes to measure a degree; but artists
 of this kind are still too few at Paris. M. Jecker has made
 several reflecting circles and sextants for the navy.     Baron
 Von Zach employed the sun and the eagle, and he found a
 singular agreement : the results will appear in his journal.
 Thirty observations, made indiscriminately, gave him the
 same second as three hundred : he measured a base of a
 thousand toises to within an inch.        Such extensive opera
 tions have never been conducted with so much exactness.
     Messrs. Goldbach and Seyftert have determined six places
 of the electorate of Saxony during an astronomical tour,
 undertaken for the purpose of observing the signals by fire
 which baron Von Zach made on the Brocken. I shall men
 tion only the two principal towns: Eisleben 51° S27 30"
 and 8' 45" in time-to the west of the meridian of Dresden;
 Merseburg 51° 21' 33" and l' 29" to the west of the meri
 dian of Leipzic.       The last determination is exceedingly
 exact, having been verified by the result of a trigonome
 trical measurement begun by M. Goldbach, and, for which
 he had been collecting for several years the best instruments;
 namely, a toise made by Lenoir ; a repeating circle by the
 same artist ; a sextant by Ramsden ; a circle by Baumann ;
 a, steel chain of
                    fifty feet, constructed like that made by
 Ramsden for general Roy's measurement ; a clock by Syr-
 fert, and a travelling time-piece that beats half seconds.
 It is much to be regretted that so zealous and able an ama
teur as M. Goldbach, can devote only a small part of his
time to astronomy.       The chronometer he employed in this
journey was made by M. Syffert. .
                                                             The

            History of Astronomy for        the Year 1803.         15
    The history of meteorology is every year connected with
that of astronomy : but this year meteorology has furnished
remarkable phenomena : the equinoctial winds have been,
little felt, and the autumnal rains were very weak.
    The tide at the end of March ought to have been exceed*
ingly strong, according to the theory of Laplace. Traulee>
of Abbeville paid attention to this object at that place,
 and sent curious observations         to the Board of Longitude^
M. Maignon        observed   the   tides  at Brest: precautions had
 been   taken,   and indeed   if the  west wind had been strong we
 should have had inundations. We request from every quar
 ter observations on the tides ; and during my journeys to
 Cherburg and Ostend I had the pleasure this year of seeing
 that scales of the tides are preparing.          I received observa*
 tions from M. Caron, a lieutenant in the navy at Ostend;
 and I have been a witness to his assiduity and correctness.
     The thermometer this year was only once at 12°30'of
 cold, or 43° of my new thermometer.              The heat was of ai
 long continuance as it was extraordinary : the drought lasted
  three months and a half, yet the heat was only 29° 30', or
  37° of- my new thermometer; while in 1753, 1765, and
  j 793, it was at 42° : but the duration of it occasioned one
  of the hottest summers we have had for a century. If                I
  speak of my new thermometer, it is because the division I
  have adopted, which is more philosophical, more natural,
  simpler, and more convenient, contains numbers easier to
  be retained : every body speaks of 30 and 40 ; and it hap--
   pens, by a singular chance, that these numbers 30 and 40
   are those which express the moderate and scorching sum
   mers, the mild and severe winters, the degrees of heat and
   of cold. These numbers hitherto decried will be ennobled
   by becoming the key of the thermometric science.                Our
   ablest artist for this kind of instruments, M. Mossy, known
   by his excellent and accurate works, has undertaken to con
   struct my thermometers, and flatters himself he shall be
   able to extend the use of them.
      M. Thulis has sent us observations of the barometer,
   which give for the mean height at the borders of the sea
   28 inches 2-8 lines, instead of 2-2 lines which I found as
   the mean of several determinations.          M. Burckhardt found
   from 2-2 lines to 2'8*.        There still remains an uncertainty
   of half, a line in regard to this fundamental determination
    of meteorology. It exists even at Paris ; for the thermo
    meters at the observatory indicate half a line more than that
                  '
                    Connoinance   des Temps,  an 13. p. 349.
                                                                      of

     16        History of Astronomy     for  the Year 1803.
   <of  M. Fleurieu   and mine, which were made      with the greatest
    care.
        The water of the Seine sunk lower than ever before ob
    served.    It has been seen lower than the zero at the Pont
   de la Tournelle, or the low water of 1719.          In 1731, Sep
   tember 23d, it was 5£ inches; in 1742, between the 7th
   •end 14th of September, 3 inches;         in 1753, from Septem
   ber 28th to October 1st, l inch; in 1766, December 5th,
   2 inches; in 1757, January 1st, 3i inches; in 1778, Sep
   tember 8th, 4 inches; in 1800, August 8th, 6k inches;
   and in 1803, from the 12th to the 15th of September, it
  fell to 10 inches, according to M. Fiot, inspector of the sa
   lubrity of the prefecturate.      The year concluded with a very
 extraordinary phenomenon, — the hurricaneof December 28,
  •—which unroofed houses, overturned chimneys, and tore up
  trees by the roots, in a manner never before known at Paris.
       Mr. Wheatcroft, an Englishman, settled at Caen, and
  who has made many observations on the variation of the
  magnetic needle, has sent us a memoir on the aurorae bo-
  reales.    He has observed some of the most remarkable ; the
 nucleus or focus of which seemed to be in that place of the
 heavens which corresponds with the magnetic pole : I gave
 the position of this pole in lat. 77° and fong. 282° from the
 first meridian *. We have therefore a new reason for be
 lieving that the aurora borealis is an electric phenomenon,
 for it is well known that there is a great affinity between
 electricity and magnetism.
      In regard to the position of the magnetic pole, as soon as
peace takes place we mean to propose that government
should send observers to verify on the spot this important
and curious fact in natural philosophy, and the zeal which
it shows for the sciences gives us reason to hope that our
request will be attended with success.
      I shall conclude this history of meteorology with an ac
count of a fire-ball which burst on the 26th of April near
1'Aigle.      I class these fire-balls among shooting stars, an4
 I have enumerated thirtyrsix instances of themf- They
have given rise this year to a great many dissertations. The
jioisc of it was heard at Evreux, Caen, and Havre. A great
many stones similar to those collected on other occasions of
the same kind fell at 1'Aigle.         They were analysed by Vau-
quelin.      M. Izarn has published a volume on this subject
under the title of Littelogie Almospheriijue. Some consider
                 * Connoisssnce dcs Temps, an 13.
                 t CcnuoUiiurcc de» Temps, an 7. 1799.
                                                               them

             History of Astronomy for       the Year 1803.          17
 ihem as formed in the atmosphere ; others as coming from
 the moon in two clays and a half: some ascribe them to
 volcanic eruptions, the focus of which is unknown ; and
 others to small planets, the revolutions of which have by
 some obstacle been suspended.
    After that which appeared June 17, 1798, several stones,
 one of which weighed twenty-six pounds, were picked up
 at Villefranche, near Lyons *.          Hitherto there have been
 nine instances of such stones falling from the heavens : they
 are all of the same nature, and have no resemblance to any            /
 of those known on the earth in mines or near volcanoes.
As for my part, when I consider that these stones are fria
ble; have an odour of sulphur; that the explosion is heard
to the distance of thirty miles round ; and that the rolling
 noise resembles that of musketry ; it appears to me that all
these circumstances, collected by M. Biot in his learned re
port, which has been printed, indicate their formation in the
fire-ball, which is heard to detonate.         Chemists are divided
in regard to the possibility of this formation ; but M. Cadet
Gassicourt, son of our celebrated chemist, who has already
distinguished himself in the same career, and who has pub
lished an excellent dictionary of chemistry, reasoned with
me in this manner:
    " Hydrogen gas dissolves sulphur, charcoal, phosphorus,
zinc, and iron : its gravity is not thereby sensibly increased,
and it may rise thus charged to a considerable height."
    May not hydrosulphurets which assume the gaseous state,
and which dissolve a great deal of earth and metals and vo
latile acids, carry with them silex and magnesia, or the ele
ments of the latter, which is strongly suspected to be a
compound body ? There is nothing in the received theories
which opposes this idea.        If the constituent principles then
of atmospheric stones can be at the same time in solution
in very light gases, when the hydrogen gas inflames they
will be formed into stones ; for the gas, by detonating, aban
dons the bodies it held in solution ; the vacuum which it
forms draws towards the centre the moleculae of the revived
substances ; they yield to the general attraction, and tend to
unite : as they pass from the fluid to the solid state, they
necessarily disengage enough of caloric to produce incan
descence, and that vitrification which we see at their sur
face, but not enough to fuse them or oxidate them entirely.
             f
Yesterday the Institute received from the minister Chaptal
a stone of seven pounds weight, which fell on the 8th of
  *
    Journal  de Physique, Germinal,  an n.     f November ai, 1803.
No.   73,  June   1804.             B                       October

18          History of Astronomy for      the Year 1803.
October near Apt* in Provence, under similar circumstance*'}
and which resembles all the others of the same kind *.
    I shall terminate my history by an account of some losses
Which astronomy this year has sustained.
   M. Prosperin, one of the ablest astronomers of Sweden}
died on the 28th of March, at the age of sixty-four.              He
gave a great many calculations of comets and of longitudes
deduced from eclipses^ which may be seen in the Transac
tions of the Academies of Stockholm and of Upsal. He
never published any separate work, but he rendered great
service to astronomy by his memoirs.             He calculated the
comet of 1795f-
    We lost in France, on the 7th of March, the oldest of
the astronomers in Europe, esteemed for his long labours,
Edme-Sebastian Jeaurat. He was born Sept. 24, 1724; he
was the son of an ingenious artist, engraver to the king,
and grandson of the celebrated Sebastian Lcclerc, of whom
we have more than 4000 engravings.
    His uncle Eiienne Jeaurat, who was afterwards painter to
the king, taught him early to draw ; and an intimate friend
of the family, Lieutaut, astronomer of the academy, in
structed him in the mathematics. He improved under these
two masters ; for at the age of twenty-two he obtained a
medal for drawing from The Academy of Painting, and in
 1749 he was employed as a geographical engineer in con
 structing the large map of France, fioo square leagues of
which he surveyed.         In 1750 he published a treatise of per
 spective,   which   has  always been of great use to painters in
 consequence     of the  clearness of the operations and demon
 strations.    In 1753 he was professor of mathematics in the
 military school, the first established provisionally at Vin-
 cenne, where I had an opportunity of knowing him.
     I engaged him to cooperate in our astronomical labours^
 for which we were then in want of assistants.            Jeaurat ex
 erted himself with zeal : he calculated         the oppositions of
  1755 and following years; he observed the comet of 1750
 and that of 17b'0; and he gave analytical formulae for cal
 culating the motions of the planets.         His formulae contain
 the sixth power of eccentricity, and prove that he possessed
 great readiness in analysis, which at the time was rarely emj
 ployed by astronomers.
     The academy published several of his memoirs in the
 collection Des Sauans Elrangcrs in 1 763 ; and the same
 year he participated with Bailly in the suffrages of the aca-
            * See  Monitcur, November 24.
            f  Connoissance des Temps, an 6, 1798, p. 16.
                                                                demy

             History of Astrortomy for  the Year  1 803.       19
  demy for succeeding the abbe De la Caille, and they were
  both nominated.
      The volumes of this society for twenty-five years contain
  memoirs, observations, and calculations by him.        In 1766
  he gave new tables of Jupiter, which appeared with the
  theory formed by Bailly for the satellites and the diplauti-
  dian telescope, which he constructed with Navarre, an in
  genious optician. After the year 1 763 he obtained a wooden
  observatory at the military school, together with some in
  struments; but in 1768 the duke De Chatelet enabled him
  to construct a complete and more solid observatory, which
  in 1 788 led him to the building of the present one, which
  is one of the most useful in Europe.
      In 1775 he succeeded me in the calculation of the Con-
. noissance des Temps.      He published in succession twelve
  volumes, each of which contains new things ; tables by dif
  ferent astronomers, and many calculations ; a reduction of
  the large English catalogue of stars; calculations of the
  moon ; a determination of the longitude of all countries,
  the most extensive that ever appeared ; the position of the
  steeples of Paris, determined with the assistance of M. Prony
  and another engineer ; tables of aberrations, and other ob
   jects useful to astronomy.    The Institute paid him a flat-8
  tering compliment by nominating him a member on the
   25th of December 1 796, though there were a great number
   of well known and respectable competitors. When he was
   no longer able to labour on account of his age, he still
   interested himself in favour of astronomy.        He assisted
   M. Rotrou in observing the last transit of Mercury over
   the sun on the gth of November 1 S02, though then seventy-
   eight years of age.
      After rendering justice to Jeaurat in regard to the con
   stancy of his labours, it is my duty to observe that he was
   equally estimable by his character.    He was beloved by his
   pupils at the military schoql and to his associates in the
   academy.     1 have seen him do a kindness with great plea
   sure, and even to some who had offended him.
      Father Kautsch, whose calculations of eclipses I have
   quoted, died at Lentomischel, in Moravia.
      M. Witzleben, who translated into German the abridg
   ment of my astronomy, died on the 23d of April.
      An astronomical poet deserves to participate in our re
   gret : — Dominic Ricard, born at Toulouse on the 23d of
   March 1741, died at Paris on the 28th of January 1803. Ha
   is known by a translation of Plutarch, and by a long poem
   on the sphere, which is very correct, and written in an in
   teresting manner.
                                B 2                   III. Letter

                                t   20   ]
 III.    Letter from JOHN FLAXMAN, £59. to the President
          and Council of the Royal Academy of London*.
        GENTLEMEN,
 AT is well known         that the late demand made by France on
 Rome for the finest works <>f Greek sculpture and the best
 paintings in that city produced two petitions, from different
 bodies of French artists, to the executive directory ; one pray
 ing that those works might not be removed, signed David,
'Giroudet, Vincent, &c., which was answered by a second,
 blaming the first, and desiring that all the fine works might
 be immediately brought into France, to form an univer
 sity, in which all nations should be obliged to study the
                                                                             •
  arts of design, signed by Hubert, and thirty-eight other
  artists.
      This question, whether the fine works should be brought
  from Italy to Paris, is of the greatest importance to art,
  science, and literature, and of consequence, in this re
  spect, to all Europe; and although it is much more likely to
  be decided by force than reason, yet every artist, of what
  ever country, will have an equal right with the petitioners, to
  consider the 'object of this latter petition and its probable
  consequences.
       I shall therefore avail myself of this privilege ; and with
   out engaging in any political discussion further than is abso
  lutely necessary, I shall examine the arguments contained
   in this second petition by the test of truth only.
       I shall first consider upon what pretence the French na
   tion have made this demand on the papal state, and how
   far it is reasonable with respect to the rest of Europe. When
   compensation is demanded by .one state from another, it i»
    for some injury or loss sustained : but France has sustained
    neither loss nor injury from the papal state ; on the con
    trary, by the formation of the French republic and the pro
    gress of the French arms in Italy, the papal state has lost
    the provinces of Avignon, Bologna, and Ferrara; and there
    fore in justice the Romans might demand a compensation
    from France ; and without doubt would were they strong
    enough to make their claim good. The memorial says }
    "   The French artists were persecuted by the Romans, and
       * Having been favoured with a copy of this letter, which was written
    about seven years ago, when the French demanded from Rome those in
    estimable works of art which have since been transported from that city,
    we are persuaded our readers in general will feel gratified by seeing it
    preserved incur work.— EDIT.
                                                                      have

              Lettei- from John Flaxman, Esq.      &c.         «1
 have escaped from their barbarity."       However, this perse
 cution, as it is called, was only an endeavour on the part of
 the Roman government to secure itself against an attempt
 made by Messrs. La Flotte, Basville, and their adherents,
 to excite a revolution in the city.      All of this party were
 sent out of the territory ; such as had been imprisoned were
 indemnified for their losses, and such as had no money weie
 supplied by the Roman government with a sufficiency to
 bear their travelling charges.       From this statement it is
 certain that there is no justice in the claim which France
 has made : now let us see how far it is reasonable respect
 ing the rest of Europe.        The petitioners say : " If we re
 quest   that   the  master-pieces of art should be transported
 hither, it is solely for the honour and glory of the French
 name, and the veneration in which we hold those great ef
 forts of genius." Upon this it may be remarked that the
 codes of law in all countries consider such veneration for
 valuables as criminal in an individual ; for instance, if any
 one should break open another man's house and by force
 carry away any fine statue or gem, the laws of England
 would hang him for his virtu.       Now this crime is certainly
not diminished, but aggravated, when it is extended to a
hundred gems or statues, and committed against a whole
nation instead of an individual.
    But the arts of design are cultivated in different degrees in
most countries of Europe. Fine museums of sculpture and
painting have been formed in Naples, Tuscany, Spain, Ger
many, England, and Russia ; each of thqse countries doubt
less would be glad to give such an increase to their museums
as should make them universities for the world to study in.
Let us now suppose each of those powers to be animated
by the same sentiments of patriotism with the petitioners,
to decorate their countries with the spoils of "Rome ; and
that the emperors of Russia and Germany, the kings of
Prussia, England, Spain, and Naples, and the grand duke
of Tuscany, should severally say, " The honour and glory
of my country and the veneration in which I hold those
fine Works have made me determine to bring them into my
own capital."       What would be the consequences of all this
patriotism    ?   Discord ! war !  Europe would be more abun
dantly deluged with blood : the possessors of those works
would be destroyed, as well as, most likely, the tine works
themselves in the contest.        Such patriotism is not virtue ;
it is a splendid vice. That patriotism alone is virtue, by
which we provide for the good of our own country without
doing any thing that interferes with the happiness or wel-
                              •
                                B 3                          fare

2i          Letter from John Flaxman, Esq.       to the
fare   of another. This is the only way in which we can
honour our country, and not, by behaving like highway
robbers or pirates, in bringing home whatever valuable
plunder we can seize.
   Thus we see that the intended removal of the fine works
 of sculpture and painting is as unreasonable respecting the
rest of Europe as it is unjust respecting Rome ; for, as France
does not appear to have any claim upon Rome for com
pensation, any other plea might be urged, with as much
reason, by any other country of Europe.
   If France m her demand on Rome for those works had
any motive of state policy, or view of indemnification for
general losses, these I can say nothing to, as being out of
the way of my intention, which was to enter into no poli
tical discussion : but surely it may be said that these works
supply no means to support a war; and it •»ust be doubtful
whether their removal to Paris would facilitate the study of
design even in that city ; whilst the great community of
arts and letters both of the present and future ages, natives
as well as foreigners, would have reason to blame France
for having dismembered the university of the world.
   However, before I quit this part of the subject, I shall
notice one argument of the petitioners for wishing to bring
those works to Paris : it is this : — " The Romans, although
antiently rude and unpolished themselves,         civilized their
nation by transplanting into it the productions of con
quered Greece."       It is true that the Roman orators and
poets   owe  almost  the whole of ihcir splendour to what they
had learned i'rom the Greeks.       But Rome profited little by
Grecian philosophy and mathematics ; they were reduced to
be the handmaids of politics and war in that metropolis ;
and, according to the testimony of Pliny the elder, as well
as the remaining monuments, we have but slight grounds
to believe that .all the painting and sculpture brought from
Greece ever produced a Roman artist of real excellence ; on
the contrary, it has been supposed that the genius of Rome
was buried unrlcr the ruins of Greece.
    I shall now consider how far it is possible to make France
an university for the arts of design equal to T'aly.
   The petitioners desire that France may become the uni
versity for the arts of design in the following words : — It
                                                             "
is necessary that all nations should henceforth borrow the
fine arts from us with the same eagerness they formerly
imitated our follies; and when we shall have granted them
peace, they will be anxious to come to this country to imi
tate t|ie wisdom and taste which those works of genius im-
                                                           part."

          President and Council   of the Royal Academy.       23
part." But let us see what advantages of this kind France
possesses, or is likely to be possessed of, in comparison with
 Italy.
   An university or school in which all nations are to study
the arts of design should possess all possible assistance to
the progress and exercise of painting, sculpture, and archi
 tecture.   This supposes the greatest number and variety of
 the most .excellent works of Grecian sculpture, groups, sta
 tues, busts, and bas-reliefs, in marble and bronze; as like
 wise gems and medals, of paintings, the greatest number
 and variety of antient Greek or Roman paintings and mo
 saics ; as also the best of those works which have been pro
 duced since the revival of the arts.     This university should
 be situated in a country abounding with buildings erected
 from the remotest antiquity, through the barbarous ages
 down to the revival of the Grecian orders in the fifteenth
 century.    Here the student of architecture should see and
 study the palaces, temples, basilicos, theatres, amphithea
 tres, baths, aqueducts,    fountains, tombs, chapels, altars,
sarcophagi, and \* hatcver else of public or private building
or decoration might enable him to make the most profound
and perfect studies in his art : the painter and sculptor
should be excited by the objects to a habit of copying fine
living models and draperies: they should have easy access
to able masters for instruction.     1 he local situation of such
a school should be connected with the classical history of
the works which it contains, in order that the natural con
nection between the arts of design and the belles lettres may
be preserved.     The very climate itself should be favourable
to grand forms of countenance and person, to the limbs
being more uncovered than in colder countries ; to careless
and variegated groups and actions, and flowing draperies.
This school of art should likewise lie in the high road to
Greece and Egypt, Syria, Balbec, and Palmyra, to enable
such as would study art and science, and their source, to
make the easier journeys into those countries.          Now, as
Italy is the only country in the world that has all these ad
vantages, it is evident that is the university in which all
nations must study the arts of design.
    France, on the contrary, wants them all in common wiih
her neighbours.      In France' there is no series of Greek and
Roman buildings for architects to study ; in France there is
no collection of antique sculpture worth notice; nay, in
this respect, perhaps, England, Saxony, Prussia, Russia,
and Spain, excel her ; for in those countries there are very
fine collections of antient sculpture, notwithstanding ' that
                             B   4                            ajl

24           Letter from John Flaxman,    Esq.  to the
all the first, second, and perhaps third class remain in Italy,
where every true lover of arts and letters must hope they
may long continue. In Parts there is certainly an extensive
and valuable collection of pictures, which will be of the
greatest assistance to painters preparatory to their studies in
Borne. Among the works of chiefest merit are the Luxem
bourg Gallery by Rubens, some pictures of Raphael and
Corregio, the Battles of Le Brun, and the Life of St. Bruno
by Le Sueur. But the paintings of greatest excellence, upon
the study of which alone a historical painter can hope to
become great, remain in Italy ; and there the best of them
must remain, as their sizes are enormous, and they are
painted on walls. The paintings which we allude to are
Michael Angelo's Last Judgment, and the Cieling in the
 Capella Sestmi ; the Martyrdom of St. Peter and the Con
version of St. Paul in the Capella Paulini, by the same ar
tist ; the Chambers of Raphael in the Vatican j the Chapel
 painted by Signorelli at Orvietto ; paintings of Titian in
 the Ducal Palace of Venice, 'and the Domes by Corregio
 and Parmegiano, &c. &:c.        To which I may add the an-
 tient paintings in Naples; for these are in Italy, although
 not of the number of immovables.          If to the objections
 already stated we add the disadvantages of the climate and
 local situation of France in comparison with Italy, we shall
 immediately see that nothing less than a new dispensation
 of Providence, and arrangement of things in this part of the
 globe, can ever give France the advantages which Italy pos
 sesses as an university for the arts of design.
      If it should appear from what has been said that this
 scheme of making France the university is impracticable as
 well as unreasonable and unjust, all the lesser arguments
 of the petitioners must of course fall to the ground ; but if
  any one is dissatisfied with what has been advanced, although
  I could produce other ^arguments I cannot produce stronger
 to convince him.
      It would be great and disinterested in France, as she is
 valiant in war, to be moderate in peace, and to suffer Italy
  to remain, as it has been, the university for all nations to
  study in, from which she will ultimately derive much greater
  advantages in common with the rest ot Europe than she can
  in future by dismembering that venerable school. Such an
  instance of moderation would secure to France the praise
  of the present and future generations ; it would prove that
  her love for the line arts is equal to her professions : those
  inestimable collections should be sacred and inviolable which
  ftre contained in Home, Florence, and Naples, cities so con
                                                       veniently

         President and Council  of the Royal Academy.        25
veniently situated tor communication with each other, and
which, together with the surrounding country, make up the
great university of Italy, which may DC said immediately or
mediately to have produced all the great restorers of arts and
letters. The collections of Rome are not in the same danger
of being dispersed as formerly •$ for all the fine works of art
which have been found or purchased for many years past
are lodged in the Clementine museum, and belong to the
Roman people ; the nephews of popes do not now marry
into the families of crowned heads, and by that means give
their powerful relations the power to seize their collections
by inheritance ; besides which, the Roman government will
in future permit only duplicates of antique statues or inferior
works to pass out of the state.
    I can assure the petitioners that the Barberini and Gius-
tinian collections are not " wholly carried off:" it is true
that a few years back some few articles were injudiciously
sold out of them ; but they are at this time great and valua
 ble collections : I can assure them likewise that four of the
best statues and some other articles from the Negroni col
lection are in the Clementine museum in Rome.
    Having gone through an examination of the object and
 principal arguments of the petition, it only remains to say
 something concerning those by whom it is signed. Several
 of them are persons highly esteemed for their industry and'
 talents in painting, sculpture, and architecture.      In this
 latter study the French have been particularly successful ;
 and in this place I cannot forbear doing justice to the merits
 of my former friend and fellow-student in Rome, M. Peteier,
 although he is not of the number of the petitioners : he is
 a man of uncommon virtue, his compositions are the most
 beautiful architectural assemblages; his drawings have been
 much admired, and sold for large sums in England.        From,
 a considerable knowledge of several of the petitioners whilst
 we pursued our studies at the same time in Rome, 1 shall
 set down the following anecdote only : — About ten years
 since, a M. Drouvais died, who was a pensioner of the
 French academy in that city.      He was universally regretted
 for his extraordinary talents in painting.    His fellow-stu
 dents, eleven in number, instantly agreed to honour him
 with a marble monument.        M. Miehalton, one of the pre
  sent petitioners, was the sculptor employed, and..n0bly gave
 his labour; the other students paid by subscription for the
 marble and other expenses out of their little pensions of six
 shillings per week allowed by their government to each, ex
 clusive ot their board and lodging in the academy.         The
                                                         design

 36                    New Method       of separating
design was the side of a large altar ; the pediment presented
a medallion of the deceased : on the dodo were three figures
in has relief, — Painting wrote his name, Sculpture supported
her arm, and Architecture looked on with a mournful coun
tenance. I have introduced this anecdote to inform Eng
lishmen of particular virtues and talents in an enemy's
country which otherwise might not be so generally known,
and to let Frenchmen see that we can acknowledge what
ever is praiseworthy in them with as much zeal as they
would themselves.
     I have only to add my earnest wishes as an Englishman
and a real lover of my country, that we may in future cul
tivate the arts of design with as much fervour, and labour
as indef'atigably to bring them to perfection, as the French
have done, by those means only which are just and ho
nourable.
                                  I have the honour to be, 8tc.
IV.     New Method        of separating Tin and Copper from Bell-
    Metal.       By   C. ANFRYE,      Assay Master of the Mint*.
£    RANGE, deprived by war of many of the products which
commerce afforded her in ordinary times from foreign coun
tries, was not very long ago almost totally destitute of cop
per. Pressed hy the distress which the scarcity of this metal
occasioned in the casting ot artillery and other articles for the
common purposes of lite, all the enlightened chemists were
called together, and from their knowledge that assistance
was demanded which the. science thev professed could af
ford towards warding off the impending danger.                        These
expectations       were  not  disappointed    :  its hppes   were  realized
even beyond the point to which they were directed.                    In the
year     17Q2    all the  French   chemists      were  busied   in  rinding
out an easy and expeditious method of separating the copper
from the other metal of which their church bells were ma
nufactured ; the only source from which copper could be
obtained. They were successful in their attempts, and the*
    * Fiom a manuscript of C. Anfrye's not yet printed, communicated
by Dr. Bourlayc to professor ftomsdorff, and inserted, by perrmsiion,
in Gehltn's New Journal of ChutUtry, vol. i. part *. p. zij, whence
tliit translation is made.
    Dr. Bourlaye remarks, that by this ingerious invention the republic ' f
France hns saved upward of seven millions of pounds of copper and one
million of pounds of tin, which were thrown away as an useless refuse '
of >lic prytcs'b formerly adhered to (a; separating soppcr froai bell-met.il.
                                                                   method.

             Tin and   Copper   from Bell- Metal.            2?
method pointed out by Fourcroy was deemed the most ad
vantageous.
   The method pointed out by this great chemist, which
was universally adhered to, consisted in oxidizing one part
of the bell-metal from which the copper was to be extracted,
and uniting, by long continued agitation, the oxidized por
tion with another quantity of the same metal rendered fluid
by fusion.     The oxygen of the oxidized metal became thus
transferred to the fused tin of the merely melted bell-metal;
and the copper, at least a considerable      quantity, was se
parated.     100 parts of bell-metal treated in this manner
yielded from 50 to 60 of copper, besides a considerable
quantity of slag, vitreous dross or glassy oxide, consisting
of oxide of copper and oxide of tin.
   The complete reduction of this vitreous oxide proved ex
tremely difficult : the great excess of oxide of tin which it
contained prevented its complete fusion ; the reduced par
ticles of copper, in whatever manner the reduction had been
accomplished, could not sink through the viscous matter, and
the particles of metal could not be collected into one mass ;
at least no ceconomical method could be advised which could
be adhered to in the large way.        Thus several millions of
capital remained as dead stock, and it became a national
question, Whether it would not have been better never to
pursue this attempt of procuring copper from bell-metal,
than to sacrifice the original compound?
    Several attempts were made to render the prodigious
quantity of slag or vitreous refuse, which was soon pro
duced, useful tor other purposes : but they all failed, and
no hopes remained of bringing them to account; except of
reconverting them again into bell-metal by a fresh addition
of metallic copper.
    In contemplating this subject I persuaded myself that
 the decomposition of bell-metal was, perhaps, possible by
 completely converting one of its compounds into a perfect
glass of oxide. Before I attempted this, I reduced the slag
 obtained in Fourcroy's process to the metallic state, in order
 to learn its precise nature.   The result was a white brittle
 metal.
    I then took 3 cwt. of this metal and oxidized two of      it,
 in order to reserve the other third for deoxidizing the copper
 of the first oxidized part, by abstracting from  it its oxygen,
 by   the admixture of the third unoxidized portion.         The
 product was  a   mixture of oxide of tin and particles of me
 tallic copper slightly adhering together, from which the
 greatest part of the oxide of tin could be separated by mere
                                                         ablution

  28   On the Separation  of Tin and  Copper from Bell-Metal.
 ablution and other mechanical efforts.      The more pondera
 ble part of this mass, thus freed from the greatest portion
 of its oxide of tin, was fusible, and a bad kind of cannon-
metal consisting of 0*80 of tin and 0*20 of copper.        It was
 far too brittle, on account of its containing too much tin.
There was also again a loss in the oxide of tin, which car
 ried away with it a portion of copper in the process of ab
 lution.
     1 his process not being satisfactory, I  attempted to sepa
rate the portion of tin which was united to the copper ob
 tained in the before-mentioned process, by fusing it with a
 substance capable of effecting a complete fluidity.      I  sub
 stituted for that purpose common glass, and I found that
it completely    succeeded.   Pursuing this method, I became
 soon sensible that this process was not so oeconomical as I
first imagined, for one part of the white metal absolutely
required three of glass.     The great quantity of glass con
sumed, which was also lost, (for it could only be used
once,) was a sufficient reason for giving up this proceed
 ing : in short, the process, on account of the great bulk of
the mass as well as the real value of the wasted flux, made
its prosecution in the large way unadmissible.
     Having found in some other experiments that the oxide
of tin obtained by digesting strong nitric acid upon tin was
reducible by l-10th of charcoal, I nad recourse to the latter.
Without detailing all the different processes which proved
unsuccessful, I snail merely slate that method which suc
ceeds best in the large way, and which is as follows :
    Let the slag from which the metals are to be extracted be
ground to powder; mix it with 0*08 of charcoal powder,
and fuse the mixture in a reverberatory          furnace for six
hours ; after which remove the fused metal in the usual
manner.       The glass which covers the reduced metal is to
be put aside for further reduction ; for it is capable of yield
ing a metal of 0'75 of tin and 0-25 of copper.
    The metal thus obtained by means oi charcoal always
consists of from 45 to 50 of copper and an equal quantity
of tin. To diminish its quantity of tin it must again be
fused in a reverberatory furnace capable of exposing a large
surface of the fused metal to the contact of air : by this
means its surface soon becomes covered with a crust, con
sisting of oxide of tin and oxide of copper. By thus keep
ing the inetal melted for some time it soon becomes con
verted into bell-metal, and when this is accomplished it
must be drawn. from' the furnace.
    The gray oxide which is during this process obtained,
                                                            when

  On the supposed new Metal lately discovered in Platina. 69
when reduced in the melting furnace yields a compound con
sisting of 0'75 of tin and 0-25 of copper. This metal ia
put together with that obtained from the vitreous refuse
into the calcining furnace, and the whole oxidized to a'cer-
tain point.        The first oxide which is formed is white and
light, but it gradually becomes coloured. At this period
the oxide produced is not merely oxide of tin, but a mix
ture of oxide of copper and oxide of tin. The formation
 of this oxide serves the operator to judge of the quality of
 his oxidizing metal ; for, the moment this oxide begins to
 appear, the metal consists of equal parts of tin and copper,
 and it ceases to appear when the metal is in the state of bell-
 metal : just before this takes place the oxide becomes very
 black.
      As the metal is brought to this standard it is drawn from
 the furnace, in order to procure from it again, as before,
 metallic copper and a vitreous oxide j which is again treated
 as already      stated.
      All    the oxide obtained during the different processes
  must      be reduced by means of charcoal in the melting
  furnace.
       If it should happen that the tin obtained by these pro
  cesses contains copper, let it be again fused, and cool
  slowly so far till a piece of paper let fall upon it does not
  become charred. The tin may then be ladled off, and the
  copper will be found at the bottom adhering to a portion
  of tin only, which may be got rid of by oxidation.
  V.     On the supposed new Metal lately discovered in Plaiina.
                          By Jos. HOME, Esq.
    J.  HE new metal lately obtained from crude platina seems,
   in many      respects, so nearly allied to tungsten that I cannot
   but entertain strong suspicions of their identity ; and that
   the difference, if there be any, possibly arises more from
   one or the other retaining a slight admixture of chrome or
    its acid, or some other trifling alloy not yet discovered,
   than from any specific distinction in their nature. As crude
    platina is now found to be generally contaminated by various
    substances, such as iron, copper, titanium, chrome, silex,
    and this metal, we cannot be much surprised should one or
    more of these so far influence the new metal, supposing it
                                                                  to

80                 &n the supposed new Kletat
to be tungsten, as to give a new turn to its usual habitudes
and character.
   It does not appear that tungsten has ever been submitted
to the same experiments, nor treated exactly as the metal in
question ; indeed all that ! ,as hitherto been written respect
ing it seems still involved in doubt, and frequently in error.
Can any thing be more ambiguous than the present history
of tungsten ? What can we infer from such a passage as'
the following?—" L'acide tunstique se fond avec les phos
phates et les borate?, qu'il eolore en lime ou en vert''
(Systtme des Conn* Ckim.)        Here it is difficult to decide
whether the acid g;ve? constantly a white colour to one
class of these salts, and a green to the other; or whether with
both salts the colours are merely adventitious.         It is alsd
generally affirmed that nitrous acid, which is so potent in
acidifying almost every basis, when poured upon tungstic1
acid, changes it into a yellow oxide ; consequently, that the
addition of oxygen destroys acidity. This is surely a com
plete paradox in chemistry, and cannot be fairly ranked
amongst anomalies. But not to dwell upon these and many
other instances so very open to controversy, I shall proceed
to offer the chief reasons on which my doubt is founded.
   At present, as no notice of the specific gravity and othef
essential qualities of the new metal has yet been taken, either
by Collet Descotils or any other writer, it is impossible to
draw a perfect parallel of the two metals ; more especially
as the history of tungsten is so very vague and incomplete.
This being the real state of the case, nothing I shall now
lay before you should be judged of too rigidly; or, I hope,
taken in any other sense than as an attempt to promote the
inquiry by urging others to take it up. We have been so
long accustomed to consider malleable platina, and many
other metals, as pure, that we need not wonder should tung
sten, by industrious research, be also discovered to be an
alloy, and that it has never before been produced pure and
isolated.
   In comparing the new metal with tungsten, even under
all the disadvantages already noticed, we may frequently di
stinguish a most striking resemblance ; and in nothing so
much as a disposition to produce colours of a transitory
uatuie, such as from yellow to blue, blue to white, white
to yellow; and we may add also green and red to the list.
What appears an exceedingly prominent feature in their si
militude is, that the blue colour, by whatever method it has
been effected, is in both metals equally    * beautiful, and in
                    5                                        both

                     lately discovered in Platina.                 81
both eminently fugitive. In regard to green, we can sup
pose it to be easily produced wherever a yellow and a blue
can exist ; the inference is therefore but .natural for any
mixture of these to centre in the former. The comparison
 will, I am fully persuaded, lose nothing of its value by. ex
 tending it ; we may therefore, for the present, further as
sume the following positions :
     1 st, That both the new metal and tungsten are difficultly
soluble in acids.
     2d, That the oxide of one as well as the other is soluble
 in alkalies.
     3d. The new metal, when fused with potash, forms a
 green mass.
     4th. That tungsten may perhaps give the same result^
 since wolfram, one of its ores, gives a green scoria when
  fluxed with potash.
     5th. Neither of the metals gives colour when fluxed with
 borax.
     6th. That the blue colour in both metals is soluble in
 water, and may be easily changed or dissipated by heat.
     The fugacious nature of the blue tint, so peculiar to both
  these metals, is often very perceptible         in tungsten ; and
  this distinctive mark may be exemplified in many instances*
  I have observed paper in which some oxide had been fil
  tered, when exposed to the sun become of an elegant blue
  colour ; and the same paper during the night or in the dark
  lost its colour, and regained it on exposure to the sun.
  Whether it be the heat or light of the sun, or both, that
  produces the change, remains to be examined.
      In the following experiment it appears that heat is the
  cause of dissipating the blue when in solution.
      If a cylinder of zinc be left for some time in a solution
  of the triple acidulous salt, generally called tungstic acid,
  the liquid will soon become of a most brilliant blue ; espe
  cially if the zinc be frequently moved, as if to stir the fluid.
  When the zinc has produced a full effect it may be with
  drawn, and the solution then placed over the flame of a
   lamp, or in a gentle heat, to evaporate.          In a short time
   the colour will lessen in its intensity,     and  at length totally
   vanish, leaving     the  remaining   solution   nearly colourless.
  This    is not the  only instance  of  the  fleeting nature of the
   blue colour of tungsten, though a very effectual one to
  tlucidate this singular peculiarity.
      That zinc and iron turn some preparations of tungsten
  blue, has already been noticed by several authors ; I do not,
  however, recollect that the entire dissipation of the colour
                                                                    by

 32     On the supposed new Metal discovered in Platina.
 by a subsequent application of heat has yet caught the at
 tention of any other person.
   Among many other experiments that may be suggested
to compare and explore the nature of these two metals, the
two following, forming, as it were, reciprocal prdofs, natu
rally present themselves to our notice :
    1st, To observe whether the new metal gives a blue co
lour when fluxed with phosphates and phosphoric acid, and
if it be in the same degree of intensity as is produced by
tungsten.      That tungsten has this property has, I believe,
been mentioned only by Klaproth, whose accuracy cannot
be questioned.
    2d, The next is to form an alloy with pure platina and
tungsten, and, from its solution in nitromuriatic acid, en
deavour to obtain the same red precipitate which so point
edly characterizes the new metal when so combined.
   It is perhaps solely to the admixture of this new metal
we should ascribe the present imperfection of platina, that
crucibles formed of the latter are liable to be abraded by al
kalies ; a circumstance first noticed, I think, by Mr. Che-
nevix.    That this is really the truth, admits, I apprehend,
of very little doubt ; for it has already been observed {Ann.
de Chimie, no. 143. p. 185), that from the malleable platina,
purified by Jannety and Neker Saussure, as much of the
black powder or new metal was obtained as if the same
              of crude platina had been employed. This fact
Eroportion
  as since been partly confirmed in a note in the last Philo
sophical Journal.
   How far this imperfection of platina may in future be
obviated by subtracting this new metal, still remains to be
ascertained ; we may, however, reasonably expect, that, be
sides making a complete cure of this defect, the nature and
properties ol this very singular substance must put on such
a change of dress as to render a revision and new arrange
ment of the whole history of platina absolutely necessary.
                     With much     esteem   I remain, sir,
                               Your   obedient  servant,
                                                   Jos. Hume.
  Long Acre,
June ii, 1804.
                                                       VI. Ex-

                                          [    33          ]
VI.  Experiments on the Yolk of iVool; with some Olfer-
   vatiom on the Washing and Bleaching of Wool.     By
   M. VAUQUELIN *.
OEVERAL chemists    have thought that the yolk of wool       is                           f
a fat matter; others, finding that it dissolves in water, have
not adopted the same opinion. Chemical analysis can alone
decide this question, which is the object of the present
paper.
   1st,  Water discharges much colour from wool; and this
liquid acquires colour, odour, and taste.
    2d, The water with which wool has been washed is
milky, like an emulsion of gum-resin, and it passes with
difficulty through paper.
    3d, It suffers to be deposited by rest a mixture of sand,
carbonate of lime, and several other foreign bodies : it
froths by agitation and heat like a solution or soap.
    4th, Water with which wool has been washed, when                                      fil
 tered and evaporated furnishes        brown extract, thick like
                                                    a
syrup, of an acrid, salt, and bitter taste in this state       :  still              it
 retains the odour peculiar to it.
    5th, Alcohol applied to this extract dissolves        part which       a
communicates to         itreddish brown colour.
                             a                        If the alcohol
be separated,      by
                   evaporation from this substance,          exhibits          it
the appearance of thick, viscous, and transparent honey.
    The other properties which appeared to me in this sub
stance were as follow        :
    1st,  Itdissolves readily in water, and the solution          im                 is
mediately coagulated         acids, which separate from
                                 by                            grease           it
insoluble in water.      This matter, when thus separated                                     by
acids, collects itself very slowly, and has          yellowish co    a
lour.    Acids, as will be seen hereafter, hold great quan                 a
tity of    in solution, which gives them
          it                                    reddish brown co
                                                               a
lour.    By evaporation the greater part of this substance dis
solves    byacids, deposits 'itself under the-fonn of black                               bi
tumen j    and salts, with      base of potash and of lime, aie
                                      a
obtained from it. These salts cannot be obtained in state                           a
of purity and whiteness till after several calcinations and so
lutions, as the fat matter       very adhesive.
                                      is
    At the same time that the acids precipitate this fat mat
ter, they expel     acertain quantity of acetous acid, very ptr-
               * Fmtn the Annales              dc Chimit,      No. 14.:.
               t The Fr:r.ch call             it   mint.
No.   73.   June   1804.                           C                                ceptlble

34             Experiments    on the  Yolk of Wool.
ceptible by its odour.      Concentrated sulphuric acid black-*
ens the thickened yolk, and disengages from it sonic vapours
of muriatic acid.
    2d, Lime water renders the solution of yolk turbid and
milky ; but it forms in it no coagulum, as in a solution of
common soap.
    3d, Neither caustic alkalies nor quicklime show the pre
 sence of ammonia.
    4th, Nitrate of silver produces in it a yellow precipitate,
 which adheres to the sides of the vessel in the manner of a
greasy substance.       This precipitate dissolves in a great part
 in nitric acid.
    The part of yolk insoluble in alcohol has still a salt taste,
but fainter than the portion soluble in that reagent.        After
being thus treated with alcohol, it does not redissolve en
tirely in water ; there remains a glutinous matter of a gray
 colour, which effervesces with acids : this announces the
 presence of an alkaline carbonate.       The portion which re
 tains its "solubility in water, communicates to it a reddish
 colour and a salt savour : its solution is not rendered turbid
 by acids, as it was before being treated with alcohol. Caustic
 alkalies do not disengage from it ammonia ; muriate of ba-
 rytes forms in it a very abundant depot, the greater part of
 which dissolves in water; nitrate of silver occasions in it
 also a precipitate which partly dissolves Ln nitric acid. Al
 cohol precipitates this matter under the form of a mucilage,
 which is speedily deposited.
    Nitrate of iron mixed with the solution of this substance
 formed in it a brown precipitate, and the liquor at the end
 of some days furnished a pretty large quantity of nitrate of
 potash.
    The filtered liquor of yolk decomposed by dilute nitric
acid blackens by evaporation, exhales vapours of sulphuric
acid, and becomes carbonaceous in proportion as the con
 centration of the sulphuric acid takes place. The residuum
being then washed with water, and the solution properly
evaporated, furnishes crystals of neutral sulphate of potash;
but there remains a great deal in solution in consequence of
the superabundant acid, which reduces it to the state of
acidulous salt ; by longer evaporation this salt crystallizes
in needles, and into lamina? of a white pearly colour. During
the course of these successive evaporations, another kind of
salt presents itself under the form of flattened needles of a
Satin white colour and without any taste.
    This salt, when carefully examined, appeared to me to be
                                                          nothing
            5

                   Experiments on the Yolk       of Wool.            3)5
   toothing but sulphate of lime.        It differs, however, from it
   in several respects : for example, it fuses much sooner in
   the flame of the blow-pipe into a globule transparent while
   in a state of fusion, but which becomes opake when fixed :
   it is also much more soluble in water, and yet does not
   contain acid in excess, as I fully assured myself.         A solu
   tion of it in water precipitates abundantly muriate of barytes
  and oxalate of ammonia : one of these precipitates is sul
  phate of barytes, and the other oxalate of lime.          The sola-
  tion is rendered turbid neither by lime nor by amrqonia. It
  appears then that it is a modification of the sulphateof lime,
  which is probably produced by the proportion of the ele
  ments.      It is possible therefore that this salt may still cpn-
  tain some portions of fat matter, which, by decomposing ihe
  sulphate of lime and forming a little sulphuret, might faci
  litate the fusion.     I regret that I had not a sufficient quan
  tity of this salt to examine its properties more in detail. /
      The yolk of wool dissolved in water, when filtered, thiffk-
 ened, and distilled with weak sulphuric acid, furnished a
 liquor in which I readily distinguished the presence of the
 acetic acid by its odour, its savour, and the properties of
 the salts which it formed with different bases, and particu
 larly with lime and potash. This matter therefore contains
 acetic acid, which, no doubt, is in part combined in it with
 the potash.       It contains also a little muriate of potash; for
 it forms with the solution of silver an abundant precipitate
 which is not entirely soluble in nitric acid, and it gives by
 distillation with sulphuric acid sensible traces of muriatic
 acid, which is found mixed with acetic acid.
      Yolk, when evaporated to dryness and strongly heated in
 a silver crucible, swells up, becomes charred, and exhales
 some foetid ammoniacal vapours ; oily fumes then arise,
 which inflame, and when the greater part of the oil is dis
 sipated it becomes red and calmly fuses.           At this period, if
it be poured on marble, a matter is obtained which becomes
fixed on cooling, has a grayish colour, and a very caustic
alkaline taste : if this substance be then dissolved in water,
nothing remains but an infinitely sm:>.ll quantity of carbona
ceous matter, and the liquor, « by evaporation, gives real
potash slightly carbonated.
     It results from these experiments that the oil or grease,
the presence of which in yolk has been proved by acids, is
combined with potash in the state of a real animal soap j
that, besides, there is a portion of carbonate of potash in
excess, since the acids produce in the solution of yolk, when
concentrated, a pretty strong spumous effervescence.              Be-
                                 C  2                            sides

36              Experiments on tlie Yolk   of Wool.
sides the substances already mentioned, yolk contains a cer*
tain quantity of animal matter ; for it gives by distillation
vtry sensible traces of ammonia, and an oil the foetid odour
of which has a considerable resemblance to that furnished
by animal matters.
    Yolk then is composed, 1st, of soap with a base of pot
ash, which forms the greater part of it : 2d, a small quan
tity of the carbonate of potash : 3d, a considerable quantity
of acctite of potash : 4th, lime, with the state of the com
bination of which I am unacquainted : 5th, a small por
tion of muriate of potash : 6th, a peculiar animal matter,
to which I ascribe the particular odour of yolk.
    In my opinion, all these matters, which are essential to the
nature of yolk, are not found in it accidentally, for I have
always found them in a great number of the different kinds
of wool both of Spain and of France.
    I shall not speak here of the other matters insoluble in
water, which are found also on wool, such as the carbonate
of lime, sand, filth of every kind, —these being evidently
accidental.
    It still remains to determine whether all the matters
which exist in yolk are the product of cutaneous perspira
tion accumulated and thickened on the wool, or whether
thev are contracted in cots or other places where sheep re
side.    It is very certain that all the elements proper for the
formation of the matters contained in yolk are found in the
excrements of these animals, and in the vegetables which
serve them as litter.      I cannot, however, believe that the
whole is the effect of beds of dung ; on the contrary, I am of
opinion that the perspired humour is the principal source.
    The analysis of dunghills would give us no certain in
formation on this subject, because the matters found in
them might have been deposited bv the sheep themselves.
    But even if we suppose, what appears to be very proba
ble, that the principles of yolk arise from the humour of
 perspiration, do these matters issue in this manner from
the body of the animal, and do they not experience any
 change during their remaining on the wool ? This is a
question to which it would be difficult to give a decisive
answer. We can only presume that in wool, as in all very
compound substances deprived of movement, there are ef
fected changes, of which, in the present case, we know nei
ther the mode nor the cause.
    Yolk being, as already seen, a real soap soluble in water
and in alcohol, it appears that there can be no better me
thod of scouring wool than to wash it in running water.
                                                             But

              Experiments on the Yolk of Wool.                 37
But I must observe that there is on wool       a small   quantity
of greasy matter not in combination with        the alkali,   and
which adhering to the wool makes it retain something
 pitchy, notwithstanding the most careful washing.
    But if wool be put into tubs, and the quantity of water
necessary for moistening it be poured over it; and if it be
suffered to remain in that bath for some time, often treading
it down, it will be much better scoured, and become whiter
by washing it afterwards in running water.
    Scourers are accustomed to macerate their wool in pu
trefied urine, and it is generally believed that the ammonia
which is thus developed effects the scouring; but I have
some reasons for thinking that this alkali is of no use. This
effect is owing rather to the yolk itself, or to some other
principle of the urine, to uree for example ; and my opi
nion is founded on the following circumstance : — I put
washed wool into a current of water in a mixture of sal-
ammoniac and common potash. This mixture had a strong
odour of ammonia ; and yet the wool was not scoured,
because this alkali does not form, or forms only with diffi
culty, a saponaceous compound with the greasy matter of
wool.      I am of opinion then, from these observations, that
putrid urine is almost useless in scouring wool, at least so
 far as its ammonia is concerned.
    If the utility of putrid urine be at least doubtful, it is on
the other hand very certain that fresh urine would be very
prejudicial in regard to the proposed end ; for the soap con
tained in yolk would iucontestably experience a decomposi
tion by the acid of urine, which wquld precipitate the grease
 on the wool.
    I suspect that the same effect would be produced by
washing wool in water containing earthy salts, which, as
is well known, decompose alkaline soaps.         For this reason
it is always prudent to employ for this purpose the purest
water possible to be obtained.
    The case is not the same with soapy water ; it perfectly
completes the scouring of the wool, and at the same time
gives them more whiteness.           If wool then, after being
washed in running water till it gives no more filth, be suf
fered to macerate for some hours in a twentieth part only of
its weight of soap, dissolved by a sufficient quantity of tepid
water, often treading it down, it will be entirely freed from
 the small portion of grease still adhering to  it,and then ex
hibit softness and
     a                a    degree of whiteness which     itwould
 not have acquired without this operation..
    Yolk itselfa    little concentratedj as
                                          I    have already an-
                             C   3                      nounced,

38           •  Experiments on the Yolk     of Wool.
nounced, has an efficacious action on the portion of crease
which is not in the saponaceous state ; for I observed that
by pouring over wool no more water than the quantity ne
cessary to cover it completely, it was much better scoured,
especially with a slight degree of heat, than when washed in
running water. But I observed also that wool which had
remained a long time in its own yolk swelled up, split, and
lost its strength ; effects which take place also in too strong
soapy water.
      If the water 'of yolk causes wool to swell and to split in
this manner, may it not be possible that this accident often
 takes place on the backs of the animals, especially during
 warm damp weather, or when they are shut up in folds the
 litter of which is not often enough removed ? It may not
 be impossible also that the acridity of yolk may occasion an
irritation in their skin, and prove the cause of some of those
 maladies to which this organ is subject in these animals,
 and which must occur chiefly during damp warm weather :
 fortunately, at this season, they are occasionally exposed to
 rains,' which wash them and carry off at least a part of this
 matter. In this respect I am inclined to adopt the opinion
 of those who think that the washing of sheen during dry
 warm weather may be useful to their health and to the qua
  lity of the wool.
      The loss which wool experiences by scouring is variable.
  The greatest I ever observed was 45 per cent., and the least
  33. The wool, indeed, which I washed was exceedingly
  dry.     This loss does not arise entirely from the yolk it con
  tains : moisture, earth, and filth of every kind contribute to
  it also.
       I have made some attempts to bleach scoured wool ; but
   I  confess that I did not carry them so far as they deserved *
   I  observed in general that wool which had been immersed
   in soapy water bleached much better, by every method, than
   that which had not been subjected to the same operation.
   The sulphurous acid dissolved in water bleaches it pretty
   well ; but it docs not remove the yellow colour acquired by
   wool in the groin and under the shoulders of sheep.       Wool
   in. liquid sulphurous acid acquires the property of making
   a noise between the fingers like sulphurated silk, and at the
    same time contracts a fcetid odour exceedingly strong,
    which is not dissipated till a lone; time after.
        I have not tried the steam of burnt sulphur ; but every
    body knows that it whitens wool exceedingly well, and that
    it is employed by all manufacturers of woollen stud's to give
    them the last degree of whiteness.     Of all the means I tried
                                                                tbf

           Letter   to     Dr. Thornton from Mr. Arthur Aikin.        3Q
for bleaching wool, I found none better than that of ex
posing it on the grass, to the dew and the sun, after being
well scoured with weak soapy water : the yellow spots,
however, observed in that of the flanks are not entirely de
stroyed ; their intensity only decreases.
VII.    Letter      to   Dr. THORNTON from Mr. ARTHUR AIKIN.
           SIR,
JL    ou  have very satisfactorily shown that the author of the
crit'iOjUe upon your "New Illustration of the Sexual System
of    Linnaeus," in the Annual Review, is but slenderly ac
quainted with the science of astronomy : you would also
have been perfectly justified in drawing the same conclusion,
with reganl to the editor, who, if he had been aware of               it,
would not have permitted so grievous an error as that which
you have exposed, to pass unconnected.
 I   am sorry to find, however, that your otherwise laudable
zeal in your own vindication has betrayed you into an un
generous and unjust allusion to Dr. Rces's Cyclopaedia. If
you have any authority for believing that am concerned
                                                   I
in that respectable publication, you must know that the
only departments in which       have engaged to furnish arti
                                    I
cles are those of chemistry and mineralogy, sciences which
have no more connexion with astronomy than astronomy
has with botany.
                       have the honour to be, yours, &c.
                             I
                                                   ARTHUR AIKIN.
Broad-street,     Buildings,
       June i,    1804..
VIII.      Letter to the Editor    tlie Philosophical Magazine,
                                      of
      ly   theAuthor     the Review
                            of          Dr. THORNTON'S Illus
                                           of
      tration     of
                  the Sexual System       Linnceus, given in the
                                            of
      Annual Review         ,
vJL   ou
           SIR'
      are perfectly right in your persuasion that the editor
of     Annual Review did not write the criticism on Dr.
       the
Thornton's great national work, and that he     not respon
                                                         is
sible for its mistakes and demerits. The author of that ar
ticle has long since leamt that no real honour    lost  the
                                                          is     by
ready acknowledgment of     an error.   He    thankful
                                                    is even
                             C4             •             to

40                   Letter from a Reviewer.
to Dr. Thofnton for making him acquainted with facts
which had escaped his notice, and which are 'not mentioned
in most, if any, of our English professed treatises on astro
nomy.      In his younger years he studied the mathematical
principles of that very extensive science, in connection with
the other essential parts of what is esteemed a regular edu
cation.     Professional and other circumstances soon directed
his chief attention to other pursuits. But, though occupied
in what to him were more important concerns, he did not
entirely relinquish what had given him a high pleasure.
In subsequent periods of his lite 'he recalled to his memory
the knowledge which he bad formerly acquired, by care
fully reading" Rutherford's System of Natural Philosophy
and Nicholson's Introduction ;. and a very little time before
he engaged in the very irksome task of reviewing the vaunted
Illustration of the. Sexual System of Linnceus, he had hap
pened to take a cursory view of professor Vince's Complete
System of Astronomy.          In these standard works there is
not a word concerning a satellite of Venus ; and so little
credit has its existence obtained with our English astrono
mers, that Mr. Vince, though he gives a detailed account
of Cassini's discoveries, pas.-es it over in silence. There-
viewer was not ignorant that, among other advantages ex
pected to be derived from the two transits of Venus over the
sun, which, fortunately for the astronomers of the time, hap
pened within eight years of each other, it had been sug
gested, that if Venus have a moon, it must then be seen.
None of the able astronomers who solicitously viewed this
interesting phenomenon in different parts of the world, per
ceived any appearance of a secondary planet. The reviewer,
therefore, believed that the question, which in his appre
hension had been only a speculative one, was completely
decided. But he feels no reluctance to confess, that had he
been aware of the observations related in the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, or if he had happened to consult Dr. Kees's
folio edition of Chambers, to which he had readier access,
that pa'sajc which Dr. Thornton has exclusively selected
for animadversion would not have been written.         He has
made a blot which, he trusts, will not be thought very dis
graceful to one who never professed himself a thorough pro
ficient in the game. This blot Dr. Thornton has fairly hit;
and he has a right to avail himself of it as far as it will go.
But he must niflke many more such hits, or he will not save
his gsrpnion.     'I he moon ol Venus, as he himself owns,
has only a very remote connection with the object of hi*
work.     And he has not attempted to invalidate any of the
                                                       serious

         On tlie Affinities      of different Earths for Carl/on,       41
 serious objections which have been made to it as a system
 of botany, professing to lead the young student, step by
 step, from the threshold to the inmost recesses of the sci
 ence.      If Dr. Thornton will prove that he has been igno
 rant Iy or maliciously misrepresented, and that the work, as
 far as it has proceeded, has realized the greatness of its pro
 mise, the reviewer will take shame to himself, and kiss the
 rod. Till then he must take the liberty to declare, that his
 opinion of Dr. Thornton, as a writer, remains unaltered.
 The work and the review are before the public. Those who
 understand the subject will decide between them.                 To their
 impartial judgment he calmly and respectfully leaves it;
 and is at the same time, sir, your constant reader and
 humble servant,                                                     Y. Z.
 IX.      Experiments to ascertain whether there exists any
     Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
    parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
    fanning Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By DAVID MUSHET,
     Esq. of the Calder Iron- Works*.
                 [Cominued from our       last volume, p. 398.]
  J. o prove that there exists any affinity betwixt clay and
 carbon, or that the latter unites to the former either by
 fusion or cementation, the following experiments were
 made     :
     I.   100 grains    of well dried Sturbridge clay were intro
 duced into     a crucible      of the same clay, and exposed in the
 assay-furnace       till   the  pot began to sink and lose shape.
 When cold, I found the clay resolved into a neat semi -sphe
 rical mass firmly connected together, of a pale straw co
 lour, but without any symptoms of fusion. It easily parted
 from the crucible, and weighed 83 grains.
     II. 100 grains of the same clay, reduced to a fine powder
 and mixed with half a grain of lamp carbon, were exposed
•to a similar heat as No. 1.             The result was a mass every
 way    the  same   in  point    of shape,     but the colour was blueish
 gray    throughout       the   whole.     The     carbon had completely
 disappeared,      and     seemed    now    only   to exist as the colour
 ing matter in the clay.            A few specks of vitrification were
 evident upon the surface that had been in contact with the
 crucible.      The mass weighed 81 grains, and had therefore
 lost in water 19 grains.
                       * Communicated       by the Author.
                                                                  III. 100

49                     On the Affinities   of
   III. 100 grains of the same clay were exposed with two
grains of lamp carbon. The. latter disappeared, and a par
tially vitrified mass of clay was obtained of a blackish blue
colour.
   IV. 100 grains of clay and 3 grains of carbon afforded a
result similar, though without any symptoms of vitrification.
A portion of carbon equal to half a grain remained untaken
up.
    V. 100 grains of clay were exposed in a Cornwall clay
crucible along with 8 grains of carbon, to a heat of 170*
of Wedgwood. The result was a mass more friable than
any of the former.        Its colour was black, and the interior of
the crucible was covered with a dark lead blue glaze, which
tad penetrated a little way into the thickness. As was ex
pected, a considerable quantity of the carbon remained un
taken up.       It is presumable, therefore, from these experi
ments, that the addition of charcoal, in quantity not exceed
ing l-50th or l-40th the weight of the clay, hastens its
i'usibility by uniting with   it,  but that beyond this propor
tion the fusibility of the mixture   is   retarded.
    In the fabrication of crucibles the same fact       is  clearly
illustrated.      Cast steel pots are frequently made with pow
dered black lead pots mixed with the Sturbridge elay. This
tenders them more fusible, but less apt to clink in heating
and cooling. An extra dose of either black lead or coke dust
in, forming smaller crucibles decreases the fusibility, but       by
impairing the tenacity of the compound in high heats en
tails an evil of as great importance as that 'meant to be re
moved.
    VI. A Sturbridge clay crucible filled with charcoal, upon
which    a  lid was accurately fitted, was exposed to   a  heat of
sufficient strength to melt     it   into
                                       a    flattish cake. In this
state the consistency was soft, and nearly entering into fu
sion.     When cold, found great portion of the charcoal
                      I         a
still inclosed. The interior of the pot was of rusty black
                                                    a
colour, and honey-combed.               The fracture was porous
throughout, and exhibited an imperfect glassy appearance
of dirty black colour. The fracture of vitrified Sturbridge
   a                      •
clay in general  is   white, and even when urged to fusion is
<rf  a dull  yellowish colour.     The result now obtained was
different from the common appearances, evidently in con
sequence of the quantity of charcoal inclosed, and readily
 presented to the clay at a     high temperature.
    VII. Fifty grains of Sturbridge clay, mixed with grains
                                                         3
 t>f chalk, or nearly 1-1 7th of its weight, were melted into     a
                                                             whitish

                                         Carlon,
                  different Earths  Jor                        49
whitish yellow porcelain, which had flown freely upon the
bottom of the crucible.
     VIII. Fifty grains of the same clay, mixed with 5 grains,
or l-10th of chalk, were easily reduced into a blackish glass.
The surface was shining ; the fracture spotted with whitish
brown concretions; but the general appearance was a black
incompact semi-glass.
     IX. Fifty grains of clay mixed with 3 grains of chalk, to
which was added half a grain of carbon, yielded a dense
porcelain glass of a dull lead-blue colour.       The carbon had
totally disappeared.       This result, so very different from
No. VII, was occasioned simply by the addition of the mi
nute portion of carbon.
     X. Fifty grains of the same clay, mixed with 3 grains of
 chalk and 1 grain of carbon, yielded a mass half glass
and half porcelain.       The colour a deep black. The char
coal had entirely disappeared.
     XI. Fifty grains of clay, 3 grains of chalk, and Ingrain
of carbon, yielded an unshapely mass, composed of very
 dark glass, and the mixture in a vitrified gritty state.        A
 quarter of a grain of carbon remained untaken up.
      XII. Fifty grains of vitrified Sturbridge clay pot, finely
 pounded, was mixed with 5 grains of chalk, and fused into
 a beautiful red spotted      porcelain very much resembling
 some varieties of porphyry.       The surface was more glassy
 than the fracture, shining, and covered with wavy and cir
 cular impressions.     The colour was most probably owing to
 the oxide of iron contained in the chalk.       The great differ
 ence betwixt this and the result of No. VIII, wherein the
 same proportions, but with raw clay, were used, and in
 which a black glass was obtained, might be owing to the
 absence of water, which in the former might tend to super-
 oxygenate the iron.       In the latter experiment the vitrified
 clay could contain little or no water ; and if the affinity which
 clay is generally admitted to have for oxygen was exerted,
 the iron might in the last experiment be considerably de
 oxidated, and give the singular tinge of red to the whole
 mass.
      XIII. Fifty grains of vitrified clay, 3 grains of chalk,
 and l-i grain of carbon, were thoroughly mixed, and sub
 jected to a heat similar to- the former.        The result was a
  convex button of glass, of a dirty blueish black colour.
  Upon breaking the mass I found it hollow, and entirely
  filled with a beautiful arrangement of a mixture of the car
  bonaceous matter and the residuum ash.           The group was
 £brous resembling down, and so extremely light as to ele-.

44                     On the Affinities  of
Tate itself upon the slightest motion given to the glass. The
 quantity of carbon thus obtained weighed short of l-8th of
 a grain. Upon examining the fracture of the glass I found
its colour darken as- it approached the cell where the char
coal was found, and neither so dense nor perfect as towards
 the surface or extremities of the mass.
    It will appear, therefore, conclusive from these experi
 ments, that carbon unites to Sturbridge clay either by ce
mentation or fusion, and the quantities will be to the dif
 ferent states of the clay respectively as follows :
    Raw Sturbridge clay in cementation causes to disap
 pear .2^ per cent, of carbon, and is thereby changed from
a pale straw to a blackish blue colour. Experiments No. I,
 II, III,   and IV.
    Raw Sturbridge clay, fused by the assistance of chalk,
causes to disappear 2-j- per cent, of carbon, and thereby
changes its colour from a yellowish porcelain to a hetero
 geneous mass of black glass and gritty vitrified clay. Expe
 riments No. VII, VIII, IX, X, and XI.
    But as this clay was found to contain from 1 8 to 2O per
cent, of water, it was probable that part of the carbon would
be carried off by the water in the act of evaporation-
    Vitrified clay was used, and a portion of charcoal disap
peared in contact with it equal to 2-J per cent., changing
the colour from a kind of blood red to a blackish blue co
 lour. Experiments No. XII and XIII.
    XIV. One of Wedgwood's rolls, weighing 27 grains, was
heated to 163°, and then weighed 20 grains.          It was then
put into a crucible filled with charcoal, and exposed for two
hours to a stronger degree of heat.        It was then found to
weigh 187£ grains. Its surface was entirely glazed, of a
blackish blue colour.     Its fracture presented a small ring
of the same colour, proceeding from the circumference of
the roll. The interior was pure white.         The colour in no
place exceeded the limits of the circle.
    XV. A portion of very pure Cornwall clay was exposed
in a crucible made of the same stuff, and, after a heat of
1 71° of Wedgwood, I found the clay loosely connected toge
ther, gritty, and easily pulverized. I returned it with a por
tion of carbon, and gave it the whole power of the furnace
for half an hour. 1 he result was a pulverulent mass of
grayish gritty clay, in which the whole of ,the charcoal em
ployed had disappeared.
   XVI. Twenty grains of pure Cornwall clay, 11 grains of
water, and 2 grams of lamp carbon, were formed into a
small ball, which was dried, and afterwards exposed, to a

                   different Earths  for  Carbon.             43
high heat.      I found the ball vitrified throughout, and pos
sessed of an uniform black fracture, slightly porous from
the excessive heat.       A fragment of raw clay, weighing 15
grains, was placed at a little distance from the ball in the
same pot.      It was found perfectly vitrified and glazed, irt
the same manner as the roll in Experiment XIV.          The co
loration had penetrated a considerable way further towards
the centre of the piece than in the case of the roll, probably
owing to the spongy texture of this clay in its native state.
The ball weighed, after being exposed, 1 7 grains ; being five
less than the weight of the clay and carbon.        The mass of
clay IS} grains, being 2^ less than when introduced.         The
quantity of water in the clay being nearlv 15 per cent.
    XVII. Fifty grains of raw Cornwall clay were mixed
 with 5 grains of chalk, and fused into a button of beautiful
 white porcelain.      The colour of the fracture was uniformly
 pure throughout.
    XVIII.    Fifty grains of the same clay, mixed with 5 grains
 of chalk   and half a grain   of lamp carbon, formed by fusion
 a very   perfect glass    of considerable  density. The colour
 was light lead-blue, and possessed considerable transparency.
    XIX.    Fifty grains of Cornwall clay, 5 grains of chalk,
 and   1 grain of carbon, afforded by fusion a glass of a darker
 colour than the former, but not so perfect, arising from an.
 apparent extra dose of carbon.          The charcoal, however,
 had disappeared, and from the increased colour of the glass
 its combination was obvious.
     XX. Fifty grains of Cornwall clay, 5 grains of chalk,
 and 14 grain of carbon, yielded a porous mass of porcelain
 of a very dark rusty black colour. The whole, of the carbon
 disappeared.
     XXI.    The same experiment repeated with the addition,
 of half a grain, or in all 2 grains of carbon. The result
 was a semi-fused mass of vitrified matter, the fracture of
                                  '
 which resembled porcelain.         The colour was darker than in
 No. XX, and ± grain of carbon remained untaken up.
     XXII. Cornwall clay, vitrified in 168° of Wedgwood:
  50 grains of this, finely pounded, were mixed with 5 grains
 of chalk, and fused into a primrose-coloured porcelain glass.
 This result differs as much from No. XVII, wherein the
 same proportion of mixture was used with raw clay, as
  No. XII did from No. VII, in the experiments with Stur-
  bridge clay. The latter contained from 18 to 20 per cent,
  of water, the former about 15.
     XXIII. Cornwall clay, vitrified, 50 grains, mixed with
  5 grains of chalk and 1 grain of carbon, yielded by fusion
                                                            a very

  46                      On the Affinities  of
  a very perfect dark lead-blue glass. The carbon had en-»
  tirely disappeared.
      XXIV. The same proportions of vitrified Cornwall clay
  and chalk, were exposed in the furnace, intimately mixed
  with 1 4 grain of carbon. The result was a mass of very
  fine porcelain minutely porous, of a dull blackish lead co
  lour.    No remains of carbon were visible.
      XXV. Fifty grains of the same clay, mixed with 5 grains
  of chalk and 2 grains of carbon, were fused into a spongy
  mass of very black porcelain, somewhat tinged with blue.
  A few flakes of carbon were found upon the surface of the
  product, mixed with some snowy white flowers supposed
  to have come from the residuum ash of the carbon.               As
  soon as the cover was broken from the crucible they began
  to elevate themselves, and float lightly about.
     The same experiments were performed with a fifth in
 place of a tenth part of chalk to clay ; and similar results,
 but more fusible products, obtained.          One deduction only,
  different from the others, I was able decidedly to make, —
 that the addition of from l-50th to 1-lOOdth part of carbon,
 when a filth of chalk was used, increased the fusibility of
 the mixture from 168° to 152° of Wedgwood.
     It appears therefore generally conclusive, that carbon
 unites to Cornwall clay either in cementation (see Experi
 ments No. XIV, XV, and XVI,) or in fusion, and probably
 in a much greater proportion, changing the colour of the
 products from milky white, through various shades of lead
 blues, to black : increasing the fusibility with small por
 tions, and changing porcelain to glass : thon again retard
 ing the fusibility when an extra quantity is used, and de
 stroying the perfection of the glass, and producing a spongy
 porcelain.      The greatest quantity united, or which disap
 peared in the experiments with raw clay, amounted to 1J
 grains to 50 of clay, or 3£ per cent., No. XXI. But as
 Cornwall clay contains nearly 15 parts of water in 100, vi-'
 trified clay was used, and the experiments with it indicated
 an absorption of carbon equal to 4 grains in the 100, or
 l-25th part the weight of the clay No. XXV.
    XXVI. A portion of pure clay was taken, and, after being
introduced into a crucible made of Cornwall clay, was ex
posed for an hour to the greatest heat of a furnace 8 inches
square, with a chimney 48 feet in height.          The crucible was
found    considerably   furrowed   on  the  sides,  but quite erect.
The clay    remained   pure   and unchanged,    but  rriuch reduced
in   bulk.   It,  however,   possessed  a  roughness and asperity
which it had not before its introduction.
                                                           XXVII.

                   different Earths  for Carton.                 47
    XXVII.
A grain
               Fifteen grains of pure clay were mixed with
          of carbon,
                                                               J
                       and exposed for an hour to a heat of 165*
                                                                  of
of Wedgwood.          I found the clay quite unaltered as to <••<•>-
lour.    The charcoal had glazed the interior of the crucible
in place of uniting to the pure clay. This led me to infer
that the combination of carbon was not in the ratio of the
absolute temperature, but in the ratio of the fusibility of
the mass. In all these experiments I found that carbon
united with Sturbridge clay at an inferior temperature to
that at which it combined with Cornwall clay, the fusibility
of the former being much greater than that of the latter ;
and I found it quite impossible to colour pure clay by the
most minute particle of carbon.           In place of ] 5 grains,  I
found the product only weighed 7. Lost 8 grains of water,
    XXVIII. Twenty grains of pure clay were exposed to
 ) 66° of Wedgwood, and then found to weigh only 8 grains.
This was mixed with 2 grains of pure lime and half a grain
of carbon, and an imperfect reduction obtained. The mass
 was only partially vitrified.
    XXIX. Twenty grains of pure clay and 5 grains of pure
lime were intimately mixed and exposed.           The result was a.
very perfect glass arranged       in detached   irregular columns
 or crystals upon the bottom of a Cornwall clay pot. The
 purity of these masses was entire. The colour generally
 whitish, but in some places tinged with pale yellow.
    XXX. Twenty grains of pure clay, 5 grains of pure lime,
 and 1 grain of carbon, were exposed for an hour ; when            I
 obtained a small flat button of earth, hollow in the centre
 and entirely black upon its upper surface. It, however, con
 tained a portion of the clay and lime, white, and rough as if
 granulated.      In a few places, symptoms of vitrification and
 glass were evident.       The charcoal had disappeared, and the
 interior of the pot remained unglazed.        In point of weight,
 the whole mass was reduced to a fraction more than ten
 grains.
    XXXI. Twenty grains of pure clay, 5 grains of pure
 lime, and 2 grains of carbon, formed by fusion a rough
 half-softened mass of an uniformly black colour. The char
 coal was all united to the clay; but a small portion of the
 mixture, in a pulverulent form, and of a gray colour, re
 mained unfused, which indicated a saturation of the car
 bonaceous principle, first manifested in excess by retarding
 the fusibility of the mixture.              ,
    It would appear from these experiments, that pure clay
 causes to disappear a quantity of carbonaceous matter equal
 to J -J oth part of its weight ; but as the clay operated upon
                                                          contained

 48                           On the Affinities   of
  contained nearly 6-I0ths its weight of water, I deemed it
  necessary to prepare a few experiments with clay dried in a
  heat of 1 65°, and used almost immediately when taken from
  the crucible.
      XXXII. Twenty grains of pure clay thus prepared were
  mixed with l-4th its weight of pure lime, and exposed in
  a Cornwall clay crucible to 170° of Wedgwood.            The re
  sult was a partially coagulated mass, slightly adhesive, gra
 nulated, and resembling very fine silex. The want of fusion
  in this experiment arose from the extra quantity of real clay
  introduced by means of depriving it of its water.
     XXXIII. Twenty grains of the same clay, mixed with
  10 grains of pure lime, were fused into a transparent glo
  bule of glass of a milky white colour.
     XXXIV. This mixture, fused with 1 grain of carbon,
 yielded a fine glass of a blueish crystal colour.      The char*
 coal was most evidently united in trie mass, which exhibited
 a cloudy water, as if the glass had inclosed a fine charcoal-
 coloured vapour. This so completely deceived me, that I
 broke the glass with a view to liberate          it,
                                                but found    dense    it
 and solid throughout.
     XXXV. Twenty grains of pure clay, 10 grains of pure
 lime, and       2grains of carbon, were intimately mixed, and
 fused into alilack porcelain mass.         The surface was dull
 and earthy, but the fracture possessed considerable lustre.
 Half  a    grain of carbon remained untaken up; so that                      l-J
 grain   had  united to the mass in fusion.         may therefore
                                                        It
 be concluded, that pure clay deprived of all moisture, reck
 oning the calcareous earth to have been neutral, absorbs
 7£ per
          cent, of carbon, or betwixt l-13th and l-14th part
its own weight.
    An abstract of the quantities of carbon united to the dif
 ferent substances now operated upon in one fusion, will
 Stand thus      :
    Sturbridaje clay, vitrified, absorbs of carbon      per cent.
                                                             25
    Cornwall            ditto        ditto    -              4
    Pure clay dried      in
                          a  heat of 65° Wedg.
                                       1
                                                     7£
                                                                  -
  It   is   further probable, that were the products thus ob
tained      by single fusion reduced and re-tuscd, with addi
tional doses of carbon, that still greater combination of
                                      a
carbon would take place, and greater alteration upon the
                                       a
results ensue.
 I     shall conclude this branch of the inquiry with the fol
lowing remarks       :
     1st, The combination        of carbon with clay uniformly
tends to form        ablack porous porcelain, sometimes resem
                                                                           bling

                    different Earths  far   Carbon.                  49
bling the coarsest lavas or cinders that come from the blast
furnace.
    2cl, From this circumstance I would endeavourto explain iti
part a chief constituent in the scouring cinder of the blast-fur
nace, not hitherto explicable upon common grounds. When
these circumstances unite to produce this cinder at the fur
nace, it flows copiously of a black spongy texture, freque ntly
igniting sparks resembling the deflagration of carbon. The
cjuantity of iron, which has hitherto oeen deemed its colour
ing principle, seldom exceeds 3 per cent., and always ap
peared to me to be inadequate to explain the uncommon
appearance of the cinder.           Upon the grounds of clay ab
sorbing carbon, it is easy to suppose, should any cir
cumstance occur in the smelting process to establish an
extra share of affinity betwixt the argillaceous matter of the
ores and the carbon of the fuel, that a considerable portion
of the latter will unite to the former, and change the colour
and form of the lava.          The crude iron then will become
decarbonated, as a consequence of this affinity.             It will be
deprived    of its necessary   share of fuel, become    inflammable,
and oxidate before the blast.         The iron thus debased will
unite to the general current of lava, and account for the
 portion of iron which such cinders generally contain. This
 explanation is the reverse of what could be formerly ad
 vanced ; for the scouring or running of a black porous
 cinder could only be attributed to the combustion of the
iron by some more remote cause.
    3d, The affinity or tendency which carbon has to unite
 with clay is so great, that l-300dth part of the former pro
duces the most striking varieties in the result.              In many
 other experiments, not particularized here, I found that
 even l-800dth part of carbon produced an effect upon the
 product, as to density, colour, and transparency.                This
 being    the  case, may     there  not  exist  similar  unsuspected
 affinities betwixt iron and clay, and betwixt oxygen and
 clay, even in the process of smelting ? and may not these
 be productive of permanent effects upon the quality of the
 manufactured iron ?
    4th, I had frequently occasion to notice, in the course of
 performing these experiments, the strength of affinity ex
 isting betwixt carbon and the different clays. In one ex
 periment, wherein pure clay and carbon were exposed in a
  Cornwall clay crucible with a Sturbridge clay cover, 1 re
 marked that the pure clay was equally so as when intro
  duced ; but the interior surface of the crucible was covered
 with a light blue glaze, while the top of Sturbridge clay
    No. 73. June 1804.               D                              was

50           Typhus Fever cured       ly   the Use  of Yeast.
was    of a dark colour inclining to black. The charcoal
which was introduced along with the argil had disappeared ;
but the sides and cover of the pot, being composed of clay
which in the same temperature had approached more nearly
to fusion, had attracted the carbon, from its simple mixture
with the argil, and became united to it by a regular process
of cementation.
                             [To  be continued.]
     X. A    Case of Typhus Fever        cured   ly the Use of Yeast.
                            To   Mr. Tilloch.
 I"IRj
    F you think the following        history of the cure of a typhus
 fever by the use of yeast, worth inserting in your Journal,
 it is at your service.
     A   young gentleman, about thirteen years of age, was
 sent home sick from school.            The physician who attended
 the family was sent for immediately ; he thought it a tri
 fling complaint, and that the child would be well again in
  two or three days.        The next day, however, he found him
  Worse : the throat began to ulcerate, and his pulse was very
  quick. He now began to think the disorder was of a serious
  nature.     The third day he declared him to be in imminent
  danger : his pulse was still quicker, his mouth and fauces
  so ulcerated that it was with great difficulty he could be
 made to swallow any fluid; and blood began to exude from
  his eyes, nose, and ears. On the fourth clay the symptoms
  ivere all worse, and his neck was swelled to the level of the
  chin ; he had so much anxiety that he had obliged the nurse
  to remove him continually from one bed to the other, there
  being two in the room ; such a quantity of blood was dis
  charged    from his ears, that they were obliged to change the
  pillow-cases frequently; his pulse was at 140, and the
  stench of his chamber was intolerable: finally, the physician
  declared he could not possibly live forty-eight hours, and
  that it was not probable he would live twenty-four.
      At this period, one of the principals of the family recol
   lected having read of the wonderful powers of yeast in curing
   putrid fevers, and thought he should be perfectly justifiable
   jn superseding the medicines which had no effect, and
  gi'yinc the yeast a trial.       Some was immediately procured,
  and,   J>eing diluted   with    warm    water and coarse sugar, was
  with    ovcat  difficulty   conveyed     to the fauces with a spoon :
                                                                      he

    Purification   of Cobalt and Nickel from Bismuth, &c.               51
he presently found himself refreshed, grew calmer, and all
the threatening symptoms began to abate.
    The next    day, when the physician came, expecting to
 find  a corpse,   he was struck with astonishment : his pulse
was already reduced from 140 to 100 strokes in the minute;
the ulcers had put on a more florid appearance ; he was per
fectly tranquil ; and the discharge from his eyes, nose, and
ears, considerably diminished.          The yeast was continued,
and he recovered as rapidly as he had fallen sick — so as, in
a few days, to be perfectly well.
    I have only further to observe, that, as they got a pail of
fermenting wort into his room and skimmed the yeast off
occasionally, the precise quantity he took cannot be stated ;
but it is estimated that he took three or four table spoonsfull
 of pure yeast in twenty-four hours. It was so far from af
fecting the bowels, that it was found necessary to administer
some opening medicines while he was taking the yeast.
    If any persons wish to be further informed, I will give
them a reference to the parties, who are people of consi
derable notoriety in the city.
                             I am sir, your humble servant,
Grocer's  Hall Court,                                        J.  HEATH.
   March 10, 1804.
XI.     On the best hitherto known Methods of purifying Colalt
    and Nickel from Bismuth, Arsenic, Iron, and Copper,
    which in general accompany these Metals ; Imt particu
    larly on the lest Methods of separating Cobalt from
    Nickel, or Nickel from Cobalt, in the large Way. By
    Dr. RICHTER*.
Xi/VERY practical chemist       so well knows how difficult it is
to obtain cobalt and nickel free from other metals, that it
is not necessary to say any thing concerning it. The author
of this paper is well known as an able chemist, and his si
tuation as director of the manufactory of colours for the
royal Berlin porcelain manufactory, has enabled him to ex
periment upon the subject in the large way. Our present
object is to give the results, which, no doubt, will be ac
ceptable to those who are concerned in similar undertakings.
We shall therefore give an abstract of his paper, which is
as follows :
    Let the pulverized ore of cobalt be repeatedly roasted
    * From  Gehlen's  New Journal of Cbemittry, vol. ii. part i. p. 61.
                                D   2                                with

 52         Methods   of purifying Cobalt   and    Nickel
  with charcoal powder until no more arsenic (or at least vcrv
  little, for it is impossible to free it wholly from arsenic and
  sulphur,) or sulphur is volatilized. Upon the ore thus partly
  desulphurated, &c., pour 2-3ds of its weight concentrated
  sulphuric acid previously diluted with double its quantity
  of water : heat the mixture in earthen pans placed on a sand-
 -bath nearly to the boiling point, and add to it gradually
  nitrate of potash till no further action takes place, or till
  no more red vapours are disengaged.         This being done, eva
  porate the whole to dryness, and heat the dry mass strongly;
  a new disengagement of red vapours again takes place ; keep
  up the heat till no more red fumes are evolved. The heated
  mass must then be thrown into water, and its soluble part
  washed out by the repeated affusion of this fluid.         The in
  soluble residue is to be treated in a similar wav till the re
  sidue consists of nothing else but part of the matrix of the
  ore.
      The before-obtained solution, after having been suffered
  to subside, must be decanted or filtered, and mingled with
  a solution of carbonate of potash.        By this means the bis
  muth and a considerable quantity of iron (frequently also
. arseniatc of iron) become separated ; sometimes also copper
  and nickel, in combination with arsenic acid.          The colour
  of the precipitate cannot be determined, for it differs ac
  cording to the nature of the ore.
     The fluid may now be examined for copper. If a polished
  cylinder of iron, after having been immersed in the solution,
  acquires the slightest reddish hue, copper may be suspected.
  It is, however, not advisable to separate the copper by iron ;
  for part of the cobalt would also be precipitated in combina
  tion with the copper, and a loss would thus be occasioned.
  It is therefore more profitable to decompose the whole solu
  tion at once by carbonate of potash.          The precipitate ob
  tained must be washed, dried, and sublimed with muriate
  of ammonia.
      If the cobalt is contaminated with a small quantity of
  copper, that part of the sublimed muriate of ammonia which
  escapes undecomposed elevates all the copper, and the sub
  limate has a blueish colour.       If a larger quantity of copper
  be present, the sublimation must be repeated successively
  until the last sublimed muriate does not show any vestige
 of   copper by the usual tests.
    The cobalt thus purified from copper     (ifcontained any)
                                                  it
 may again be dissolved, and the solution decomposed            by
 carbonate of potash    ;  taking care to add the alkali in
 excess.  The  precipitate obtained   to be digested in solu
                                      is                    a
            5                                             tion

           from Bismuth, Arsenic, Iron, and             Copper.            53
  tion of carbonate of potash ; or this trouble may be saved
  by adding to the precipitated solution a considerable quan
  tity of carbonate of potash, and then suffering the whole
   mixture to boil for some time : we are now sure that the
  difficultly soluble arseniates, if any were present, arc de
  composed and got rid of.
     In order to know the nature of the precipitate, let a
  portion of it be neutralized with sulphuric acid ; mingle
  the solution with sulphate of ammonia, evaporate the rluid,
  and suffer it to crystallize.     From the colour of the crystal
  lized salt, the experienced operator may form already some
 judgment of what his precipitate principally consists :                   if,
  namely, the crystals have     a  greenish colour, he       sure they
                                                                is
  contain nickel.       In that case,    it  necessary to redissolve
                                              is
  and recrystallize them till they acquire       red colour. Should
                                                   a
 it,  however, happen that during the repeated solution and
 recrystallization the salt acquires     amore lively green colour,
 and that the noncrystallized fluid or mother-liquor acquires              a
 more lively red colour;   in  that case his principal object should
 be directed towards the direct separation of the nickel from
 the solution. For that purpose, let the whole remaining so
 lution be divided into four equal parts         neutralize one part
                                                   ;
 by   sulphuric acid, and note the quantity of acid which was
 necessary for that purpose,        inorder to learu the quantity
 required    for the  rest.
     To save, however, the expense of the direct application
 of sulphuric acid,   it   is  more ceconomical to convert the
quantity     of  sulphuric  acid  necessary for the saturation of
the precipitate into sulphate of ammonia,              by
                                                      making       actit
on muriate of ammonia.           The muriatic acid, though not
wanted    in   the process in view, and the sulphate of ammo
nia which will thus be obtained, will amply repay the ex
pense incurred.
    The sulphate of ammonia must be dissolved in water, and
the before-obtained precipitate digested in this solution.          If
the whole precipitate should not become dissolved, sulphuric
acid may be added to effect     a  solution.    This, however, will
be seldom found to be the case. Should the solution be tur
bid, suffer it    to stand undisturbed to subside        for;    may it
happen that    a   minute quantity of arsen,i,at£ or oxide of iron,
or both, becomes deposited, which             in proportion to the
                                              is
care \\ ith which the operator has, conducted his former pro
cesses.
  The clear fluid must then be evaporated at low heat tilt
                                                        a
a considerable  pellicle appears, and then suffered, ta cool;:
                                O   3

54       Fifteenth Communication      from Dr. Thornton,
green crystals of nickel will then be obtained, which prove
that this metal was present in a considerable quantity ;
whereas, on the contrary, the crystals are of a reddish hue.
Remove the crystals, and let the fluid be repeatedly evapo
rated and crystallized till the last crop of crystals are red.
The remaining fluid then contains no more nickel            ;  it may
therefore be crystallized.
    The obtained crops of crystals, which are more or less of
a beautiful red, should be put together, redissolved, and
recrystallized repeatedly, till a new crystallization does not
increase their beauty.
    The obtained green crystals of nickel are treated in a si
milar manner till their green colour does not become more
lively by a fresh crystallization.       These tedious processes
of crystallization may be considerably shortened if the ope
rator picks his crops of crystals, or sorts and dissolves thcin
accordingly.
    The cobaltic solution of nickel, or the solution of nickel
soiled with cobalt, as it may be called, according to the
nature of the solution, may be purified respectively by sul
phate of ammonia and subsequent repeated crystallizations;
a process which can by far more easily be adhered to in the
large way than any of the methods now made use of.                     I
need hardly mention that both the salts may be decomposed
by carbonate of potash, and the carbonate of nickel and car
bonate of cobalt be reduced in the usual way.
    XII.   Fifteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
                 relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                          To Mr. Tilloch.
                                            May 10. 1804..
 _,    SIB,                    No. 1,  Hind-sircer, Manchester-square.
  JL he following is an account of the efficacy of the oxy
 genated marine acid gas in a case of chlorosis or green sick
 ness ; and    I have not any additional information to add,
 although the cure was accomplished in the year 1705, be
 cause my success in such disorders has been uniform with
 the simple oxygen gas or vital air, properly diluted, aided
 by tonic medicines ; and this gas has little or no irritating
 effect upon the lungs, which the other gas, if not properly
 diluted, undoubtedly has ; and it is the part of the prudent
physician to apply the mildest means, when these are gene
rally found to answer,
                                                                Letter

                        relative to Pneumatic Medicine.                           55
    Letter from JOHN BIGGS, Esq. to Dr. THORNTON.
      SIR,         .                           Ipinsr, near Midhurst.
   In answer to your letter I need pot inform you that I
have a patent for the bleaching of paper, which is accom
plished by means of the superoxygenated gas, which has
the power of rendering the darkest paper a fine white, taking
out all colour.   I have had paper which was mildewed in
going to India, completely restored by this air; which cir
cumstance has given considerable profit to the traders to the
East.    Discoloured and mildewed prints are restored by the
same means.      Mr. Splilsbury, printer, had Milton's Para
dise Lost, a fine copy, much mildewed, perfectly recovered.
Books discoloured by age are rendered beautifully white by
this process.   As I make no secret of               it,
                                                   shall just men
                                                       I
tion, that the articles are inclosed in wooden receiver made
                                                 a
of deal, dove-tailed, and the inside set with large panes of
glass fastened together           by
                               filling any interstices with slips
of wood. Manganese powdered              then used, with salt and
                                            is
vitriolic acid, and these are placed in an earthen retort in                      a
sand heat, and, communicating               by
                                          pipes with the boxes,
disengage in them the oxygenated gas. When the bleached
paper  istaken out, after an hour or less, much of the gas,
of course,     distributed in the apartment. The persons
                   is
employed in this process enjoy excellent health one man                ;
and two women have worked four years with me, and
have had uninterrupted health.      observe myself, that after
                                           I
breathing this gas diffused in the room, always experience
                                                     I
a greater warmth on that day, with an increased appetite.
My work-people   make the same observations.
    Thecase you particularly inquired after, was that of
                                                                                  a a
young woman, aged 17, excessively pale, and so delicate
skin that you might see through her fingers   teeth pearly     ;           a
white, lips the colour of her complexion, breathing very
short,   violent cough, and great expectoration body much
          a                                                        ;
reduced   ;steel, &c. had been used in vain, and the                             fa
culty with us supposed she would not recover.      When she
came to work in my manufactory, my people told her she
would soon get well from the sieam let out of the boxes:
and instead of her breathing getting worse, as some might
expect,     was greatly relieved
              it                   her appetite came round;
                                        ;
her complexion soon was rendered rucicly nature assumed    ;
all her proper functions     the cough left her
                                  ;               and she has      ;
continued to work in my manufactory more than         twelve               a
month, and enjoys very excellent state of health.
                             a
          I have the honour to be, sir, with great respect,
              Your obedient humble servant,     JOHN BIGGS.
                                   D   4                               Observations

 56                Description of an improved Churn.
           Observations    on this Case by     Dr. Thornton.
'    1.   Chlorotic consumption,        even oftener than any other,
  proves    fatal from  the   pernicious   treatment of this disease, as
 considering it a true consumption, and lowering the patient.
  It arises from a defective oxygenation of the blood.
     II.   Steel gives the blood more power to abstract oxv-
  gen, and form of it one of its component parts : hence the
  Benefit of this remedy.          Tonics do the same, but in a less
  degree.
     III. That the superoxygenated marine acid gas imparts
  oxvgen to the blood, or animal fibre, is shown oy Girtan-
  ner {vide Bcddoes' translation), who thinks that no sub
  stance imparts more of this principle ; and hence, when
  concentrated, as in the superoxygenated muriatic acid, its
  most powerfu} effects ; when having acted on the animal
  fibre, it is no longer superoxygenated : hence in the form,
  of gas, probably,' the oxygen is in a similar manner,
  though in a less degree, imparted to the blood or animal
  fibre.
      IV. As this air may require more caution than in acci
  dental admixture with common air in an apartment, much
  good may hereafter be derived from it under a prudent ad
  ministration.       Sed ars tonga, vita brevis, as Hippocrates
  observes, and the strong prejudices against aerial remedies
                  "
  still exist.
   XIII.    Description    of Mr. William Bowler's               improved
                                   Churn*.
   Jt or    this improvement, thirty guineas were voted to the
   inventor, by the Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
   Manufactures, and Commerce, which has one of the churns
   reserved in its repository for the inspection of the public.
       The churn itself is of the barrel kind, being a cylinder
   eighteen inches diameter and nine inches wide, the sides
   wood, and the rim tin p'.ite, having twp openings; the
   one, eight inches and a half Ions, by four inches wide,
   through which the cream is put into the churn, and the
   hand introduced for cleaning it ; the other, a short pipe one
   inch diameter, by which the butter-milk runs out of the
   churn when the operation is finished. The first of these
      '*
         From the T.a<-<actions of tbr Si toy for the Encauxpgtmtnt of Arts,
   ManuftutuTu, ana CoiKruru, vol. iiii,
                                                                  opening^

                     Description         of an   improved        Churn.                          5?
openings has a wooden cover, fastened down by two screws,
and the other a cork fitted to                   it,
                                     while the butter    churn                       is
ing. There        also, near the larger opening,
                      is                            small vent-             a
hole with      peg, to allow
                 a              passage tor any air discharged
                                          a
from the cream at the beginning of the operation. An axle
passes through the churn, terminating in two gudgeons on
which      hangs, its lower part being immersed in trough,
          it                                                                         a
 to occasionally hold hot or cold water according to the sea
 son of the year and on the inside of the rim are four pro
                       ;
jecting pieces of wood, with holes in them, serving to beat
 the cream        by
                the motion of the churn this motion is caused
                                                            :
 by  a  pendulum, three feet six inches long, having an iron
 bob weighing tcu pounds, and at its upper end turning a
 pulley ten inches diameter, from which goes          rope twice                a
 round another pulley, about three inches diameter, fixed on
 the axis of the churn, and causing        to make     partial re
                                                            it                   a
  volution       by
                each vibration of the pendulum.        There are
  sliding covers to the machinery, and also        cover to the            a
  water-trough, in order, when the hot water        used, to se             is
cure the steam,                    in due and necessary
                            and keep the cream                   a
degree       of warmth.             The motion of
                                   the  pendulum    given                                 is
and kept up      wooden rod, about three feet nine inches
                       by   a
long, turning on  pin about three inches above the bob of
                                a
the pendulum.
 A    Front and Side View                  of   this Churn       is      given   on      Plate   I,
     A, A,                      of
                       the churn.
                 the body
    B, an opening,                  by
                        which the cream    put in.
    C, the cover of the large opening,      the small hole on    c, is
 the opposite side of the churn,                           by
                                       which the butter-milk
is  poured out.
    D, the gudgeon on which the body of the churn hangs.
    E,E, the upper or larger pulley- The screw              tightens                 e
 the band which goes round
    F,F, the smaller pulley, fixed on the axis or gudgeon of
 the churn.
    G,G, the rod of the pendulum hanging from the upper
 pulley E.
    H, H, the bob of the pendulum.
     I,  the handle, moveable on           pin at a,   a  which the             by
 pendulum          moved to and fro, making
                  is                              traverse, in forma
 pf  the dotted line K, K.
    L,L, L, the trough for the hot or cold water.
    Jtf,
    O    j ••
             arest for the handle \\ hen the churn    not at work.         is
                                                                                      5CIV.      to-

                                    [       58   ]
XIV.     Report made to the Class of the Physical and Ma
    thematical Sciences of tlie French National Institute, by
    C. RAMON, respecting a Memoir of C. DAUBUISSON on
    the Basaltes of Saxony *.
(L>.   HAUY   and myself have been charged to give an ac
count  to the  class of a very long and circumstantial memoir
of Daubuisson on the basaltes of Saxony, accompanied with
observations    on the origin of basal tes in general.   It ia
well known         that    the question respecting the origin of ba-
saltes has excited many disputes         and discussions among na
turalists.   It    is,
                    however, among the small number of sub-
fetances  wfiich     it  impossible to mistake in the antient
                          is
mineralogy.      Pliny and Ptolemy give this name to the lapis
jEfhiopicits of Herodotus and Strabo            stone which was
                                                          ;   a
found in Upper Egypt, on the frontiers of Ethiopia, and
which, according to the latter author, appeared always under
a  regular form.     According to their description,       was of    it
(lie colour and hardness of iron            was employed in dif
                                                 ;   it
ferent works of sculpture, and particularly for making mor
tars. No object of natural history has been described with
inore precision           by
                        the antients    and     great number of
                                                 ;            a
works of this basaltes, still preserved, afford us the means of
fully examining the nature of it.
    Dolomieu, to whom we are indebted for these details,
examined the antique basaltes with great care.          He found
in what
    it        ispalled 'schorl en masse, hornblend, trapp, pe-
trosilex, granitella composed of feld-spar with, grains more
or less perceptible, and scales of schorl      he found the com
                                                          :
ponent parts vary in their volume and proportions, and in
the same masses veins and spots of granite on the smooth
black ground of the stone       he therefore declares, with every
                                    :
 assurance of conviction^      that basaltes      not of volcanic
                                                              is
origin.
    Twenty years before, our fellow-labourer, Desmarets,
 made similar observations         and he deduced exactly the
                                        ;
 same consequences,       describing under the name of galtbo
 the amphibolic stones which Dolomieu calls hornblende
 and schorl en masse,
    The idea of the volcanic origin of the antient basaltes,
 continues Dolomieu, arose from the physical constitution
 of Italy, where people must have been gradually accus
 tomed to consider all stones not calcareous, and of black-           a
               •
                    From   the   Antiults lie Cbimit,     No. 137.
                                                                          ish

                   On the Basaltes  of Saxony.                59
ish colour, as produced   by fire. In the time of Adrian the
Egyptian statues were repaired and imitated with certain
kinds of compact lava, which had nearly the colour, the
grain, and hardness, of basaltes.       Basaltes, then, was con
sidered as compact and prismatic lava; and foreign mine
ralogists received this opinion on vague analogies, and at
first without examination.     Let us therefore do justice to
Dolomieu, who from fragments of a rock, the position of
which is unknown, conjectured in part what could have
scarcely been determined by thirty years discussion in re
gard to the basaltes of Germany ; and let these abuses of
analog)', inseparable from the progress of the human mind,
explain better the errors into which respectable naturalists
may have fallen, than a fondness for the marvellous, of
•which the author of the memoir accuses those who do not
participitate in his sentiments; as before him, and in si
milar circumstances, M. Noze was not afraid of making
the same accusation against the celebrated and judicious
 Saussure.
     From these considerations, Dolomieu wished that a more
 precise nomenclature might put an end to the numerous
 ambiguities which the word uasaltes had occasioned. He
 confined this denomination within its antient meaning, and
 extended the name of lava to that even which affected pris
 matic and globular forms, when the tire had imprinted on
 it the character of its action. Being at length convinced,
 by long observation of the principal volcanoes in Europe,
  that a stone may have been in a state of fusion without expe
 riencing in its contexture any sensible alteration, he was of
 opinion that nothing but actual inspection could dissipate
  the doubts on this subject ; and by readily allowing that the
 black prismatic trapp of Saxony, as well as that of Sweden
 and Scotland, are products of the moist way, he asserted
 that those of the Vivarais and Sicily were productions of
 fire.
     Such, thirteen years ago, was the opinion of the ablest
  of our geologists; a naturalist who spent a part of his life
  amidst volcanoes. He published it in the Journal de Phy
  sique for the year 1790, in consequence         of the accounts
  transmitted to him of the labours and ideas of the most ce
  lebrated mineralogists of Germany.       If it be true that this
  grand observer, brought up, in some manner, in the domain,
  of fire, extended the limits of it too far, even when he ima
  gined that he had confined them within too narrow a com
  pass, can we believe that his adversaries, placed in a quite
  ppposite situation^ should have been less carried away by
                                                              the

   60                On the Basaltes    of Saxomj.
  the seductions of analogy, and that their general conclu
  sions should never 'show any traces of the influence of the
  places which have been the principal object of their study?
     The basaltes of the north was unanimously cpnsidered as
  of volcanic origin, when Bergman, having made a compa
  rative analysis of the basaltes of StafFa and the trapp of
  Hunneberg, found them to be composed of the same prin
  ciples*. From the result of this analysis he was led to doubt
  that the former was the immediate product of fire.              This
  fact, which, in the opinion of Dolomieu, would prove no
  thing, had a strong influence on that of the German mine
  ralogists; and the basaltes of their country was examined
  under a new point of view. Several of the most illustrious,
  at the head of whom was the celebrated Werner, were soon
  persuaded that the basaltes of Saxony, Hesse, and Bohe
 mia, were of aqueous origin.          Among the motives which
 determined their opinion, two observations, to which it was
 impossible to make any objection, have long been remarked :
  1st, The position of an immense stratum of basaltes on a
 stratum of coal, which is not altered ; 2dly, The gradual
 transition of wacke into basaltes, and of the latter into gra-
 nitella, which is known to the Germans under the name of
 grunstein.    The last observation, though in other terms, is
 exactly that which determined Dolomieu to consider the
 basaltes of Ethiopia as the production of water.           In a word,
 however decisive these observations may appear, they are
 far from having terminated the dispute. The learned in
 Gennanv were divided into two very animated parties, Vol-
 canists and Neptunkms ; and these denominations, which
 may appear a little more pompous than the subject requires,
 did they not refer to the importance of the contested ground,
 prove at least the value which each attached to victory.           It
is on this ground, even, on which the Neptunians defied
 their adversaries, that the Volcanists thought they should
be able to retort their proofs against themselves.                The
waekes, according to them, belong to muddy eruptions ;
eellular basaltes is porous lithoid lava ; thev point out the
craters and cavities from which these currents have issued:
and lately, M. Voigt, in examining the stratum of coal
which the flowing of the basaltes has covered, analvsed it
with a great deal of address and ingenuity, to prove tne dif
ferent alterations produced in it by heat f.           We shall not
s^eak here of the German mineralogists mentioned by Dau-
            * Hauv Traitc de Mincra'ogie, torn. iv.
                                                    p. +79.
            f Miocfalogiicha Rutc, YVttfpar 1S01.
                                                             buisson ;

                 On the Basaltes of Saxony  >                 61
buisson ; but \ve must add that C. Faujas visited also the
Meissner, and persists in his opinion of the volcanity of its
basal tes.
    It must, however, be confessed, that the longer this dis
cussion is continued, the less the proofs of the Volcanists
seein to prevail over those of their adversaries;    at least in
what concerns the basaltes of Saxony „ Several distinguished
mineralogists have successively appeared in the field of the
Neptunians : they reckon Klaproth, Kirwan, and many
others among their conquests ; and it is at this moment,
when the balance inclines in their favour, that C. Dau-
buisson, a distinguished pupil of M. Werner, and educated
in the sentiments of his school, presents the motives of an
opinion become very general in Germany and England, and
supported by the result of his own observations.
    The memoir of C. Daubuisson is divided into five very
long articles or chapters, accompanied by a great number
of notes, and considerably enlarged by observations on
mount Meissner, which he considers as the most interest
ing of the basaltic mountains he ever saw.
    The author employs the first chapter to determine with
precision what he understands by the word basalles, and by
the expression vulcanic productions.              ,
    He describes then the basaltes, and justly remarks that
this stone highly characterized, and always similar to itself,
whatever may be the region from which it comes, is exactly
that to which the antients gave this name. Its most striking
 properties are, a grayish black colour, a dull and generally
line-grained fracture, a specific gravity about triple that of
water, and a manifest action on the magnetic needle.         Its
masses, for the most part, are divided into prisms, some
times into plates, and sometimes, but more rarely, into
balls with concentric strata.     Certain varieties present ca
vities more or less numerous, as if produced by bubbles:
when subjected to the action of fire, it is converted into
 glass of a brownish or greenish black colour ; but this glass,
when again fused and slowly cooled, reassumes a stony ap-.
 pearance, according to the results of the ingenious experi
ments of Sir James Hall. The author then mentions and
 compares two analyses made by Klaproth and Kennedy,
 which correspond very well.       Silex, alumine, and iron,
 predominate among the constituent principles.        There are,
found also a little muriatic acid, soda, and a small portion
 of water. Klaproth discovered also carbon.
    The author then proceeds to a definition of volcanic pro
 ductions.    He confesses that he never saw a volcano, but
                                                              he

 62                 On the Basaltes     of Saxony.
  he declares that he will comprehend among their produc
  tions those substances only which have been completely fused
  and altered by subterranean fires, and which a volcanic erup
  tion has afterwards conveyed to those places where they are
 found at present ; that is to say, substances similar to those
  thrown up in our days by JEina. and Vesuvius.           In regard
  to the testimonies which might be deduced from the real or
  supposed existence of extinguished volcanoes, he rejects
  them, because their existence, he says,, is a matter of dis
  pute. C. Daubuisson, therefore, will not easily be con
  vinced by the experiments of Sir James Hall, which prove
  that gradual cooling may restore a stony appearance to fused,
  and vitrified rocks : consequently he will be under no em
  barrassment from that lithoid lava, which, according to
 Dolomieu, cannot be distinguished, but by its position, from
  analogous stones which have not been subjected to the ac
  tion of fire : to explain the latter, therefore, he will have no
 need of recurring to another mode of fusion, another degree
  of heat, than that which has given its form to common lava.
 He rejects all these suppositions, as so many hypotheses,
 invented without any foundation, to explain facts which are
 themselves hypotheses.       It may be readily perceived that
 to lay down the question in this manner is to determine it
 beforehand, since the whole is then reduced to basaltes,
 and that it would be sufficient to prove that this basaltes
 has none of the characters which distinguish lava, whose
 origin is beyond dispute. It will, however, be found that
 the author does not always adhere to this negative kind of
 proof.
     In the second chapter, C. Daubuisson proceeds to a ge
 neral and particular description of the basaltic chain of
Saxony.       This part of his labour deserves great praise, on
 account of the method which prevails in       it, and which   it   i»
 much to be wished were to be found in the works of other
 geologists.
     The chain which he describes, remarkable for the great
number of veins     it contains,   iscalled the Erz-Gebirge, or
metalliferous chain.     It  separates the electorate of Saxony
from Bohemia, and runs north-east for the extent of about
 130 miles. The maximum of its elevation         is about  a thou
sand yards above the plains of Saxony, or from eleven
to twelve hundred above the level of the sea.         Its nucleus
is  granite but this rock
          ;                   is  almost entirely covered with
strata of gneiss, micaceous and argillaceous schist.         There
are found in   it   also serpentine quartz, calcareous strata,
coals, and clay. The whole of the eastern part        is   covered
                                                          towards

                      On the Jjasaltes of Saxony.                 63
towards the north with an immense bed, no less extensive,
of free-stone.
     It is on the ridge of this chain thus constituted that the
basaltes is placed in the form of cones, domes, and plateaux.
It forms about twenty summits, sometimes insulated and
sometimes connected by their sides to the neighbouring
mountains.         All these basaltic summits, however, taken
together,      dojiot  form the sixteenth part of the whole chain
 crowned by them.
      C. Daubuisson describes separately about a dozen of
 summits.
      1st, The Scheilenlcrg rises under the form of a very ir
 regular truncated cone. The body of the mountain con
 sists of gneiss, having above it micaceous and argillaceous
 schist, covered by horizontal strata of gravel, fine sand, and
 clay. The basaltic bed, which is about 250 yards in length,
 and from 80 to 1 00 in thickness, rests upon the latter strata.
 The basaltes is divided into vertical irregular prisms with
 blunt angles. It is of moderate hardness ; contains a great
  number of small crystals of amphibolite, and some grains
  of peridot, or the ohvin of Werner. Several galleries have
  been cut out under this bed.          Fifteen years ago, M. Wer
  ner found here a stratum of wacke, on which the basaltes
  was immediately placed ; and he asserts that these two rocks
  formed a transition into each other by gradual shades.            It
  was on occasion of this discovery that the celebrated pro
  fessor of Freyberg published for the first time his ideas on
  the origin of basaltes.
       2d, The Pochlberg is also a truncated cone, and the body
  of the mountain consists of gneiss.            It is covered in the
  same manner towards the top with gravel, fine sand, and
  clay, above which arises a large bed of basaltes.         The latter
  is 540 yards in length, and about 54 in thickness.             It is
  divided into irregular prisms, and in its nature differs very
   little from the preceding.
       3d, The Baerenstein is also composed of gneiss, and co
  vered with a thin stratum which supports the mass x>f ba
   saltes. This mass is from 87 to 108 yards at least in thick
   ness.     It is divided into large irregular pillars of considera
   ble length. The basaltes is of the same nature as the pre
   ceding.
       4th, The Heidellerg is to the top formed of gneiss, which
    passes to the state of micaceous schist.        But m one of the
   flanks there     are  two  groups   of  prismatic basaltes a little
   divergent. This basaltes is black, compact, contains some
   grains of olivin, and in its cavities a kind of marly earth.
                                                                  5th,

 64                   On Ike Basaltes     of  Sa
      5th, The Lichtewalde is the object of more important
 considerations.       The body of this mountain is compose d of
 large-grained reddish granite. It is terminated by a mass
 of basaltes not less perhaps than 200 yards in thickness*
 and about 1000 in diameter.          It is not easy to determine
 whether it be divided into prisms. It is of a grayish black
 colour ; some blocks of it are entirely pierced with tortuous
cavities. These are lighter, and have less hardness than
common basaltes.          But what in particular distinguishes the
basaltes of this mountain is the (quantity of beautiful olivin
which it contains.         It appears in irregular morsels some
times larger than the fist.
     6th, The Steinkopf, an oblong mountain the base of which
is of gneiss, and the upper part of porphyry1, a pate argil-
li'itsi- rouge.    On the back of the porphyritic part is found a
basaltic summit divided into prisms, which contains a ca
vity two or three yards in depth and about four in diameter,
the sides of which are composed of prisms, that proceed di
verging like the radji of a hemisphere the centre of which
is in the middle of the depression.          The basaltes here is very
hard, and of a dark colour.         It contains a little olivin, and
grains of magnetic iron ore.
     7th, The f^andterg is gneiss, covered on the side with
argillaceous schist and porphyry, having a base of compact
feldspar : over this porphyry is extended a stratum of gres
which supports the basaltes.             The latter is divided into
plates    ; but this  division ought    not   to be considered as the
work of stratification.         On the eastern declivity of the
mountain is a small cavity three yards in depth and two
and a half in breadth.          This has been considered as the
crater of a volcano.       This hole exhibits only fragments of
basaltes, and an earth somewhat rough to the touch, which
results from the imperfect decomposition of some parts of
the same rock.
     8th, Ascher-kiigel is a small eminence of grcs, the ridge
of which is formed by a thin stratum of basaltes divided
into irregular vertical prisms.        1 n some of this basaltes the
author found fragments of gres.
     9th, Gehsingent'erg is a large mountain where tin ore,
disseminated       throughout a quartzy substance impregnated
with chlorite, is woikcd in the mines known by the name
of Altenberg.        Above this substance, towards the west, is a
large     mass  of  porphyry with a base of hornstein ; but to
wards the east it is gneiss covered by sienite of a porphyritic
structure. On the back of the mountain rests a basaltic
excrescence the circumference of which is nearly a thousand
                                                                 yards

                      On the Basaltes  of Saxony.       ,         65
   yards   and  the  height about fifty.    This basaltes is divided
   into prisms, most of them dismembered.         It is of a grayish
   black colour, very hard, and contains a large quantity of
   olivin, which, being rapidly decomposed on the surfaces
   exposed to the air, leaves a multitude of irregular or angular
   cavities. This basaltes contains also some grains of carbo
  nated lime.
      loth, The Luclumerl'crg has the form of a cone, almost
  insulated on every side, and terminating in a basaltic sum
  mit about fifty yards in height. The body of the mountain
  is gneiss covered by porphyry.      The basaltes is of the same
  nature as the preceding; but it contains only few grains of
  olivin and amphibolite. At the summit of the cone is a small
  cavity or depression two yards in depth.
      llth, The Heulenlerg, situated near the frontiers of Bo
  hemia, consists of gres, of which almost the whole region
  around is composed. The basaltic summit consists of two
  groups of prisms, very regular. The basaltes is black, and
  exceedingly compact.       It contains a great many grains of
  magnetic iron ore, and a mineral which has a close relation
  to the pyroxen (augite of Werner), and which is found
  here in considerable quantity.
      13th, The Stolpen is the most remarkable of all the ba
  saltic mountains of Saxony, on account of the beauty and
  regularity of the basaltes.    The body of the mountain is of
  granite.     C. Daubuisson   does not venture to assert that the
 basaltes rests immediately upon it ; he observed on the gra
  nite a sort of wacke, which, perhaps, is extended between
  both.     The basaltic summit appeared to him a kind of in
 verted cone, the point of which is sunk into a depression
 which existed in the top of the mountain when these mat
 ters were     deposited.   This   basaltes  is an assemblage     of
 beautiful prisms, most of them regular hexagons, standing
 in a position almost vertical, and traversed by horizontal
 and parallel fissures which divide them into stories.        They
 are of a black colour, with a blueish tint.         They are so
norous, and as hard as iron. Small round cavities, the sides
of which are covered with a stratum of chalcedony, lined
itself with crystals of quartz, or filled with green steatites,
are often remarked in them.         At other times these cavities
contain halls of calcareous spar, zeolite, and lithomarga,
having the appearance of semi-opal. This basaltes contains
besides, small grains of olivin and black shining points of
amphibolite, — if it be not, perhaps, the substance mentioned
in the preceding article.
     After having thus described the principal basaltic sum-
No. 73. June 1804.                E                            mils

66*          Proofs from old English Books, that the
mits of Saxony, the author observes that the same country
          also some veins the mass of which has a greater or
 ess affinity to basaltes,
firesents                   and particularly the wacke and
grunstein.    Those  who   know   the opinion of Werner on
the origin of these veins, may readily conceive the advan
tage which partisans of the aqueous origin of basaltes must
derive from this arrangement.
    C. Daubuisson terminates this article with a review of
the basaltes of Lusatia.   Here it is still the same substance,
containing the same heterogeneous         principles, exhibiting
the same peculiarities of arrangement and structure.        The
only difference between them consists in this, that in Sax
ony the busaltic mountains are nearest to the ridge of the
chain, and that in Lusatia they are nearer the bottom : some
even are seen at a considerable distance in the plain, and
completely insulated.
                          [To   be continued.]
XV.      Curious Extracts from old English Books, with
      Remarks which prove, that the "telescope, e¥c. were
      known in England much earlier than in any other
      Country.
                 To Mr. Tilloch.— (Letter II.)
               [Concluded from our last volume,   p. 156.]
 18.    Xf this be granted, and if it be also proved, by our
              from the Pantometria and the Stratioticos, that
Juotations
  )igges, the   father and son, actually constructed telescopes,
then it will follow, that that instrument was known in Eng-.
land long before the period of its reputed invention ; which
was all that I proposed to prove.
    ig. But it is so natural to ask how those ingenious men
 came by that knowledge, that I find it impossible to quit
 the subject, without looking Somewhat more particularly
into the source from whence such knowledge was probably
derived. And here we have little else to do, than to follow
the lights held out to us by the authors, whose works we
 have cited. Dr. Recorde, as we have seen (§ 16), though he
 does not expressly mention Roger Bacon as his instructor
 in this subject, gives us reason to infer from his own words,
 that he acquired what he knew of         it,
                                         either from the writings
 of that philosopher, or from rules traditionally transmitted
 from his time, along with the maxim, that such knowledge
 was " more meet for princes than for other men."         Bacon
                                                             has

            Telescope^  &c.     were  fast known in England.                  67
lias a whole chapter (the eighth of his tract De Nnllitate
 Magics) " on the Concealment of the Secrets of Nature
 and Art*:" and the free- masons adhere to this maxim at
 the present hour.           Dieges the son, however, makes no
 mention of tradition ; tor he expressly affirms, that his fa
 ther's knowledge of optics " partly grew by the aid he had
 by one old written hooke of Bakon's experiments, that by
strange adventure, or rather destinie, came to his hands ;
 though chiefly by conioymng continuall laborious practise
 with his mathematical! studies" (§ 9). But surely we should
 not think it more " strange" that a MS. of Roger Bacon
should fall into the hands of Digges, than that a writing
300 years old should come into the possession of an anti
 quary of the present day (and many much older writings
 arc yet extant) ; nor nearly so strange as that you should
now have in your hands the MS. of Raymond Lully, men
tioned in the foot note. And that Digges, " chiefly by con-
ioyning continuall laborious practise with mathematical!
studies," should discover the construction of the telescope,
is by no means so strange as that Porta, Jansen, and Me-
tius, should hit upon the same thing, as they appear to have
done, without either labour or mathematics ; especially if
it be true that " the optical principles whereon telescopes
are founded, were well known to the antient geometricians,
being contained in Euclid f, and that it was for want of
attention thereto that the world was so long without that
admirable invention J." I say, jfthis be true ; but I must
   * I  have just seen an old MS. dated 1319, with a similar title, namely,
Liter   Sfcretorum Naturae, " A Book on the Secrets of Nature," by thfc
famous Raymond Lully, a cotemporary of Ro«er Bacon.                  The philo
sophers of the middle ages did no more than continue the exoteric and
tsoterir rules of the antients.    For example, the Dionyiinns of Ionia mo
nopolized the building of temples, &c. as the freemasons did the erection
of cathedrals.; and both kept their science secret: for much science the
builders of our Cathedrals certainly possessed.      Nay, the learned compiler
of the article Arch, in the Supp. to the Encycl. Britann. does not scruple
to affirm that " there is infinitely mere scientific skill displayed in a Gothic
cathedral than in all the buildings of Greece and Rome:" and he appeals
to the nice balancing of the arches in the open spires at Brussels, &c. ;
to which he might; have added those of St. Giles's, Edinburgh; St. Ni
cholas's, Newcastle; and King's College, Aberdeen.             Sir C. Wren was
                                                                                  '
one of the few moderns who could imitate such structures;              as he has
successfully done in the elegant spire of St. Dunstan's in the East.           If
the cotemporaiics of Bacon possessed such cannannale skill in architec
ture, why not some skill in optics ? But this 1 merely ask, without press
ing it as an argument.
   f   Not Euclid the compiler of the Elements.        See the Nate, vol. xviii.
p. 54, of this Magazine.
   t Harris's Lexinn Ttcbnicum, article Telescope.
                                     E   3                              confess

68           Proofs from old English Books, that the
confess   that this exaltation of the anticnt geometricians, on
such grounds, reminds me of the folly of Those faliatical pc-
dants, who maintain that the elements of all the arts and sci
ences are to be found in Homer.           No worse a judge than
Huygens     was  of a  very  different opinion.
                                                   " If any particular
person (says    that  great man)    had  been   so diligent and saga
cious as to invent this instrument from the principles of
nature and geometry ; for my own part, I should have
thought his abilities were mote than human.- But the case is
so far from this,- that the most learned men have not yet been
able sufficiently to exfilain the reasons of this casual inven
tion." These are the words of Huygcns, as translated from
his Dioptrica by Dr. S.*j who seems to have forgotten
them when, merely from some errors in theory, he con
cludes that Roger Bacon was unacquainted both with spec
tacle's and telescopes.     Nor does he seem to have recollected
that a " casual invention" might as well have been made
by Bacon, or some other philosopher, in a dark age, as by
Jansen and other ignorant men in an age more enlightened ;
an argument which would no doubt be equally strong in
favour of the antients, if they had left us as strong proofs
of optical knowledge, as Bacon has.
    20. Dr. S. being, as far as-I know, the only respectable au
         f
thor who has seriously disputed Bacon's pretensions, against
the judgment of Dr^ Flott, the two MolyneuXes, Dr. Jebb,
Dr. Friend, Muschertbroek, and other learned men J, I should
here hazard a few pretty close remarks on his arguments, if
I were in possession of the Opus Majus, whence he quotes
the passages from which he endeavours to justify this sin
gular opinion.       That work of Bacon cannot be very scarce,
as it was published among that philosopher*!! works, by Dr.
Jebb, in 1733§; but it is probably immured in our public
libraries, to which ordinary men cannot have any easy or
useful access        for
                   ||;   I  have never seen         or met with any
                                                   it,
                                                                   one
   * Complcat System of Optics, Remark 103, ft ;eqj.
  *   See Mr. Bonnycastle's excellent translation of Bossut's Hist. dr. M.'-
tbimatiqnes, p. 189, and Dr. Mutton's valuable Dictionary, art. Telescope.
 \    Among whom we may reckon Dr. Campbell, who (as appears from
an advertisement by his amanuensis, cut out of      newspaper ami p.ibtol
                                                    a
into the first volume of the BiograpHa Britannica, first edition, 1747,
now before me) drew up all the articles marked       Eand    in that work.
                                                             X
The article Bacon (Roger), on which the learned compiler has bestowed
great labour, is marked E.
      See Hiog. Britann., article Baton (Roger).
  II §For example,   a few months ago, an advertisement appeared        in the
                                   were to be delivered at the porter's lodge
public prints, stating that papers
                                                                             to
of the British. Museum, showing the manner of applying for admission

             Tekscope, &c. were          fast knounin England.                      69
«ne who has.        The doctor's quotations by no means satisfy
my    mind   ; as he  has left us quite in the dark as to the con
text, which is commonly of the utmost importance in de
termining the general scope of old writers, and the .manner
in which it may affect the sense of particular passages.
Hence, being afraid of doing injustice to the commentator
or his author by random remarks, I must confine myself to
such as the few authorities before oie will fairly justify.
    21. In the first place, I beg leave to lay before you and
other scholars, the doctor's translation * of these words of
Bacon: — " Si vero homo aspiciat literas, et alias res mi-
V/ttas, per median erystalli, vel vitri, vel alterius perspimi,
suppositi,           {i,
                  e. as the doctor interpolates, superimpositi]
literis; et sit portio minor spherce, citjus convexitas sit versus
va: in et oculus sit in dire         longe melius videbit literas,
     in
                                                           " the
           ;                             ;
et apparebunt          mqjores :" that is, says Dr. S.,
                               ci                                            if
letters of     book,
                 a     or any minute objects, be- viewed through
a  lesser segment of sphere of glass or crystal, whose plane
                                     a
base       laid upon them, they will appear far better and
          is
larger."      Now appeal to any competent judge, whether
                                    " But
                               I
the literal translation be not           :      man look at letters
                                                       if
                                                        a
and other minute things through             medium of crystal, or
                                                   a
glass or oilier transparent (substance) set or put before the
letters, aud       be the smaller portion of sphere whose con
                      it                                    a
vexity      towards the eye, and the eye be in the air, he will
           is
 see the letters far better, and they will appear to him larger."
The doctor justifies the liberty he has taken with the word
 suppositi, by alleging that             itcontraction
                                              is   a     aud so                     it
                    buf whether of superimpositi, " laid upon,"
                                                                         ;
 Appears to be
or of suprapositi, " set or put beioref," (as. reading-glass
                           ;
                                                                     a
is  before     book,)
                 a        would not be easy to determine espe
                                    it                                       ;
 cially as the doctor has not given us Bacon's fifth canon,
 to which he refers.       But, for aught      can see at present,
                                                       I
 my interpretation seems to be as allowable as his. At any
 rate, Bacon has no word for           " plane base;" though, no
                                             a
 doubt, this        implied in
                       is       the  glass being the portion of                     a
 sphere.     The doctor lays some stress on Bacon's figures;
 jnore, indeed, than they will fairly bear for, even in the      ;
 most accurate modern books, we daily meet with figures
the libraries    that grest national repository.
                  in                             called twice at the por
                                                       I
ter's lodge, as advertised, and was told fiist              by
                                                     girl, and the second
                                                                 a
time    by  middle-aged woman, that no such papers had ever come to the
             a
lodge.    Similar anecdotes might be mentioned respecting some other
puMic institutions, particularly Gresh^m ColU-ge.
      Complete System of Optics, Remark S<j..
    *
f       See    Ainsworth's Dictionary.
                                         E   3                                   which

70         Proofs from old English Books, that the
•which contradict the rules not of perspective only, but even
of common sense and probability*. And, considering the
imperfection, both oi optics and of the graphical art, in the
days of Bacon, together with the errors of transcribers,
would it uat he extremely unjust not to make proportiona
lly greater allowances for the faults of his diagrams ? Thus,
it does not appear to me, that the doctor had any satisfac
tory authority for substituting siiperimpositi for sitppositi,
or for drawing any unfavourable inference from the faults
of Bacon's figures.
    22. I may add, that Bacon says, in the sequel of the
same passage, that " this instrument is useful to old men,
and to those who have weak eyes ; for they may see the let
ters, however small, in sufficient magnitude."       Now what
man would have said " this instrument is useful to old1 men,
 &c. (hoc instrumentum e<t utile sen/bus, &c.), unless he had
witnessed its effects?   This would have been to talk of a
 thing as real, which had no existence.        If he had only
thought of        it,
                  without having seen or made          he would
                                                            it,
have said, such an instrument would be useful to old men,
 &c. And, had this been Bacon's language,'         would surely
                                                       it
 have been    aproof that he knew something of the theory,
 contrary to what Dr. S. would allege in his observations
 on this and other passages of his great author. But do not
Bacon's very excuseable errors        theory only make
                                         in                 the   it
more probable that he        accurate as to the fact; and that
                               is
 he either invented reading-glasses    or spectacles, or had at
 least experienced their effects     ?
    23. Dr. S., before he proceeds to examine the pretensions-
 of Bacon to an acquaintance with the dioptric telescope,
 translates from the Opus Majns^          whole chapter as fol
                                               a
 lows: — De visione fracta major SUM, &c. a           " Greater
   * In fig. dj. tab. vii. of Wolfius's excellent Elem. Dfapt. the engraver
has represented    lens as in absolute contact with an eye.
                   a                                           Mr. Gibson,
  very ingenious mechanician at Hampstiad, whose late brother at
a                                                                    K
                                                                     >   >
was one of the first opticians in Great Bi itain, and who has himself paid
particular attention to optics, complains, that, except Dr. Brook Taylor,
he scarcely knows      writer on perspective free from gross errors.
                        a                                              You,
Mr. Tillcch, know to your ccst. thjt, except Mr. Lowry, there are few
artists who engrave figures    in ordinary books, which are always correct
in point of perspective. Even the diagrams in Agnejsi's Analytical In
stitutions are not entirely free from tlie errors of the wood-cutter,   yet
•I believe
         it  would lie hard to say, whether that work does most credit to
the fair author to Mr. Colson, the translator; to Mr. Hellins, the editor
                  ;                                                      )
to Mr. Taylor, the printer; or to Mr. Baron Maseres, to whose munifi
cence the mathematicians of this country are indebted for its publication.
 f     Dr. Jebb's edition, London 1733,   p.   357, as quoted in the Com-
pjcat System of Optics,     Remaiks, MZ, 113.
              1                                                    things

         Telescope,  &c.   were first known in England.       JJ-t
 things than these may be performed by refracted vision.
 For it is easy to understand, by the canons above mentioned,
 that the greatest things may appear exceeding small, and
 on the contrary.     For we can give such figures to transpa
 rent bodies, and dispose them in such order, with respect
 to the eye and the objects, that the rays shall be refracted
 and bent towards any place we please ; so that we shall see
 the object near at hand, or at a distance, under any angle
 we please.    And thus, from an incredible distance we may
 read the smallest letters, and may number the smallest par
 ticles of dust and sand, by reason of the greatness of the
 angle under which we may see them ; and, on the contrary,
 we may not be able to see the greatest bodies just by us, by
 reason of the smallness of the angle under which they may
 appear.    For distance does not affect this kind of vision,
 excepting by accident, but the quantity of the angle. And
 thus a boy may appear to be a giant, and a man as big as a
 mountain ; forasmuch as we may see the man under as
 great an angle as the mountain, and as near as we please.
 And thus a small army may appear a very great one, and,
 though very far off, yet very near us ; and on the contrary.
 Thus also the sun, moon, and stars may be made to descend
 hither in appearance-, and to appear over the heads of our
 enemies; and many things of the like sort, which would as
 tonish unskilful persons."
    24. No great fault, I think, can reasonably be found
 with this translation, of which Dr. S. also gives us the ori
 ginal.   But I must say, that his reasonings upon it appear
 to me to be even more inconclusive than those we have been
 considering.     " It seems then, (says the doctor, Remark
 116,) as if he did not think of performing these problems
by a single portable instrument like a telescope; but by fix
ing up several glasses in proper places at large intervals from
one another, which would certainly prove ineffectual." But
how does this seem to le the sense of Bacon ? Certainly not
from " making the sun, moon, and stars to appear over the
heads of our enemies," who being in continual and uncer
tain motion over the face of the country, any optical in
strument employed to watch those motions must also be
movable or portable.
    25. "  What he mentions (continues the doctor, Remark
J17,) of Julius Caesar, that he raised up speculums to a
great height upon the coast of France, to discover the dis
position of the cities and camps in England, is therefore
impracticable, and probably a fiction, If there be not a
mistake in the interpretation of the word specula for glasses,
                              £4                        instead

74              Proofs from old English Books,          that the
instead of a watch-tower.        The same is to be understood
 of the story mentioned by Porta*, That Ptolomy, by spe-
 culums, could discern ships at the distance of 600 miles,
which could not possibly be done by our best telescopes."
The doctor here refers to the 35/th page of the Opu<s Majus;
tut, as he does not give us his author's express words, I
beg leave to cite a parallel passage from the 5th chapter of
Bacon's piece De Secretis, ike. " Of the secret Works of
Nature and Art, and of the Nullity of Magicf." Possunt
mint sicjigurari perspicita, &c. " For transparent (bodies)
may be so figured, that things at the greatest distance may
 appear to be the nearest, and the contrary; so that, from an
incredible distance, we may read the smaHest letters, and
number things however minute : for thus it is thought that
Julius Caesar, on the coast of Gaul, discerned (per insentia
speculaj by, or through, very large glasses, the disposition
and situation of the camps and cities of Britannia Major."
Now, I can answer for            it,
                             that there     not in this chapter, or
                                                 is
in the whole of this very rational account of what vulgarly     is
called magic, which       have perused with great pleasure and
                             I
admiration,     single syllabic about raising up speculums to
                  a                                                          a
great height. And       add, without any fear of contradiction,
                           I
that in this quotation there can be no mistake about the
word specula, which, happily for my argument, stands in
such     connection that
          a                  evidently is, and can only be, the
                                 it
accusative plural of speculum        mirror, or looking-glass);
                                       (a
but, as the author talking of perspiaia (transparent things,
                        is
bodies, or substances), am fully authorized to render itsim-
          "
                                I
ply     glasses."     It not, indeed, very probable that Bacon
                            is
would have left      uncertain what specula he meant
                      it                                     for he :
was an accurate grammarian; and, as Dr. Campbell ob
serves     his Latin style, though perhaps not always classi
           J,
cal,     " neat, strong, and remarkably expresssive; leaving
          is
nothing perplexed or obscure, either from            want pr from
                                                        a
a  redundancy of words."
    26. DP. S. next proceeds (Remark 118.) to show that
Bacon " was not qualified to invent          telescope
                                                 a              by
                                                           theory"
— " considering the false notions he had from the antients
about distinct and confused vision the false principle he
                                                 ;
maintains, that the apparent magnitude of an object              as     is
the angle subtended at the eye,             by
                                        its image, and recipro-
    * In  his Magia Naturalis, li'.i xvii. cap. n. as quoted   by Dr. S. .
    •f-   Seetorn. v. p.   i. of the Tlieatrum Chemicum,' Argtntorifti
                           8;
•^Strasburgh) 1660,
                       in which this little work of Bacon is inseited enure,
 and illuftra'ed with n'<tes.
 J    Biog. Brit. art. Bacon (Roger) note K.
                                                                        tally

         Telescope,      &c.     were    fast      known In   Englatid.           73
cally  as the distance of the image too ; and, lastly, the
false conclusions he has drawn, and must always draw, from
these principles ; as I (says the doctor) have shown in his
 attempt upon making spectacles."               The theory of vision is
very difficult.      I believe it now exercises the genius of those
.excellent philosophers and mathematicians Dr. Young, and
 your correspondent Dr. Wollaston, and therefore cannot,
 eyen at this hour, be considered              as completely unfolded
and established in all its parts.          With respect to " the false
principle Bacon maintains, that the apparent magnitude of
 an object," &c. it is observable that, when the angles arc
 small, the two ratios he gives are nearly equal, and there
 fore that the ratio compounded of both is nearly the dupli-
.cate of either.      Not having the Opus Majus, I cannot say
 whether Bacon means the apparent magnitude of the sur
 face of an object, or of its height or breadth only.                But
 whether he mean the one or the other, and whether the
principle, as he applies           it,
                                     be true or false,      seems rather
                                                                it
 too much to expect        from    Bacon   an accuracy which, in se»
 veral instances, modern philosophers have yet to seek. For
example,      it   not yet entirely settled, whether the forces
                   is
 of bodies in motion be as the masses and the velocities
 simply, or as the masses and the squares of the velocities.
 And Dr. S. should have- remembered that,                      his 107th
                                                                   in
 remark, he had said that the " great Descartes                     quite    is
 mistaken in his method of demonstrating the effects of
 telescopes   ;"  that his demonstration " can never be made
 sense of ;    and that, though many others have since been
 labouring at the same problem, which                  the chief of all,
                                                         is
yet none of them have been able to solve it." From these
 failures, however, Dr. S. does not infer an utter ignorance
of the telescope.            Why are different measures of cri
 ticism to be thus applied to Roger Bacon and to some of
 the greatest of the moderns              ?   may be said, that
                                                   Ft                was     it
 necessary for Dr. S. to expose his author's faults                     in
                                                                 order to
 prove, that
                 " he was not qualified to invent telescope        a              by
 theory," this being tbe subject of this ('18th) remark.
 But where was the necessity of showing that Bacon was not
  qualified to do that which,                 by
                                            the account of Huygens,
 acquiesced     in      by
                         Dr.    S.   (in  his   103d remark) required
"    abilities more   than   human     ?"   iMo  one affirms that Bacon
 had theory     sufficient   to conduct    him   to the invention of the
  telescope.    But   had   Porta,  Jansen,   Metius,   Lippersheim, or
 even Galileo, such sufficiency of this refined theory
                             a                                     Surely?
 Dr. S. would not have asserted this. Yet                 it
                                                          afaetihal one
                                                              is
 £>r more of these men invented, or rather re-invented, the
                                                                        refracting

   74           Proofs from old English Books, that the
  refracting telescope, though, Galileo excepted,               not on*
  of them had any correct ideas of the theory ; and there
  fore Bacon's mistakes in that theory, or in any other
  part of his subject, can have no weight against the fact,
  proved by many parts of his writings, that he was ac
  quainted with the dioptric or refracting telescope.                This
  argument applies to every branch of science. Kepler's total
  ignorance of the theory of the laws which bear his name,
  can have no weight against the fact that he discovered those
  laws, and knew that they prevailed in the solar system.
  Dr. S. himself submits to the force of this argument on
  another occasion.            In his 93d remark, he expresses his
  surprise    that     " the  ancients could not account for burning
 by   reflection      from  a  concave  metal :" yet he acknowledges
 that " they knew and cultivated catoptrics :" and (Remark
  121.) that they had burning mirrors.
     27. In his 119th remark, the doctor asserts that Bacon
 "   was not qualified to invent a telescope, by experiments,
 for want ot lenses." —" I have shown above," says he,
 "   that he never had handled a convex spectacle-glass." —
 With what force the doctor has shown this, I must leave
 to the reader of his 88th remark.             But is it probable that
 such a man as Bacon, ivithout theory,                would make an
 " attempt upon making spectacles," as the doctor owns he
 did (Rem. 118), and yet not be able to produce some sort of
 a spectacle-glass ? — In this same remark Dr. S. quotes a
 passage adduced by Dr. Jebb, to show that Bacon was no
 stranger to the astronomical use of the telescope.                 It is
this : Sed longe magis quam hcec : oporteret Iwmines haleri,
 <jui lene, immo optime, scirent pcrspectivam et instruments,
 ejus, —quia imirumenta astronomies non vadunt nisi per
visionem secundum leges istius scientice.            Dr. S. gives no
translation of this passage.           It may, however, be rendered
thus : " But what is much more (important) than these
things ; men ought to be had who understand perspective*
and its instruments well, yea exquisitely well ;—because
the instruments of astronomy only proceed by vision, ac
cording to the laws of that science."             Dr. Campbell tells
us that this passage is in the Opus Tertium, and he very
naturally considers it as a proof, ft that he (Roger Bacon)
made use of the telescope in his astronomical observations."
And certainly, a great force of reasoning would be ne«
    * In Bacon's time, and long after it, by the word Perspective was
meant Optics in general, as is evident from the quotations in the former
fart  of this letter.
                                                                cessary

            Telescope,   &c.  were fast known in England.             fS
cessary to prove, that Bacon here talks of having men who
understand optical and astronomical instruments which did
not exist ! How Dr. S. gets over this argument, the reader
shall judge.         " To this, says he,      "  it may be answered,
that the ancients had some occasion for perspective in plain
instruments         before the invention of telescopic         ones." —
What      !   Did    the ancients pretend that, with their      "   plain
instruments," they could,           "  from an incredible distance,
read the smallest letters, number (the smallest particles of)
dust and sand, and make the sun, moon, and stars to de
scend       hither in appearance ?" — " But," continues the
doctor, " as this passage stands alone, it is not easy to
know the intent of it : however, had there been any more
to the like purpose, no doubt this gentleman (Dr. Jebb), so
much versed in the author's works, would have found them
out and obliged us with them." But is it not 'fair and na
tural to ask, why Dr. S. himself has not obliged us with
those passages ?         He cites the number of Bacon's MS. in
the Cottonian library (Lib. c. v. fol. 6.) which was as ac
cessible to him, or his friends, as to Dr. Jebb ; for we can
not suppose that that famous Oxonian repository would
have been shut against a Cambridge- man, when employed
in recording the renown of the greatest of Oxford-men*.
Dr. S. it would seem, had even a better opportunity of
searching for, and inserting such passages, when he had
yet to write 150 pages of his book, than Dr. Jebb, who,
by Dr. S.'s own account, appears not to have discovered'
the above striking passage, till his edition of Bacon was
printed oft"; so that he was obliged to insert it in the dedi
cation, the part of a book which, though first in order, is
generally the last in execution.          As to the passage itself, it
appears to me strongly to imply that Bacon had been pro
 posing to pope Clement IV.,
                                       " a wise and worthy man,"
 (as Dr. Campbell calls him) to whom he addresses the
 Opus Tert'utm, as well as the Opus Majus, some expedients
 for promoting optics and astronomy. — " But," continues
he, "what is much more" (important or requisite) "than
these things" — an expression which seems necessarily                   to
 imply other things which he had been mentioning.                    But,
leaving this to be dbecided by those who have access to the
    * The
              philosophy of Newton (the greatest of all Cambrdge-men)
 was taught not only in Scotland, (where it w^s first introduced into the
schools; we Hutton's Diet. art. Grrgary) but in France and Holland, be
 fore it was taught at Oxford, by Kcill or Gregory, both Scotchmen,     ft
it possible that some remains of the old prejudice sould have reached the
year 1738, when Dr. S. published the Remarks we arc considering?
                                                                     MS.

76           Proofs from old English Books, that the
MS. of    the Opm Tertium in the Cottonian library, T must
observe that the passage can by no means be said to              " stand
alone,"     while  it so admirably corresponds        with   the chapter
which Dr. S. himself has translated, and which we have
above transcribed (§ 23), unless Roger Bacon be the only
old author who is to have his meaning elucidated, or, where
necessary     (as in this instance it scarcely is), ascertained
and supported by collating different parts of his writings.
    28. Dr. S.'s next remark (the 120th) is, that " this au
thor speaks only hypothetically, saying that glasses may be
figured, and objects may be magnified, so and so ; but
never asserts one single trial or observation upon the sun or
moon (or any thing else), though he mentions them both."
And, where is the mystery in this ? Bacon, who was re
presented as a magician, and bitterly persecuted* by his
ignorant brethren of the church, was now writing to the
pope, and might naturally wish that his holiness would
send for him to explain his meaning more fully, which
might have led to a settlement under the protection of that
excellent pontiff. Besides, the inventor, who rashly imparts
his discoveries to any man, will generally have cause to
regret his communicative disposition.              But would it be fair
to say, that because lord Napier, or the marquis of Wor-
cesterf, or any other inventor, (and Bacon certainly was at
least in part the inventor of the optical knowledge he pos
 sessed,) did not at once explain the whole of their discove
ries, that therefore they made " no experiments, trials, or
observations J" on the subjects which they professedly
 treated ?    It is true, that I cannot back this question with
any original document ; but I read in respectable modern
works, founded on such documents, that Bacon himself
 states, that " in experiments, instruments and scarce books,
he spent in 20 years no less than 2000 1., an amazing sum
in those days ;" also that         "  he had great numbers of Durn-
 ing-glasses §    ;"  that  f* the  first  burning-glass he made cost
 him Sol. sterling ||;" and that, in his inquiries into che
                                                                   mistry
    * Hutton's Diet. art. Baron (Roger).
    t See my first Utter, in vol. xviii. p. 53, &c. of this Magazine.
    + See Dr. S.'s 88th and 120th remarks.
    § Dr. Hutton's Dictionary, art. Bacon (Roger).
    I Equal to 60I. Paris money , so that, at that time (about the year
 1150) the French Irvve was worth 61-. Sd. sterling (See Biog. Brltann.
art. Bacon (Roger), note B.)     For the pound in money of France, Eng
land, and Scotland, was, originally, a Troy (Troise) pound in weight of
fine silver, and hence the name. But the pound in England has since
dwindled to 6s. 8d. ; in Scotland, at the time of the Union, to about
                                                                    is. 8d.

           Telescope, &lc. were         first known in England.             77
Hiistry and other subjects, he called in the aid of " experi
mental perspective ami practical astronomy*." — On the             "
other hand," continues Dr. S. in this same 120th remark,
" he conceives some effects of telescopes which cannot pos
sibly be performed by them." The best answer to this                        is,
that, as is above observed, Dr. S. himself mentions, in hi9
J 17th remark, Porta's folly in believing that Ptolomy could
see ships 600 miles off yet the doctor, in his 10-lth remark,
                               ;
allows Porta's pretensions as an inventor (or, as           should
                                                                I
say,  a  re-inventor)   of the telescope, to pass without animad
version. The truth            is,
                             that the ardent spirit of inventors            is
but too apt to deal in prodigies and          ;  see no reason to
                                                       I
exempt either Bacon or Porta from the common infirmity
of their brethren.         What wonders and " exuberances"
were to be, and still are to he performed, in our own times,
 by  air-balloons, and galvanism, and the gases            !
    29. Dr. S. sums up the evidence on Roger Bacon's pre
tensions to      knowledge of the telescope in his 121st re
                                          "
                a
mark, which,         as follows:
                     is               If be asked, How Bacon
                                                  it
came       by
            these notions      ?answer, From the common doc
                                    I
trine of refractions in his' canons, and from common ap
pearances       by
                 refraction and reflection especially from con
                                                       ;
cave speculums, whose effects were well known to him,
both       bythe accounts of them in antient authors, and                   by
his own experience.         And this       take to be
                                              I           sufficient
                                                               a
 ground for man of good sense and fancy to 'produce all
                a
that he has said.       conclude then that the time of the inven
                          I
tion of telescopes was not earlier than the beginning of the
1 7th century." — After what has been stated (though not
so perfect as could be wished) the reader will probably be
inclined, as    I am, to substitute for this conclusion of Dr. S.
is. 8d. and in France, before the revolution, to about ioJcI. all estimated
in parts of the Troy pound weight of fine silver. (See Henry's Hist, of
G. Britain.) By Sir Geo. Shutkburgh Evelyn's excellent table           in  the
Philosophical   Transactions for 1798, 60I. in the year ia;o was about
equivalent to 562I in 1800; so that Bacon's first burning-glass may be
said to have cost him about 187I. and that he laid out on his experiments,
&c. in 20 years, about 187331. of our present money.
   * Cum actjuiorie tcientue \perimcntalis perspective, et astronomic ope-
                              t
                  9. Ex.trpta ex Lib'o Sexto
raiii'ct, &c    p.                             Sciemiatum, miftn ftrit Fratcr
Rogcnis   Bacon,  prefixed to Sanioris Mrdicina?   Magistri, D. Rngeri Bateith
Angli, Thesaurus Cbemitus, Francofurti, 1620. Bacon's connecting per
spective (optics) with practical astronomy, as he does on other occasions
                                                                by
also,     very remarkable, and will no doubt be regarded           some as
      is                                                                     a
strong presumption that sciences, which he thus connected in his lan
guage, he also united in his practice      ; for practical astronomy can no
moie exist without optics than navigation can without them both.
                                                                        that

78           Telescope,   &c. first   known in   England.
that of the    "  learned Dr. Plott, who," says Campbell,
"  considers the invention of the telescope at large, and de
clares, that without wresting of words, or begging favour
able constructions, it is very possible to prove, that friar
Bacon was either the inventor or improver of that useful
                   "
instrument*" — This learned Franciscan," says Dr. Plott,
" did so far excel the ancient magicians, that whereas they
represented the moon's approach by their magical charms*
he brought her lower with greater innocence, and with his
glasses did that in truth which the ancient poets always put
m a fable. All which put together, it must necessarily be
confessed, that he had some such instrument, though not
so tiimly made, it is like, as our telescopes are now ; in
favour of which truth much more might be alleged, did I
not think this sufficient to evince it to the unprejudiced
reader*."
   30. But I must not dismiss the latter part of Dr. S.'s
summation of the historical evidence on this question,
without expressing my wonder that he has taken no notice
either of Kecorde or of the Diggeses.           It is indeed sur
prising  that a private  individual   like  myself, led casually to
take a transient view of this subject, should presently pro
cure the Stratioticos, the Pantornetria, and the Path-way
to Knowledge ; and that a gentleman publicly known and
esteemed, who had all the libraries in one, if not both, of
the English universities at his command, should employ
many years in writing a very large quarto volume on the
principles and the history of Optics, without once mention-'
ing, as far as I can see, any of those respectable testimo
nials of English ingenuity.        Had he consulted them, he
would have heen constrained to place the invention of the
telescope in his own country, and many years
                                                     " earlier than
the beginning       the seventeenth century
                   of'                            ;"and this even
without going so far back as the days of Roger Bacon. My
opinion on this subject      isof little consequence but, after
                                                          ;
attentively considering all the evidence which          could pro
                                                         I
cure,    Imust say, that   I  can no more doubt that the re
fracting telescope originated in the southern part of this
island, than that the reflecting (commonly called the Gre
gorian) telescope was invented in the northern.
    31. What may be the fate of these last remarks            know
                                                                I
not nor do
     ;        I  much care, while      I   am conscious of having
done all the justice to the subject which my limited time ana
 *   Plott's Natural History of Oxfordshire, as quoted   by   Campbell,   in
the Biog. Bntann. art. Bacon (Roger) note M.
                                                              authorities.

         Affinity of the Elements of Atmospheric    Air.      .?§
authorities, and more limited abilities, would permit.          I
wish to excite no controversy, neither will I enter into any
on this subject. But nullim in verla .' I w ill hold such
opinions as I have reason to think well founded.          I have
shown all the deference which plain dealing would allow,
to the deservedly respected author from whom I dissent —
enly because I really do not think he has treated one of the
greatest men whom this island or the world ever produced,
with all that candour (for Roger Bacon needs no indul
gence) which is always attached to the name of Dr. S.           I
have, in short, endeavoured to observe the happy mean
which Sir Richard Steele recommends, when he. says, that
zeal and candour are two very good things, if we Can but
contrive to keep fire out of the one and frost out of the
other.                          Yours, &c.
                                                             *D.
 XVI.    On the supposed Chemical Affinity of the Elements of
    Atmospheric Air : zuith Remarks upon Dr. Thomson's Ob
    servations on this Subject.
                         To Mr. Tillock.
I
       SIR,
   N a former letter inserted in your Magazine         (vol. xiv.
 p. 169.), I endeavoured to show the absurdity of the notion
 of atmospherical air being a chemical compound of azotic
 and oxygenous gases.      Besides the difficulty, or rather im
 possibility, on the one hand, of conceiving how two ele
 mentary particles, constantly repelling each other, should,
 notwithstanding, be held together by a principle of cohesion
 or chemical affinity; — or, on the other hand, supposing the
 two atoms to combine and form one centre of repulsion,
 how atmospheric air should differ from nitrous gas, &c.
 there are a variety of facts which oppose the doctrine so
 forcibly > that I have for some time wondered on what
 grounds those who are still its adherents defended it. Dr.
 Thomson, in the 2d edition of his Chemistry, vol. iii.
 page 316, after reviewing the opinions of different philoso
 phers on this head, and amongst others my own, concludes
 that air is a chemical compound : he assigns the four fol
 lowing reasons for the conclusion, which, from his exten
 sive acquaintance with authorities, may fairly, it is pre
 sumed, be deemed the most cogent that have been offered
 on that side of the question.     It is the object of this com
  munication to show their insufficiency.
                                                           1. The

    60                 On the supposed Chemical Affinity
         I   .   The constant proportion of azot
                                             and oxygen in thd
 atmosphere    is considered  as an  argument for their being
 held by affinity.    So indeed it may ; but it is equally irr
 favour of my hypothesis, and, therefore, nothing tending
 to decide the question can be obtained from it.        For, let
 part of the oxygen be abstracted any where from the atmo
 sphere, then the azot may br supposed to attract the ox
 ygen from the vicinity, and thus the equilibrium be resto
 red ; bin it is certainly equally satisfactory to suppose that,
 the oxygen in the vicinity meeting with less repulsive power
   from the deficient quarter, nothing prevents its diffusion
  into that quarter but the azot previously there, which, by
  hypothesis, can only retard, but by no means prevent, the
  effect.   Thus, then, whether the azot attract the oxygeny
  or the oxygen repel itself, the effect is precisely the same.
  From this fact simply it is impossible, therefore, to decide
  the merits of either theory ; but if it be found that any
  one gas diffuses itself in any other with nearly the same
  celerity, it will be a presumption in favour of my hypothe
  sis ; if otherwise, it may be urged that the quicker diffusion
  is owing to the stronger affinity. I have made a great num
  ber of experiments on this head, but could not find any
  remarkable difference in the time and circumstances of dif
  fusion of the same gas.
      2. The experiments of Morozzo and Humboldt show that
  air possesses different properties, from a mere mixture of its
 two component parts. I do not credit the experiments. Hum
 boldt finds a variable quantity of oxygen, from 25 to 30, or
 more, per cent, in the air ; whereas others, who are more
 accurate, find but 21, or at most 22, and that constant.      It
 is no wonder then, if he mix 28 oxygen and 72 azot, that
 the mixture diminishes nitrous gas more than air, and sup
 ports combustion and animal life for a longer time.
     3. " Different combustibles are capable of absorbing dif
ferent portions of oxygen from a given quantity of air :
phosphorus 22 per cent, sulphur 8, &c/' The only infe
rences I draw from these facts are, that phosphorus will
burn in oxygen of any density; that sulphur will not burn
                                  \
in oxvgen, unless it be of of atmospheric density, or more.
The difference in the phenomena of combustion in air and
in oxygen is not to be ascribed to the combination of azot
and oxygen, but to the less density of the latter,     of what
                                                           -J-
a   pure atmosphere   of the same  gas woulil be.  From  an in
cidental, but imperfect, trial      made, in conjunction with
                                      I
Mr. Davy last winter,        have no doubt but iron wire would
                              I
burn in common air of five times the density with brilli
                                                          ancy,

                                              Air,
               of the Elemenls of Atmospheric                                 81
ancy, as in an atmosphere of pure oxygen of common den
sity; At any rate, it is notorious that, as the density of
common air is increased, combustion in it becomes more
vigorous. Though I have never attempted combustion inan
Atmosphere of pure oxygen of |th the common density,                           I
can scarcely doubt that the appearances would be .much the
same as in open air.          It is probable, then, that the tacts
under this head, if duly investigated, would turn out in
favour of the hypothesis of air being a mixture.
     4- " A gas, no way distinguishable from common air,
frequently makes itfc appearance during the preparation of
nitric acid; and Mr. Davy decomposed nitrous oxide by
passing it through a red-hot tube, and converted it into nitric
acid and a gas which possessed the properties of common
$ir. Now, if air were a mere mixture, it is infinitely impro
bable that its two constituent parts should be evolved du
ring such processes exactly in the proportion that exists in
common air." Granted : but as the force of this argument
rests upon the exact proportion of oxygen and azot in the
gases so evolved, that          is,
                                  upon their being constituted                al
 ways of 21 per cent, oxygen and 79 azot, the facts should
be made out accordingly.             Dr. Prjestley     the only one
                                                               is             I
 know of who has particularly examined the gas produced
in the preparation of nitric acid; and he found               to have
                                                                    it
 •',•',-/•'/; more
                    oxygen than common air. Mr. Davy, in his
 analysis of nitrous oxide, found the gas analogous to atmo-
 s,phcric air always to contain less oxygen, though               was    it
 nearly       of  the atmospheric standard.
      The quick ascent of hydrogen, and the descent of carbonic
acid, have been objected to my hypothesis, as facts that
 prove the operation of the laws of specific gravities on clas
tic fluids.         No doubt can exist that portion of elastic fluid
                                                   a
 completely insulated, as         a balloon, or bubble or carbonic
 acid or hydrogen surrounded              byfilm of water,
                                               a               subject
                                                                    is
 to the laws ol gravitation, and rises or falls in clastic fluids
 on the same principle as        itrises in water   the same must b«
                                                           :
 allowed whenever vessel containing
                        a                        considerable portion
                                                       a
 9f    elastic fluid
                   is     suddenly exposed at some surl'ace to the
 atmosphere: in this case the liuids must operate upon eacfi.
 other for a       few moments in collected capacity, as in elastic
                                      a
 bodies; because the diffusive or repulsive force,              whichby
  they constantly tend to dispersion,             comparatively slow
                                                   is
 in     producing the ultimate effect, being in this respect ex
 actly similar to chemical affinity, the operation gradually di-
 Bninishing as the effect dra\V3 tqwards coucjijgipn.  a          No-
   Np.   73,    June    1804.                  F                          thing

62         Affinity of the Elements of Atmospheric Air.
thing more, therefore, can be inferred from the facts above
mentioned, than that gravity overpowers, and for a mo
ment obliterates, the effect of that cause, which in other
cases slowly produces the dispersion of the fluid, whether
it be attraction, as is commonly supposed, or repulsion, as
I suppose. Chemical philosophers have not inquired suffi
ciently into the effects of exposing gases in different circum
stances to the atmosphere : all that we are usually told                                          is,
that ajar filled with hydrogen, and uncovered, loses its gas-
in few seconds but,
     a                   ;     inverted,
                                       if     remains nearly pure tor
                                                          it
a   considerable time, &c.            find that
                                             I      cylindric jar of
                                                                a                                 7
inchjcs depth, and        diameter, being filled with hydrogen,
                                  2^
and inverted, loses more than half of its gas in two mi
nutes; and there        so little left as scarely to explode in five
                             is
minutes. If tube 12 inches long, and
                    a                                inch in diameter,
                                                                    •£•
be filled with hydrogen, and exposed              like manner to the
                                                               in
atmosphere,       will lose half its gas in five minutes; and
                    it
that the same, whether            held up, or down, or horizontal.
                                        is
                                       it
Here wc see effects that cannot be caused                 gravity, that   by
are produced in opposition to its agency, and where, in
deed,     it   almost obliterated
               is                                    by
                                          the action of some more
powerful cause. Let the advocates for the atmosphere being
a chemical compound attend to such facts as these, and
thev will soon find themselves reduced to acknowledge that
all gases have the same affinity for one anotker,              position            a
which their doctrine ultimately tends to establish. Indeed,
it   isthe same with regard to air, and vapour of water,a-lhcr,
or any other kind      that  ;          is,
                                  all kinds of gas, or mixtures of
gases, have the same affinity for the same vapour and even                         ;
a  torriccllian vacuum possesses just the same affinity as any
of them, judging from the quantity evaporated and force,
of the vapour         given volume.
                        in   a               If any one doubt         he                    it,
may easily satisfy himself           throwing upby      drop or two of    a
aether into the vacuum of common barometer  a                 the tem          if
                                                                               :
perature be 68°, the mercury will fall 15 inches nearly                at                    :
the same time,       aether be admitted to
                         if                        given bulk of any
                                                                a
kind of gas, subject to the pressure of the atmosphere, its
volume will be doubled; clearly showing that the elastic
vapour from the tether           the same
                                        is                 in
                                                both cases, namely,
an independent fluid of 15 inches force.
 I    cannot dismiss this subject without observing,             justice               in
to Dr. Thomson, that he has entered more clearly into my
views of these subjects than any other of our own country who
has animadverted upon them. There are certain principles,
however, which he, with most chemists of the present day,
                                                             embraces,

              Galvanism compared with Electricity,                    83
embraces, which are, according to my experience, decided
lyerroneous,. One of these   that water dissolves air. An
                                       is,
excellent paper of Mr. W. Henry, on the absorption of
gases    bywater, in the Philosophical Transactions tor 1803,
has shown u* sufficiently in what 'light we should view the
supposed solution of air in water.     Certainly air that    re is
tained in water       bymechanical force, and which always
escapes when that force      withdrawn, cannot, with any pro
                              is
priety, be said to be held by chemical affinity.
   Dr. Thomson has been misinformed respecting my opi
nions on the expansion of liquids.      In vol. page 343, he
                                                           i.
gives     as my suggestion, that all liquids expand the same
         it
quantity from their freezing to their boiling temperatures,          I
never entertained such an opinion      and       certainly erro
                                                 ;   it   is
neous. My idea         is,
                         that pure and homogeneous liquids,
such as water and mercury, expand according to the square
of the temperature from the points at which they congeal              j
but  I have not yet found      law to regulate the relative ex
                                   a
pansions of these and other liquids.
  Manchester,                        am> yours> &c-
                                             l
 June 19, 1(104..                                  J- DALTON*
XVII.     On  a distinguishing Property tetween the Galvanic
     and Electric Fluids.    By Mr. JOHN CUTHBERTSON.
.     DEAE,I»,
                             ToMr.Till.cL
         my letter to Dr. Pearson appeared                in
                                                 your Philoso
phical Magazine for last month,         thought the following
                                                 I
additional experiments necessary                 :
    The two experiments last mentioned in the above letter
were compared with common electrical discharges, with                  a
view to prove what quantity of coated glass would be re
quired to take    charge sufficient to ignite the same lengths
                  a
of wire.
   Two jars, each containing about 70 square inches of coat
                                                 1
ing, were set to the conductor of si-inch single-plate elec
                                                 a
trical machine, with my universal electrometer loaded with 31
grains, (see Nicholson's 4to Journal, pi. xxiii. vol. xi.).
8  inches of the same sort of wire were laiJ in the circuit: —
37 revolutions of the plate caused the electrometer to dis
charge the jars, which ignited the wire perfectly, as in the Qth
experiment.     In the next place, inches of the wire being
                                                 6
                                   F         2                       laid

£ 1           Cttlvenlsm compared with Electricity.
laid in the circuit, the same number of revolutions caused
the discharge, and the wire was deflagrated and fused into
balls in the same manner as in the 8th experiment.         Hence
I conclude, that 340 square inches of coated glass, properly
constructed, will bear a charge equal to a galvanic battery
of 1080 square inches surface.
      I compared the above experiments with others gone,
before, particularly Mr. Wilkinson's, in Nicholson's Jour
nal, vol. vii, p. 297, wherein he says that one trough of 100
 pairs of plates ignited one half-inch of wire of one-seven
 teenth of an inch in diameter.      If this is not a mistake (as
 I  am inclined to think), it is well worthy of notice; because,
 to ignite one half-inch of steel-wire or the above diameter
 would require a power sufficient to ignite 120 inches of wire
 of t^th part of an inch in diameter by common electrical
 discharges, which is a power equal to two of my common
 electrical batteries.   See Nicholson's 4to Journal, vol.
 p. 525.
     The greatest power of Co pairs of 6-inch square plates
 that has ever been hitherto known, is that of igniting 16
 inches of wire of -j-^th part of an inch in diameter. Mr. Wil
 kinson's trough of 100 pairs of plates of 4 inches- square is
 of much less surface, and, as he says, it is a less favour
  able size; from which, and from the above experiments, I
 conclude, that such a battery has not the power of igniting
  one half-inch of wire of one-seventeenth of an inch in dia
  meter, unless galvanic discharges act upon metals in some
  manner different from common electrical discharges, but with
  which I am unacquainted : perhaps Mr. Wilkinson will be
  kind enough to clear up this remark.
      From the experiments mentioned in the above letter, and
  others since made with the same result, I concluded, that
  double quantities of galvanic fluid only burn double lengths-
  of wire ; but on examining some of my notes of experiments,
  I  find that, on the Cth of June 1 803, 1 had made a Volta's
  pile of 16 pairs of plates of 10 inches diameter, 8 of
  which laid upon each other in the usual manner, with cloths
  wetted with diluted muriatic acid, burned one half-inch of
  wireofTJyth part of an inch in diameter; andwhen the other
  8 were added they burned 4 inches of the same wire. This
  was repeated with the 8 in pairs with die same result, with
  respect to burning of metals ; but it gave strong and loud
  sparks from metal to metal, sufficient to be heard at 300
  yards distance; which result, I believe, has never been ob
  tained from troughs, to be heard at any distance.       For this
            3                                                 last

                    British Alineralogkal      Society.                 {to-
last experiment the cloths were wetted in a strong solution
of muriate of ammonia ; so that I am of opinion there is at
present some defect either in the arrangement or construe-'
lion of galvanic troughs.
                             I am, dear air,
Poland-street,  Soho,           Your very humble servant,
   Ju-icn,   1804..                           JOHN CCTHBERTSON.
            XVIII.     Proceedings   of Learned      Societies.
               BIUTISH MINERALOGICAL            SOCIETY*.
-f OUR     years have now nearly elapsed since the establish
ment of this society, a review of their labours during which
period will, it is thought, not be displeasing to their mem
bers.     It is a Satisfaction to the minds of persons engaged
in philosophical pursuits, that they have added some truths
to a science like mineralogy, where the researches of every
one help to remove the veil in which nature is enveloped.
    In the first formation of this society its institutors were
guided by motives of regard for their country, possessing
mines and subterranean riches little inferior to the proudest
empire on the continent, but without any college or school
of scientific mineralogy. In their public declaration they
were not arrogating to themselves the entire possession of all
xnineralogical knowledge; but, as far as their abilities as
philosophical chemists enabled them, they wished to assist
both the miner and the mine-owner in the analysis and re
duction of substances, either of a new or unknown nature,
or in a state of peculiar mineralization.
    Time, and their labours, it is also hoped, will add one
more great pillar to British mineralogy, in furnishing spe
 cimens, with their provincial names, as well as their scien
tific, of each county in this kingdom, arranged in cabinets
 which will be of easy access to the mineralogist.
    To our corresponding members we shall consider our-
eelves much indebted in forwarding this branch of inquiry;
 and, at the same time, we must take this opportunity to
 thank several of them for their valuable communications
 and specimens.
    The first analysis nndertaken by the society was an ore of
 iron from Shetland, found equal with the level of the sea,
 on the south-west side of the island. The surface is a
 •mootbj black mendic, of a metallic appearance, hard to
                     ' Communicated  by the- Secretary.
                                   F 3                          penetrate,

86                  British Mineralogical Society,
penetrate, and about two feet thick.            The vein runs north
east, and the specimen was taken four fathoms from the
surface.
     The analysis, by     Mr. W.H. Pepys, jun.     gives in 200 parts,
                 Iron          w          -         50- 9
                 Silex    -                         92
                 Argil           -          -       28-5
                 Sulphur and oxygen              - 27'6
                     Specific gravity 2'Q4.
     The proprietor is Mr.Crighton, of the island of Shetland.
     The second specimen wars from Carnarvonshire, a sulphate
 of barytes found equal with the level of the earth near the
                              ...
 foot of a hill in that county.
     The analysis, by Mr. Knight, yielded in 400 parts,
                  Sulphate of barytes         -       359
                  gilex                                 17
                  Lose             - .        -         30
                     Specific gravity 4'028.
     The proprietor Mr. S. Holland.
     The third specimen was an iron pyrites found near the
  same spot with the last.
      The analysis, by Messrs. Tilloch and Pepys, gave in 100
  parts,
                  Iron                                  47
                  Sulphur             -                 34
                  Argil       T .         -               8
                  Loss             -                    JO
                      Specific gravity 4t512,
      Proprietor Mr. S. Holland.
      The fourth specimen is from Hawes, near Winsly Dale,
  Yorkshire, above the earth, forming for some way a path
  or road.
      Mr. Charles Ajkin's experiment proved it to contain
  4 per cent, of copper ip sulphate of barytes. It may, there
   fore, be considered nearly a pure sulphate of barytes.
                      Specific gravity 4*20,
      The proprietor Mr. J. Hillary, of Yorkshire.
      The fifth specimen is a silver from the Herland mine in
    Cornwall, in the parish of Gonnear, about seven miles west
    -f Redruth, and near the direct road from thence to Pen-?
      nee.
       The first discovery of silver was made at     100 fathoms from
        surface in a cross-course which angles        the copper lodes.
         ^Iver is found about eight feet in length on each side
    oft.    latter, and it continues in depth as they sink the
             •
    mine,      hich is now 145 fathoms.
                                                                     It

                        British Mineralogical Socitty.                     87
  .'    It  was an abandoned copper mine about 67 years back.
   It   had   lain unwrought. from 1762 till that time, and ha'd
  turned up great profit to the former adventurers.
                     Specific gravity 4-464.
                             ---
        The analysis, by Mr. William Allen, gives in 100 parts,
                •-  Silver            -           -       2-152
                    Iron       -                         27-300
                    Sulphur and arsenic,                 2fi-6oo
                    Silex         -             -        32-400
                    Loss                                 11-348
                                                        100-000
       The   specimen      we received         was from one    of the propri
  etors, Mr. William Phillips.
       The sixth specimen was a green carbonate of copper dif
  fused through an ochrey clay in compact quartz from a
 mine in the parish of St. Neots, in the county of Cornwall,
 at the depth of 30 fathoms from grass.
                    Specific gravity 3-078.
       The seventh specimen is from the same mine.
                    Specific gravity 2-985.
       Specimens 6 and 7, being already worked, are not sub
jects for the investigation of the society.
       Their value is reckoned by the proprietors at 12l. per
 ton, when copper in the metallic state sells at 1351. per ton.
       The eighth specimen is a copper and iron pyrites in
 quartz, found on the surface of the earth, county of Cum
 berland : the specimen obtained by pick-axe.
                    Spec, gravity 3;788.
       The analysis by Mr. T. Cox in 400 parts of the ores,
                   Copper      -              -              125
                   Iron         -                            139
                   Silex       -          .   -       -       68
                   Sulphur     -              -               40
                   Loss         -             -               28
      Tht proprietor      is Mr. W. Monkhouse of Cumberland.
       The ninth specimen is a peculiar arrangement of pyrites
found on the coast of Africa among the stones on the
beach.
      On analysis by Mr. R. Phillips it was found to contain
in     100,
                   Iron        "    .         -               43
 .   •       •
                   Alumine                    -       -       12
                   Silex       -              -                9
 i     . •;
               •
                   Sulphur and oxygen.              . •       36
      The proprietor Mr. J. Bolts.
                                        F   4                      Specimen

68                British Mirteralogical Society.
    Specimen 10 is a lead ore (from a mine called Hoxley, at
Carletoti, Derbyshire) in lime stone.
                  Spec, gravity 6'578.
    The examination by Mr. R. A. Cox gave
            From 1 ton of ore 15 cwt. of lead.
            From 1 ton of lead 23 oz. 6 dwts. silver.
    Specimen 1 r is another lead (from a mine called Dirtlow
in the same county) in fluat of lime.
                  Spec, gravity 3*068.
    By the analysis of Mr. R. A. Cox it appears that
            1 ton of ore contains l6£cwt. of lead;
       and 1 ton of lead 15 oz. of silver.
    These specimens were from one of the proprietors, Mr.
Mawe»
    Specimen 1 2 is a beautiful micaceous glittering iron 6re
from Moreton-Hampstead,          in Devonshire.    The vein rises
from 2 inches to 3 feet wide, and its direction is from S. E.
to N. W. and about 4 feet from the surface of the earth ;
hard gravel on each side.
    The analysis, by Mr. R. Knight, gave in 100 parts,
               Iron        -        -       -     72
               Oxygen and loss              -     28
                                                 100
    The proprietor Mr.    j. Pinsent.
    Specimens 13 and 14 were from the high grounds called
Scotland, in Barbadoes. Specimen 14 has a large extent of
 ground slid over it on an inclined plane.       They were ana-
! ysed by Mr. Sandman.
                         No. 13 contained
               Carbonate of lime            -     77
               B>hx       -         -             Id
               Alumine                              ?
               Water                        *       3
               Iron, muriate of   soda, and loss    3
                         No.  14  contained
              Alumine               >¦      »     81
               Silex                *       -     68
               Iron                                4
               Magnesia             *       -       I
              Water       -                        4
    Proprietor, Mr. Wood, Barbadoes.
    Specimens 1 5 and 1 6 were brought from the same situa
tion as the last. — 14 is the earth supposed to furnish the
petroleum of Barbadoes. — 16 is found in large nodules in a
white loamy earth.
                                                      Specimen

                 British Mineridogieo.1    Society.                69
  Specimen 1 5, on a very attentive examination by Mi-.
Bingley, was found to contain
             Silcx                                       72
             Alumine             -    •      •»              8
             Oxide of iron       *•          *               4
             Maltha              *           -               16
     Specimen 16, examined also by        Mr. Bingley, yielded
              Maltha             -           -           60
              Carbon        -    -           *           37' 1O
              Ashes     -     -       -                   2-10
     The proprietor Mr. Wood of Barbadoes.
   Specimen if. We have not yet the place from which
this specimen was obtained.    It was analysed, without thi*
information,   at the particular request of the proprietor,
Barker Chifney, esq.
   Mr. R. Phillips found it to contain, on analysis,
             Antimony           *•      -      2- 7*
             Lead      -                       8-21
                        ,   -    •                       a trace
             Copper
             Oxide of iron    »                              4
             Silex     »•     *                          63
             Sulphur and oxygen                              7'4
             Loss           *                            10
                 Spec, gravity 2'976.
   Specimen 18.       A red'micaceous substance from Shrop*
shire. As the analysis was for the metallic contents, which
were found to be inconsiderable by Mr. R. Phillips, it was
not deemed of sufficient importance for a humid analysis.
   Proprietor Sir Corbett Corbett.
   Specimen 1 9, a carbonat of copper from Cheshire.
  The analysis, by Mr. A. Aikin, gave 1         per cent, of cop
                                                  1-£
per, and -f^ths of which may be obtained
      6                                                 by
                                                   simple fusion.
   Proprietor Mr. Latham.
   Specimen 20.      A lead ore from the parish of Llandegfar
In the isle of Anglesea.
  Mr. R. Knight's-analysis of this ore gave
            123 grains of lead in 672 of the ore;
and Mr. Bingley's examination gave
             1   grain of silver in 166 of the lead.
   Proprietor   Barker Chifney, esq.
  The 21st specimen     is  under examination.
   Besides these regular specimens, the society have deter
mined to analyse all such substances as           committee ap
                                                   a
pointed   for that purpose    shall determine worthy of exami
nation .
   Agreeably to that rwototion, W. H. Pepys has analysed
                                                                   the

9O     Society   of Friendly    Searchers     into Nature at Berlin.
the satin spar*; Messrs/ Aikin and Allen, wolfram, from
which they have obtained the regulus of tungsten, of an
equal specific gravity with D'Elhuyars 1 5 Mr. R. Phillips
the schiefer spar, and a variety of carbonates of limej.
    During the meetings of the society a series of experi
ments on the substances which Klaproth treated in the por
celain furnace of Berlin, have been exposed to the action of
oxygen gas on charcoal ; from which, when completed, very
interesting results to the mineralogist and chemist will be
obtained.
    Our cabinets, the great object of which is to complete
the provincial mineralogy, have received large additions
from correspondents and members.                  We should let no op
portunity be lost in completing this useful collection.
    I cannot conclude without mentioning the valuable pre
sent of the mineralogical map of Cornwall, so attentively
drawn out, and presented by Mr. Win. Phillips to the
society.
    The committee are at present employed in making a ca
talogue of the specimens we have, which, when printed,
will be forwarded to each of the members. — Duplicates of
specimens they have, and which are not in possession of the
society, will assist much in completing our plan.
SOCIETY OF THE FRIENDLY SEARCHERS INTO NATURE AT
                                 BERLIN.
    This society has proposed the following prize question :
   The disputes in regard to basaltes are terminated ; but the
nature of it seems not yet to be ascertained, and therefore
a diversity of opinions still prevail respecting it.          Since the
period when         a prize question was proposed on this subject
at Berne, geognosia has          made considerable progress ; but
the geognostic relation of this kind of stone has remained
partly a problem, and partly a subject of difference, among
our best geologists.
    It is very remarkable that all the gtognosts, both fo
reigners ana others, formed in Germany, and particularly
under the direction of- Wcimr, never entertain any doubt
of the Neptunian origin of basaltes ; but, on the other hand,
 the French and Italian mineralogists, who have never been
   •  A description of the sstin spar by Mr. A. Aikin, and Mr. Pepys'*
analysh, were published in the xiith volume of the Philosophical Maga
zine, p. 3*4-
   + Philosophical    Magazine, vol. xiii. p. 407.
   {  Philosophical   M»gazine, vol. xiv, p. 483.
                                                                beyond

     Society      of Friendly   Searchers into Nature at   Berlin.     91
beyond the boundaries of their own country, though de
sirous of giving up their opinions when they do not coincide
with nature, cannot abandon their volcanic ideas.           Of this
Breislac, Fortis, Fabroni, and, in particular, the acute-
sighted Dolomieu, are striking examples.           Does this arise
from the different appearance assumed by the various kinds
of trapp in these countries, and in Germany and England ?
   But there is even a great difference of opinion among
those who defend the Neptunian origin of basaltes.                In
general they consider the formation of basaltes as belonging
to the class of the alluvial kinds of substances, but assert
that they are formed at different periods. On the other
hand, Karsten, in his mineralogical tables, unites all the
stones belonging to basaltes in one peculiar class, and other
geologues entertain other opinions of this species of stone.
    As more data can now be obtained than at the period
when the former question was proposed, the object may be
more fully obtained by a repetition of          it,
                                                especially as many
 experiments     on  this subject  are to be found  in    variety of
                                                           a
works     ;as     new component part has been discovered in
                   a
 basaltes      by
                Klaproth and Kennedy, and as many essential
 observations not yet published have been since made.
    The society has therefore resolved to give prize of thirty
                                                      a
 ducats, transmitted to us by one of our foreign members, to
 be employed in improving the study of the sciences, for                 a
         which shall contain the best account of the nature of
 Kper
    saltes    the most satisfactory conclusions on that subject
              ;                                                          ;
 and the best exposition of the errors in the different opinions
 hitherto offered respecting it.
    The candidates must readily conceive that all partial con
 clusions, where the geognostic nature of one country only
is  taken into considi ration, will be foreign to the proposed
 end  :   acomparison therefore of the most striking varieties
 of this singular production, found in different countries,              is
 expected      ;such for example as the basaltes in Bohemia and
 on the Rhine; that of Auvergne with the basaltes of the
 middle part of Italy the basaltes of Scotland with that of
                            ;
 Ireland, &c.
     An exposition of the peculiar character of its formation
 in different lands, and        clear account of the principal re
                                 a
 sults in regard to the general formation, corresponding with
 the acknowledged principles of geology, will answer the
 views of the society.
     The answers, written either in German, French, or Latin,
         be transmitted      the usual manner^ with
                                in                       motto and
                                                           a
                                                                a    sealed

92                      Vaccina Indentation.
a staled  nate, containing the author's name, addressed to
the society before the 1st of October 1805.
IMPERIAL ACADEMY OK SCIENCES AT ST. PETERSBURGH.
  In the sitting of February the 1 1 th, the president, M. von
NovSsilasof, presented to the academy a stone which about
eight yeafs ago fell from the atmosphere in the neighbour
hood of Karkof, and which is perfectly similar to that which
fell last year in Normandy, on the appearance of a fire-ball.
As a particular account of the circumstances by which
the fall Of this stone was accompanied is expected, the
president requested that it might be subjected to chemi
cal analysis, as well as the piece of native iron sent to the
academy by the celebrated professor Pallas, which is also
considered as an atmospherical production.
          XIX.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    VACCINE INOCULATION.
J.   he following letter from Dr.    de Carro to the editors of
the BibliothSque Britanniqiie,  dated Vienna, March 27, 1 804,
contains the    latest  account of the success of the vaccine
inoculation  in  the   East :
     "You have seen by my preceding letters, and my work
on the oriental vaccination, what rapid progress this happy
discovery is making in Asia. We had never before heard that
it had been extended beyond the peninsula of India. A letter
from Bombay states that the vaccine inoculation is prac
tised every where from Cape Comorin to Delhi.             I have
experienced   a new  pleasure, — that  of having laid the  foun«
dation for vaccination in Persia.
    " Dr. Milne, physician to the English factory at Bassora,
having vaccinated a great number of children in that place,
experienced an interruption in vaccinating immediately from
arm to arm ; and had recourse to threads, lancets, and pieces
of glass containing vaccine matter. Being vexed to find
that all these means failed, he wrote to me, in the month
of May last year, earnestly begging me to send him vaccine
matter by the first opportunity.     1 took every care possible
to collect matter on ivory lancets, and to impregnate lint
with      according to the excellent method of Messrs. Ball-
         it,
hora and Stromeyer but Dr. Milne, in the mean time, was
                       :
obliged to quit Bassora and to retire to Bashire or Abushe-
her, in Persia. As my packet, which was dispatched from
                                                         Vienna,

                            ine Inoculation,                   93
Vienna in the beginning of the month of August, did not
find him at Bassora, it was dispatched to Bashire, where
he received it at the end of November.         Dr. Milne, and
Mr. Jukes an English surgeon, who for four months had
despaired of seeing vaccination succeed, were agreeably sur
prised to find lint impregnated with matter still moist,
which produced its effect on the first trial.        The ivory
lancets produced no effect whatever.
  "    I do not know in the whole history of the vaccine any
instances more satisfactory of what may be done, by care, in
the manner of preserving the matter, than the success of that
which 1 some time ago sent to Bagdad, and lately to Ba-
 shirc.    We have witnessed the incalculable good produced
 by  the  first of these drops ; and I have reason to hope that
 what has been so happily introduced into Persia, will be at
 tended with as salutary effects in that immense and cele
brated empire.
     "Dr. Milne and Mr. Jukes inform me from Bashire,
of  date the llth and 15th of January, that their first suc
cess made a great sensation in that town, which at present'
is one of the most commercial in the whole empire. They
announce also that a mission is about to set out tor Tehran,
the seat of government ; and Mr. Jukes, who is to accom
pany it in the quality of surgeon, has taken the most effi
cacious measures to put vaccination under the protection
of the governors of the provinces, and even to explain the
history and utility of it to the sovereign, to whom they will
 be presented.
     " 1 am very impatient    to receive the further details of
 this expedition.   Mr. Jukes has promised to enter into            .>.
 regular correspondence with me. Dr. Milne, who has been
 invited to Bombay,    is succeeded at Bassora        Mr. Donald,
                                                     by
 who proposes to   do   every thing   in  his  power  to favour the
 propagation of the   vaccine.     The  East  India  company have
 taken into consideration my     exertions   for  introducing vac
 cination into the British   settlements;    and  the secretary has
 made known     to Mr.   Paget,   the English   envoy   at the court
  of Vienna, by   a  letter dated December      9,  1903, that the
  directors have voted me the sum of two hundred guineas to
 purchase   piece of plate.
     "
             a
        have received also
         I                 from the hospodar of Wallachia
 a   magnificent India shawl, accompanied       by
                                              very nattering
                                                     a
 letter which his serene highness condescended to write to
 me, and in which he gives an account of the efficacious
 measures he has taken to diffuse vaccination throughout
 that principality.                                  J.
                                               DB CAROR."
                                                    NOTICB

 94          Notice from the Vaccine Pock Institution.
       NOTICE FROM THE VACCINE POCK INSTITUTION,
              No. 44, Broad-Street, Golden-Square.
                                                              m Tune, 1S04.
    The public mind being of late much disturbed in conse
quence of successive reports during the whole of the last
year, and especially of late by publications of cases esteemed
to be instances of the small-pox two or three years subse
quently to the cow-pock, the medical establishment of this
institution have thought it their duty, whatever may be
their own opinions, not to be inactive and silent.
    Accordinglv, I am directed to state that, in the last fort-,
night, a number of subjects who had undergone vaccina
tion in the year 1800 (the first year of the new practice
at any professed institution) have been submitted to the
test or counter-proof, variolation, in circumstances the most
favourable for exciting the small-pox.              Besides these trials,
additional ones have been instituted on subjects who were
vaccinated in Dr. Pearson's early practice in 1799- Further,
Reports have been already received at the Institution from
several provincial correspondents who were witnesses to
whole parishes of subjects vaccinated under Dr. Pearson's
and Mr. Keate's inspection, or with matter furnished by
them, early in the year 1799*.
    A very brief, but it is presumed conclusive statement of
evidence, collected from these sources, on the question
with which some persons have agitated the minds of so
many families, is intended to be laid before the public in a
wetk or ten days.          This statement, it is apprehended, will
be the most proper return to the respectable author, who
has lately addressed his pamphlet " To the Directors of the
 Vaccine Institution," very justly conceiving                  " that the
point at issue is within the power of this Institution, if they
will r;ive directions for a number of persons to be inoculated
with smali 'pox matter, and exposed strongly to infection,
who were vaccinated earlv in the practice. "-i-As no other
professed vaccine institution but this has been established
long enough to answer the demand, it has been determined
to comply.                                     W. Sancho, Secretary.
   * It may be very important information to affirm, that the matter now
used at this Institution was that originally taken in January and Febru
ary 17991 by one of the physicians, from cows in Marylebone-ficlds and
Gray's-inn.lane ; with the addition, about three years ago, of matter
frcm the Milanese, by Dr. Sacco.      But it does not appear that this exten
sive succession Jus at all altered the properties, nor that there is any dif
ference of properties among these different sources of matter.    The expe
rience of this institution does not justify the conclusions, that the failure
ef the cow-pock in preventing the small-pox depends in general upon the
selection of matter on a particular day.             •    .
                                                                        NEW


_^vv*«-<4-^> erf
                 buslasi-''.

        New  Earth.— Vie Princess Dashkojf.— Deaths.             g5
                          NEW EARTH.
    Klaproth has discovered a new earth in an ore which has
hitherto been supposed to contain tungsten.          He has given
it the name of ochrdit earth. It seems to form the connect
ing' link between the earths and the metallic oxides. It
produces, like yttria, a reddish-coloured salt with sulphuric
acid, and is prccipitable by all the prussiates ; but it differs
from yttria in not forming sweet salts, in not being soluble
in carbonate of ammonia (or but little so) , and in acquiring,
when ignited, a light brown colour.           It also differs from
yttria by  not  being  fusible  either by borax or by phosphates,
with which yttria fuses into a colourless transparent globule.
                   THE PRINCESS DASHKOFF.
    We intended to have given the life of this lady, lately
directress of the Imperial Academy of Russia, ".long with
the portrait that appears in the present number of war work ;
 but not having been able yet to meet with sufficient mate
 rials, we must defer it.
                               DEATHS.
    At Madagascar,    the meritorious botanist Andre Michaux,
 author of the History of the American Oaks, and of an Ame
 rican Flora.     According to an account of him published
 by De Lcuze, he was bred a gardener, and, notwithstanding
 the many vicissitudes he experienced, had the satisfac
 tion of enriching several parts of the earth with plantations.
 Before the revolution he was sent to New York in order to
 establish a botanical garden, in \\hich all the plants he had
 collected in his excursions were to be preserved till he could
  return to France.     In the course of the revolution he ex
 pended the greater part of his property to maintain this car-
 den ; but at length he was obliged to return, and on his
  voyage home he lost the remainder of it by shipwreck, but
  saved his plants, for the preservation of which he sacrificed
  the former.    Through a desire of travelling lie accompa
  nied captain Baudin, but k-f't him at the Isle of France in
  order to explore Madagascar, and to establish a garden on
  the coast for the preservation ot plants brought from the
  interior parts of the island. The great fatigue lo which he
  exposed himself hastened his dissolution.
     Letters received at Hamburgh announce the death of that
  ingenious philosopher and indefatigable traveller M. von
  Humboldt, who is said to have fallen a sacrifice-to the yel
  low fever at Acapuko.
                                                           METEOR

96                                                      Meteorology,
                             METEOROLOGICAL                                       TABLE*
                                                   For June 1804.
                                                                                             .
                                   Thermometer.
                                                                              Height of
     Days of the
                                                           o'c"ck,
                                                    a
                             o'clock.   Morning.
                                                                              the Barom.          Weather.
                                                                     Night.
      Month.
                                                   1                            Inches.                          "
                                                                                                             .
                                                                                                    .
                             8                             1
                                                           1
iao4. May          27          56°                 64°      51°                29*94       Fair
                   28          58                  63       50                   •86       Cloudy, and rain
                                                                                             at night
                   29 54                           62      49                    •92       Cloudy
                   30 55                           60      56                 30*00        Cloudy
                   31          57                  61      55                    •09       Fair
          June      1          59                  70       56                    •17      Fair
                    2         58                   74      60                    *u        Fair
                              66                   81      67                    •02       Fair
                   4 3        68                   83      64                 29*98        Fair
                    5         66                   75      64                 30'05        Cloudy
                              64                           57                 29'95        Fair
                   9 8 7 6
                                                   71
                              57                   68      54                    •84       Fair and windy
                              57                   64      56                    •70       Fair
                              53                   66      52                 30'01        Fair
                   10         55                   63      48                   •10        Showery
                   11 50                           65      56                   •35        Fair
                   13 56                           67      57                   •41        Fair
                   13         61                   69      61                   •38        Hazy
                   14         63                   60      57                   *28        Rain
                   15         60                   69      56                 89'97        Fair
                   16         58                   66      58                    *76       Cloudy
                   17        60                    68      61                    •91       Fair
                   18        61                    72      58                 30'20        Fair
                 19          60                    76      62                    •37       Fair
                 20          63                    76      60                    •35       Fair
                 SI          62                    78      69                    •31       Fair
                 22          68                    76      59                    •32       Fair
                 S3          59                    70      55                    •30       Fair
                 24          63                    80      62                    •23       Thunder, with re
                                                                                             markable vivid
                                                                                             lightning, and
                                                                                             very little rain
                 25          66                    82      66                     20       Fair
                 36          58                    70      59                     18       Fair
                               •                   Mr.
                                        By               Carey, of the Strand.

                                                      (    97     )
  PREMIUMS                      offered by the SOCIETY, instituted at London,
     for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Com
      merce, for the Year 1 804.
                                                TO THE      PUBLIC.
  'T'HE chief      objects  of  the SOCIETY      are to promote the Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce
        of tills kingdom, by giving rewards for all such useful Inventions, Discoveries, and Im
 provements,      (though not mentioned in this book), as tend to that purpose ; and, in pursuance
 of this plan, the SOCIETY have already expended FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS, advanced 'by
 voluntary subscriptions        of-their members, and legacies bequeathed.
    The manner in which this money has been distributed may be seen by applying to the Secre
 tary or other officers of the SOCIETY, at their house in the Addphi. The Register of the Pre*
 niumis and Bounties they have given will sfaow the very great advantages                   which the Public
 Lave derived from this Institution.
    The meetings of the SOCIETY are held every Wednesday, at seven o'clock in the evening,
 from the fourth Wednesday in October to the first Wednesday in June. The several Committees
meet on other evenings in the week during the session.
    In order still farther to promote tfie laudable views of this SOCIETY, it may be necessary
to explain tlic mode by which its members continue to be elected.
    Each member has the privilege, at any weekly mooting ot the SOCIETY, of proposing any
person who is desirous to become a member, provided such proposal js signed by three rueutr
 bers of the SOCIETY.
    Peers of the Kealm or Lords of Parliament arc, on their being proposed,                immediately     bal-
lotted for ; and the name, with the addition and place of abode, of every other person pro
posing to become a member, is to be delivered to the. Secretary,               who is to read thu same, and
properly insert the name in a list, which is to be hung up in the SOCIETY'S room until the next
meeting ; at which time sucli person shall be ballottcd for ; and, it two-thirds           of the members,
then voting, ballot in his favour, he shall be deemed a perpetual member, upon payment                       of
Twenty Guineas at line payment; or a subscribing                member, upon payment of any sum not lex
than 'I'u, i Guineas annually.
    Every member is entitled to vote and be concerned in all the transactions of the SOCIETY, and
to attend and vote at the several Committee*.           He has also the privilege of recommending          two
persons as Auditors, at the weekly meeting of the SOCIETY; and, by addressing                 a note to the
Housekeeper, of introducing bis friends to examine the various models, machines, and produc
tions, in different branches of arts, manufactures,           and commerce, for which rewards havu been,
bestowed ; and to inspect the magnificent series of moral and historical paintings, so happily
contrived and completed by JAMES BAHKY, Esq. which, with sonic .valuable busts and sta
tues, decorate the Great Room.              He has likewise the use of a valuable Library ; and i$
entitled to the annual Volume of the SOCIETY'S Transactions.
    The time appointed for admission to the paintings or models, is from ten to two o'clock^
Sundays and       Wednesdayi   excepted.
      PREMIUMS                                             threc hundred young oaks on each acre, to be
                        JAT AGRICULTURE "
                                                           delivered to the Society on or before the first
                  Clots 1.   ACORN..
                                                           Tuesday in December, 1804.
TfOR       having set, between       the  first  of Oc-       3.  RAISING       OAKS. To the person who
A     tober,   1802,  and the first   of April,   1803,    shall  have raised, since the year 1800, tire
the greatest quantity of land, not less than ten           greatest number of oaks, not fewer than five
acres, with acorns, with or without seeds, cut-            thousand,     either from young plants or acorns,
                                                                                                       tiipbsr
tings, or plants of othpr trees, at the option of          in order to secure a succession of oak
the candidate ; and for effectually fencing and            in this kingdom ; the gold n(edal.
preserving the same, in order to raise timber ;               4. For the next greatest number, not fewer
tue gold medal.                                            than three thousand ; the silver medal.
    2. For the second greatest quantity of land,              Certificates thafthcre were on the
                                                                                                     land, »t
not less than five acres, set agreeably to the             least the number of young oak-trees required,
above conditions, the silver medal.                        in a thriving condition, two years, after the
    Certificates of setting agreeably to the above         planting, with an account of the methods pur-
conditions, and that there are not fewer than              sued in making and managing the plantation,
    VOL.    XK.    No. 73.                               Q

98                                    Premiums la Agriculture.
to be produced to the Society on or before the           they were      in a healthy and thriving state two
first Tuesday in January, 1805.                          years     at least  after they were planted      out,
    5. ASCERTAINING           THE BEST METHOD            with a general account of the methods used in
OF RAISING OAKS.           To the person who shall       making the plantation, to be delivered to the
ascertain in the best manner, by actual expe             Society on or before the Iqst Tuesday in De
riments, the comparative merits of the differ            cember, 1804.
ent modes of raising oaks for timber, either                 12, 13. The same premiums          are extended
 from acoms set on land properly dug or tilled,          one year farther.
from acorns set by the spade or dibble, with                 Certyicates to be produced on or before the
out digging or tillage, either on a smooth               last Tuesday in December, 1805.
surface, or among bushes, fern, or other co                  N. K. The larch-trees may be either planted,
ver ; or from young plants previously raised in          mixed with other trees, or by themselves,          as
nurseries,    and transplanted     ; regard  being had   may best suit the convenience of the planter.
to the expense,       growth, and other respective           14. OSIERS.       To the person who shall have
advantages      of the several methods ; the guld        planted, between the first of October, 1803,
medal.                                                   and the first of May, 1304, the greatest quan
    The Accounts, and proper certificates that not       tity of landj not less than five acres, with those
less than one acre has been cultivated in each           kinds of willows, commonly known by the
mode,      to be produced   to the Society    on or be   names of osier, Spaniard, new kind, or French,
fore the first Tuesday in November, 1804.                fit for the purpose of basket-makers,      not fewer
    6. CHESNUTS.         For having sown or set,         thau twelve thousand plants on each acre , the
between the first of October,           1802, and the    gold medal, or thirty guineas.
first of April, 1803, the greatest quantity of               15. For the second greatest quantity of land,
dry loamy land, not less than six acres, with            not less than three acres, the silver medal, or
Spanish chesnuts, with or without seeds, cut             ten guineas.       Certificates of the planting, and
tings, or plants of other trees, adapted to such         that the plants wore in a thriving state five
soil, at the option of the candidate ; and for           months at least after the planting, to be pro
effectually fencing and preserving the same, in          duced to the Society on or before the last Tues
order to raise timber ; the gold medal.                  day in November, 1804.
    7. For the second greatest quantity, not less            16. AI.DER.       For having planted, in the
than four acres, the silver medal.                       year 1801, the greatest number of alders, not
    Certificates of sowing or setting, agreeably to      less i ii.m three thousand ; the gold medal.
the above conditions,      and that there are not            Certificates of the number of plants, and that
fewer than three hundred chesnut plants, in a            they were in a thriving state two years at Icnst
thriving state, on each acre, to be delivered to         after being planted, to be delivered to the So
the Society on or before the first Tuesday in            ciety on or before the last Tuesday in Decem
January, 1805.                                           ber, 1804.
    8. I!LM.     For having planted the greatest             17. ASH.       For having sown or set, in the
number of the English elm, not less than eight           year 1801, the greatest quantity of land, riot
thousand, between the twenty-fourth of June,             less than six acres, with ash for timber, with
1802, and the twenty-fourth of June, 1803 ;              or without seeds, cuttings, or plants, of such
and for having effectually fenced and pre                other trees as are adapted to the soil ; the gold
served the same, in order to raise timber ; the          medal.
gold medal.                                                  18. For the next greatest quantity, not less
    9. For the second greatest number, not less         than four acres, the silver medal.
than five thousand, the silver medal.                       Certificates of the sowing or setting, agree
    Certificates   of having      planted,   agreeably   ably to the above conditions, that there are
to the above conditions,       that the plants were     not fewer than one hundred ash plants on each
in a healthy and thriving state two years at            acre, in a thriving and healthy condition, two
least after making the plantation,          and speci   years at least after the sowing or setting, with
fying the distance of the plants, to be deli             a general account of the methods used in making
vered to the Society on or before the first             the plantation ; to be delivered to the Society
                                 '
Tuesday in April, 1805.                                 on or before the last Tuesday in December,
    10. LARCH.        For having planted out, be         1804.
tween the twenty-fourth of June 1801, and                    19. 20. The same premiums are extende4
the twenty-fourth of June, 1802, the greatest           one year farther,
purober of larch-trees,        not fewer than five           Certificates to be delivered on or before the
thousand ; and for having effectually fenced            last Tuesday in December, 1805.
and preserved the same, in order to raise tim               N. B. It is the particular with of the So
ber ; the gold medal.                                   ciety, that such lands only as are not calcu
    11. For the next greatest number, not fewer         lated for grouting         corn, should be emfloi/ed
fhan three thousand, the silver medal.                 fur the purposes specified in these adveriisd-
    Certificates   of the number of plants, that        meats.

                                      Premiums in Agriculture.
          21.   FonF.ST-Tnr.FS.   To the    person   who    neas. The accounts, and certificates of the effi
     shall have inclosed and planted, or set, the           cacy of the method, to be produced to the
     greatest nnmber of acres (not less than ten) of        Society on or before the first Tuesday in No
     land, that is incapable of being ploughed, such        vember,   1804.
     as the borders of rivers, -the sides of precipices,      28. The same premium        is extended    one
     and any land that lias too many rocks, or that         year farther. ' The accounts and certificates to
     is not calculated to repay the expense of till         be produced on or before th« first Tuesday in
     age, owing to the stiffness or poverty of the          Novrjnbcr, 1805.
     •oil, the surface being too hilly, mountainous,          89.  COMPARATIVE         TILLAGE.       For the
     or otherwise unfit for tillage, with the best          most satisfactory set of experiments,     made 911
     sorts of foresl-trees,   namely, oak, Spanish          not less than eight acres of land, four of which to
     chesnuts, ash, elm, beech, alder, willow, larch,       be trench-ploughed,* and four to be ploughed
     spruce and silver fir, with or without screens         in the usual manner,   in order to ascertain in
     of  Scotch fir, adapted to the soil, and intended      wh;:t   cases     it   be advisable
                                                                                   may            to shorten
     for timber-trees, between the first of October,         the operations   of tillage, by adopting one
     1801, and the first of April, 1802; the gold            trench-ploughing, for the purpose of burying
     medal.                                                  the weeds, instead of the method, now in com
        22. For the second greatest quantity of land,        mon use, of ploughing and harrowing the land
     not less than seven acres ; the silver medal, or       three or four times, and raking the weeds to
    ten guineas.                                            gether and burning them ; the gold medal.      It
        2.3. For the third greatest quantity of land,       is required that every operation and expense
    not less than five acres, the silver medal.     A       attending each mode of culture be fully and
    particular account of the methods used in               accurately described, and that proper certifi
     making and managing the plantations, the na            cates of tho nature and condition of the land on
    ture of the soil, the probable number of each           which the experiments are made, together with
    sort of plants, together with proper certificates       a circumstantial  account of the appearance of
    that they were in a healthy and thriving stale         the subsequent crops during their growth ; and
    two years at least after making the plantation,        also of the quantity and weight of the corn and
    to be delivered to the Society on or before the        straw under each mode of culture, or, in case
    first Tuesday in November, 1804.                       of a green crop, the weight of an average six
        24, 25, 26.    The same premiums are ex            teen perches, be produced to the Society on or
    tended one year farther. Certificates to be pro        before the first Tuesday in February, 1805.
    duced on or before the first Tuesday in No                30. COMPARATIVE CULTURE OF WHEAT,
    vember, 1805.                                          BROAD-CAST,      DRILLED, AND DIBBLED. For
        K. B. With the above forest-trees, the seeds,      the best set of experiments, made on not less
    cuttings, or plants, of such other trees as are        than twelve acres, four of which to be sown
    adapted to the soil, and proper for underwood,         broad-cast, four drilled, and four dibbled, the
    may or may not be intermixed.                          two latter in equidistant rows, in order fully
       N. B. The candidates far planting all kinds         to ascertain which is the most advantageous
    of trees are to produce certijicatet that tlie re-     mode of cultivating wheat ; the gold medal, or
     tpecticc •plantations are properly fenced and se      thirty guineas.    It is required that every ope
     cured, and particularly to state the condition of ration and expense of eacli mode of culture be
     the plants at the time of signing such certificates.  fully described ; and that proper certificates of
     Any information which the candidates for the the nature and condition of the land on which
    foregoing premiums may choose to communicate,         the experiments are made, together with an ac
     relative to the methods made use of in farming       count of the produce of the corn, the weight
     the plantations, or promoting the growth of the per bushel, and also of the straw, be produced
    icoeral trees, or any other observations that may to tire Society on or before the first Tuesday in
    have occurred on the subject, will be thankfully      February, 1805.
    received.                                                31. SPRING WHEAT.           To the person who,
        27. SECURING PLANTATIONS OF TIMBER-               between the 10th of January and the 10th of
    TREES, AND HEDGE-ROWS. To the person                  April, 1804, shall cultivate the greatest quan
    •who shall give to the Society the most satisfac      tity of wheat, not less than ten acres ; the gold
    tory account, founded on experience, of the medal.               It is required, that the time of sowing
    most effectual      and least expensive method of and reaping be noticed ; also a particular ac
    securing young plantations of timber-trees, and count of the species, cultivation, and expense
I   hedge-row*,     from hares and rabbits, as well as attending        it,
                                                                          withiproper 'certificates of the na
                                                          ture and condition of the land on which the ex
    sheep and larger cattle, which at the same
    time shall be least subject to the depredations       periments were made, and the name of the crop,
    of wood-steulcrs, the silver medal, or ten gui-        ifany, which the same land bore the preceding
      * It  is
            a  commo•npractice among gardeners, when tli'-y have piece of very foul land, to dig
                                                                    a                                 it   two spiU,
    or about eighteen inches
                      iacli< deep, slioveUuig luc weeds to the bottom. This llwy call trcucliing. .

100                                 Premiums           in Agriculture.
year ; together with an account of the produce,               broad-cast, and four drilled, to ascertain wne-
the weight per Winchester bushel . aiut a sam                 ther   itmost advantageous to cultivate turnipi
                                                                          is
ple, not less than a quart, be produced to the                iiy sowing them broadcast and hand-hoeing
Society on or before the second Tuesday iu Fe                 them, or by drilling them in equidistant rows,
bruary, 1805.                                                  and hand or horse hoeing the intervals     the           :
   It i supposed that sowing wheat early in the               silver medal, or ten guineas.       required, that
                                                                                                        It   is
spring will not only allow more time to till (he              every operation and expense of each mode of
land, but less for the growth of weeds ; thus                 culture be fully described, and that proper cer-
Tendering the wheat as clean as a barley crop,                iificata of the nature and condition of the land
and exhausting    the soil much less than autum               on which the experiments were made, together
nal sowing.    It may be seen in the 19th volume,             with the weight of the turnips grown, on a fair
that the wheat usually sown in autumn may be                  average sixteen perches of land, under each
put into the ground, with great success, so lute              mode of culture, be produced to the Society on
as February or March, thus giving time to clear               or before the firsf'Tuesday in March, 1805.
the ground from turnips, or to avoid a bad season.            The object which the Society have in view in
   32. BEANS AND WHEAT.            To the person              offering this premium      experimentally to as
                                                                                              is
Who shall have dibbled or drilled, between the                certain the most advantageous method of grow
1st of December, 1803, and the 1st of April,                  ing turnips.    To do this in satisfactory man
                                                                                                       a
1804, the greatest quantity of land, not less than            ner, both the drilled and broad-cast crops should
ten acres, with beans, in equidistant rows, and               have the advantage of the most perfect cultiva
 hoed the intervals twice or oftener, and shall               tion, consequently the drilled crops should hive
have sown the same land with wheat in the au                   the intervals between the rows worked         the        by
tumn of the year Ifi04; the gold medal.        It is          horse or "hand hoe, or by both these implements;
required that an account of the sort and quan                 and the rows should be either weeded or hand-
tity of beans, the time of dibbling or drilling,              hoed, or both weeded and hand-hoed.            The
 and of reaping or mowing them, the produce                   broadcast crop should have every advantage
per acre thrashed, the expense of dibbling or                 which weeding and hand-hoeing can give it,
drilling, hand or hone hoeing, the distance of                consistently with leaving the soil a flat surface.
the rows, and the quality of the soil, together                  36. The same premium         extended one year
                                                                                                   is
with certificate! of the number of acres, and                 farther.    Certificates to be produced on or be
that the land was afterwards actually sown with               fore the first Tuesday    March, 1806.
                                                                                              in
wheat, be- produced, on or before the second                     37. PARSNIPS.      To the person who, in the
Tuesday in March, 1805.                                       year 1804, shall cultivate the greatest quan
   33. BEANS. To the person who, in the                       tity of land, not less than five acres, witU
Year 1803, shall discover and cultivate, either               parsnips, for the sole purpose of feeding cat
by the drill or dibbling method, on not less than             tle or sheep;     the gold medal.      Certificate*
five acres, a species of horse-beaai or tick-beans,           of the quantity of land so cultivated, with par           a
that will ripen their seeds before the 21st of                ticular account of the nature of the soil and
August ; the silver medal, or ten guineas.        It          weight of the produce on sixteen perches, «nd
is required that a particular account of the bean,            also of the condition of the cattle or sheep fed
the cultivation, and the expense attending              it,   •with the parsnips, and the advantages resulting
•with proper certificates of the nature and condi             from the practice, to be produced to the Society
tion of the land on which the experiments are                 on or before the second day       February, 1805.
                                                                                                        in
made, together with an account of the produce,                   38. BUCK WHEAT.           To the person who
the weight pcr'Winchester bushel, and        sample
                                               a              shall cultivate the greatest quantity of land with
of not   less than   a   quart, be produced   to the So       buck wheat, not less than thirty acres the gold       ;
ciety on or before the first Tuesday          in   Decem      medal.          required that the time of sowing
                                                                               It   is
ber, 1804.     It    is
                    apprehended   that,       if    a bean    and reaping be noticed          also a particular
                                                                                                   ;
should be brought into cultivation with            the ha     account of the species, cultivation, and expense
bits of the hotspur, or other early peas,           thntit     attending       it,
                                                                            the manner of. reaping   thrashing    it,
would, in     great measure, escape the
              a                                    danger      it, and housing the grain    with proper ccrri/i-
                                                                                                   ;
arising from the collier-insect, or othcrjnsects,             •cates of the nature and condition of the land
and allow more time for the farmers to till the                on which the experiments were made, and the
land for the subsequent crop of wheat.         The             name of the crop,   any, which the same land
                                                                                         if
account* and certificates to be delivered on or                bore the preceding   year, together with an
before the first Tuesday in December, 1804.                    account of the produce, and     sample of the
                                                                                                           a
   54. The same premium            extended
                                     is        one             seed, not less than quart, be produced to the
                                                                                         a
ye«r farther.    The accounts and cerlijicata to               Society on or before the second Tuesday in
be delivered on or before the first Tuesday             in     January, 1805.
December, 1805.                                                   39. For the next greatest quantity, not less
   55. COMPARATIVE CUI.TVBF OF TURNIPS.                        than fifteen acres, on similar conditions   the          ;
For the best set of experiments mode on not less               silver rucdal.   Information respecting its ap
than eight acres of laud, four of which to be sown             plication to the feeding of cattle, hogs, and

                                                                              '
                               Premiums          in Agriculture.                                             101
  poultry, and other of it* uses, is also desired.          in the spring will be particularly suitable         for
  It is known to be particularly serviceable in             this premium.
  furnishing honey to bees.                                    45, 46, 47.    The same premiums        are ex
       40. RAISING      GBASS SEEDS.        To the per      tended  one year farther.   Certificates to be de
  son who shall raise the greatest quantity of each         livered on or before the first day of November,
  or any of the following named grass seeds, viz.           1805.
  — Meadow fox- tail (alopccurus pratensis),                   48. PRESERVING TORNIPS.            To the per
  sweet-scented vernal grass (anthoxanthum odo-             son who shall discover to the Society the best
  rsrtuni), Timothy grass, meadow Fescue grass,             and cheapest      method   of preserving turnips
  smooth-stalked      meadow grass (poa pratensis),         perfectly sound, and in every respect fit for
  rough-stalked      meadow       grass (poa trivialis) ;   the purpose of supporting and fattening sheep
  the silver medal, or ten guineas. It is required           and neat cattle, during the months of February,
  thirl certificates from persons who Imve viewed           March,      and April ; the silver medal, or tea
  them in a proper state, to identify that they             guineas. It is required that a full and accurate
   are one or other of the seeds atove mentioned,           account of the method employed, and the ex
   indicating clearly the particular speciei, and           pense attending        the process,  together     with
                                                                                                                    '
  noticing the quantity produced of such seeds,             certificates that the produce of four acres at the
   free from weeds or mixture of other grasses,             least have baen preserved         according    to  the
   together with proper samples of the seeds, be            method described,        and applied to the feeding
   produced to the Society on or before the first           of sheep and neat cattle ; that the whole were
   day of February, 1805.                                   drawn out of the ground before the first day of
       41. The same premium is extended on;                 February, in order to clear the greater part of
   year farther.      Certificates to be produced on        it previous to its being prepared for corn, and
   er before the first day of February, 1806.               to save the soil from being exhausted          by the
        42. ROTATION OF CROPS.           To the person      turnips; and also of the weight of an average
   who shall, between the 10th of Angust, 1801,             sixteen perches of the crop j be produced to
   and the 10th of September, 1803, cultivate the           the Society on or before the first Tuesday in
   greatest quantity of land, not less than forty           November, 1804.
   acres, in the following rotation, MS. 1st, wintef            N.B. /( i& recommended to those who may be
   tares ; 2d, turnips ; and 3d, w heat ; and apply         induced In try the necessary experiments for ob
   the two former crops in the best and most                taining this and the following four premiums, to
    farmer-like manner, to the rearing, supporting,         consider the method employed for the preservation
    and fattening horses, cattle, sheep, or hogs, on        of potatoes in ridges (which the growers callpies),
    the land which produced the crops ; the gold            and also the propriety of adopting a similar me
    medal, or one hundred guineas.                           thod in cases where they are prei'ioitstti
                                                                                                        frozen. Jt
        4.">. For the next in quantity and merit, on        ii supposed that, in the latter instance, the addi
   not less than thirty acres, the silver medal, or          tion of' ice or snow, and the construction     of  the
    fifty guineas.                                           ridges upon  a    large scale, may be sufficient to
        44. For the next in quantity and merit, on          preserve the freezing temperature till tite vegeta
    not less than twenty acres, the silver medal.           bles arc wanted for the use     cattle w sheep, at
                                                                                           of
    It is required, that every operation and expense        which time they may be thaieed        by
                                                                                                  immersion in
    be fully described,      and that satisfactory ccrf?-   cold water, aitd the rot u'/iic/i a sudden thaiu
    ficates of the nature and condition of the soil         produces may be prevented.
    on which the crops have grown, together with               49. For the next in quantity and merit, on
    an account of their appearance, the number of           not less than two acres, the silver medal.
'
    horses and cattle, sheep or hogs, fed by the               50. PRFSFRVING CABBAGES.       To the per
  two green crops, and, as near as possible, the            son who shall discover to the Society the best
  improved value of the live stock by the con               and cheapest method     of preserving   drum-
  sumption of those crops, and also the quantity            headed cabbages perfectly sound, and in every
  of wheat per acre, and its weight per bushel,             respect fit for the purpose of supporting and
  be produced     to the Society on or before the           fattening   shoep and neat cattle during the
  first day of November, 1804.                              months of February, March, and April       the  j
    - It is presumed that very great advantages             gold'medal, or thirty guineas.
  will arise to such agriculturists as shall adopt              51. For the next in quantity and merit, on
  this rotation of crops on a dry soil. They will           not less than two acres, the silver medal or
  be enabled, with the addition of a few acres of           fifteen guineas.    Conditions the same as for
  turnip-rooted cabbage for spring-food, to keep            preserving   turnips, Cl. 48.  And the accounts
  such large flocks of sheep anil herds of neat             to be produced on or belike the first Tuesday
  cattle as may secure a sufficient quantity of             in November, 1805.
  manure to fertilize their land in the highest                 52. PnrsEKviNG CABHOTS, PARSNIPS, on
  degree, and in every situation.  It is farther            BEETS. To the person who shall discover to
  conceived, that wheats which will bear sowing             the Society the best and cheapest method of

102                             Prttfiiums in Agriculture.
preserving carrots, parsnips, or beets, pcrlvctly     by an accurate analysis of it ; and who having
sound, and in every respect fit tor the purpose,      made a like analysis of some poor arable land,
of supporting horses, and fattening sheep and         shall, by comparing the component parts «f
neat cattle, during the months of February,           each,   and thereby ascertaining the deficiencies
March, and April ; the silver medal, or fifteen       of the  poor soil, improve a quantity of       not   it,
guineas. Conditions the same as for preserving        less than one acre, by the addition of such parts
turnips, Cl. 48. And the accounts to be deli          as the former experiments shall have discovered
vered in ou or before the first day in November,      to be wanting therein, and therefore probably
 1805.                                                the cause of its sterility   the gold medal, or
                                                                                            ;
    53. PRESERVING POTATOES. To the person         forty guineas.             required, that the ma-
                                                                                 It   is
who shall discover to the Society (he best and nunngs, ploughing*, and crops, of the improved
cheapest method of preserving potatoes, two or     land, be the same after the improvement as
more years, perfectly sound, without vegeta        before     and that    minute account of the pro
                                                                                  a
ting, and in every other respect (it for the duce              in ;
                                                             each state, of the weather, and of the
purpose of sets and the use of the table, and,     various    influencing circumstances,         together
consequently, of supporting and fattening cat      with the method made use of in analysing the
tle ; the gold medal, or thirty guineas. It is soils, be produced, with proper certificates awl
required, that a full and accurate account of the chemical results of the analysis, which are
the method employed, and the expense attend        to remain the property of the Society, on or
ing the process, with certificate! that one hun    before the last Tuesday           February, 180 j.
                                                                                                in
dred bushels at the least have been preserved            It expected that
                                                              is               quantity, not less than
                                                                                      a
according to the method described, and that six pounds, of the rich, of the poor, and of
one or more bushels of the same potatoes have      the improved soils, be produced with the certi-
been set, and produced        a crop without any jicutcs,
apparent diminution of their vegetative power,        57. GAINING       LAND rnOM THE SFA. To
 and also that they have been used at table,,      the person who shall produce to the Society
with entire satisfaction to the person who ate an account, verified by actual experiment,
 of them, together with a sample of one bushel, of his having gained the greatest quantity of
be sent to the Society on or before the first      land from the sea, not less than fifty acres,
Tuesday in November, 1805.                         on the coast of Great Britain or Ireland            the ;
    54. MAKING MEADOW-HAY ix WET WEA               gold medal.       Certijicatci of the quantity of
THER. To the person who shall discover to land, and that the experiments were begun
the Society the best and cheapest method, su       after the 1st of January, 17D8, to be produced
perior to imy hitherto practised, of making to the Society on or before the last Tuesday in
meadow-hay in wet weather ; the gold medal,        October,    1804.
or thirty guineas.     A full account of the me      .58. The same premium            extended one year
                                                                                                 is
thod employed, and of the expense attending        farther.    Certijicatci to be produced on or be
the process, with not less than fifty-six pounds   fore the last Tuesday         October,  in1805.
of the hay ; and certificates that at least the       59. The same premium            extended one year
                                                                                                 is
produce of six acres of land has been made ac      farther. Certilicatel to be produced on or be
cording to the method dcscrihcd, and that the fore the last Tuesday in October, 1806.
whole is of equal quality with the sample ; to         60. IMPROVING LAND LYING WASTE. Tat
l>e produced on or before the first Tuesday in the most satisfactory          account of the best me
January, 1805.                                  ,  thod of improving any of the following soils,
    55. HARVESTING COR* IN WET WEATHER.            being land lying waste or uncultivated, t'i:.
To the person who shall discover to the Society clay, gravel, sand, chalk, peat-earth and bog,
the best and cheapest method, superior to any      verified   by experiments       on not less than fifty
hitherto practised, of harvesting corn in wet acres of land the gold medal, or thirty guineas.
                                                                        ;
weather ; the gold medal, or thirty guineas.           61. For the next greatest quantity, not less
A full account of the method employed, and of than thirty acres, the silver medal, or twenty
the expense attending the process, with not less   guineas.           required, that the land before
                                                                       It   is
than two sheaves of the com, and certificate*      such improvement       be absolutely uncultivated,
that at least the produce of ten acres has been and in great measure useless, and that,
                                                                   a                                    its in
harvested according      to the method described,  improved state,       be enclosed, cultivated, and
                                                                                 it
 and that the whole is of equal quality with the   divided into closes.      Certificates of the number
 urtinple*, to lie produced on or before the first of acres, of the quality of the land so improved,
Tuesday in January, 1805.                          with     full account of every operation and ex
                                                              a
    56. AsfEJITAININOTHKCOMT'ONENTPARTS            pense attending such improvement,          the state          it
 or ARABLE LAND. To the person who shall is in as to the proportion of grass to arable,
 produce to the Society the most satisfactory set and the average value thereof, to be produced
 of experiments to ascertain the due proportion on or before the first Tuesday February,! 805.        in
 of the several component parts of rich arable        62. MANURES.          For the most satisfactory
 laud, in one or mure counties iu Grcut BuUui, set of experiments, to ascertain the comparative

                                 Premiums         in Agriculture.                                              103
advantages of the following manures,          used as   method now practised, provided          docs notit
top-dressings on grass or com land, viz. soot,          shed the corn or pulse more than the methods
coal-ashes, wood-ashes,      lime, gypsum,     night-   in common practice, and that      lays the straw
                                                                                                   it
toil, or any other fit article ; the gold medal,        in such manner that
                                                                 a               may be easily gathered
                                                                                      it
or the silver medal and ten guineas.         It is re   up for binding    the gold medal, or thirty gui
                                                                            :
quired that the above experiments be made               neas.    The machine, with certificates that at
between two or more of the above-mentioned              least three acres have been cut by     to be proit,
manured, and that not less than two acres of            duced to the Society on or before the second
land be dressed with each manure.             An ac     Tuesday in December, 1004.       Simplicity and
count of the nature of the soil, quantity and           cheapness in the construction     will be consi
expense of the manure mid crops, with certifi           dered as principal parts of its merit.
cates, to be produced       on or before the last          69. THRASHING MACHINE.           To the per
Tuesday in February, 1805.                              son who shall invent a machine by which com
   63. The same premium            it extended one      of all sorts may be thrashed more cxpediliously,
year farther.      The accounts and certificates to     effectually, and at a less expense, than by any
be produced on or before the last Tuesday in            method now in use       the gold medal, or thirty
                                                                                  ;
February, 1806.                                         guineas.     The machine, or model, with proper
                                                                                               a
   64. R\ISING WATER FOR THE IRRIGA                     ccTftfcflteslliatsuch machine has been usefully
                                                                                  a
TION OF LAND. To the person who shall dis               applied, that at least thirty quarters have been
cover to the Society the cheapest and most effec        thrashed by       and of the time employed
                                                                           it,                       the      in
tual method of raising water in quantities suffi        operation, to be produced to the Society on or
cient to be beneficially employed for the purpose       before the last Tuesday in February, 1805.
of irrigating land, superior to and cheaper than           70. DESTROYING TIIEGBUB OF THE COCK
any other method now in use ; the gold medal,           CHAFER. To the person who shall discover to
or fifty guineas.      A model on a scale of one        the Society an effectual method, verified by re
inch i •' a foot, with certificates that a machine      peated and satisfactory trials, of destroying the
at large, on the same construction,         has been    grijb of the cockchafer,    or of preventing   or
used, specifying the quantity of water delivered        checking the destructive effects which always
in gallons per hour, and the height to which it         attend corn, peas, beans, aud turnips, when at
was raised, to be produced to the Society on or         tacked       by   those
                                                                            insects  the gold medal, or
                                                                                           ;
before the first of March, 180.5.                       thirty guineas.    The accounts, with proper cer
   66. The same premium is extended one year            tificates, to be produced on or before the first
farther.    Certificates to be produced on or be        Tuesday in January, 1805.
fore the first of March, 1806.                              71. I)ESTHOYING WORMS.         To the person
   66. PARING PLOUGH.            To the-pwson who       who shall discover to the Society an effectual
shall invent and produce to the Society, a ma           method, verified by repeated and satisfactory
chine or plough for the purpose of paring land          trials, of destroying   worms, or of preventing
preparatory to burning, superior to any hitherto        the destructive effects they occasion on corn,
known, or in use for such purpose, and to be            beans, peas, or other pulse   the gold medal, or
                                                                                           ;
worked by not more than one man and two                 thirty guineas.   The accounts, with proper cer
horses ; the silver medal, or twenty guineas.           tificates, to be produced to the Society on or
The machine, and certificates that at least three       before th« first Tuesday in January, 1805.
acres have been pared by it in a proper man                 72. DESTROYING THE FLY ON HOPS.         To
ner, to be produced to the Society on or before         the person who shall discover to the Society an
Ihe first of January, 1805.                             easy and efficacious method of destroying the
   67. MACHINE FOR DIBBLING WHEAT.           To         fly on hops, superior to any hitherto known or
the person who shall invent a machine, supe             practised,  on not less than four acres of hop-
rior to any hitherto known or in use, to answer         ground   ; the gold medal, or thirty guineas.
the purpose of dibbling wheat, by which the             Accounts and certificates to be delivered to the
holes for receiving the grain may be made at            Society on or before tlie first Tuesday      Fe       in
equal distances and proper depths; the .silver          bruary, 1805.
medal and ten guineas.        The machine, with            7:J. PREVENTING      THE BLIGHT,     OR RA
certificates that at least three acres have been        VAGES OF INSECTS, ON FRUIT-TREES            AND
dibbled by   it,to be produced to the Society on        CULINARY PLANTS.         To the person who shall
or before the second Tuesday in January, 1<105.         discover to the Society the most effectual me
Simplicity and cheapness       inthe construction       thod of preventing    the blight, or ravages of
will be considered as principal parts of its            insects on fruit-trees and culinary plants, su
merit.                                                  perior to any hitherto known or practised,
   68. MACHINE FOR REAPING on MOWING                    and verified         by
                                                                          actual and comparative expe
COIIN.      For inventing  a  machine to answer         riments  ; the gold medal, or thirty guineas.
the purpose of mowing or reaping wheat, rye,            The accounts, with proper certificates, to be
barley, oats, or beans, by which may be done
                                    it                  delivered to the Society on or before the second
                                             by         Tuesday      in    November,
pore exp«ditiously and cheaper than            any

 104                                Premiums          in Agriculture,
    74. The same premium is attended one year            year farther. The accounts and certificate^ to
farther. The occnunb and certificates to be              be delivered on or before the first Tuesday in
delivered on or before the second Tuesday in             March, 1806.
November, 1805.                                              N.B. It is required that the certificates shall
    75. E.EMOVINO THE ILL EFFECTS OF                     specify the length of time the sheep were so
BLIGHTS, on INSECTS. To the person who                   protected,   and the manner in which they were
shall discover to the Society the most effectual         maintained     during that time ; together with
method of removing the ill effects of blights,           the general method of managing them.
or insects, on fruit-trees and culinary plants,              81. IMPROVING THL CONDITION OF THE
superior to any hitherto known or practised,             LABOURING POOR, BY ERJCTING COTTAGES,
and verified by actual and comparative expe              AND APPORTIONING          LAND.     To the person
riments ; _the gold medal, or thirty guineas.            who, in the year 1803, shall erect the greatest
The accounts and certificates       to be delivered to   number of cottages for the accommodation           of
the    Society    on or before   the first Tuesday in    the labouring puor, and apportion not less than
Tebruarv,       1805.                                    two acres of land to each cottage ; the gold,
    76. CUBE or THE ROT           is SHEEP. To the       medal.     The accounts and certificate! to be
person who shall discover to the Society the             delivered to the Society on or before the first
Lest and most effectual method of curing the             Tuesday in February, 1805.
rot in sheep, verified by repeated and satis                 82. The same premium is extended one year
factory experiments ; (he gold medal, or fifty           farther.   The accounts and certificates to be
guineas.       It  is expected  that   the  candidates   delivered to the Society ort or before the first
furnish accurate accounts of the symptoms and            Tuesday in February, 1806.
cnre of the disease, together with the imputed               83. IMPROVING THF. CONDITION OP THE
cause     thereof,    and the actual      or probable    LABOURING FoOR BY ATPORTIOVING LAND
means     of  prevention,    which, with proper cer      TO COTTAGES.        To the person who, in the
tificates, must be delivered to the Society on or        year 1803, shall apportion to the greatest
before the first Tuesday in February, 1805.              number of cottages already built upon his or
    77. CURE OF THE Fooi-RoT IN SHEEP.                   her estate, any quantity ot land, not loa than
To    the person who shall discover to the Society       two acres to each cottage, for the belief ac
the best nnd most effectual method of curing             commodation      of tlic respective inhabitants ;
 the foot-rot in sheep ; the silver medal, or ten        the gold medal.       The accmnts of the number
 guineas.       It is required, that the cure be         of cottages, itnd of the quantity of land ap
ascertained       by repeated" and satisfactory expe     portioned to each, to be delivered to the So
 riments, and the method of performing             it he ciety, with proper certificates, on or before the
verified by proper certificate! delivered to llie        fiist Tuesday in February, Ib05.
Society oil or before the first Tuesday in Fe                84. The same premium         is extended     one
 bruary, 1805.                                           year farther.     The accounts and certificates tu
    78. PlUVFNTIMC           THE ILL EpFFCTS OF          be delivered oil or before the first Tuesday in
FMFS on SHEEP. To the person who shall                   February, 1606.
discover to the Society the most effectual me                85. CULTURE OF HEMP iw CERTAIN PARTS
thod of protecting       sheep from being disturbed      or SCOTLAND.        The Society for the Encon-
 and injured by flies ; the silver medal, or ten         ragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Com
 guineas.      It k required, that the method be         merce,     wishing to encourage the growth of
 ascertained by repeated experiments,         and that   hemp for the use of the navy in certain parts
 a certificate of its efficacy be delivered to the       of Scotland, comprehending the whole county
 Society on or before the first Tuesday in De            of Argyle, that part of Perthshire situated to
 cember,     1804.                                       the north of the river Tay, and west of the
    79. PnoTicTivo SHEKP. To the person                  JJIilijary Road (see Ainslic's Map of Scotland)
 who, in the year 1803, shall protect the grcat-         leading from Logierait to the county of Inver
 rst number of sheep, not fewer than one hun             ness, and such other parts of Scotland as lie
 dred, hv hovels, sheds, or any other mean?,             north of Inverness-shire,    offers to the person
 and give the most satisfactory         account,    veri who shall sow with hemp, in drills at least
fied by experiment, of the advantages arising            eighteen inches asunder, the greatest quantity1
 from the practice ol' protecting sheep from the         of land in the above-mentioned         district, not
 inclemency of the weather, by hovels, sheds,             less than fifty acres statute measure, in the
 or any other means ; the silver medal, or twenty        year 1804, aud shall at the proper season cause
 guineas.      A particular account of the experi        to be plucked the summer hemp (or male hemp
 ments made, with the advantages arising there            bearing no seed), and continue the winter hemp
 from, together with the expense, arjd ccrtfi-            (or female hemp bearing seed) on the grouud
 rates of its utility, to be produced            to the   until the seed is ripe, the gold medal, or fifty
 Society on or before the first Tuesday in                guinea.
 March, 18O5.                                                86. To the person who shall sow with hemp,
     i!0. The same premium           is extended     one  in drills at least eighteen inches asunder, the

                                      Premiums in Chemistn/, fyc.                                        ¦
                                                                                                          105
   nrxt greatest quantity of    land in the same              tinous matter that incrusts the wicks of lamps
  »bove-we.itiuued district, not less thau twenty-            and extinguishes    the light, though fully sup
  live acrc^, statute measure, in the year 1804,              plied with oil; the gold medal, or fifty guineas.
  and shall at the proper season cause the same'              It is required, that the whole of the process be
  to be piucked as above mentioned ; the silver               fully and fairly disclosed, in order that satis
4 medal, or twenty-five guineas.          Certificates of     factory experiments may be made by the So
  the number of acres, of the          distance of the       ciety to determine the validity of the claim ;
  drills, of the plucking of the hemp, willi a ge            and certificates that not less than twenty gallons
  neral acemmt of the soil, cultivation, and pro             have been purified according to the process de
  duce, to be delivered to the Society, along with           livered in, together with two gallons of tile oil,
  fourteen pounds of the hemp, and two quarts                in its unpurified state, and two gallons so re
  of the seed, on or be lore the second Tuesday in           fined, be produced to the Society on or before
  January,      1805.                                        the second Tuesday in February", 1805:
                                                                9-2. Manufacturing Tallow Candles.
  PREMIUMS TOR DISCOVERIES AND                               To the person who shall discover to the Society
                                                             a method of hardening or otherwise preparing
    IMPROVEMENTS      IN CHEMISTRY,
   DYING, AND MINERALOGY.                                    tallow, so that candles may be made of it
                                                             which will burn as clear and with as small a
   87\ Preserving Sf.eds of Vegetables.
                                                             wick as wax candles, without running, and may
  For the best methods of preserving the seeds of
                                                            be afforded at a less expense thau any at pre
  plants in a state fit for vegetation a longer             sent made with spermaceti ; the gold medal,
  time than has hitherto    been practised,  such           or thirty guineas.                that 1121b. of
  method being superior to any known to the                                      Certificates
                                                            such tallow have been made into candles, and
  public, and verified by sufficient trial, to be           lillb. of the candles made thereof, to be pro
  communicated to the Society on or before the
                                                            duced to the Society on or before the second
  first Tuesday in December,     1804; the gold             Tuesday in January, 1805.
  medal, or thirty guineas.
                                                                93. Candles kuom Resin on otheb Sub
      88. Preventing     the Dry-hot in Tim        stances. To the person who shall discover
  ber.  To the person who shall discover to to the
 the Society the cause of the dry-rot in
                                                          Society the best method of making can
                                         timber,   dles of resin, or
  and disclose a certaiu method of prevention                         any other substance, fit for
                                                 . common use, at a puce much inferior to those
 superior to any hitherto known ; the gold me      made of tallow only ; the gold medal, or
 dal, or thirty guineas.                                                                      thirty
                           The accounts of the guineas.       Six pounds at least of the candles so
 cause, and method of prevention,
                                      confirmed    prepared, with an account of the process, to be
 by repeated experiments, to be produced to
                                                   delivered to the Society on or before the first
 the Society on or before the second Tuesday
 in December, 1804.                                Tuesday in December, 1B04.
                                                      94. Method of sfparating Suoar in a
     89.      Prfservino         salted Provisions          solid Form from Treacle.          To the person
  fro*        becoming        rancid or rusty.  to          who shall discover   to theSociety the best me
 the person who shall discover to
                                         the Society        thod of separating sugar from treacle, in a solid
 the best, cheapest, and most
                                efficacious method          form, at such an expense as will rcuder it ad
 of preserving salted provisions from
                                             growing        vantageous to the public ; the gold medal, or
 rancid or rusty ; the gold medal, or
 neas.
                                           thirty gui
          A full description of the method, with
                                                            fifty guineas.   A quantity of the sugar so pre
                                                            pared, in a solid form," not less than thirty
 proper certificates that it has been found, on
                                                            pounds weight, with an account of the process,
 repeated trial?, to answer the purpose intended,
                                                           and certificates that not less than one hundred
 to be produced to the Society on
                                      or before the       weight has been prepared, to be produced to
 first Tuesday in February, 1805.
                                                          the Society on or before the first
     90.  Clearing      Feathers pnoM          their
                                                                                                Tuesday in
                                                          February, 1805.
 ammalOii..              To
                    the person who shall dis
                                                              95. PROOF-SPIRIT.
 cover to the Society the best and
                                                                                       To the distiller who,
                                     most expe            in the year 1804, shall make the greatest
 ditious method, superior to any hitherto
                                          prac            quantity, not less than one hundred gallons,
 tised, of clearing goose-feathers   from        their    of a clean marketable spirit, from articles not
 offensive animal oil, for the use of
                                        upholders,        the food of man or cattle, equal in strength or
 in making beds, cushions, ice. the
                                    silver medal,         quality to the proof-spirit now in use, and at
 or twenty guineas.   A quantity of such feathers         a rate not higher than the spirit produced from
 mmnpped and so cleared, not less than forty             corn or inelasses-;     the gold medal,     or one
 pounds weight, with a full account of the
                                               pro       hundred guineas.       Ten gallons of the spirit,
 cess to be produced to the Society on or
                                            before       together    with proper certificates, and a full
 the first Tuesday in
                      February, 1805.                    account of the expense and mode of making
    91.    Raining  Whale or   Seal Oil. For
                                                                                                          it,
                                                         to be produced to the Society on or betore tho
 disclosing    to tiie
                  Society an effectual method            first Tuesday   in January, 1805.
 ol purifying whale or seal oil
                                 from the glu-               90. Increasing      Steam.     To the person
   Vot. XIX. No.          73.                        II

106                             Premiums          in Chemistry,           &;c.
who .--hall invent and discover      to the Society       quart of the colour in a liquid state, and a
a method, verified by actual experiments,         of       full account of the preparation and applica-
increasing the quantity or force of steam, in             tion, to be produced to the Society on or he-
steam-engines,    w ith less fuel than has hitherto       fore the second Tuesday in January, 1805.
been employed, provided that in general the                   101.   PREPARATION OF A GIIEEN COLOUR
whole amount of the expenses in using steam-               FOR PRINTING COTTON CLOTH.               To the per-   '
engines    may be considerably lessened ; the             son who shall communicate          to the Society the
gold medal, or thirty guineas.         To be com-         best and cheapest method of printing with a
rnunicated   to the Society on or before the first        full green colour on cotton cloth, by an im-
 Tuesday in January, 1805.                                mediate application of the colouring matter
    97.   SUBSTITUTE FOR TAR.           To the person     from a wooden        block to the cloth, equally
 who shall invent and discover to the Society             beautiful and durable as the colours now formed
the best substitute for Stockholm tar, equal in           from the complicated process of the decoction
 all its properties to the best of that kind, and         of weld on alumine and the solutions of in-
prepared from materials the produce of Great-             digo by earths or alkaline* salts ; the gold medal,
 Britain ; the gold medal, or one hundred gui-            or thirty guineas.      Certificates and conditions
neas.     A quantity of the substitute, not less          as for premium 100.
 than one hundred weight, with certificates                   102.   SUBSTITUTE FOR THE BASIS OF
that at least one ton has been manufactured,              PAINT. To the person who shall produce to
 and that it can be afforded at a price not ex-           the Society the best substitute,      superior to any
ceeding that of the best foreign tar, together            hitherto known, for the basis of paint, equally
 with an account of the process, to be delivered          proper for the purpose as the white lead now
to the Society on or before the first Tuesday in          employed ; such substitute not to be of a noxi-
March, 1805.                                              oils quality, and to be afforded at a price not
    98. PREPARATION OF TAN.               To the per-     materially'higher than that of white lead ; the
son who shall prepare         in the most toncen-         gold medal, or one hundred guineas. A quan-
trated form, so as to be easily portable, and             tity of the substitute, not less than 50lb. weight,
at a price applicable to the purposes of manu-            with ai\accoiuit of the process used in preparing
factures, the largest quantity, not less than one         it,  and certificates that at least one hundred
hundred weight, of the principle called by the            weight has been manufactured,         to be produced
trench tannin,       which abounds in oak-bark            to the Society on or before the first Tuesday in
and many other vegetable substances the gold;             January, 1805.
medal, or. fifty guineas.       Certificates    of the       103:   RED PIGMENT.       To the person who
superior quality of the quantity so prepared, and         shall discover to the Society a full and satis-
a sample of not less than £8lb. to be produced             factory process for preparing a red pigment, fit
to the Society on or before the last Tuesday in           for use, in oil and water, equal in tone and
January, " 1805.                                          brilliancy to the best carmines and lakes now
    99.   INDELIBLE INK. To the person who                known or in use, and perfectly durable the    ;
shall discover to the Society, a method of                gold medal, or thirty guineas.         One pound
making   a   black ink proper for writing, supc-          weight of such colour, and     a full disclosure ot"
rior to any at present known, indestructible by           its preparation,  to be produced to the Society
chemical applications, and pot dearer than                on or before the first Tuesday     inFeb. 1805.
that which   is  now in common use      ;    the silver      N. B.  It   isnot required that the colour
medal or fifteen guineas.                      that not   should resist the action of in ••or chemical    ap-
                                Certificates
less than two gallons of such ink have been               plications, but remain unaltered by the coin-
actually prepared and found to possess the                mon exposure to strong light, damps, and noi-
qualities above mentioned, with a full detail of          some vapours.
the process of making it. anil two quarts of the             104.   ULTRAMARINE.          To the person who
ink, to be delivered to the Society on or before          shall prepare an artificial ultramarine, equal in
the .second Tuesday     in January, 1805.                 colour, brilliancy,   or durability, to the be»t
    100.   PREPARATION OF       A   RED STAIN FOR         prepared from lapis lazuli, and which may be
COTTON CLOTH.           To the person who shall           afforded at a   cheap rate ; the gold medal, or
communicate      to the Society, the cheapest and         thirty guineas. The conditions are the same as
most effectual     method of printing or staining         in the preceding premium for the red pigment,
cotton cluths with    a  red colour, by an imme-             10.5.   ANALYSIS OF BRITISH MINERALS.
diate application of the colouring-matter to the          To the person who shall communicate to the
cloth, equally beautiful and durable with the             Society, the most correct analysis of any mi
red colours now generally procured from do-      ncral production of Great-Britain, hitherto ei-
coctions of madder    ;   the gold medal, or thirty
                                                 ther unexamined,    or not examined with accu-
guineas.   Certificates that the above process racy       the gold medal.
                                                                ;          The analysis and suf-
hos been advantageously    used on ten pieces of ficient specimens to be produced to the Society
calico, each twenty-one yards or upwards in on or before the firstTuesday in Jan. 1805.
length, one piece gf the calico so printed, a        100.    STATVABY MARBLE.      To the person

                                      Premiums in Chemistry,                          fyc.                         107
    who    shall   discover,   within Great-Britain         or     with ten     pounds weight of the composition.
   Ireland, a quarry of white marble              fit for the      <mor before the first Tuesday in January, 1805.
   purposes     of  statuary,   and equal in all respects             111.    REFINING BLOCK-TIN.           To the pcr-
   to those      kind* now imported from Italy ; the               son who shall discover to the Society the best
    gold medal, or one hundred pounds.                      A      method of purifying or refining block-tin, sq
• block of
                  at least three feet iq length, two in            as to reader it fit for the finest purposes to.
   height, and two in width, with an account of                    which grain-tin is now applied, and not higher
   the situation of the quarry, and certifieatet           of     in price ; the gold medal, or fifty guineas,
   its   possessing    considerable   extent,   to be pro-        Certificates that not less than three tons have
   duced to the Society on or before the first Tuv>-              been so refined or purified, with a full detail of
   day in February, 1U05.                                         the process, and a quantity, not less than ona
       N. B. In order tixprevent useless expense                  hundred weight, of the tin to refined, to be
   or trouble to theclaimant jn forwarding so large               produced to the Society on or before the first
  a block, the Society will be ready to examine                   Tuesday in January, 1805.
  any .smaller specimen, of the marble, and ex-                       113.    GLAZING EARTHEN-WAKE              \VITH-
  press their opinion of its value to the candi-                  OUT LEAD.         To the person who shall discover
  date before the block required by the above                     to the Society the cheapest, safest, most dura-
  premium is produced.                                            ble, and most easily fusible, composition,         fit
       107.      PREPARATION OF SULPHURIC ACID                    for the purpose of glazing the ordinary kinds
   FBOJI SULPHUR WITHOUT TUB USE OF ANY                           of earthen-ware,       without any preparation of
  NITRIC SALT. To the person who shall pre-                       lead, and superior to any hitherto in nse ; the
                                                                                                                         *
  pare the largest quantity (not less than one                   gold medal, or thirty guineas.          Specimens of
  ton) of sulphuric acid from sulphur, without                   the ware so glazed, with prpper certificates of
  any nitric salt, of a specific gravity, not in-                its having succeeded,        and a sample of the ma-
  ferior to the best sulphuric acid of commerce ;                terials made use of, to be produced to the So-
  tbe gold medal, or fifty guineas.            Certijicatet      ciety on or before the first Tuesday inFeb.1805.
  that not less than the above quantity of such                      113.    REFINING COPPER FROM THE ORE.
  an acid has been prepared,            together with a         To the person who shall discover to the So-
  sample, to be produced to the Society on or                   ciety the best method of separating, purifying,
  before the first Tuesday in January, 1805.                    and refining copper from the ore, so as to ren-
       108.    PREPARATION         OF ANY ALKALINE              der it fit for the finest purposes to which fine
  OR EARTHY NITRATE.                To the person who           copper is now applied, and by a process su-
 ihall prepare,         in Great-Britain, the largest           perior to any hitherto known or in use, and not
  quantity, not less than one hundred weight, of                higher in price ; the gold medal, or fifty gui-
 unysalt of nitric acid, with either earths or                  neas.      Certificate! that not less than three tons
 alkalies, by a method superior to and as cheap                 have been so prepared or refined, and a quan-
 as those hitherto practised ; the gold          medal, or      titr not less than one hundred weight of the
 one hundred guineas. Certificates of           the above       copper so refined, to be produced to the So-
 quantiiy having been prepared, and                a sample     ciety on or before the first Tuesday inFeb.1805.
 of not less than 28lb. to be produced           to the So-          114. MINERAI.OGICAL           MAP OF ENGLAND,
 cietyon or before the        lut Tuesday     in January,       AND WALES.            To the person who shall com-
 1805.                                                          plctc and publish an accurate mincralogical
      109.    FINE BAR-IRON.          To the person, in         map of England and Wales, on a scale of not
 Great-Britain, \yho shall make the greatest                    less than ten miles to an inch, containing au
 quantity of bar-iron, not less than ten tons,                  account      of the situation pf the different
with coak, from coak-pigs, equal in quality                     mines therein, and describing the kinds, of mi-,
 to the best iron imported trom Sweden or Rus-                 nerals thence produced ; the gold medal, or
sia, and as lit for converting into steel ; the                fifty guineas.        Certificates  of the accuracy of
gold medal, or fiAy guineas.           Samples, not less       such map, together with the map, to be pro-
rhan      one hundre'd weight,         with certificata        duced to the Society on or before the first Tues-
that the whole quantity is of i-qual quality, to               d.ay in February, 1805.            The map to remain
be produced to the Society on or before the                    the property of the Society.
£nt Tuesday in January, 1805.                                        115. MINERALOGICAL            MAP or IRELAND.
     110.     PRESERVING IRON Fiton RUST. To                   The same premium is offered for a niineralogi-
thc person who shall invent and discover to the                cal map of Ireland, on similar conditions.
Society a cheap composition, superior to any                        116. MINERAI.OGICAL           MAPOISCUII.AKD,
now in use, which shall effectually preserve                   The same premium is offered for a iu,incratogical
wrought iron from rust, the gold medal, or                     map of Scotland, on similar conditions.
fifty guineas. A full description of the method                     117.    NATURAL HISTORY.            To the author
of preparing the composition, with certificatts                who shall publish, in the year 1804, the natu-
that it has stood at least two years unimpaired,               ral history of any county in England or
being exposed to the atmosphere during the                     Wales ; the gold medal, or fifty guineas.            It
YI hole lime,        to be produced to the Society,            is required that the several natural productions.

  108                                 Premiums in Polite Arts.
 whether        animal, or vegetable,       or mineral, position, of five or more human figures ; (he
 peculiar to the county, or found therein, be height of the principal figure not less than
 carefully and specifically arranged and de eight inches ; to be produced on or before the
 scribed, m order that the public may be enabled         third Tuesday in Feb. 1805 ; the gold pallet.
 to judge what arts or manufactures            are most      131.    For the next in merit ; the greater
 likely to succeed in such county. The work to silver pallet.
 be delivered to the Society on or before the                132.    DRAWING AVD ENORAVING.               To
                                           '
 last Tuesday in January, 1805.                          the person who shall complete the best original
                                                         drawing and engraving.          The design and en
                                                         graving to be executed by the same artist, and
       •PREMIUMS IN POLITE ARTS.                         produced to the Society'on or before the first
    118.      HONORARY PHKMIUMS FOR DRAW                 Tuesday in February, 188S; the gold medal.
 ING, BY NOBILITY. For the best original It is required that (lie drawing and two im
  drawing, of any kind, by young gentlemen               pressions of the engraving be produced, and1
 under the age of twenty-one,           sons or grand    remain the property of Hie Society.
 sons of peers, or peeresses in their own right,             133.    LlM ExGRAVINOSOFLANDSrAPrS.
 of Great-Britain or Ireland, lo be produced on For the best line engraving of a land^cap?.
 or before the first Tuesday in March, 1 805 ; the published in the year 1804, the size of the en
 honorary medal of the Society in gold.                  graving not less than eighteen inches by four
    119.      The same in silver lor the best copy.      teen ; the gold medal.         To be produced to
    120,121. The same premiums will be given, (he Society on or before the last Tuesday in
 on the like conditions,     to young ladies, daugh      January, 1805 ; and the impression to which
 ters or grand-daughters      of peers, or peeresses in the premium is adjudged to remain the pro
their own right, of Great-Britain or Ireland.            perty of the Society.
    122.      HONORARY PREMIUMS FOR DRAW                     154.     For the next in merit ; the silver me
 ING, BY pF.NfLr.MEN.            Fur the best original dal, on similar conditions.
drawing, of any kind, by young gentlemen                     135.    LINK ENGRAVINGS OF HISTORICAL
under the age of twenty-one ; to be produced             SUBJKCTS.        Forthe best line engraving pub
 on or before the first Tuesday in March, 1 805 ; lished in the year 180J, of an historical sub
the gold medal.                                           ject, the size, of the engraving not less than
    123.      For the best copy, the silver medal.       eighteen inches by fourteen ; the gold medal.
    124.     125.      The same premiums will be              136.    For the next in merit ; the silver
 given for drawings by young ladies.                     medal.      Conditions, &c. the same as in classes'
    N. B. As the foregoing honorary premiums              l'33t!iul 134. •
 prc intended only for siich of the nobility 'and             137. 138, 1S9, 140.       The same premiums
 gentry as may hereafter become patrons or pa are extruded one year farther.
 tronesses of the arts ; persons professing any               K. li. It is not necessary in the classes of
 branch of the polile arts, or any business de line engravings, for the artist's name to be con
pendent on the arts of design, or the sons or cealed. The first aquafortis proof of the above
 daughters       of such persons, will not be ad plates are required to be sent in with the
 mitted candidates in these classes.                      finished impression,    and certificates   that the
    12(j.     DRAWINGS OF OUTLINES.              Forthe etchings are the entire work of the candidate.
}>est outline, after a cast, in plaster, of the The aquafortis               (>roof also to remain the pro
ycrfus de Medici's, by persons of either sex, perty of the Society.
under the age of sixteen, 'the figure not less                1'41.' MODI L i.v CLAY OR PLASTKP.
than eighteen inches ; lo be produced on or For the best model in clay or plaster of an
                 last Tuesday in February, 1805 ; the ornamental design for the purpose of embel
 Before the
 greater silver pallet.                                   lishing works of architecture ; the silver medal
    127,      tor the next in merit ; the lesser silver or ti<enty guineas. • To be produced to the So
pallet.                                                   ciety on or before the last Tuesday in January,
    1%J8. DRAWINGS OF LANDSCAPES,                    For 1S05.      The model not to be less than thirty
 the best drawing in wHter-colours           of a land inches by twelve.
scape aiter nature,          not less than eighteen           148.    PtHsrECTivF. DRAWINGS OF MA-
 inches by twelve, by persons of either sex, CHINFS.                    Forthe best perspective drawing of
 under twenty-one years of Hge,tobe produced machines by persons under twenty-one yean
                                                                                                 '
 on or before the last Tuesday in February, 1 80 5; of »*e ; the greater silver pallet.            To be pro
 the gold pallet.                                         duced to the Society on of before the last Tues
    129.       For the next in merit, the greater day in January, 1B05.
 silver pallet.       Each candidate must mention,            1!3.     Fur the next in merit; the lesser
 on the front of the drawing, whence the view silver pallet, on similar conditions.
 Wil.s ttikctl.                                               144.    ENOIIAVIXG ON Woon, on METAL
  • ISO.       HisToniCAi. DRAWINGS.             For the BLOCKS, &c.           For the be«t engraving      r>n
 best h storical drawing, being an original com            wood or mct»l block?, oj any other material,

                                 Premiums hi Manufacture*.                                              109
to that the same be rendered      capable of com      Society on or before       the first Tuesday in De
position »ill> the letter-press, of any allegorical   cember, 1804.
or other subject suited to the embellishment of          A'. 13. The Society    is already   in   the posses
letler-prcs:-,  the gold pullet.                      sion of cloth made in     England from hop-stalks
    146.     For the next in merit, the greater       or bines, which may       be inspected by applica
silver pallet.    Two or more impressions along       tion to the Housekeeper.
with the block to be produced to the Society on          150.   WlCKS FOR C.INDLFS OR LAMPS.
or before the lirst Tuesday in February, 1805.        Tp the person who shall discover to the Society
The impressions, but not the block, to remain         a method of manufacturing hop-stalks or bines.
the property of the Society.                          or any other cheap ni, aerial, the growth of
    146.    BnoNzts.     For the best drapery         Great-Britain, so as to render them equally fit
figure or groupcast in bronze ; if asingte ligure,    for the purpose of supplying the place of cot
not Icis than twelve inches high ; and, if a          ton, for wicks of candles or lamps ; twenty
group, not less than nine inches ; and which          guineas.    Samples, not less than five pounds
will require the least additional labour to re        weight, of the wick so prepared, to be produced
pair ; the gold medal, or the silver medal and        to the Society, with certificate! that the whole
twenty guineas.     The cast to be exhibited to       quantity is equal in quality to the sample, on
the Society belbre it is begun to be repaired,        or before the second Tuesday in Jan. 1805.
with the original figure or group, on or before         151.     PAPER FROM RAW vi OLTABL* SUB-
 the first Tuesday in February, 1805, together        STANCi'.s.   To the person, in Great-Britain,
 with a full explanation of the whole process.        who shall, between the first of January, 1804,
    147.    ORNAMENTAL DRAWINGS FOR An-               and the first of January,    1805,   make the
cniTt.cTURAL DKSICNS.         For the best orna       greatest quantity, and of the best quality (not
mental drawing for the purpose        of embel        less than ten reams), of good mid uselul paper,
lishing architectural designs ; a silver medal        from raw vegetable substances, the produce of
lion with the following engraved inscription :        Great-Britain   or Ireland, ol which one hun
Ike Premium given by the Society for the Kn-          dred weight     has notbeen used in manufactu
courageiuent of Arts, Manufacture*, and Cnm-          ring paper previous to January, 1803, superior
merce, in conformity to the Will
                                  of John Stock,      to any hitherto manufactured      Irom such sub
of Hampsteail, Esq.      The drawing to which         stances, and wlrich can be generally afforded
the premium is adjudged to remain the pro             as cheap as paper ol equal quality and ap
perty of the Society ; and to be produced to          pearance now made from rags ; twenty guineas.
 die Society on or before the second Tuesday in          N.R. The object of the Society being to add
 February,"   1805.                                   to the number and quantity ot law imperials
                                                       used in this manufacture,  it is their wish to in
                                                      clude every useful sort of paper, and to intrr>-
PREMIUMS FOR ENCOURAGING AND                           ducc such natural products as can be easily and
   IMPROVING MANUFACTURES.                             cheaply procured in great quantities.         The
   148.   MACHINE FOR CARDING SILK. For               Society are in possession of two volumes con
the best machine, superior to any now in use,         taining a great variety of specimens of paper
lor carding waste silk equally well as by hand;       made from raw vegetable substances, til. —
to be produced, together with a specimen of           nettles, potatoe-haum, poplar, hop-bines, &c.
the cardings,  on or before the first Tuesday in      which volumes may be inspected by any
November, 1804 ; the silver medal, or twenty          person on application to the Housekeeper.
 guineas.                                             Certificate! of the making such paper,    and
   149.    CLOTH FROM HOP-STALKS, &c. To              one leam of the paper, to be produced on or
the person who shall produce to the Socjety           betorethe last Tuesday in January, 1805.
the greatest quantity, not less than thirty yards        152.     TRANSPARINT PAPFH.      Tolhepcr-
of cloth at least twenty-seven inches wide,           son who shall discover to the Society a method
 made in Great-Britain, of hop-stalks or bines,       of making paper from the pulp that shall bft
tor other raw vegetable substances, the produce       perfectly transparent, and of a substance and
of Greats-Britain or Ireland, superior to any         body equal to foolscap, that shall lake and
 hitherto manufactured   from such substances,        bear common writing ink with the same facility
and which Can be generally afforded as cheap          and correctness as writing-paper generally in
as cloth of equal quality and appearance now          use ; the silver medal, or twenty      guineas.
 made from hemp, flax, or cotton, and much            Certificates of the making such paper, an ac
iiuer in quality than any hitherto manufactured       count of the process, and one ream of the
 in England from hop-stalks,       £cc. the gold      paper, to be produced on or before the second
 medal, or thirty guineas.     One pound of the       Tuesday in January, 1805.
 thread of which the cloth is made, and thirty            153.      CIIINTS    PATTERNS FOR CALICO-
 yards of the cloth, together with proper cerd'-      PRINTERS.          For the best original pattern in a
jicatti that the whole is manufactured trnm           new laste, of light or dark-ground chints for
                                                      I-..! in' .-,•.'•>   b't for the purposes of calico
 flop-stalks, or bines, &c. to be produced to the
                                                                      i.,

110                                 Premiums          in Mechanics,
printer?, by persons    of either sex ; the gold           constructed   mill for grinding corn for the nse
iiu-diil.        To
               be produced to the Society on or            of private   families,  or parish-poor ; the con
lirio'.v the second Tuesday in January, 1805 ;             struction to be such as to render the working of
the pattern to which the premium is adjudged               the mill easy and expeditious,     and superior to
to remain the property of the Society.                     any hitherto in use ; the gold medal, or thirty
    154.    For the next in;- merit ; the silver           guineas. The mill, and certificate* of its having
medal, on similar conditions.                              been used to good effect, to be produced to the
     155.     COPPER-PLATE PATTERNS FOB CAI                Society on or before the first Tuesday in Feb.
HCO-PHINTEHS.          For the best pattern, in a          1805.   Cheapness and simplicity will be con
new style, fit for the purposed of calico-printers         sidered as essential parts of its merit ; and the
for garment-work; the silver medal.         To be          mill, or the model, to remain with the Society.
produced to the Society on or before the second                160. MACHINE FOR RAISING COALS, ORE,
Tuesday in January, 1805.         The pattern to           &c. &c. To the person who shall invent a
 t* iiicli the premium is adjudged to remain the           machine for raising coals, ore, &c. from mines,
property of the Society.                                   superior to any hitherto known or in use, and.
                                                           which shall produce the effect at a less expense
                                                           titan those already known or in use ; the gold
            PREMIUMS IN MECHANICS.                         medal, or fifty guineas.          A model of the ma
   156. GUNPOWDER-MILLS.           To the person           chine, made on a scale of not less than one inch
win-, in the year 1804, shall invent and bring             to a foot, with a
                                                                                 certificate that a machine at
to perfection the most effectual method of so              large on the same construction has been advan
conducting the works of gunpowder-mills, in                tageously used, to be produced to the Society
the business of making gunpowder,       as to pre          on or before the second Tuesday in Feb. 1805.
vent explosion ; the gold medal, or one hun                    161.   IMPROVED WALKING-WHEEL OK
dred guineas.    Certificates and accounts of the          CRANE.      To the person who shall invent an
method having been put in practice in one or               improved walking-wheel or crane, on which
more gunpowder-mills in this kingdom, and that             the weight and power of any person or per
it promises, in the opinion of the best judges             sons shall be applied with the greatest safety
concerned in such works, to answer the pur                 and effect, and so contrived that the power can
pose intended, to be produced to the Society on            be varied according          to the greater or lesser
or before the first Tuesday in Feb. 1805.                  weight to be raised or lowered ; the gold me
   N. B. As an encouragement        to persons to          dal, or thirty guineas.         The model, on a scale
turn their thoughts to improvements of this na             of not less than one inch to a foot, with a pro
ture,       if   any should   be made   on the   present   per certificate that the machine at large has
method   of conducting the business of gunpow              been employed to good effect, to be produced
der making, which fall short pf the total pre              to the Society on or before the second Tuesday
vention of explosion, and they are sent to the              in February, 1805.
Society for the sake of humanity, the papers so                162.    MACHINE FOR RAISING WATER*
sent in will receive due consideration,  and such           To the person who shall invent a machine on a
bounty or reward will be bestowed thereon as                better, cheaper, and more simple construction
they appear to merit.                                       than any hitherto known or in use, for raising
   157. TRANSIT-INSTRUMENT.           To the per            water out of wells, &c. from u depth of not
son who shall invent and produce to tin; Society            less than fifty feet ; the gold medal, or forty
a cheap and portable transit-instrument,    which           guineas.    Certificates      ot llie performance of
may easily be converted into a zenith-sector,              the machine, and a model of        it,
                                                                                                on a scale of
capable of being accurately and expeditiously              not less than one inch to   foot, to be produced
                                                                                          a
adjusted, for the purpose of .finding the lati             to the Society on or before the first Tuesday in
tudes and longitudes of places, and superior to            February, 1805.
•uy portable transit-instrument    now in use ;               163.   ELM PIPES. To the person who shall
the gold medal, or forty guineas.     To be pro            invent and discover to the Society a substitute
duced on or before the last Tuesday in Jan. 1805.          for the elm pipes now in common use for the
   158. TAKING WHALES BY THE GUN-HAR                       conveyance of water, which shall be cheaper,
POON.      To the person who, in the year 1804,            equally effectual, and more durable than any
shall strike the greatest number of whales, not            heretofore    employed     the gold medal,
                                                                                      ;                   or
fewer than three, with the gun-harpoon ; ten               thirty guineas.    It required that one of the
                                                                                 is
guineas.    Proper certificates of the striking such       pipes so employed, an accurate account of the
whales, and that they were actually taken in               method used, and every expense attending          it,
the year 1804, signed by the master, or by the             together with satisfactory accounts of its being
mate when the claim is made by the master, to              effectual,  be delivered lo the Society on or
be produced to the Society on or before the last           before the second Tuesday >» January-, 180a.
Tuesday in December, 1804.                                     164. EXTINGUISHING      FIRES. To the person
   159. FAMILY MILL.       To the person who               who shall produce to the Society the best andi
(hall invent and produce to the Society the best-          most effectual method of procuring 09 iiafue/v

                                   Premiums           in Mechanics.                                         111
diate supply ot water in ease of fire, or for tire        combining the materials ordinarily employed
means best calculated to prevent or extinguish            in making or repairing roads, so as tu form then
accidental fires in buildings, superior to any            of the hardest consistence by their cementing
now in use; the gold medaJ, or thirty guineas.            properties,    or by an artificial mixture of earth,
                                                          stones, &c. altered by heat or any other node,
Certificates of llic method having been prac
tised with success,       with a full description        so as to form an even, hard, and durable car
thereof, to be delivered to the Society on or             riage-road, not liable to be injured by heat or
before the second Tuesday in Jan. 1805.                   rain ; the gold medal, or fifty guineas.           It u
    165. BORING AND BLASTING ROCKS. To                   required that an accurate account of the ne~
the person who shall discover to the Society a            ihoi! used, and every exjiense           attending   it,
more simple, cheap, and expeditious method               together      with satisfactory certificates of its
than any hitherto known or in use of boring              being effectual, be delivered to the Society mi
and blasting rocks in mines, shafts, wells, &c. ;        or before the first Tuesday in March, 1805.
the gold medal, or thirty guineas.        Certijicate$       170.     CLEANSING CHIMNIES. To the per
of the method having been practised with suc              son who shall invent and produce to the So
cess, with a full description thereof, to be de           ciety the most effectual mechanical or other
livered to the Society on or before the first             means for cleansing chiiuuics from soot, and
Tuesday in January, 1805.                                obviating the necessity of children being em
    166.     HEATING ROOMS TOR THE PUR                    ployed within the flues ; the gold medal.
POSES OF MANUFACTURERS.               To the person          171.      For the next in merit ; the silver
who shall invent and discover to the Society a            medal.      The mechanical, or other means, with
method of heating rooms,           superior to any       certificate!    of their having been used with
hitherto known or in use, and at a moderate              proper effect, to be produced to the Society on
expense, for the purposes of painters, japhti-           or before the first Tuesday in January, 1805.
ners, and other manufacturers,        so as to avoid         172.     CHIMNIES CLEANSED.            To the per
the necessity of iron or copper tunnels going            son who shall during the year 1804 cleanse,
through the rooms, to convey the smoke,                  or cause to be cleansed,        tile greatest number
whereby the danger from such tunnels may be              of chimnies,       at least two stories high, not
prevented ; the gold medal, or forty guineas.            fewer than three hundred, by any mechanical
A model, or complete drawing and descrip                 or other process, which does not require the
tion of the method, with ce rtiftcatcs that it has       employment of boys within the flues ; the gold
been successfully    practised,   to be delivered to     medal. Certificates, signed by not less than
the Society on or before the last Tuesday in             two/thirds of those housekeepers             oil whose
March, 1805.                                             premises the said means have been employed,
   167.     IMPROVED VENTILATION.              To the    and an account of the process, to be produced
person who shall invent and produce to the So-           to the Society on or beiore the first Tuesday in
ciely a mode of permanently ventilating the              February, 1805.
apartments in hospitals, workhouses, and other               173.     To the person who shall cleanse, or
crowded places, superior to any now known                cause to be cleansed, the next greatest number
or used ; the gold medal, or fifty guineas.              of cuimmes, not fewer thau one hundred and
A model of the apparatus, and a full account             fifty, upon similar conditions to the above ; lh«
of the means by which the effect has been pro            silver medal.
duced, with proper certificates, to be delivered             174.     RAISING THE BODIES OP PERSONS
to the Society on or before the last Tuesday in          WHO HAVE SUNK UNDER WATER.                      To UlB
February, 1805.                                          person who shall invent and produce to die
• 168.       PREVENTING- ACCIDENTS               FROM    Society a cheap and portable drag, or other
HORSES        FALLING      WITH TWO-WHEELED              machine, superior to those now in use, for the
CARRIAGES.         To the person who shall invent        purpose of taking up in the best and most
and produce to the Society a method superior             expeditious manner, and with the least injury,
to any hitherto known       or iri use, to prevent       the bodies of persons who have sunk uuder
accidents from the falling of horses with two-           water; the gold medal, or thirty guineas.
wheeled carriages, especially on steep decli            The drag, or machine to answer the purpose
vities ; tlie silver medal, or fifteen guinea*. A        intended, to be produced to the Society, on or
model of the apparatus, and a full account of            before the first Tuesday in March, 1805.
the means by which the effect has been pro
duced, with proper certificates that the same
has been used with success, to be delivered to
                                                         PREMIUMS OFFERED FOR THE AD
the Society on or before the second Tuesday in               VANTAGE OF THE COMMERCE OF
January, 1805.
                                                             THE UNITED EMPIRE.
    169.    IMPROVING TURNPIKE AND OTHER                     175.     TAKING Ponpoisrs. To the people
ROADS. To the person who shall discover to               in any boat or vessel, who, in the year 180-1,
the Society the most effectual         and cheapest      shall take the greatest number of porpoises on
 method, verified by actual         experiments;     of  the coast of Cireat-Britain or Ireland, by gun,

112                             Premiums        iii Colonies and Trade.
har|x>on, or any other method, riot fewer than          or before      the    first   Tuesday in      December,
thirty, tui the purpose of extracting oil from          1805.
them;      the gold medal,  or thirty pounds.             181.       Ci.ovts. For import ing into Great
Certificates ot the number, signed by the per-          Britain     or Ireland, in the year 1304, tlie
Sous to whom they have been sold or delivered            greatest    quantity of cloves,            not less than
for the purpose of extracting the oil, to be             twenty pounds weight, being            oi' the growth of
produced to the Society on or before the last            some of the islands in the West Indies subject
Tuesday      January, 1805.
             in                                          to the British empire,         or any of the British
- 17"t>. On. FROM PORPOISF.S.       .To the per-         settlements on the coast of Atrica, or the scvc-
son who shall manufacture    the greatest quan-          ral islands adjacent thereto, and equal         in    good-
tity of oil from porpoises taken on the coast            ness to the cloves brought irom the East Indies;
•1 Great-Britain     or Ireland,           in
                                       the year          the gold medal, or fifty guineas.                Samples
1804, not less than twenty tons         the gold
                                            ;            not less than two pounds weight, with certiti-
medal, or thirty pounds.        Certificates   of the    cates that the whole quantity          is equal hi good-
oil having been made from porpoises actually             ness, together        with satisfactory        certificate!
caught on the coast of Great-Britain or Ireland,         signed   by  the governor, or commander in chief,
and two gallons of the oil as a sample, to be           of   the place of growth, with an account of the
produced to the Society on or before the last            number of trees growing on the spot, their age,
Tuesday in February, 1805.                               and the manner of culture, to be produced to
    177.   CURING HKRRINGS DY THE DUTCH                  the Society on or before the first Tuesday in Ja
METHOD. To the person or persons who shall,               nuary, 1805.
before January, 1805, cure the greatest quan-                18'J.   The same premium           is  extended     one
tity of white herrings,       not less than thirty       year farther.       Certificates to be produced          ou
barrels, according to the method practised by            or before the first Tuesday      in   January, 1806.
the Dutch, and equal in all respects           to the        183.    KALI FOR BARILLA. To the per-
best Dutch herrings,      the same being caught          son who shall have cultivated, in the Ba
in the British or Irish Seas, and cured          in a    hama Islands, or any other part of his Ma-
Britisb or Irish vessel or port the gold medal,
                                  ;                      jesty's dominions in" the West Indies, or any
or fifty guineas.                                        of the British settlements on the coast of
    178.   .For the next greatest quantity, not          Africa, or tile several islands adjacent thereto,
less than fifteen barrels   ; the silver medal, or        in tlie year 180,'i, the greatest quantity of laud,
twenty guineas.       A  sixteen-gallon     barrel of    not less than two acres, with Spanish kali, fit
the herrings to be produced to Ihe Society on or         lor the purpose of making barilla; the gold
before the first Tuesday in February, 1805,              medal, or thirty guineas,
with certijicates that the conditions of the pre-            184. For the next greatest qnanlity, not less
roiumhave been completely fulfilled, and that            than one acre the silver medal, or liltecn gui-
                                                                         ;
the whole were cured in the same manner as               neas.     Certijicates, signed    by    the governor, or
the specimen, together with a full description           commander in chief, lor the time being, of the
of the process employed, in order that the               quantity of land so cultivated, and of the rtate
Society may judge how far the Dutch method                of the plants at the time of signing such ccrti-
has been adopted.                                       Jicates, to be delivered to the Society, with
                           ^^                            samples of the kali, on or before the second
                                                         Tuesday in January, 1805.
PREMIUMS OFFERED FOR THE AD                                  185, 186. The same premiums are extended
 VANTAGE OF THE BRITISH COLO                             one year farther.                        to be produced
                                                                                  Certificate*
     NIES.                                               on or before the second Tuesday in Jan. 1806.
     179.    NUTMEGS.    For the greatest qnan-              187. DESTROYING TIM: INSECT COMMON r.v
tity   of   merchantablenutmegs,   not less than          CALLED THE BORER. To the person who shall
ten pounds weight, being the growth        of his        discover to the Society an effectual method of
Majesty's dominions in the West Indies, or               destroying the insect commonly called the
any of the British settlements on the coast of            borer, which has, of late years, been so dej
Africa, or the several Islands adjacent thereto,         structive to the sugar-canes in the West-India
and equal to those imported from the islands             islands, the British settlements on the coast of
of  the East Indies  the gold medal, or one
                      ;                                  Africa, and the several islands adjacent there
hundred guineas.       Satisfactory    certijicates,     to
                                                          ;     the gold medal, or fifty guineas.         Tlie dis
from the governor, or commander in chief,                covery to be ascertained by satisfactory cerfi/z-
of the place of growth, with an account of the           cates, under the hand and seal of tlie governor
number of trees, their age, nearly the quan-             or commander        in chief, for the time being, and
tity of fruit on each tree, and the mnnner of            of some other respectable persons, inhabitants
culture, to be produced on or before the first           of the islands, or other place, in which the
Tuesday in December, 1804.                               remedy has been successfully              applied; such
   180.   The same premium          extended
                                      is         one     certificates to be delivered to the Society on or
year farther.      CYrli/,cale«   to be produced ou      before the first Tuesday ui January, 1U05.

                                Conditions     for   the    Polite Arts.                                113
    188.   CULTIVATION op HEMP IN UPPER               ary, 1805, to testify that sueli hemp was grown
AND LOWER CANADA.             To the person who       and prepared in Canada.
shall sow with hemp the greatest quantity of              211, 212. The same premiums are extended
land in the province of Upper Canada, not less        one year farther.       Certijicatei to be produced
than six avpents (each four-fifths of a statute       on or before the first Tuesday in Feb. 1806.
acre), in the year 1804, and shall at the proper
season eause to be plucked the summer hemp
                                                      PREMIUMS OFFERED FOR THE AD
(or male hemp bearing no seed) and continue
the winter hemp (or female hemp bearing seed)             VANTAGE OF THE BRITISH SETTLE
on the ground until the seed is ripe ; the gold
                                                          MENTS IN THE EAST INDIES.
medal, or one hundred dollars.                            213. BIIACOCLPORE COTTON. To the per
    189. To the person who shall sow with hemp        son who shall import into the port of London,
the next greatest quantity of land in the same        in the year 1804, the greatest quantity, not les»
province of Upper Canada, not less than five          than one ton, of the Bhaugulpore cotton, from
arpents, in the year 1804, in the manner above-       which cloths are made in imitation of nankeen,
mentioned ; the silver medal, or eighty dollars.       without dying ; the gold medal. A quantity
    190. For the next greatest quantity of land,      of the cotton, not less than five pounds weight
in the same province, and in a similar manner,         in the pod, and five pounds carded, to be pro
not less than lour arpents ; sixty dollars.            duced   to the Society, with      proper certijicutct,
    191. Foi the next greatest quantity of land,       signed by the Secretary to the Board of Trade of
in the same province, and in a similar manner,         Bengal or Bombay, on or before the last Tues
not less than three arperits ; forty dollars.          day in February, 1805.
    192. For the next greatest quantity of land,           *14. The same premium i« extended one
in the same province, and in a similar manner,         year farther. Certijicatei to be produced on
not less than one arpent ; twenty dollars. Cer        or before the last Tuesday in February, 1806.
tijicatei of the number of arpents, the method             215. ASNATTO.        To the person who, in the
of culture, of the plucking of the hemp, with a       year 1804, shall import into the port of Lon
general account whether sown broad-cast        or in  don, from any part of the British settlements in
drills, the expense, soil, cultivation, and pro        the East Indies, the greatest quantity of annatto,
duce, to be transmitted to the Society, certified      not less than five hundred weight ; the gold
under the hand and seal of the governor or lieu        medal. A quantity of the annatto, not less
tenant-governor, together with 201b. of the than ten pounds weight, to be produced to the
hemp, and two quarts of the seed, on or before        Society, with proper certificate*, signed by the Se
the last Tuesday in November, 1805.                    cretary of the Board of Trade of the respective
    193. 194, 195, 196, 197.        The same pre       settlement, that the annatto is the produce of
miums are extended one year farther.          Certi- such settlement, on or before the last Tuesday
faatct, &c. as brfore mentioned, to be trans           in February, 1805.
mitted to the Society, on or before the last               216. The same premium is extended              one
Tuesday in November, 1806.                             year farther.    Certificates to be produced
                                                                                                        on or
    198 to 208. Premiums exactly similar in all        before the last Tuesday in February, 1806.
respects to those held out ior the province of             217. TRUECOCFIINEAI..         To the person who,
Upper Canada, are also oifcred for the province in the year 1804, shall import into the port of
of Lower Canada, and are extended to the London, from any part of the British settle
 lame period.                                          ments in the East Indies, the greatest quantity
    209. IMPORTATION oi> HEMP FROM CA                   of true cochineal, not less than five hundred
 NADA. To the master of tliat vessel, which weight ; the gold medal. A quantity of the
shall bring to this country the greatest quantity cochineal, not less than ten pounds weight,
 of marketable hemp, not less than one hundred          with proper certificates,     signed by the Secre
 tons, in the year i ;;o ! , the produce of Upper tary of the Board of Trade of the respective
or Lower Canada ; the gold medal.                      settlement, that the cochineal is the produce of
    210. To the master ot that vessel which shall      such settlement, to be produced to the Society
bring the next quantity, not less than filty tons ; on or before the first Tuesday in February,1805.
the silver medal.   Certificates satisfactory to the       218. The same premium is extended               one
Society to be produced by the master of the            year farther.    Certificates to be produced
                                                                                                         on or
vessel on or before the first Tuesday in Febru-         before the first Tuesday in February, 1806.
                             CONDITIONS       FOR THE POLITE ARTS.
    No   person who has gained the first premium in any class shall be admitted a candidate in a
 class of an interior age ; and no candidate shall receive more than one premium in one year ;
nor shall they, who for two successive years have gained the first premium in one class, be
 again admitted as candidates in that class.
     No person shall be admitted a candidate in any class, who has three times obtained the first
 premium in that class.
    No more than one performance in any class shall be received from the same candidate.
     VOL.  XIX.  No. 73.                              I

1 14                                      General Conditions.
                                                   bounties are adjudged) shall remain with the Society
     All performances    (to which premiums or
till  after the public distribution of rewards in May, when they
                                                                        will be re-delivered unless men-
tioned in the premiums to the contrary.
                                                                                   reward, or gratification,
     No performance shall be admitted, that has obtained a premium,
                                                                         that purpose.
from any other society, academy, or school, or been ottered for
                                                                                             after the pub
     All performances that obtain premiums in the Polite Arts must have been begun
lication of such premiums, except line engravings.
Arts, in every instance where such proot may appear necessary.
                                                             sienifv. on their drawings their age ; and
                                                renuired to signify,
     All candidates in the Polite Arts are required
whether the performances :s are <    originals or copies ; and if copies, whence they were taken.
                                                     SOCIETY'S OFFICE,     ADELPIII, JUKE      1st, 1801.
     ORDERED,
                          Tliat the several Candidates and Claimants, to whom the Society shall adjudge
Premium or Bounties, do attend at the Society's Office in the Adelpki, mi the last Tuesday in May,
1805, at Twelve o'clock at Noon precisely, to receive the same ; that day being appointed by the
                                                                              no Premium or Bounty willbe
Society for the Distribution of their Rewards : And before that time
delivered, excepting to those uho are about to leave the Kingdom.
     In Cases where the Society may think Jit to admit excuses for not attending in Person, Deputies
                                                                              either Members nfthe fiociety,
may be substituted to receive the Rewards, provided such Deputies are
or the superior Officers thereof,
                                      GENERAL          CONDITIONS.
     As the great object of the Society in rewarding individuals is to draw forth and give currency
to those inventions and improvements,          which are likely to benefit the public at large, candidates
 arc requested to observe, that if the meows, by which the respective objects are effected, do require
an expense or trouble too great for general purposes, the Society will not consider itself as bound
 to give the offered reward ; but, though it thus reserves the power of giving in all cases such part
only of any premium as the performance shall be adjudged to deserve, or of withholding the
 whole if there be no merit, yet the candidates may be assured the Society will always judge
 liberally of their several claims.
      It is required, that the matters for which premiums are offered, be delivered in without names,
 or any intimation to whom they belong ; that each particular thing b« marked in what manner
 each claimant thinks fit, such claimant sending with it a paper sealed up, having on the outside
 a corresponding mark, and on the inside, the claimant's name and address ; and all candidates
 are to take notice, that no claim for a premium will be attended lo, unless the conditions of tho
  advertisement    are fully complied with.
      No   papers  shall be opened, but such as shall gain premiums, unless where it appears to the
  Society absolutely necessary for the determination of the claim ; all the rest shall be returned
  unopened with the matters to which they belong, if inqpired after by the mark within two years.
      All models of machines, which obtain premiums or bounties, shall be the property of the So
  ciety ; and, where a premium or bounty is given for any machine, a perfect model thereof shall
  be given to the Society.
      All the premiums of this Society are designed for Great-Britain and Ireland, unless expressly
  mentioned to the contrary.
      The claims shall be determined as soon as possible after the delivery of the specimens.
      It is expected that all articles for claims or bounties be sent to the Society carriage paid.
      No person shall receive any premium, bounty, or encouragement,               from the Society for any
  matter for which he has obtained,         or purposes to obtain, a patent.
       A candidate for a premium, or a person applying for a bounty, being detected in any disinge
  nuous method to impose on the Society, shall forfeit such bounty, and be deemed incapable of
  obtaining any for the future. ,
       No member of this Society shall be a candidate for, or entitled to receive nny premium,
  Bounty, or reward, whatsoever, except the honorary mrdalof the Society. The candidates are,
  in all cases, expected to furuj&h a paiticular account of the subject of their claims ; and where
   certificates are required to be produced in claioi of premiums,           they should be expressed, as
   nearly as possible, in the words of the respective advertisements,         and be signed by persons who
   )iave a positive knowledge of the facts stated.
       Where premiums or bounties arc obtained in consequence of specimens produced, the Society

                                      Rewards awarded.                                              115
mean to retain such part of those specimens as they may judge necessary, making a reasonable
allowance for the same.
   No candidates shall be present at any meetings of the Society or committees, or admitted at
the Society's rooms, alter they have delivered in their claims, until such claims arc adjudged,
unless summoned by the committee.
    N. B. The Society farther invite the communications     of scientific and practical men upon any
of   the subjects  for which premiums     arc offered, although their experiments     may have been
 conducted upon a smaller scale than the terms of each require, as they may afford ground for
 more extensive application, and thus materially forward the views of the Society, and contribute
 to the advantage of the public.      Such communications    to be made by letter, addressed to the
 Society, and directed to Mr. CHARLES TAYLOR, the Secretary, ut the Society of Arti, Addphi,
 London.
    The models required by the Society should be upon the scale of one inch to a foot.           Th»
 Winchester bushel is the measure referred to for grain; and, as the acres of different districts
 vary in extent, it is necessary to observe, ; hat the Society mean Statute Acres of five and a
 half yards to the rod or pole, when acres are meotioned in their list of premiums ; and they request
 that all communications    to them may be made agreeably thereto.
    The Society desire that the Papers mi different subjects sent to themmay lie full, clear, explicit,
Jtt for publication, and rather in the form of Essays than of Letters ; and. where descriptive Draw
 ings can be conveniently sent, with the Models and Machines laid before the Society, is u recom
mended to be done.
   Presents to the Society nf Jloolts for their Library will be thankfully received.
   %* To persons inclined to leave a sum of money to this Society by will, the following form
ij offered for that purpose.
   Item.    I give and bequeath to A. B. and C. D. the sum of                              upon
condition, and to the intent that they, or one of them, do pay the same to the Collector for the
time being, of a Society in London, who now call themselves the Society for the Encourage
ment of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce; which said sum of
I  will and desire may be paid out of my personal estate, and applied towards the carrying on
the laudable designs of the Society.                    By Order of the Society.
                                                                 CHARLES       TAYLOR,      Secretary.
    N. B. The Society for the Encouragement of Arts, <Jc. considering that it would be beneficial to
ihe Commerce of the United Kingdom, to bring the British Marbles into more general use, and
 (iiat the most
                effectual method ofaccomplishing their object, would be, for the present, to .•„.//;••
                                                                                                     tin in
 more generally known in the capital, have come to the following resolutions —  :
    Resolved, — That specimens of Brit ish Marbles be expot-ed         inthe Society's Rooms at the
 Adelphi for the inspection of the Public, under the following regulations       :
     1st, That all specimens be exact to a given size, viz. eight niches high, six inches broad, one
 inch thick, and polished on one face.
     id, That a book be kept containing the number of each specimen, and describing the situa
 tion of the quarry, the name of Ihe parish where situated, the distance of the quarry from a
 beaten road, and the distance of that »oad from wSter-carriage,        with the name of the donor
 and proprietor.     Any remarks on the qualities of the marbles, or on the lime produced from
 them, will be gratefully received and preserved by the Society, as materials for future inquiries.
     Resolved,— That as the exertions of the Society can only be beneficial to the public, inas
 much as their views are seconded by the public, the Society request, that all persons proprietors
 ef marble quarries will favour them with specimen of the marble, worked to the exact size
                                                a
 above mentioned, wii the description of the quarry as above, that the same may be entered in
                        h
 the book to be preserved for the use of the public.
       Society    of  Arts, Manufactures, and                       Commerce,            Adelphi.
 f\y Tuesday     the 29th May, 1804, the Rewards of the Society were, as usual, distributed by
 ^-^ his
         Grace the Duke of Norfolk, arranged       under the following classes    and on Wednes
                                                                                     ;
 day the <Sthof June the Society held the last Meeting of that Session, and adjourned to the fourth
 Wednesday in October next.
                IN AGRICULTURE.           -               ToJ.   A. Borron, Esq. Warrington, for plant-
    To J.  C. Curwen, Esq. M.P. of Belle-isle,         ing 600,000 osiers, class 14, the gold medal.
 Winandermere, for planting 81-1,956 timber-              To Thomas Plowman, Esq. Broome, in Nor-
 trees, class 23, the gold medal.                      folk, for an improved sheepfold, the gold medal.

 1 16                                   Rewards      awarded.
   To J. C. Curwen, Esq. M.P. Belle-isle, Wi-           To Mr. Richard Austin, jun. Paul's-alley,
nandermere,     for drains extending   6000 yards,   Barbican, the greater silver pallet.
the gold medal.                                         To Mr. J. Carey, the gold medal.
   To Mr. William Watson, North Middleton,              To Mr. J. S. Halipenny,Statford-place, Pim-
near Belford, Northumberland, lor the compa          lico, the greater silver pallet.
rative culture of turnips, the silver medal.            To Mr. H. D.Thielcke, Stafford-place, Pim-
   To John Hutton, Esq. Marske, near Rich            lico, the lesser silver pallet.
mond, Yorkshire, for planting 19 acres with
forest-trees, the silver medal.                                   IN MANUFACTURES.
   To Mr. William Pearce, Landewednack,                 To Mr. James Birch, Tavistock-Mews,             Ta-
near Helston, Cornwall,         for unremitted   in  vistock-street,   Tottenhain-court-road,       for an
dustry, the silver medal and 15 guineas.              improved swivel-loom, 2.5 guineas.
   To Mr. John Shin'erf, Captain-Head, for pre          To Mr. James Pickard, Skinner-street,           Bi-
serving turnips in winter, class 51, thirty gui      shnnsgate-street,    for an improved engine-loom,
neas.                                                £0 guuieas.
                IN CHEMISTRY.                                        IN MECHANICS.
   To Sir H. Englefield, Bart.Tilney-street,    for
                                                        Tb the Rev. D. Pape, Pcnn, near Wolver
lake from madder, the gold medal.
                                                     hampton, for improving Rye Harbour, the gold
   To Dr. William Dyce, Aberdeen, for a mine         medal.
of manganese, the gold medal.                           To Capt. Brodie, Royal Navy, Leith, for ma
   To Mr. Matthew Gregson, Liverpool, for            rine improvements, the gold medal.
useful applications of burnt articles, the gold         To Mr. R. Seppins, Chatham-yard, for ob
medal.
                                                     viating the necessity of lilting ships, the gold
   To J. Machlachlan, Esq. Calcutta, for ac          medal.
counts of the Eastern red dyes, and mineral
                                                        To Mr. George Walbv, Gnswell-street, for a
products, the silver medal.                          hammer for making trowels, the silver medal
              IN POLITE ARTS.                        and 40 guineas.
   To Miss Elizabeth Penman, Glasgow,           the     To Mr. George Dodd, Duke-street, Portland-
gold medal.                                          place, for an improved gun-lock, the silver
   To Miss Elizabeth Crutwell, Hammersmith,          medal and 10 guineas.
the silver medal.                                       To Mr. James Rawlinson, Derby, for an im
   To Miss Harriet Gough, Pontatawee Cottage,        proved colour-iuill, the silver medal and 10
near Neath, Glamorganshire, the silver medal.        guineas.
   To MissGrihdall, Lower Brook-street, Gros-           To the Chevalier Edelcrantz, of Sweden, for
venor-sqnare,     the silver medal.                  a safety valve fox steam-engines,          the silver
   To Miss Sophia Charlotte Day, Lower Bry-           medal.
anstone-street,Port   man-square, the silver medal.     To Mr.    J. M. Elliot, Little  Castle-street,   for
   To Miss Spurgeon, Lowestoft, Suffolk, the         an improve*!    repealing watch, 30 guineas.
silver medal.                                           To Mr. W. Hardy,           Chapel-street, for »
   To Miss Andrec,      Hatton-Garden, the silver    method of banking the balance of a time-keeper,
medal.                                               SO guineas.
   To John Churchman, Esq. the silver medal.            To Mr. Thomas Holden, of Pctworth, in
   To Miss Matilda Lowry, Tirchficid-slreet,         Sussex, for a machine     to do all the thread-work
the gold pallet.                                     in shoeuiaking    standing,  15 guineas.
   To Mr. George Shepherd, RatclilTu-row,
City-road, the greater silver pallet.
                                                             IN COLONIES         AND TRADE.
   To Mr. Henry Corbould, John-streel, Fitz-            To J. W. Claike, Esq. Montreal, for the cul
roy-square,    the gold pallet.                      ture of hemp, the gold medal.
   To Mr. W. Heseltinc, Bromley, near Bow,              To Mr. Jacob Schneider, York, Upper Ca
the greater silver pallet.                           nada, for the culture of hemp, class 188, the
   To Mr. G. Jones, Great Portland-sfrect,           gold medal, or 100 dollnrs.
the les'er silver pellet.                               To Mr. Daniel Mother, Kingston, Upper
   To Mr. Middiman, Lower Grafton-street, the        Canada, for the culture of hemp, class 189, the
gold medal.                                          silver medal, or 80 dollars.
   To Mr. Henry      Hole,   Liverpool,   the  gold     To Walter Baine, Esq. Greenock, for
                                                                                                     curing
pallet.                                              white herrings, the silver medal.
   Tlie Xumber of Noblemen, Ladies,      and Gentlemen, elected Members since October last, is 115.

                                 t  117    i
 AX. Extract from           a Memoir on Platina, by FoURCROT
                           and VAUQUELIN*.
   WE     shall not follow the authors of this memoir in alt the
  details of their experiments, because they are too numerous;
 and as it would be impossible to give a clear account of
 them in    a short extract, we shall attend only to the most
 interesting points> and those which exhibit new results.
     To ascertain the influence which the foreign substances
 that accompany platina in its ore have in operations on a
 grand scale with this metal, the authors first separated and
 then carefully examined them. It results from this first
 labour, that the sand of platina contains iron, copper, tita
 nium, chrome and silox, forming together different combi
 nations, the state and manner of which the authors have
 explained from analogies known in the mineral kingdom.
    They then treated platina thus freed from foreign bodies
 with nitro -muriatic acid, in order to obtain it in solution ;
 but they observed, as Mr. Proust and several other chemists
 did, that there remained a small quantity of black pow
 der, formed by brilliant laminae, soft to the touch} which
 blackened paper like plumbago, and on which the nitro-
 muriatic acid had scarcely any action.
    This black matter having particularly engaged their atten
 tion, they subjected it to a great number of experiments
 after they had obtained a sufficient quantity of it : as acids
 could be of no use to them in the examination of this sub
stance, to make known its nature, they employed alkalies.
 Four parts of caustic potash, and one part of the black
 powder, were fused and calcined together in a platina cru*
cible for an hour : the mass, which had then a very rich
green colour, was diluted in water, to which it communi
cated the same tint.
    When the green liquor was separated, and the residuum,
Which was also green, had been washed, they saturated the
excess of alkali which the liquor contained, and exposed it
to heat.     By these means the green matter was separated
under the form of flakes, and the liquor retained only a
reddish yellow colour.         The green flakes were united to the
residuum not dissolved by the potash, and the yellow liquor
was subjected to different tests, by the help of which they
found that it contained chromic acid.
    The residuum treated with concentrated muriatic acid was
                •''•
                    From the Annala dt Chimir, No. 143.
Vol.   19-  No.    74- July  1804.      K                        in

  118                     Memoir  OH Platina.
  in a   great measure dissolved, and gave a liquor of a beau
  tiful  green colour; but there still remained a portion of the
  black powder which had not been attacked by the potash,
  and on which the muriatic acid had exercised no action.
  On    repeating this operation several times in succession with
  potash and muriatic acid, they decomposed it entirely, and
  obtained the whole chromic acid in the alkali, and the green
  matter in the acid.
      It was then necessary to examine the green matter dis
  solved in the muriatic acid.      For this purpose the authors
  began by evaporating the solution, in order to separate the
  excess of acid; but they were much surprised to find, at the
  moment when the liquor entered into ebullition, that its
 green colour was changed into a beautiful red.        When the
 greater part of the superabundant acid was volatilized, they
 tried the rest by the following means.
      1st, Alkalies precipitated from it a brownish red matter.
  2d,   A   small piece of the sulphate of iron made it immedi
 ately    lose  its red colour, and gave it a green tint, which
 in trie course of time acquired more intensity.        3d, Prus-
 siate of potash formed in it a green precipitate, which be
 came blueish in the air.       4th, Infusion of gall nuts pro
 duced a blackish brown precipitate.          5th, A solution of
 muriate of ammonia did not form a precipitate, as it does
 in a solution of platina. 6th, A solution of tin put into
this solution, diluted with water, did not become red like
 solution of platina mixed with the same re-agent. 7th,
This liquor mixed with a solution of pure platina, which
was precipitated yellow by sal-ammoniac, gave it the pro
perty of being precipitated of a very dark red colour by the
 same salt.
     This last     experiment made Fourcroy and Vauquelin
suspect that thia might be the same substance which causes
that diversity of colour which the precipitates of platina
formed by sal-ammoniac assume ; and this opinion they
placed beyond all doubt by processes which we shall here
mention.        Hitherto every thing announced to them, that
the black powder \vhich remains after the solution of the
platina contained together with chrome a new metal ; but
to be convinced of this fact it was necessary to obtain it se
parately, and in the metallic state.
     For this purpose, as the above trials had indicated to them
the presence also of a small quantity of iron, they evapo
rated to dryness the muriatic solution before mentioned,
and then treated the residuum with alcohol : the latter dis
solved the muriate of iron, and left a red powder in which
                                                              the.

                       Memoir  ton Plalind.                  1 1y
the most scrupulous researches were not able to discover the
least trace  of  that metal.
    The residuum when calcined in a platina crucible exhaled
at first vapours of muriatic acid, and then a substance which
gave a blue colour to the flame of charcoal : at last there
remained a black powder, which was not attacked by acids.
They then subjected this black powder, covered with borax,
to the aqtion of a strong fire for an hour, and obtained a
white metal, in part fused, brittle, and of which a part was
still inclosed in the borax; To separate the whole of this
metal from the borax they reduced it to powder, and washed
it till the separation was complete.
   This metal, when thus purified, does not dissolve in any
 simple acid. It combines with the nitro-muriatic acid, and
gives it a very dark red colour.     This solution takes place
with more difficulty than that of pure platina, and requires
more acid. It loses its colour by sulphate of iron : with
prussiatc of potash it gives a brown precipitate^ which be
comes green in the air: it communicates to a solution of
pure platina the property of precipitating it of A very dark
 red colour by sal-ammoniac.
    Such are the properties which Fourcroy and Vauquelin
 found in this metal, and which they are inclined to think
 do not belong to any of those hitherto known.
    We shall now give, in a few words, an account of some
of those experiments which they made on the different kinds
 of triple salts formed by solutions of platina and sal-ammo
niac, to ascertain the cause of their various shades.
    If a solution of crude platina in nitro-muriatic acid be
twice precipitated by sal-ammoniac, it almost always hap*
pens that the second precipitate is of a very dark red colour,
while the former is of a pale yellow or orange colour, and
the mother-waters of these two precipitates, when evapo
rated, furnish more red.
    If the yellow precipitate, when washed, be reduced to
the metallic state by a sufficient heat, it does not dissolve
speedily and in large quantity in the nitro-muriatic       acfd
without leaving a sensible residuum : on the other hand,
the red precipitate,   when treated in the same manner, dis
solves with more difficulty and in less quantity in the nitro-
muriatic acid, and always leaves a black powder, more or
less absorbent, which, when washed and exposed to a strong
heat, is redueed to a metal having a perfect resemblance to
that which they discovered in the residuum of crude pla
tina dissolved in aqua regia.       The whole of this metal,
however, is not separated by the aqua regia of the platina,
                              K 2                       arising

1 CO                        0« Animal Cotlori,
arising from the red salt ; for the new solution which thenca
results is still precipitated red, though less intense : so that,
if these operations were repeated several tiroes on the same
platina, it would at length be freed from this foreign metal.
The authors found also another method of separating this
metal from platina : it consists in dissolving the red salt
in boiling water, and mixing with             it,
                                                as soon as       disit   is
solved, caustic potash.        The liquor then becomes turbid,
and there are formed in         green flakes, which when washed
                                 it
and heated give the metal again. The pale yellow precipi
tate of platina, treated in the same manner, presented no
thing of the same kind.
  It   isthen proved        by
                            their experiments, that there exists
in crude platina       new metal which communicates to the
                       a
triple salts of platina the red colour which          almost always
                                                         is
peculiar to them. As this metal          islittle susceptible of              al
teration     by
              the agents employed to purify platina on          largea
scale, the authors suspected that traces of             more or less
                                                          it
abundant ought still to be found in it; and this suspicion
was confirmed by experience.
   They found       it     in
                           platina purified         by
                                                   C. Janncty and
Necker Saussure in almost as great quantity as in crude
platina; which induced them to say that in all probability
they had not yet met with this metal in               slate perfectly
                                                         a
pure.
    C. Vauquclin and Fourcroy terminate their memoir                          by
recapitulating briefly the different results to which they were
conducted, and          saying that they suspect that the new
                       by
metal existing in platina enters conjointly with the latter
into the composition of the palladium announced                  Mr.     by
 Chencvix.
    They promise to continue their labour, and to procure                      a
 greater quantity of the new metal for the purpose of sub
jecting      to new experiments, that they may make them
            it
 selves belter acquainted with ils properties, and particularly
 to discover means more proper for purifying platina than
 those hitherto known.
XXI.        On Animal Cotton, and the Insect which produces it.
                 By M. Bacdky des Lozieres.
Oome   successful experiments   have been made       America   in
and the West Indies, to preserve and increase the insect
known there      the name of fly -carrier, which produces an
                  by
                                                                     animal

                   and the 'Insect which produces it.               121
arfimal      cotton in many respects superior to vegetable cotton.
An intelligent member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, M. Baudry des Lozicres, has drawn up an interesting
memoir on this cotton, and the insect which produces it.
   " Every inhabitant of the West Indies," says this gen
tleman, " knows and dreads the greedy worm which de
vours their indigo and cassada plantations; it is called hv
sonic the cassada worm ; by others, the fly-carrier ; and is
produced, like the silk-worm, from eg«;s scattered by the
mother after her metamorphosis into a whitish butterfly.
The egg is hatched about the end of July, when the animal
is decked with a robe of the most brilliant and variegated
colours.    In the month of August, when about to undergo
its metamorphosis, it strips oil its superb robe and puts on
one of a beautiful sea green, wjiich reflects all its various
shades according to the different undulations of the animal,
and the different accidents of light.    This new decoration
is the signal for its tortures.  Immediately a swarm of ich
neumon rlies assail       and drive their slings into the skin
                         it,
of thetr victim over the whole extent of its back and sides,
at the same time slipping their eggs into the bottom of the
\Vounds       that they have made.
     "   Having performed this dreadful operation, the flies dis
appear,   and the patient remains for an hour in     motionless
                                                        a
state,  out of  which    awakens to feed with great voracity.
                          it
Then his size daily increases till the time of his hatching of
the ichneumon flies.      The eggs deposited are hatched at
the same moment, and the cassada         instantly covered with
                                              is
a  thousand little worms.     They issue out of him at every
pore,   and  that animated  robe  covers him so entirely, that
nothing can be perceived but the top of his head.     As soon
as'the worms are hatched, and without quitting the spot
where the eggs are which they have broken through, they
yield    aliquid gum, which,             by
                                    coming into contact with
the air,      rendered slimy and solid.
              is                           Each of these ani-
malcula works himself        small cocoon, in the shape of an
                                a
egsr,     which he wraps himself, thus making, as
         in                                              were,
                                                            it
Ilia own winding-sheet.      They seem to be bora but to die.
These millions of cocoons, all close to each other, and the
formation of whioh has not taken two hours, form         white  a
robe, and in this the cassada worm appears elegantly clothed.
While they are thus decking him, he remains in stale of     a
almost lethargic torpidity.
    " As soon as the covering woven, and the little work
                                     is
men, who have made             it,
                           have retired and hidden themselves
jn  their cells, the worm endeavours to rid himself of his
                                     K
                                     3                          guests,

129                On ihe Basaltes    of Saxony ,
guesU, and of the robe which contains them.            He comes
out of the inclosure deprived of all his former beauty, in a
state of decrepitude, exhausted, and threatened with ap
proaching death.      He shortly passes to the state of a chry
salis ; and, after giving life to thousands of eggs, suddenly
loses his own, leaving to the cultivator an advantage which
may be so improved, as to# more than compensate the ra
vages which he occasions.          In about eight days, the little
worms contained in the cocoons are metamorphosed into
flies, having four wings,      Their antennae are. long and vi
brating ; some have a tail, others do not show it ; they feed
upon small insects of the family of acarus, and evidently
belong to the ichneumon tribe.
     <f The cotton-shell   or wrapper is of a dazzling white,
 and as soon as the flics have quitted the cocoon it may be
used without any preparatory precaution 5 it is made up of
 the purest and finest cotton; there is no refuse, no inferior
 quality in it j every part is as fine and beautiful as can be
 imagined."
     M. D. Lozieres, the author of this memoir, urges the
 Americans to preserve and endeavour to increase the fly-
 carrier, in the same manner and for similar purposes that
 the breed of the silkworm is encouraged.         He declares that
 he has frequently seen so abundant a .harvest of the animal
 cotton, that in the space of two hours he could collect the
 quantity of one hundred pints, French measure. Moreover,
 animal cotton is attended with none of the difficulties which
 occur in the preparation of vegetable cotton, and it requires
 less time apd less trouble to procure it ; and there seems to
 him no doubt that if will stand the competition with silk
 and with vegetable cotton : these, when applied to wounds,
 serve only to inflame arid envenom ; but the animal cotton,
 may be used as lint, without the smallest inconvenience.
 XXII.      Report made to the Class of the Physical and Ma
     thematical Sciences, ly C. Ramond, of a Memoir of
     C. Daubuigson on the Basaltes of Saxony.
                        [Concluded from  p. 66]
  J.  he author, supported by this series of observations, pro-r
 cceds to the considerations which they suggest, and which
  appear to him proper for establishing the aqueous origin of
 ba-ialles.    Such is the object of the third chapter. The
 following chapter     is destined    to strengthen this first con
                                                            clusion

                   On the Basalles   of Saxony.               123
elusion with every thing that can tend to prove that this
kind of rock cannot have a volcanic origin.         The author's
proofs may be reduced to the following three principal
classes: 1st, Position ; 3d, Connection j 3d, Structure and
Composition of the Basaltes.
   If it be considered then in regard to position, we shall
observe, with the author, that it is never found but on sum
mits ; that it covers all the mineral substances of which these
mountains are composed, and that it is never covered by
them ; that always similar to itself, whether it rests on gra
nite, gneiss, micaceous schist or porphyry, or whether it
extends over grcs, gravel, sand, and argil, it never partici
pates in the nature of the soil which supports it.         These
data conduct to very simple results : the basaltes of Saxony
has been the product of a special labour altogether distinct
from that which produced the subjacent strata. This labour
has been posterior to the formation of primitive rocks ; it ia
even very recent, since transported earth is among the num
ber of the substances by which basaltes is supported.
   But what is the agent to which we are indebted for this
new production?        It fire be admitted, it will be necessary
to indicate also the focu« where the matters were fused ; the
mouths by which they were thrown up ; the route they pur
sued to arrive at these summits, which command the coun
try to a great distance around. In this hypothesis the whole
will be reduced to either the one or the other of the follow
ing suppositions : — Each basaltic crown must be considered
as the production of a local eruption, or all these masses
must be the fragments of an immense stream which for-
tnerly covered the whole region.
   According to the first system, every basaltic mountain
must have been a volcano; ,but who does not know that a
vojcanic mountain is a confused accumulation of blocks,
fragments, rapilli, pumice stones and scoriae, intermixed
with torrentK of lava ? Here nothing of this disorder is seen :
rocks solidly deposited, and regularly placed one upon the
other, have retained the situation given them by the water
which formed them.         Before an eruption, prepared in the
interior of mountains, could charge their summits with the
basaltes added to them, it would be necessary that it should
form a passage in the axis of the mountain ; that is to say,
in the line of the greatest resistance : and where are the traces
and aperture of this chimney, which, according to the sim
plest laws of mechanics, must be classed among the number
of gratuitous suppositions?       For six hundred years these
piountains have been pierced, and their interior parts have
                                K 4                         been

1 24              On the Basaltes   of Saxony,
been examined : every where the mountain is sound, ita
rocks are entire, and geologists are obliged to look for those
pretended volcanic abysses, which interrupt as little the gal-.
Jery of the miner as the vein for which he searches, in a few
small superficial cavities which may have been formed by
the hand of man, or by the least accident.
   The second system will not be more fortunate. It will
be readily admitted that the valleys by which the chain is
traversed are posterior to its formation ; that the strata now
divided by these hollows were formerly continued ; that the
basaltes now accumulated on these summits formed an un
interrupted covering 'along the ridge, of which these strata
are the remains.      Hut in that case, whence did this enor--
mous stream of fused matters proceed ? At what distance
are we to search for the volcanic region whence it issued ?
How can we conceive that the paste-like fluidity of the lava
 should yield to the length of the passage, and to ;-o many
 surfaces of a different level, and that a deluge of fire should
have overwhelmed such an extent of ground without cal
 cining the calcareous matters, without baking the argilla
 ceous, consuming the coals, filling up the places where
it originated, and interspersing those where it passed with
scoriae,   pumice stones, and ashes?
   On this point the author derives great advantage from the
thick stratum of coal on which the masses of the mount
Meissner, in Hesse, arc deposited.     He observed this fact
after the celebrated Werner. Like him, he asserts that it is
impossible to distinguish the least traces of alteration in this
accumulation of combustibles, which in general is sepa
rated from the basaltes only by a thin stratum of argil, and
uhich very often is absolutely contiguous to it. But this
is not all : in other places the basaltes is found alternately
with the coals.    This phcenomenon has been observed in
Bohemia, the Fcroe isles, the isle of Mull, at Borrows-
 townness, in the mountains of Bathgate. Will it be said
that the basaltes thus inserted between strata of combustible
matters has been currents of fused stones J      By what fire
were these stones liquefied, if it spared in the centre of it
crystals more fusible than itself; if it sported in the midst
of bitumen without dissipating it in flames and in smoke :
in a word, if Jt respected every thing except these stones
themselves ?
   On the other hand, if we restore to the water that part
of its domain which has been taken from      it,
                                            all these diffi
culties will vanish.   The basaltes of Saxony consists of
strata regularly placed above each other, and formed by
                                                         water.

                   On the Basalt   es   of Saxony.              125
water. The basaltcs of Bohemia, Scotland, &c. are strata
regularly inserted between strata which have no other ori
gin. Why should we separate operations which are inse
parable, and seek for forced explanations to facts which,
may be explained in so natural a manner ? If it be admitted
that the basaltes of Saxony is the work of water, nothing is
more simple than what took place on that occasion. The
mass of this chain was formed when the aqueous solution
which inundated the country covered the old sediment with
a stratum of basaltes.    This stratum was at first continued
like the banks and masses, which served it as a support ;
but being exposed to the erosion of currents and the de
structive action of the weather, it yielded to the iirst of all
 the causes of degradation : it is at its expense that the first
valleys have been duff out, and what remains on the sum
mits is nothing but the last fragments.
    Such is the first point of view under which the present
question may be considered; and it must be allowed that,
adopting the common laws of nature, the partisans of the
 latter opinion will not throw the whole onus probandi on
 those who propose exceptions.        But this first advantage
would become illusory, if it should be contradicted by a
 more minute examination of those masses which hitherto
 we have considered only under their more general aspect,
 and if we should discover some circumstances respecting
 the existence of basaltes easier to be explained by igneous
 than by aqueous fluidity.
     The second object of consideration which occurs to us in
 the order we have adopted, is that of the connection of the
 basaltes.   Though this substance seems to have been pro
 duced by   the special and distinct labour of nature, it is not
 the only result.    If we examine its position, it will be seen
 placed alternately with coals, and it is well known that it
has been seen also alternately with shell stones. These suc
 cessions are accidental in the formation.      Coals and shell
 titones belong in part to its epoch without belonging to it
 self, and their presence indicates only the intermission of
 the cause which produced, in turn, these intercalated strata.
 But there exist two kinds of stones which are almost al
 ways associated with basaltes, which have the greatest ana
 logy to it,  which seem to be products of the same cause,
 and whose existence    isso intimately connected with    it,that
  no decision can be formed in regard to its origin till an opi
  nion has been formed   in regard to the rest   these rocks are
                                                     :
  tuacke and gnmstein.
                Germans call wacke         sort of stone which
               e                          is
                                          a
                                                           holds

    126              On tlte Basaltes of Saxony.
   holds a mean place between argil and basaltes.       Like tlift
   latter, it often contains crystals  of  hornblend, but  never
  olivin or augite ; and always black hexagonal mica, which
  is rarely found in basaltes, and which serve to distinguish
  these two rocktt when they approach so near to each other
  as to be confounded. Wacke often forms strata below those
  of basaltes.
      Grunstein,   on the other hand, generally covers basaltes.
  It  is composed of feldspar and hornblend in distinct grains.
  It is the wldnstone of the English, and the aranitella of the
  French mineralogists.      A comparative analysis of basaltes
  from Staffa, and" whinstone from Salisbury, gave to Dr.
  Kennedy the same results with a precision worthy of re
  mark ; and it is proved, by the experiments of Sir James
  Hall, that these two rocks liquefy in the same manner, fur
  nish by sudden cooling the same kind of glass, and by slow
  cooling the same stony substance.
      If basaltes covered by grunstcin be accurately observed,
  grains of feldspar appear between grains of amphibolite,
  and the rock at length assumes the granitoid texture.        It
  was in the Meissner of Hesse that C. Daubuisson observed
  the most beautiful examples of this transition. He collected,
  he says, a series of specimens which in regard to the size
  of the grain present a decreasing progression from ihe most
  beautiful grunstein to the best -characterized compact ba
  saltes.   And that it might not be objected that these speci
  mens did not -belong to the same mass, he chose some in
 •which the granulated parl was in the middle of the compact
 part, and in which they were seen, as it were, to blend into
 each other.      We shall here remark, that the observation in
 t|iicstion is exactly the same as that made by Desmarcts and
 Dolomieu on certain kinds of basaltes which they have ex
 cluded from the number of volcanic productions.
     On the other hand, if we consider the wacke on which
 basaltes rests, it will be seen to degenerate below into argil
 and then into grave), while above it gradually assumes the
 colour, the texture, and solidity of basaltes.    C. Daubuis
 son has seen prisms of basaltes very hard and very compact
 in its upper extremity, become tender and argillaceous at
 its lower.     Dr. Reuss found in Bohemia basaltes the pris-
'matic division of which was propagated in the wacke and
 the argil, which served it as a support.      And before these
 observers, so long as fifteen years ago, the celebrated Wer
 ner, speaking of the Scheibcnbcrg, said : — " I have seen,
 by a progressive series of shades, the most perfect transi
 tion of argil into wacke, and of the latter into basaltes.
                                                          These

                   On the Basaltes    of Saxony,                127
These three substances are the product of the same forma
tion ; that is to say, of the precipitation or sediment of the
same solution, which becoming more and more tranquil
has deposited argil, then wacke, and, in the last place,
basaltes."
    The partisans of the volcanic nature of the basaltes of
Saxony have considered wacke sometimes as the production
of muddy eruptions, and sometimes as the result of the de
composition of basaltes itself.         If the observations here re
lated were accurately made,            these two suppositions are
equally inadmissible.         Wacke, which passes by insensible
gradations to the state of basaltes, cannot be the result of
muddy eruptions, if basaltes itself be not so.           Nor is this
wacke decomposed basaltes, for it contains neither the pe
 ridot nor the pyroxene of the latter ; but, on the other hand,
 contains mica, of which the other is entirely destitute.         In
 this supposition, founded on the gradual passage of basaltes
 to wacke, it would be necessary to draw the same induc
 tions from the transition of wacke to argil, and from argil
 to the gravel which supports it.         But who will believe that
 basdtes destitute of mica can be reduced by decomposition
 to wacke, which is filled with it ; thence into argil, more
 and more sandy ; and then into quartzy gravel, which did
 not exist in one of these substances more than the other ?
     But if we ascend from basaltes to the grunstein by which
 it is covered, what will become of all the explanations bor
 rowed from the direct or indirect action of fire ? This grun
 stein so entire, this granitella composed of grains of feld
 spar and amphibolite, endowed with all their splendour and
 freshness, which the least exposure to fire tarnishes, which
 a longer continued heat reduces to glass, and which more
  careful cooling reduces to a stony state where these ele
 ments are confounded never to be again separated. — can it
 be any thing else than the produce of water formed in the
  same manner as all other analogous rocks ; and particularly
  as primitive grunstein, the origin of which is doubted          by
  no one?       Shall we suppose that it proceeds from basaltes
  itself, first thrown up by a volcano, then dissolved by the
  •water,  and ajrain deposited ?
     It must    therefore be allowed that simplicity is on the side
  of those who admit here only the effect of water.         Accord
  ing  to these,   grunstein,  basaltes,  and  wacke, with  the argil
  and gravel on which they rest, are only sediments belong
  ing tq the same epoch, and constituting the different parts
  of the   same system of coordinate rocks. The sea then con
  tained all the elements, some of them suspended and others
                                                           dissolved,

r28                  On the 'Basaltes of Saxony.
dissolved. It first deposited tlic coarsest under the form of
argil and vvacke, and, chemical precipitations succeeding to
mechanical processes, in proportion as the waters became
purified they then furnished basaltes and grnnstein accord
ing as the crystallization, more or less turbid or tranquil,
confounded or separated the hornblend and feldspar of
which they were constituted.
   But when we confess that this explanation is in many
respects more natural, we must admit also that under other
points of view there are difficulties : that this new labour
of the seas, altogether distinct and detached from the pre
ceding operations, supposes either the return of the waters
which covered the globe, or strange changes in the proper
ties of those by which it was still covered ; that it is very
singular to see these waters suddenly resume the dissolving
power, which they had long lost, to cover the primitive ana
secondary mountains, and even the strata of alluvion, with
new deposits, which represent in an inverse order those
which they had before formed ; to abandon first the coarse-
est matters, to finish by crystalline sediments, and the least
soluble to crystallize the last; that one can hardly conceive
how this solution, which covered very high mountains, and
which consequently inundated a great part of the globe,
should not leave more monuments of its existence; and
how so great causes, acting so generally and at periods so
modern, should produce only some thin deposits separated
by intervals so vast.
   It is, however, from the analogy which exists between
the basaltes scattered throughout countries very remote from
each other, that C. Daubuisson derives one of his most spe
cious arguments in favour of its aqueous origin ; and it is
here that we shall enter into an exposition of this order of
proofs, on which he founds the composition and structure
of this kind of stone.
   If we compare, says he, the basaltes from Sweden,
Hesse, and Saxony; of Bohemia and Hungary; of Italy,
d'Auvergnc, and the island of Reunion ; the same prismatic
division, the same colour, fracture, and weight, will be
found in them all. The foreign substances they contain arc
always aniphibolite, peridot, pyroxene, &c. : when ana
lysed they yield the same constituent principles.    The dif*
fcrent analyses of the same mineral seldom agree so much
as those which Bergman, Klaproth,          and Kennedy, "have
given  us of  the  basaltes of Sweden,   Bohemia, and" S tafia.
This conformity appears striking to the author of the me-
moir, and he finds in it one of the distinctive attributes of
                                                         rocks

                  On tlte Basalles of Saxony.                129
rocks produced in the humid way.            The calcareous and
schistous rocks, &c. are every where similar; while the
lava of Solfaterra, Lipari, and Vesuvius, are sensibly dif
ferent, notwithstanding their proximity to each other. Nay,
more, the lava thrown up by the same volcano is far from
being identic : and how can the case be otherwise, since
the foci of these volcanoes, placed in the middle of different
rocks, must impress on the substances thrown up charac
ters as various as the matters which are subjected to their
action ?
     These considerations would be of little weight in the hy
 pothesis of Dolomieu.       The lava of the author of this me
moir would belong to the strata which compose the crust of
 the globe : the basaltes would have issued from the greatest
 depths, from that common reservoir where this great ob
 server of volcanoes sought for the origin of the greater part
 of his lithoid lavas. But could basaltes ever be fused ? This
 C. Daubuisson denies, and it is from the crystals contained
 in it that he thinks he can deduce his most decisive proofs.
      The crystals and grains found in basaltes are generally
 amphibolite, olivin, pyroxene, and feldspar, &c.          These
 either must have pre-existed in the basaltes, and they must
                                                                  "
 have been enveloped by the matter in fusion, or must have
 been formed in the bosom of that matter by the aggregation
 of the molecula? of the same nature found disseminated in.
 it. In the first case, how could those which are more fusi
 ble resist the heat which reduced them to the fluid state;
  and how could those which are more refractory preserve
  their colour, their transparency, and their splendour?      In
 the second case, would not the paste-like fluidity of this
  lava have yielded to the movements of these moleculas, and
  would not the heat have imprinted its character on their ag
  gregation ? But these crystals and grains which are gene
  rally found in basaltes are not the only bodies inclosed in
  them. The author found also gres.        Others speak of se
  veral other substances,     and particularly calcareous -frag
  ments. According to Werner, the basaltes of Carlsbad, in
  Bohemia, contains so large a quantity of it that it is em
  ployed for making lime ; and Saussure relates in his Travels,
  that he saw basaltes which contained angular fragments ot
   compact gray calcareous stone, which was in no manner
   altered at "the point of contact.  Nay, fossils themselves are
   not entirely foreign to this rock, and to that of the same
   epoch.    M. de Buch found turbinites in a rock of trap.
  The author quotes Dr. Blagdgn and Mr..,Chenevix as hav
   ing seen the impression of shells in the hardest and most
                                                         compact

  13O        .        On the Bawtlles  of Saxtiny.
 compact basaltes detached from prisms of the Giant's Cause
 way. In that of Vicentin, camites have been found. M. de'
 Besolding h.is described an ammonite found in a basaltes of
 Forez : it still had a pearly splendour. The same naturalist
 speaks of other ammonites and gryphites contained in ba
 saltes in the neighbourhood of Constance.           In the last
 place, there exists in the neighbourhood of Bohemia a large
 mass of wacke which contains whole trees half petrified,
 and still retaining their bark, pnd even their leaves.
    This wacke, which envelops whole trees, could not cer
tainly be the production of a volcanic eruption.        Basaltes
 in which shells are found with their pearly splendour does
not appear to have been fused. But can these observations,
made on some kinds of basaltes, be every where gene
 ralized ? If it should result from the state of several of
them that they have not an igneous origin, can we thence
 conclude that all, without exception, arc of an aqueous
origin? And does not the existence of certain kinds of
basaltes, in places where its position gives reason for classing
it among the lava, prove that the crystals in them may, in
 certain cases, have been subjected to the action of subter
ranean fire without being altered ?
    Here the long discussion which took place on the degree
of the heat of volcanoes is renewed. Deluc, Dolomieu, and
those who adopt their opinion, will affirm that they saw, as
we may say, with their own eyes, torrents of lava the heat
of which respected substances much more fusible than horn-
blend and feldspar.
    The author of this memoir did not see any of this lava,
but he answers this objection by experiments which esta
blish the relative degrees of fusibility of basaltes and of the
crystals found inclosed in it.
    The former will set out from their observations to esta
blish the hypothesis of a certain mode of fusion which does
not alter the stones subjected to it.
    Their adversaries will insist on experiments and analogies
which tend to prove that fused mineral substances exhibit
the same phenomena in nature as. in our laboratories, and
will mention instances of these kinds of lava having burnt,
calcined, and destroyed, every thing they nict with in their
passage.
    The .one, then, wiil doubt what the others establish as a
principle, and will reciprocally inclose each other in a kind
of circle, from which it will be difficult for them to escape.
    The <pcstion was in this state long before the time when
the author   of this memoir took it  up ; and we shall not en
                                                           large

                    On the Basaltes of Saxony.                  J3l
 large further on this part of the discussion, where the strength
 of Doth parties seems to be balanced, and which scarcely
 contains any thing which has not been repeated a hundred
 times. But more numerous observations and more careful
 analyses have furnished new arms to the partisans of the
 aqueous origin of basaltes.       It therefore remains to show
how far      they make the balance preponderate in their favour.
     All  the kinds of basaltes hitherto analysed contain a cer
 tain quantity of water, and from fifteen to twenty per cent.
 of iron. The case is the same with the wacke and the
.grunstein : they are in no manner different from basaltes,
 as appears by the analyses of Dr. Kennedy, which the au
 thor quotes.
     If it be believed that the water contained in basaltes be
 longs to crystallization, it is evident that it has been in a
  state of aqueous solution itself, and the question is decided.
 This is the opinion of C. Daubuisson ; and he refers also to
 the analysis of lava properly so called, which has all the
  principles of basaltes, except that water is not found in it.
 This argument, however convincing it may appear, is
 not unanswerable.       The presence of this small quantity of
 water may be a consequence of the texture of basaltes rather
 than an indication or its origin.         Since it is proved that
 fused stones resume, under certain circumstances, the lithoid
  form, it is probable also that it recovers the property of ad
 mitting water, which the most vitreous lava rejects; and
 this property is even proved in basaltes by the existence of
  geodes, which the infiltration of the water may have lined
  with crystals.
     The quantity of iron which basaltes contains is of
 more importance to the fate of this dispute.          All volcanic
 products properly so called, conduct, by observation and
 analysis, to known kinds of rock from which they origi
  nated.     But whence does basaltes proceed, and what stone
  furnishes from fifteen to twenty per cent, of iron, if we
 exclude from the number of rocks basaltes and similar subr
  stances?
     Shall we search for this iron in the depths of the common
 reservoir, which Dolomieu has supposed ? C. Daubuisson
  will demand whether there exist other indications of this
 basaltes, and whether it is possible to admit an hypothesis
  which is of no other use than to explain this supposition.
     Shall wo retort the argument by asking him whence pro
 ceeds that lava so well characterized, that lava of Mount
 ./Etna, which gives by analysis the same principles as ba-
       sj including the fit'teen.or twenty p*er cent, of iron ? His
           3                                                 answer

   132              On the Rosalies    of SaJconif.
  answer will he very simple, — It proceeds from basaltes it
  self, which constitutes a large portion of the soil of Italy
  and Sicily : and this answer is the decisive word of the me
  moir, and the fundamental opinion of its author.
     We shall add, that this is the opinion also of the best
 English and German mineralogists, and particularly of the
  celebrated Klaproth, who announced it almost in the same
 terms in his analysis of basaltes, translated and inserted in
  the Journal des Mines by C. Daubuisson *.
     Hence real prismatic basaltes, which is found in volcanic
 soil, will belong to the mass of mountains, and not to their
 lava. Lava having the aspect of basaltes, and being com
  posed of its constituent principles, will be basaltic lava, and
 not basaltes.     The greatest difficulties, therefore, of this
 great question 'would rest, in some measure, on ambiguities,
 and would be removed by a simple distinction.
     Let us now stop, and terminate here the analysis of the
 memoir, the examination of which has been confided to us.
     C. Daubuisson first examined the basaltes of Saxony.
 He then gradually rises to more extensive considerations on
 basaltes in general, and deduces from them conclusions
 •which form the subject of the fifth and last article of this
 memoir.                                           ,
     In regard to the first object, we are of opinion that he has
 discharged well the task imposed on him, and that his ob
 servations give a new degree of probability to the opinion
 received in Germany on the origin of the basaltes of that
part of Europe.
     In regard to the general considerations, by which be
 raises the basaltes known to him to that which he has not
had an opportunity of observing, we are of opinion that he
must naturally have been conducted to this extension of his
first conclusions, either in the course of reasoning or by the
authority of observers whose testimony he invokes.                •
    A subject, however, where hazarded analogies seem al
ready to have occasioned more than one mistake, requires,
more than any other, great reserve in the employment of
them ; and on ground which two parties dispute inch by
inch, each step ought to be justified by an observation and
marked by a fact.
    C. Daubuisson never saw those of volcanoes still burn
ing, nor those of extinguished volcanoes, the existence of
which he has not disputed. Being placed hitherto in the
midst of the works of water, we wish he would proceed to
                         * Brumairc, year n.
                                                            those

    Improvements in the Construction  of S'tedm-Erigines.   133
those places where the empire of tire has prevailed.        We
are desirous, above all, that he should examine the basaltes
of Auvergne, which M. Leopold Buch, another pupil of
Werner, has visited, and among which he observed some
the volcanic origin of wliich he could not venture to dis
pute, C. Daubuisson knows how to observe ; we have a
proof of it in the works he has already published, were it
not furnished by the memoir in question : and the attention
which his observations seem to us to deserve, cannot be tes
tified to him in a manner more useful to science than by
encouraging him to continue them.
                           (Signed)      HAUY and RAMOXD.
    The class approves the report, and adopts the conclusions.
                    (Signed)     CUVIER, perpetual secretary.
XXTIT. A short Account of Mr. ARTHUR WOOLF'S Im
       provement in the Construction of Steam-Engines.
          WOOLF founds his improvements on a very im
portant discovery which he has made respecting the expan
sibility of steam when increased in temperature beyond the
boiling point, or 212° of Fahrenheit's thermometer.          It
has been known for some time, and for this discovery the
world is indebted to Mr. Watt, who has been the principal
improver of the steam-engine, ,that steam acting with the
expansive force of four pounds the square inch against a
safety-valve exposed to the atmosphere, is capable of ex
panding itself to four times the volume it then occupies,
and still to be equal to the pressure of the atmosphere.
Mr. Woolf has discovered that, in like manner, steam of the
force of five pounds the square inch can expand itself to five
times its volume ; that masses or quantities of steam of the
like expansive force of six, seven, eight, nine, or ten pounds
the square inch, can expand to six, seven, eight, nine, or
ten times their volume, and still be respectively      equal to
the atmosphere, or capable of producing a sufficient action
against the piiton of a steam-engine to cause the same to
rise in the old engine (with a counterpoise) of Newcomen,
or to be carried into the vacuous part of the cylinder in the
improved engines first brought into effect by Messrs. Boul-
ton and Watt; that this ratio is progressive, and nearly if
not entirely uniform, so that steam of the expansive force
of 20, 30, 40, or 50 pounds the square inch of a common
safety-valve will expand itself to an, 30, 40, or 50 times its
   Vol.   19. No. 74. July 1804.     L                 volume;

134          Mr. Arthur Woolf's           Improvements         in the
volume; and that, generally, .as to all the intermediate or
higher degrees of elastic force, the number of times which
steam of any temperature               and force can expand itself is
nearly    the   same      as the  number     of pounds it is able to sus
tain on a square inch exposed to .the common atmospheric
pressure : provided always that the space, place, or vessel in
which it is allowed to expand itself, be of the same tempera
ture as that of the steam before it be allowed room to expand.
    Respecting the different degrees of temperature required
to bring steam to, and maintain it at, different expansive
forces above the weight of the atmosphere, Mr* Woolf has
found, by actual experiment, setting out from the boiling,
point of water, or 212°, at which degree steam of water is
only equal to the pressure of the atmosphere, that in order
to give it an increased elastic force equal to five pounds the
square inch the temperature must be raised to about 2274- °»
when it will have acquired a power to expand itself to five
times its volume, still be equal to the atmosphere, and ca
pable of being applied as such in the working of steam-
engines, according to his invention : and with regard to
various other pressures, temperatures, and expansive forces
of steam, the same are shown in the following table :
Talle of the relative         pressures per square inchf temperatures
    and expansibility of steam at degrees of heat above the
    boiling point of uate?-, beginning with the temperature of
    steam of an elastic force equal to five pounds per square
    inch, and extending to steum able to sustain forty pounds
    on the square inch.
            Pounds per                                       Expan
           square   Inch.           of Heat".                sibility.
 Steam   of   r                                               "
                                                                  5
                  5                  '227f
 an elastic       6                   230£                       6     times its
                                                and   at
 force pre        7                   232}                        7    volume,
                       requires                 these re
 dominat          8                   235}                       8     and con
                       to be                    spective
 ing over         9                   2371                       9     tinue
                       maintain               , degrees   of
 the pres-       10                   2304                      10 .equal in
                      ed    by a              >-heat,        ¦{
  ure of         15                   2.)0l                     15   'elasticity
                       tempera                  steam can
  he atmo-      20                    25QJ                      20     to the
                       ture equal               expand
  phere         25                    207"                      25     pressure
                       to about                 itself to
  ipon a        30                    273                       30     of the at
                                                about
  afety-        35                    278                       35     mosphere
   alve,       -40                   .232     r               UOJ
    And so in like manner, by small additions of temperature,
an expansive power may be given to steam to enable it to
expand to 50, CO, 70, 80, 90, 100/200, 300, or more time*
             4                                                                  it»

                Construction  of Steam- Engines.             135
its volume, without any limitation but what is imposed by
the frangible nature of every material of which boilers and
Ihe other parts of steam-engines have been or can be made \
and prudence dictates that the expansive force should never
be carried to the utmost the materials can bear, but rather
be kept considerably within that liiiiit.
    Having thus briefly explained the nature of Mr. Woolf's
discovery, we shall proceed to give a description of his im
provements grounded thereon, and for which hfe has ob
tained his majesty's royal letters patent. Mr. Woolf in
his specification states, that in describing his invention he
has found it necessary to mention the entire steam-engine
and its parts, to whieh, as an invention' well kndwn, he nei
ther can nor does assert any exclusive claim : he observes^
however, that from the nature of his aforesaid discovery,
and its application; there can be no difficulty in distinguish
ing his said improvements from the improved engine (of
Mr. Watt) as to its other common and well known parts,
and jthen gives the following account of an engine embracing
his new improvements.
(
   " If the engine be constructed originally with the inten
tion of adopting my said improvement, it ought to have two
steam vessels of different dimensions, according to the tem
perature or the expansive force determined to be com
municated to the steam made use of in working the engine;
for the smaller steam vessel or cylinder must be a measure
for the larger.   For example, if steam of forty pounds the
square   inch  is fixed on, then the smaller steam vessel
should bfi at least one fortieth part the contents of the
larger one; each steam vessel should be furnished with a
piston, and the smaller cylinder should have a commu
nication both at its top and bottom (top and bottom being
here employed merely as relative terms, for the cylinders
may be worked iri a horizontal or any other required posi
tion, as well as vertical) : the small cylinder, I say, should
have a communication both at its top and bottom with the
boiler, which supplies the steam, which communications,
by means of cocks or valves of any construction adapted to
the use, are to be alternately opened and shut during the
working of the engine. The top of the small cylinder
should have a communication with the bottom of the larger
cylinder, and the bottom of the smaller one with the top of
the larger, with proper means to open and shut these al
ternately by cocks, valves, or any other well known con
trivance.   And both the top and bottom of the larger cy
linder or steam vessel should, while the engine is at work,
                              L2                          com

136   Improvements        in the Construction   of Steam-Engines.
communicate alternately with a condensing vessel, into
which a jet of water is admitted to hasten the condensation,
or the condensing vessel may he cooled by any other means
calculated to produce that effect.       Things being thus ar
ranged, when the engine is at wdrk, steam of high tem
perature is admitted from the boiler to act by its elastic
force on one side of the smaller piston* while the steam
which had last moved it has a communication with the
larger steam vessel or cylinder,' where it follows the larger
piston now moving towards that end of its cylinder which
is open to the condensing vessel.         Let both pistons end
their stroke at one time, and let us now suppose them both
at the top of their respective cylinders, ready to descend ;
then the steam of forty pounds the sciuare inch entering
above the smaller piston will carry it downwards, while the
steam below   it,  instead of being allowed to escape into the
atmosphere or applied to any other purpose, will pass into
the larger cylinder above its piston, which will take its
downward stroke at the same time that the piston of the
smaller cylinder     is doing the same thing; and while this
goes   on,  the steam   which last filled the larger cylinder, in
the upward stroke of the engine, will be passing into the
condenser to be condensed during the downward stroke.
When the pistons in the smaller and larger cvlinder have
thus been made to descend to the bottom of their respective
cylinders, then the steam from the boiler          to be shut oft*
                                                    is
from the top and admitted to the bottom of the smaller
cvlinder, and the communication between the bottom of
the smaller and the top of the larger cylinder         also to be
                                                          is
cut oft", and the communication       to be opened between the
top of the smaller and the bottom of the larger cylinder            ;
the steam, which          the downward stroke of the engine
                          in
filled the larger cylinder, being now open to the condenser,
and the communication        between the bottom of the larger
cvlinder and the condenser shut oft"; and so on alternately,
admitting the steam to the different sides of the smaller
piston, while the steam last admitted into the smaller
cylinder passes alternately to the different sides of the
larger piston in the lamer cylinder, the top and bottom of
wnich are made to communicate alternately with the eon-
denser.
  "  In an engine working with the improvements which
have been just described, while the steam     admitted to
                                                     is
one side of the piston in the smaller cylinder, the steam
on the other side has room made for its admission into the
larger cylinder, on one side of its piston,          by   the conden
                                                                sation

         On the Affinities  of different EartJis for Carbon.    137
 sation taking place on the other side of the large piston which
 is open to the condenser; and that waste of steam which
 takes place in engines worked only by the expansis'e force
 of steam, from steam passing the piston, is prevented ; for
 all steam that passes the piston in the smaller cylinder is
 received into the larger.
     " In such an engine, where it may be more convenient for
 any particular purpose, the arrangement may be altered, and
 the top of the smaller made to communicate with the top
 of the larger, and the bottom of the smaller with the bottom
 of the larger cylinder; in which case the only difference will
 be, that when the piston in the smaller cylinder descends,
 that in the larger will ascend, and while the latter descends
 the former will ascend, which for some particular purposes
 may be more convenient than the arrangement before de
 scribed."
    Mr. Woolf then proceeds to describe various other mo
 difications of his invention, and points out means for ap
 plying his improvements to the working of steam-engines
 already constructed and now in use, of which we shall give
 some account in our future numbers.
    We cannot, however, conclude without observing that
 the benefits likely to result to the manufacturing interests
 of this country by Mr. Woolf "s improvement of the steam-
 engine, cannot possibly be calculated. On this we bha.ll
 ofier a few thoughts on some future opportunity.
 XXIV.     Experiments to ascertain whether there exists any
    Affinity betwixt Carton and Clay, Lime and SUex, se
    parately or tf.j Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
   forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By DAVID MUSHET,
    Esq. ofl/ie Culder Iron- Murks.
                        [Continued from p. 40.]
 _L HE following     experiments were made with a view to
unite carbon with silex by fusion.
    I. Some pieces of very transparent quartz were intro
duced a'one into a Sturbridge clay crucible, and exposed to
a heat of I6o°of Wedgwood.            When cold, and examined,
I found the form and number of the crystals entire. The
surfaces were .slightly vitrified : the colour white pearly.
The interior of each crystal was spongy, and adhesive to
the tongue.
                                L   3                    II. Fifty

138                         On the Affinities   of
    II.   Fifty  grains   of this roasted quartz were pulverised
and     mixed with 3 grains ot lamp black.               The colour o£
the mixture was        blueish  black.     I  exposed  it in a Cornwall
clay pot to 1 70°        of  Wedgwood      ;  but  found   the contents
\iniused,     and  stiil pulverulent.     The     mixture   had become
nearly     or  a  black   colour,  but   the   fragments of silex re
mained unchanged.
      III. Fifty grains of roasted quartz, mixed with half a
grain of Limp black, were exposed in a similar manner as
No. II. The result was the quartz in as pure and unfused
 a state as when introduced.          The half grain of lamp black
 was neai'y dissipated, and had communicated a shining lead
 colour to the inienor of the crucible.
   •'IV. A crystal of quartz possessing great depth of water
 •was found vo weigh 30J- grains.            It was afterwards, for six
 hours, exposed in a bright red heat; when it was found to
 have lost nearly half a grain.         The lustre and shape of the
 crystal remained unchanged.
      V. The same crystal, after losing a small fragment,
 weighed 35-J grains,. It was then exposed to 168 of Wedg
 wood. It was found shivered into a number of small pieces
 of a pearly white colour tinged with blue. A few fragments
 still possessed their original angle and transparency. The
 vhole were caref.illy collected, and weighed only a quarter
 of a grain less than when 'introduced. In this experiment
 a lolal change was effected upon the subject, but scarcely
  anv less of weight could be reckoned.
      VI. I took two crystals of quartz, weighing 42 grains,
  and introduced them into a Cornwall clay crucible filled
 with charcoal. The heat to which they were exposed was
  nearly 170°. When examined, the following was found to
  be the result.        The crucible was found still nearly filled
  with charcoal. The two crystals, wiih the exception of one
  small fragment, remained entire, though frittered a good
  deal. Excepting where the charcoal had entered the fissures,
  there was not the most distant appearance of contact, or any
  combination betwixt the siliceous matter of the quartz and
  it.    The crystals had entirely lost their transparency, were
  possessed of a whitish enamelled surface, and seemed spongy
  in the centre.         Their weight was 41 grains; and if the
  small portion of carbonaceous matter be taken into the ac
  count, which had entered the fissures, not more than 3-4ths
  of a grain was lost, of weight, in the exposure. This expe-.
  riment proves that the combination of carbon with the mat
  ter of silex and clay, which constitutes quartz, takes place
  at a higher temperature than 1 70° of Wedgwood, and ren
                                                                    ders

                    different Earths   for Carlon.               1 38
ders it highly presumable        that the affinity is not excited in
any degree of heat short of fusion.
   VII. 50 grains of roasted quartz, pulverized,
            5   ditto      pure lime.
These were exposed, in a Cornwall clay crucible, to 167°.
The result of this was a semi-vitrified mass, granulated,
pure in colour, and very hard.         The angles cut glass with
considerable facility.
   VIII. 50 grains of roasted quartz,
            10    dilto     pure lime, were softened into a white
mass of porcelain, possessing a slight tint of azure.
   IX. 50 grains of roasted quartz,
         15    ditto      pure lime, were melted into a whitish
mass covered with some very perfect glass.             The fracture
was dense throughout, though not homogeneous.
   X. 50 grains of roasted quartz,
        15    ditto     pure lime,
         1    ditto     lamp black, formed a solid mass of srlass
of a lead-blue colour. The carbonaceous matter had disap
peared.
   XI.   50 grains    of roasted quartz,
         15    ditto      pure lime,
           2 ditto        lamp black.
This mixture fused, and formed a very black glass consi
derably spongy.         The charcoal had, as in former experi
ments, disappeared.         In this experiment, the interior or th.e
crucible of Cornwall clay had received the usual glaze ob
served in experiments where the quantity of carbon made
use of approaches nearly to_ that which the mixture is ca
pable of taking up.
   XII. 50 grains of roasted quartz,
           15    ditto     pure lime,
         . 3     ditto     lamp black.
This mixture was fused into a honey-combed mass of dark-
coloured glass possessed of neither beauty nor transparency.
A portion of the lamp black remained in its original state,
partly enveloped in the mass and partly upon the surface. It
was found to amount to nearly half a grain.              The quan
tity, therefore, taken up by the quartz in this experiment,
supposing the pure lime remained neutral, is exactly equal
to l-20th; and, by the combination of this proportion
of carbon, the pure white porcelain, produced in Experi
ments VIII and IX, is changed into a honey-combed mass
of black glass.
    XIII. Fifty grains of pure silex were introduced into a
 Cornwall clay crucible, and exposed to a heat of 1 70° of
                                   L4                   Wedgwood.

 J4T     On the Affinities      of different Earths for Carton.
 Wedgwood.          I  found the silex fused into a rich pearlish
 green glass containing an immense number of air-bubbles.
 A minute speck of colour was noticed in one part, which
 resembled coal.        The experiment was therefore repeated a
 second and third time; and the fused silcx obtained in a
 state of great purity as to colour, though still containing a
 number of minute cells.
     XIV. Fifty grains of pnre silex and a quarter of a grain
 of lamp black were mixed. The carbon gave a delicate
 shade of blue to the sikx.          The mixture was fused into a
 singular glass composed of concentric laminte or convenes
 of thin glass. The colour was indefinite and mixed, of a
 straw, watery, smoky tinge, and much clouded.                It was,
 however, very transparent, and so buoyant as to float in air.
     XV. 30 grains of pure silex,
            £ grain of lamp black, were fused into a porous
 class possessing a watery transparency, but of a light lead-
 blileish colour.
    XVI. 50 grains of pure silex,
             1 grain of lamp black, formed a glass consider
 ably darker in point of colour than the former: the cells
 were much of the same size, but the thickness of the la
 minae much increased, and the transparency proportionally
diminished.        In these three experiments the carbon had
 completely disappeared, por had the interior of any of the
cnicib'es exhibited the usual style of glazing.
    XVII. 50 grains of pure silex,
              2     ditto      lamp black.
These were intimately mixed together, and exposed to a
similar heat with the former. The result was a jet black
glass much honey-combed,                and apparently approaching
a state beyond simple vitrification.           The whole carbon had
disappeared,     and    the interior   of  the crucible remained un-
glazecl.
    XVIII.    50 grains     of pure silcx,
               3      ditto     lamp black, were fused into an
irregular mass of a very dark colour possessing large honey
combs.     The transparency of the glass no longer exist/d,
but a minute porosity admitted light with a singular effect.
The carbon had disappeared, and the crucible had received
a slight degree of colour from the carbon.
    XIX. 50 grains of pure silex,
            5     ditto      lamp black.
This m'xture assumed an earthy appearance of a very black
colour, in a few places shining, but in general dull.            The
honey-combed appearance was less in this than in the for
                                                                mer,

   Dr. Thornton's    Second Letter to     Mr. Arthur Aikm.           Ml
 mer, and the porosity so visible in the last was considerably
 diminished. A portion of the carbonaceous matter remained
 untaken up which weighed 3-4ths of a grain, so that in this
 experiment 4T grains of carbon had disappeared, and united
 •with the silex.    This is equal to 8^ per cent., or i-i-jih
 part the weight of the silex.
     It will not therefore appear rash to conclude, from these
 experiments, that carbon in high temperatures unites with
 siliceous matter in the same manner as indicated by the ex
 periments with clay, and that its colour and appearance are
 totally changed by the union.
     The conclusions to be drawn from these experiments, and
 facts in general, so far as they regard the manufacture of
 iron, will present themselves with more force of reasoning
 connected with the analysis of artificial and natural iron ores,
 containing solely or in excess a particular earth of the be
fore-mentioned varieties.
     The present maybe concluded with one general remark,
 that the carbon docs not appear to enter siliceous matter by
 cementation, as was evident in exposing the two siliceous
 crystals No. VI.       In the experiments with clay, not only a
 mass of Cornwall clay was pervaded by the carbon, but
 many of the crucib'es used in all these experiments were
 frequently penetrated a considerable portion of their thick
 ness.
                           [To  be continue.1.]
    XXV. Dr.     THORNTON'S       Second    letter   to Mr. ARTHUR
                                AIKIN.
                                             July 10, 1804..
       SIR,                      No. I,  Hind-street, Manchester-square.
  A  WAS almost morally sure that you could never have allowed
  such gross ignorance and abuse to have passed in your An
  nual Keview, had you      "  been aware of it," as have been ex
  hibited in the "critique." on my work. Certainly you must
  have been planet-struck, when you read, probably, for the
  first time, in the letter I had the honour to address you, that,
  in your review, it was asserted that the satellite of Venus
  had not been mentioned in any work on astronomy, and
  that this before unheard of moon was of my invention ;
  which seemed to afford your reviewer an opportunity of
  spewing out a torrent of personal abuse against me. Such
  conduct could not fail to astonish one, who was in the ha
  bit of esteeming you before as a scholar and a gentleman,
  a character adopted from your learned father, and which I
                                                                  should

j4S               Dr. Thornton's        Second     Letter
should    be greatly surprised         if you ever departed from.
When excusing yourself          as  editor, I must beg leave to ob
serve you have fallen into a slight mistake, when you say,
<<Astronomy has nothing to do with botany."                       Antiently
agriculture was founded on a knowledge of the stars.
             Quid faciat laetas segercs, quo sit.'ere terram
             Vcrtcre, Maecenas, ulniibqueacijunytre vires
             Conveniat — —                            fr'rS'^ Gecrg. lib.  i.
   Astrology and botany were early .-onnectcd ; and the four.
seasons are so much concerned in botany, that a scientific
knowledge of their production is expected from the accom
plished botanist. The effect of light on plants supposes some
slight acquaintance with the bright luminary producing it—
    ....  quandoque bonus dormitat Homerus.— II. r. de Ane         Pittira.
   1 am now publicly challenged by your reviewer to ansv. Br
other passages of his "critique" on my work. " If I can
show the same want of information in these as in astronomy,
he promises to take shame on himself and kiss the rod."
He trusts v" the decision to those who understand the
subject. To their impartial judgment he calmly leaves it."
With the same sangfroid, he says, " he has long since learnt,
that no real honour is lost by the acknowledgement of an
error ;" " that he has made a blot, which Dr. Thornton
has fairly hit ; and he has a right to avail himself of it as far
as it will go.    But he must make many more such hits, or
he will not save his gammon."            Although I conceive a con
test in which reputation and fortune are both deeply con
cerned is more serious than a game at back -gammon, and
the hits of more importance than such light amusements,
and that many would excuse my contending with such an
adversary ; yet, as greatly provoked to the contest, in the
next letter I shall have the honour to address you, I will
promise
           " satisfactorily " tp prove to you, and the philoso
phic world, that this reviewer of yours is as " slenderly"
acquainted with authors on botany, as he has been proved
to be with regard to those on astronomy ; and that all my
botanical doctrines are founded on authors of the highest
reputation, and not more of my invention, than was the
satellite*)? Venus; and, therefore, that I c5nnot merit, as has
been "unjustly" attempted, to be held up for those opinions
to public ridicule.     His sneers have arisen from his total
unacquaintance with the valuable writings of modern vege
table physiologists, as Bonnet, Duhamel, Lamarck, Sene-
bicr, Yentinat, &c. equally as he was ignorant of what had                     .
                                                                          been

                    to    Mr. Arthur Aikin.                  in
been said 'by authors on the satellite of Venus, in Rees's im
proved edition of Chambers's Dictionary, the French and
Jinglish Encyclopaedias, Long's Astronomy,        Wright's Cla-
yis Ccelestis, the Philosophical Transactions, and many other
works : and hence all the ridicule he would wish to throw
upon me, will, I trust, fall on his own head. My misfortune
is to have gone further than the surface, and to have read
where your reviewer had no opportunity of obtaining infor
mation.       Hence my literary reputation has received a shock
from an unexpected quarter, and my botanical undertaking
nearly ruined by misrepresentations.          You, sir, who can
feel for Rees's New Cyclopaedia, in which you are only par
 tially connected, and complain "that -I have, in my otlur-
 wise laudable zeal to vindicate myself, been betrayed into an
 UTijitil and ungenerous allusion to that work ;" who was so
 feelingly alive to its interest?, as to take in earnest what
 every other must at once have understood as a. juke ; for, af
 ter the fine display of deep reading in astronomy exhibited
 by your reviewer and yourself (tor this part of your review
 you had not then disavowed) , could I for a moment seriously
 intend to assert, that you, or your reviewer, was meant to
 be associated with the learned writer on astronomy in the
 New Cyclopaedia, and really refute what is incapable of
 answer? It would have been the highest insult to Dr. Rees,
  the sagacious director of that national work, where, in each
  department of science, the ablest men are judiciously cho
  sen, and where, with the utmost propriety, you are singled,
  out for mineralogy and chemistry, in which departments of-
  science, it is but justice to say, you have but few rival con
  temporaries ; — itis,
                     I      should think, next to impossible, but
  that you must also tee.l some small interest for       a  work
  hardly less expensive, conducted at the risk of an indivi
  dual, and which,  if    crushed, must involve me in    a  heavy
  loss, and disappoint many of my hitherto satisfied subscri
  bers — Surely, under all these circurnstances, you will for
     :
  give,
     I     assure you, an unintended hoax     ) andifI   have ex
   pressed myself   too  strongly  with  regard to your reviewer,
   it has arisen from that natural indignation, resulting from,
   the firm persuasion, that I   have been " ungenerously" and
   t(
      unjustly" attacked, and most ignorantly misrepresented.
   But believe me at all other times,
                             £ir, with respect and esteem,
                                Your faithful obedient servant,
                                     ROBERT JOHN THORNTON.
                                                   XXVI.     From

                                     [    144         1
XXVI.      From Dr. Thornton, Lecturer on Botany at Guy's
     Hospital, to Mr. Tilloch, Editor of the Philosophical
     Magazine.
                                                           July    10, 1804..
      SIR,                               No.   1,   Hind-strcet, Manchester-square.
Although        the writer Y. Z. in Mr. Arthur Aikin's Annual
Review, in his letter addressed to you, says not a word of a
seco/ui hit obtained from your pen (the first he acknowledges
has been fairly gained by mine), I would here beg leave to
remind Mr. Aikinof          it,
                           at the same time thanking you for the
clear light in which you have placed before the philosophic
world my very anxious endeavours. These sentiments of
vours are so much in unison with those of great poet, that         a
I  trust shall be excused inserting them
        I                                       this place.       in
To Philip Reinagle, Esq. A.R.A. on his Paintings for
 Dr. Thornton's Temple   Flora, or Garden ofNature.                        of
        Oil   thou, whose radiant tints wi:l> beauty glow,
              f
       l.\V.e ttvsc that charm us        in
                                       tli' ethereal bow           ;
       Though bright with heavenly fire the picture shine,
       Kay, whose buld genius plann         the vast design,
                                               d
       Bade the majestic plant its leaves unfold,
       The blossoms shout       in
                                 vegetable gold            ;
       Bade gathering clouds the darken          sky de'orm,
                                                    Is d
       Where round the Cape loud hou           tli eternal storm           ?
       Or      more genial skies b:sde F.den rise,
              in
       And waked the blooms of opening Paiatlisr                  ?
       Howe'cr     bythe in match ess chains array'd,
                            h
         Pwis ThoIikton, first, bis daring poweis displ.iy'd;
       '
       Th/rr those bright tints, but b.s th' inspiring s'.ul
       That breathes, thai burns, throughout the beauteous whole.
   Dr. Darwin, who possessed the most refined taste, with
critical discernment, and at once entered into new ideas, was
so pleased with my picturesque botanical coloured plates,
that in his Phytologia (as you mention) he celebrates them
as having
             " no equal," and as such " recommends them
to the public."     In some letters which     have now bv me   I
(which      shall inclose for your satisfaction), this emment
             "
        I
poet says,      All my  acquamtance,   to whom     have shown          1
the prints you have been so good as to send me, greatly ad
mire them indeed        The coloured print of the tulips quite
astonishes them 1" In another letter, he writes: " Besides
                        !
                                                                                       a
compliment to the fine execution of your work,            will                  I
endeavour also to compose some verses on the flowers as
they occur." And in another letter Dr. Darwin kindlv says,
" shall be happy to hear your work szicceeds according to
 I
your expectations, and its merits, in these bad times.                                I
                                                                                    have

            Letterfrom Dr. Thornton           to   Mr. Tilloch.        145
have got our botanical society at Litchfield to subscribe to
it." Such was the favourable opinion of a great genius,
whose sudden loss the literary world, and myself in parti
 cular, will ever deplore, respecting my Temple of Flora,
or Garden of Nature.               The sentiments of Professors
Marty n and Rutherford have been long before the public.
Y. Z. allows, indeed, that these coloured plates                  "
                                                              do the
highest honour to the artists, and will be lasting* monu
ments of the fine taste and masterly execution which cha
racterize the British nation in the present age ;" and the
question now at issue, therefore,         is,
                                           how far my exertions
are interwoven with those of the eminent artists employed
for the production of these picturesque botanical plates. To
the arguments already adduced            by
                                         you,     will add the fol
                                                    I
lowing facts — First, take, for example, the oblique- leaved
                :
Begonia.     A   plant was obtained from the Physic Gardens
at Chelsea.     Ithad only female flowers. This was sketched
in, and Mr. Reinagle went with mc in              chaise ten miles
                                                        a
off to obtain branch with male flowers, in order to com
                a
plete the picture.     The blue Passion-flower contains eleven
stages of that flower, from its first appearance in the bud
to the perfect fruit.     No one branch showed these grada
tions. The flowers were obtained at Barr's nursery, at Dal-
ston, and the perfect fruit from North's nursery, near the
Asylum. The superb Lily, &c. required the same obser
vances  ; and as the Venus de M edicts          the assemblage of
                                                   is
different parts, selected first, and afterwards combined, so
no one plant ever appeared in that perfection of beauty as
displayed    by the artists engaged.     My object was to unite
botanical correctness with picturesque effect, as far as the
association could be accomplished.          Hence      engaged for
                                                            I
my work neither       aprofessed botanical painter nor engraver.
The paintings being directed        byme was sufficient to obviate
any loss of such      aKnowledge    to the artists employed, and
accident gave me more share than usually falls to an author
in these pictures.        Isthere no conjunction of exertions in
the beautiful group of flowers expressive of the system of
Tournefort  ? The merits of the respective artists stand equally
the same, as far as regards their profession, now as before,
and they willingly would allow me this share in the fame of
these pictures    Inever,     believe, before claimed.
                               I                            Had the
specimens   been   entirely  of their own  choice,  and  fair copies
of nature, as she appeared before them, and the descriptions
  • How could these be lasting motility curs, (rathwr fragments,)     if   my
work had been crushed, as w»s ii.toiJid  r
                                                                       also

146                Letter from          Dr. Thornton          to   Mr. Tilloch.
also theirs, the whole merit would have been exclusively
their own.      As it             is,
                           the reviewer, in his eagerness to ruiii
me in the public estimation, without possessing, as he de
clares, one jot of " malice*," has again here also exposed
either his ignorance or lolly and, tearful that the phi
                                                     ;
losophic world would not credit such an unjust attack                                    in
                                                                                          a
work professing Arthur Aikin's name as editor,                 will put          I
down the very words of this most extraordinary reviewer.
After highly praising in general the botanical plates, he
goes on
   " But when Dr. Thornton claims share the awe,
               :
                                                                    a            of
                                                                                  f
we are reminded of        farce, which
                                   a             our play-going days
                                                                  in
afforded us much amusement.                    called,   Itive mistake
                                                              is            if
not,  A    Peep behind the Curtain, and           written on the plan
                                                                   is
of the duke of Buckingham's celebrated dramatic satire. ltd
plot turns on the rehearsal of musical piece, founded on the
                                                 a
story ot Orphais and llurydice, ill which some cows are to
be introduced dancing to the lyre of the antient bard. Wheri
every thing else        ready, the cows are wanting, and the
                             is
prompter       dispatched in haste to inquire the reason of the
                   is
delay.    IVe quote from memory          and, after lapse of thirty
                                                     ;                      a
years,   will not  vouch   for more    than   the general spirit of
the dialogue.      " The   author,"    cries   the trusty messenger,
out of  breathj  "    impatient
                            is    to  see  his  cows; he relies much
bn them for the success of Am piece." " His cows!" replies'
the indignant maker, " they are my cows:                 know that his      I
play   will  be nothing   without    them     and     will have him td
                                                              ;         1
know that, va'm as he                     is,
                                 he shall not run away with the
glory of the carpenter^."                    !
                                             !   !
                      have the honour to remain, sir,
                            I
                         With much esteem and gratitude,
                                Your obliged faithful servant,
                                                     Robert John Thornton.
  •   Did the story of the immense common-place book show no malice?
or the following, — Scd ohe jam satis est.
                     '•                  :         The patience of the public
must   be soon exhausted.   As to ow selves, we have not a drop left. Never
tjerc lavish promises more scantily realized.      His work is, indeed, little
more than      piece of shreds and patches clumsily stitched together with
               a
Coarse packthread     Hnd, instead of
                        ;                national favour, may more justly be
                                                 a
deemed     anational disgrate."   The impartial public will suon perceive
Where the national disgrace lies.
f     What will the philosophic world think of reviewer, who publicly
                                                                   a
tills us that wooden cows dancing to lyre gave him great amusement in
                                                     a
his younger davs, and who gravely represents the dialogue which wa*
held  by   amessenger out     breath, and
                                   of     carpenter of wooden cows, as re
                                                     a
levant to my work        Ate my added marks of astonishment misplaced                     *
                        ?
                                                                                XXVII.   On

                           L    147   ]
XXVII.     On the Freezing of Water in leaden Pipes, indi
   cating Means for its Pretention; with some Thoughts
   relative to the increased Temperature of the Earth at
   small Deptlis.    By G. J. Wright, Esq.*
 X he perplexity arising from the defect of an    usual source
of water for domestic use in the winter season,    is a casualty
which most individuals have at one time or other experi
enced, probably not less to their cost than their inconve
nience.    Such is the consequence inevitably ensuing from
the stagnation of water in leaden tubes in frosty weather,
particularly in exposed situations ; the tubes being not un-
frequently burst by that expansion during the congelation
of the included water, to which if any opposition is made,
the hardest metals and most solid bodies give way.
    To endeavour to obviate the same by the naturally sug
gested mode of surrounding the pipe with the most perfect
non-conductors of heat, is a method only partially applica-^
ble, and eligible no further than the course of the pipe
under ground ; because the impossibility of ascertaining, in
a long course of covered pipe, the exact portion of the tube*
where any rupture may have taken place, would occasion
the necessity of laying open the non-conducting coat for a
considerable length to arrive at the injured part.      Neither
can we expect by any combination of metals to form a con
 duit capable of resisting the effects of external cold, they
 being all of them good conductors of heat.       On the other
 hand, if we have recourse to compositions of an earthy na
 ture, as porcelain, baked clay, &c, we labour under in
 conveniences from the inflexibility of such tubes ; their lia
bility to crack in sudden transitions from heat to cold ;
 their incapability of yielding to internal distension ; ,and
 especially the thickness such tubes would require to be, in
order effectually to prevent the transmission of the tempe
rature of the contained water to the surrounding air.
    Leaden tubes have always gained the preference as con
 duits for conveying water in small quantity for domestic
 and other uses ; for,although they are liable to the casualty
 of bursting during frost, their valuable properties of flex'i-
 bilhv, ductility, and unalterablcness by pure water, render -
 them well adapted for the purpose.
    Leaden pipes are usually of a certain thickness, about an
 eighth of an inch: it is this thickness, and the ductility of
                   *
                     Communicate^  by the Author.
                                                             the

   14S       On the Freezing of IVuler  in leaden Pipes }
  the   metal itself, which prevents them from bursting at all
  times.    Thus they can only allow of expansion from con
  tained frozen water a limited number of times; and old
  pipes, and such as may have been frequently repaired by
  soldering, must be expected to give way in every rigorous
  season.
     The pipe being new when first laid clown, the low tem
  perature of the succeeding winter occasions a congelation
  of the water throughout the whole length of the tube; an
  expansion every way ensues by this process of icefaction ;
  the ductility of the metal allows of an enlargement of its
 diameter throughout its whole length ; its thickness is pro
 portionally diminished ; a milder temperature ensues, and
 a thaw subsequently takes place in the tube without occa
  sioning damage.     A second, third, and perhaps more win
 ters thus pass on ; the water each time frozen in the pipe,
 each time enlarging its diameter and diminishing its thick
 ness : at last, the diminution of this latter renders it no
 longer capable of withstanding the force of internal disten
 sion, and the succeeding frost occasions a rupture in that
 part of the tube where the resistance may prove the least.
     If the tube had been constructed of a more refractory
 metal, as iron, &c., the first expansion would have burst
 the same; while it is obvious that the durability of a leaden*
 pipe must be very precarious after the first occasion for re
 pairing a rupture therein : for, in casting a pipe, if the cool
 ing were slowly and uniformly conducted (a precaution not
at all attended to in their manufacture), its texture and duc
tility would be the same throughout, and we should have
good reason to conclude that the diminution in thickness
throughout the pipe, by all the previous expansions of the
freezing water, would be alike ; and the necessity of repair
ing a rupture in one- part would be a certain indication of the
extreme thinness of the whole, and its incapability of un
dergoing any further distension.      But as the tube is never
uniformly cooled, but cast in small lengths of two to three
feet, each of which is allowed to cool as speedily as the
temperature of the surrounding air will admit, and after
wards joined together to form one pipe of any required
length, there may be certain portions the ductility of which
may better allow of progressive distension than 'others ; and
I add, that the mode of cooling a pipe after casting the
same, were it attended to, would have considerable influ
ence on its ductility ; instances of which we have in every
substance capable of fusion (whether metallic or not),
whereby the regular annealing of the same, or cooliug" them
                       4                                       ia

               indicating Means    for its Prevention.         149
  in  the most gradual manner, leaves the particles of such
  substance in that equable state with respect to each other,
  as proves, in the subsequent use of the articlej the surest
  safeguard from casualties arising either from change of tem
  perature or mechanical extension.        Thus the durability of
  leaden pipes, relative to the freezing of their contained fluid,
  is proportional to their thickness, and the uniformity in the
  yielding of each portion or' the cylinder, which uniformity
 depends on the accurate and equable cooling originally ob
  served in their manufacture.
     The compression of air exerted by the mechanical im
 pulsion   of the water, is another source of injury to
 pipes : thus, before water flows into a cistern, a hissing and
 undulating noise is heard for some time to issue from the
 cock supplying such reservoir, occasioned by the flux and
 reflux of air confined in the pipcsj such air beins urged to
 escape by the engine, or height of the head of water, power
 fully throwing forward the water, whose progression is re-:
 tarded till the air before it is made to escape at various out
 lets.   If no vent were any where allowed to this air, that
 is to say, if every copper cock was air-tight as well as water
 tight, and each kept shut, the proaress of the water would
 be not only prevented, but weak pipes in many instances
 would be burst by the mechanical powerof the engine thrust
 ing forward the water, and therefore proportionally compres
 sing the air before it. Thus, in frosty weather, all pipes sup
 plied by any powerful machine have a double hazard of rup
 ture from cylinders of ice retained in them, so closing the
 whole number as to prevent the escape of the air, more and
 more compressed by violent alternate propulsions exerted in
the water.
     So long then as we remain unacquainted with any sub
 stance conjoining,     at ordinary temperature,   elasticity with
the ductility and hardness of metals, we can scarce look
to other methods of preventing the freezing of water in
eonduits, than by the radical resource of keeping them full
only during the short interval of supplying the cistern or
reservoir of each dwelling or manufactory.
     The air-valve heYe suggested for the purpose, as facile of
construction as its mode of action, bears with it its own
demonstration, consonant to the most simple of hydrosta-
tical laws, and in most situations applicable as a self-acting
principle, is delineated in fig. 3, wherein AB represents the
body of the valve formed of pewter ; being of six inches
height, and having in the centre of its summit a small hole
J-4th of an inch diameter. The upper cylindrical portion
    Vol.  19. No.   74. July  1S04.     AI                     A,

150              On the Freezing      of W~uter      m leaden, Pipes,
A, of four  inches height and two in diameter, screws on
to the funnel-shaped part B, to the extremity of which is
soldered (he straight copper cock C, which is inserted into
any leaden pipe, as DE, (tig. 1.) supplied at its extremity D
from the original forcing-pumps 'of the public water-works,
and emptying itself into the cistern F. ab is a circular piece
of cork of half an inch less diameter than the cylinder A ;
its upper surface is furnished with a leathern covering, and
from the centre of this proceeds a small wooden stem or
slender \vire c, of such length as that, when the cork shutter
rests in its proper situation upon the three projecting pieces
ddd, the top of the wire may just emerge through the ori
fice at A.    Thus,           if,
                          upon opening the stopper or turning
the eock C, water rise into the cylindrical portion of the
valve (owing to the mechanical propulsion of the fluid from
D onwards), the rising of the cork shutter with the fluid
will be perpendicularly directed        the wire so as effectually,
                                                by
to prevent the fluid from escaping at the orifice A*: on the
other hand, when the water ceases to be impelled from D
onwards, and consequently docs not rise through the stop
per   C into A, the cork shutter remains in its former situa
tion, and      free passage
                     a          allowed for air to pass through
                                      is
the open stopper        round the edge of the shutter, as being
                              C
half an inch less in diameter than the cylinder. Thus, the
entrance of the air from A through               into any attached
                                                              C
pipe, will allow the water therein to flow out at any lower
orifice in such annexed tube         which thus emptying itself
                                           ;
remains in that state till the mechanical impulsion of the
fluid      again commenced, that
           is                                       is,
                                           till the water     again      is
turned on        the turncock on the usual day of supply.
                     by
   The connection here applies to every case wherein the
cistern     placed at
                is        lower level than the supplying tube
                                  a
DE, and proves at all times self-acting principle, as bare
                                           a
inspection,              by
                   any one acquainted     with the properties of
the syphon, will convince. But the case            exactly reversedis
rn those situations where the cistern        at   higher level than
                                                         is        a
the supplying tube, as at H.        Here        evident that, when
                                                         it   is
the mechanical impulsion at D             discontinued, the pipe
                                                    is
from G to D will remain full of fluid, although an air-
valve were placed at D, for D         lower than G. Here then
                                               is
  •   It  not iraprob-ible that the lower surface of the cork shutter may be
           is
so mokt in cold weather AS to allow       to be frozen to the resting pieces
                                           it
dd of the cylinder, preventing its rise with the water should        gain, ad
                                                                        it
mittance.   To be sure of its desired action, we mav unscrew the cylinder
and inspect the condition of the apparatus, and,     the cork'bc then frozcr,
                                                          if
easily detach il.
                                                                              we

              indicating Means       for    its Prevention.              151
We have no need of the valve, but in its stead a cock only,
as at e ; for, when the water ceases to flow from D through
G into the cistern H (the cock G still remaining open), it
is plain that if the cock e be opened, the upper syphon DEG
will empty itself at e, the lower orifice of its longest leg,
the air entering at the upper and open cock G allosving of
the same.
   The principle of the whole is too plain to require further
comment j and any person of ordinary ability, acquainted
with the actual course of a pipe, would be at no loss to
apply it to any system of pipes however complicated ; only
remembering that the portion of pipe included between the
street and the cistern must become a syphon, (either by the
application of an air-valve at D when the cistern is at a
lower level, or a cock when at a higher,) air entering at
a higher portion of the pipe, (whether through a valve in
the former instance^ dr the cock G in the latter,) and hence
allowing the contained water to flow out at any aperture
lower than any point or curve formed between*.
   With regard to in-door situations, including the pipes
leading from the cistern downwards to the various apart
ments of the house, I can scarce conceive it requisite to b«
at any pains respecting them, as "the frost must be intense
indeed to freeze the water contained in them, not only on
account of their less exposed situation, but also because the
occasional drawing of water from the cocks at the extremi
ties of the pipe, carries down, by the rushing; motion of the
water, any small particles of ice that may have begun to
form : but in. cold aspects the same principle is easily ap
plicable, placing a cock immediately at the side of the cis
tern, as at f, and an air-valve directly beyond it. By this
disposition you are enabled, by first closing the cock f, and
then opening all the cocks at the extremity, to empty the
pipe either every night on going to rest, or once or twice
during the day, as the rigour of the season and degree of
 exposure may indicate ; but the chief utility of the plan is
the ensuring the constant supply of water into the cistern j
   * Wh;rn the
                  cistern is it a higher level, if an intermediate curve
Should unavoidably fall lower than the level of D the supplying tube, the
pipe must be either divided into two syphons by placing .in air-valve at
D, and a cock at the lowt-st part of the curve as ;<t E (fig. i.), or else the
whole length may be formed into one syphon by placing a stop-cock at D,
and a descending pipe immediately beyond       it,the orifice of which must
be lower thin the level of the intermediate curve E: then, first closing
the stop-cock at D.and opening the loner one g, the syphon GEDg will
empty itself at g, the lower aperture of its longest leg.
                                    M   2                         exclusive

152         On the Freezing    of Water lii If a Jen Pipes,
 exclusive of the advantage it gives us of a command of ,1
 pipe when requiring repair, without being obliecd to empty
 the cistern before the plumber can solder a rupture in the
 tube ; as also the further resource of pouring down hot
 water into the same, through the valve, to melt any ice that
 may have been formed accidentally therein j cylinders of
 ice so contained would be ir.elted by the water, because 'the
 lead encircling such cylinders of ice would conduct the heat
 from the boiling fluid, and the ice, now surrounded by a
 heated body, would gradually receive an augmentation of
 temperature sufficient for its liquefaction.
    Pumps are less frequently found frozen than leaden
 pipes, chiefly because the water in the upper chamber of
 the pump is occasionally renewed and violently agitated by
 the working of the piston at every draught of water, and
 that, perhaps, several times in an hour; and ptirtly because
 the water raised from the well, being of a higher tempera-*
 ture than the external air, requires some time to cool to the
freezing point ; and also in the ease of wooden pumps, the
 thickness of the wood, as a bad conductor of heat, prevents
 any speedy transmission of temperature           from the water to
the surrounding air.
 .  The supply of water through the streets from the public
water-works is very rarely, if ever, obstructed by frost, how
ever intense.       The reason of this hinges on the fact, as
 ascertained    by accurate    observers, that in this country the
temperature      of   the earth at two feet depth does not mate
 rially diminish     throughout the year, and is scarcely ever,
 even in rigorous winters, lower than 40° of Fahr.           This is
 about the depth at which the wooden pipes, running under
 the street, are usually laid.         We have therefore at all
 times a certain supply from them in the severest seasons,
by placing plugs over orifices immediately in the pipes
 themselves : it is only the smaller leaden tubes proceeding
from their sides that are usually frozen, and that not lift
they emerge into such situations as to be unprovided with
 that shelter from the cold which a stratum of earth, of two
 feet in every direction, before a Horded them.
    Mr. Boyle, after a fortnight's hard frost, found the same
to have penetrated only 14 inches depth; and at Moscow
the frost is never known to penetrate, in the most severe
seasons, more than two feet. Hales also found the earth at
two fcLt depth to be unaffected by the continued cold of
a rignrous winter.        Exclusive of the non-conducting qua
lity  of earthy   matters,   there appears to be a source of heat
at about
a  ....   j this depth,
                    '     which  diminishes as we proceed
                                                     '      further
                                                                   i

                  indicating Means                  for its Prevention.           15$
till about                 beyond tbat the temperature cf the
                50 or 80 feet          ;
earth is invariably found to increase, and is supposed to do
so continually as we approach the centre of the earth.,
   The warmth of the sub-stratum of mould in gardens, or
wherever the surface or viciriily abounds with the roots of
vegetables, may, I think, be reasonably expected to exceed,
at times, the temperature of situations not so circumstanced :
ibr, as the roots of vegetables have the power of absorbing
moisture from their vicinity, and this having ever a ten
dency to penetrate toward that point where may prevail the
greatest dryness ; so, in proportion as these roots exhaust the
moisture of the earth immediately surrounding their fibres,
will the aqueous vapour from greater depths be attracted *.
   Hence, whenever extreme drought in the soil aiul super
natant atmosphere is such as to be unfavourable to vegeta
tion, the finely divi'ded aqueous vapour from beneath will
ascend toward the upper vegetable mould ; where jiaving
penetrated to that level which (owing to the non-conduct
ing quality of the earth) can only, as we have seen, be af
fected by the temperature of the air5 namely, the uppermost
stratum of soil within a foot or two of the surface, the va
pour so arising must undergo a condensation agreeable to
the established laws of heat, whereby the before combined
caloric of that vapour, now rendered free, becomes diffused
among the surrounding media, augmenting of course the
temperature of the adjacent earth, and that as frequently in
summer as at other times f. Consequently, wherever there
exists the most frequent cause of dryness in a soil, there
will the rise and condensation of subterranean aqueous va
pour be most frequently found to ensue ; and agreeable
thereto, the eflect must more repeatedly take place in situa
tions where vegetables abound than elsewhere.
   On the contrary, in humid states of the atmosphere, this
water for the support of the vegetable kingdom will be by
priority attracted from the air (dry earth acting -s an hy
grometer), and the effect will be, the soil cannot then have
that warmth imparted to it as formerly, from the two-fold
cause of the moisture of the atmosphere being at a lower
  •     In the driest         if a drinking glass be placed en the ground in
                        season,
an inverted position,  its interior surface will soon be setn covered with
drops of water, from the condensation of these extremely divided vapours
exhaled fiom the earth, and condensed on the cold sides of the slass. The
iluid thus evaporated fro n the earth, Watson and Hales have calculated
to amount to a con&ideiable quantity per hour from a square foot of
ground, even after a drought of some weeks' continuance.
  •)- Hijcs's Suticks,, vol.      i. (7.   p.
                                                M   3                     temperature

  154       On the Freezing   of Water in  leaden Pipes.
  temperature   and in a less divided state than that which is
  attracted from great depths under ground; hence containing
  less combined neat, and being also, in the case of showers,
  applied to the earth and roots already in its fluid state.   In
  the cold seasons of winter the same cause will prevail in a
  yet greater degree ; for, the colder the upper stratum of
 mould, the more copious must be the ensuing condensation.
     Thus, in proportion as the state of the ambient atmosphere
 is more or less favourable to the vegetable process as carried
 on by all the parts of the plant above ground ; so, the greater
  the obstacles here presented to the procedure of the same,
 the more do they require of stimuli around their radical fibres
 to obviate the opposing circumstances in the atmosphere.
 These will be in some measure compensated by the addi
 tional stimulus of heat now imparted around the roots by
 the vaporous condensation alluded to : yet, if the same un
 favourable season be of too long continuance, this under
 ground stimulus will, like all other excessive stimuli, be
 followed by an equal degree of depression on the part of the
 individual plant so circumstanced ; and in this view a hot
 and dry summer, by excessive exhaustion of the vegetable
 powers from root to leaf, must prove more deleterious to
 vegetation than a cold winter.
     From the above premises I beg to draw a conclusion,
 consistent with the established laws of caloric, not less war
 rantable from actual fact than from analogy in another king
dom, and conformable to the ever-prominent uniformity
observable throughout the various operations of nature, that
plants are endowed with the property of indirectly gene
rating in the vicinity of their roots, by their exhaustion of
moisture, and consequent ascent and condensation of aqueous
vapour from beneath, that temperature, which, acting as
a stimulus, and hence enabling them to counteract exter
nally opposing circumstances, proves most favourable to,
 and the natural consequence of, their vegetation, — in the
same manner as the effect of existence is the engendering
of that degree of heat within the animal system which not
only favours the continued performance of the various func
tions of the body, but which increases as the external me
dium is more cold and unfavourable to the living process,
and without which animal life itself would soon terminate
in insensibility, torpitude,, and death.
   Kennington,
May 1 8, 1804.
                                                  XXVIII.    De-

                                 t   155    ]
XXVIII.         Description of a Furnace destined for tiie Lique
    faction of Copal and Amber.            By Professor Tingry *.
  J. hose who have examined in detail the laboratories de
stined for a course of chemistry, may easily form a clear
idea of the construction of this furnace, by recollecting that
employed for separating sulphuret of antimony from its
matrix.        But to render it fit for the object in question re
quires     some   alterations ; by the help of which one may use
it withput inconvenience for the liquefaction of solid resins,
and even for mixing them with drying oils.
     This furnace, a section of which is represented fig. 1.
 Plate II, may be entirely constructed of burnt clay, three
Jarge apertures being made in the lower chamber, A, which
supplies the place of an ash-hole in the common furnaces.
The upper part of these apertures is arched ; and the pillars
or solid parts between them should be as narrow as possible,
in order to enable the artist with facility to extract the li
quefied matter, and even to mix it with the drying oil, if
this kind of varnish be required.
     The upper part, B, or fire-place of the furnace, is sepa
rated from the lower part, A, by a bottom or plate, which
answers the same purpose as a grate in the common furnaces.
This plate has in the middle a circular aperture, the diame
 ter of which corresponds to that of the tube, C, which it
 is destined to receive, and which extends a considerable way
 below it. This plate may either form one piece with the
 furnace or may be moveable. In the latter ca^e it is sup
ported by three projections, or by a circular ledge which
projects inwards. In my furnace this partition is composed
pf an iron plate covered with a coaling of potters' clay an
inch in thickness.          This precaution is indispensably neces
sary, to prevent the heat from penetrating to the lower di
 vision, A.
     The sides of the fire-place, B, are pierced with hofcs an
 inch in diameter, and distant from each other about three
 jnches. These apertures admit air sufficient to maintain
 the caloric (heat) at the degree proper for this kind of ope
 ration. The following are trie proportions of the three parts
 of this furnace, which served me for my experiments, and
 in which I liquefied six ounces of copal in the space of ten
 minutes, without altering its colour in a sensible manner.
    • From his
                 work entitled "  The Painter and PatniibcT'i Guide," Eng-
 iiih edition.
                                      M   4                          Total

                        Description of a Furnace
                                               ----
158
                                                                Inches.
     Total   height of the furnace -
     Height of the lowerchamher, A, including the bot
                  ..... ,____..
        tom, which was an inch in thickness - - -        11
                     ,---------
     Height of the upper chamber, B, or of the fire
       place,                                          -
                                                          5£
     Diameter, taken at the upper interior edge of the
                  -------------7
        fire-place, B                                     gj
     Diameter of the same, taken at the bottom or par
        tition
   This part decreases in diameter 2^ inches, tapering to
wards the lower part ot the furnace, A.
   The tube, C, is conical at the upper extremity and cyr
lindrical towards the bottom : it is 9i inches in length,,                -l£
in diameter at the top, and 24 towards the middle. Both
ends of      are open.
             it
   The tube, C,        isplaced in the aperture formed in the mid
dle of the partition, in such        manner as to rise
                                     a                    3 or  4 inches
into the fire-place. The place where            it joins to the parti
tion   isluted with clay, to prevent the ashes or small coals
from falling down.
   When this arrangement             made, the net, D, (see fig. 2.)
                                     is
made of brass wire worked very open,            is placed in the tube.
It hns the shape of funnel, the upper edge of which
                            a                                             is
made fast to      aring of wire uf the same diameter as the upper
part  of the   tube, C.       The decrease in the diameter of the
tube C. conduces to the stability of this net, and the conical
form of the latter prevents         from coming into contact with
                                     it
the lateral parts of the tube, which           is
                                               a   matter of great im
portance    to  preserve    the copal  from    too  great alteration      by
the heat.
   The copal      is placet! on this metallic filter      in pieces not
larger than       small nut, and the whole
                  a                                  isclosed tip with
the iron plate or cover, E, an inch in thickness, taking
care to lute the joining with clay, to prevent all communi
cation with the exterior air.
   A shallow dish or capsule,             F,
                                          filled with water, (fig. 3.)
is placed under the bottom of the tube, C, in such              a  man
ner that the tube      is immersed in the water two or three lines.
   The fire-place, B, being filled with burning coals so as
to rise above the iron cover of the tube, the first impression
of the heat on the copal         announced
                                is              by   kind of crackling,
                                                     a
the consequence oi its dilatation, which makes             it  split into
small pieces. This noise         is sign of beginning liquefaction,
                                     a
         indeed takes place soon after.          A small iron pallet-
                                                                    knife

         for   the Liquefaction   of Copal and Amler.            1 57
       ^ terminating
                      in an elbow is introduced under the tube,
and moved in such a manner as to cause the liquefied part of
the copal to fall down into the water, and to bring it under
the solid form towards the edge of the capsule.             When the
operation is finished, the copal is spread out on dry linen
cloths, or on unsized paper, to dry ; it is then piled up and
exposed to a gentle heat, to deprive it of all its humidity.
    While the copal is falling down there is separated a very
small portion of oil, which remains fluid after the opera
tion. It floats on the water as well as the copal, and gives
to the latter a greasy appearance.           But when the tube is of
sufficient length there will be no necessity for immersing the
end of it in the water, or even for receiving the matter in the
water ; but, in this case, a kind of smoke will escape, which
may be offensive to the artist. The essential point is to gra
duate the fire in such a manner as not to alter the colour of
the copal.      When a very thick smoke issues throu»h the
lower aperture of the tube ; when the latter is very red ; and
when the drops which fall into the water rise into bladders
and form small explosions, there is reason to conclude that
the fire is too violent.
    I have succeeded in composing varnish with fat oil, in the
same operation, by substituting for the water drying oil m a
state of ebullition, and maintaining it in that state by means
of a mass of very hot iron, which served it as a supporter.
The mixture of the liquefied matter is facilitated by means
 of a spatula, with a knee at the extremity ; and the boiling
essence is afterwards added.          The inconvenience of placing
 under the apparatus       a  volatile  and highly inflammable     oil
may be readily      conceived.
    This new mean enables the artist to compose          a    very du
 rable varnish, very little coloured, and superior to copal var
nish composed with drying oil, as the composition of the
 latter requires processes which alter the essential qualities of
 the substances that form the basis of it.
     For operations on larger scale the dimensions of the fur
                        a
 nace may be changed     ;    but in this case it   will be proper to
 elevate the fire-place, properly so called, on      a   kind of iron
 tripod,    as represented   at G,   fig. 4,  in order that the woik-
 man may be more at his ease.         I   must how ever always insist
 on the advantage of employing, in the process, doses oi only
 four and six ounces.
     The valuable advantages which accompany this new me
  thod will be perceived when trial has been made of the var-
                                  a
         composed with essence of turpentine^ which results
                                                                  from

"
    158   Furnace for the Liquefaction      of Copal and Amler.
    from it. Copal thus prepared has properties different from,
    and more extensive than, those communicated to it by the
    common method ; and it has not that dark brown colour
    •which it .acquires by too high a temperature,    and too long
    exposure to heat.    Immersed here in an atmosphere of ca
    loric (heat), it receives the impression only at the surface,
    which soon yielding to the power of that agent escapes un
    der the liquid state from the continuance of its action ; new
    surfaces are successively subjected to the same effect ; and
    the final result is copal as little altered as possible, and
    which can have undergone but a very slight modification in
    its constituent principles : the force only of the connexion
    which existed between its parts, and which opposed so
    great an obstacle to the solutions proposed to be effected, is
    diminished.     In a word, it is possible to compose fat copal
    varnish almost colourless, by making use of oil as little co
    loured as possible; such as that of pinks prepared in leaden
    vessels, according to Watin's method.
        In like manner also this copal, simply modified, may in
    crease the solidity of alcoholic varnish in a more direct man
    ner than when it is employed without any preliminary pre
    paration.    A second liquefaction would perhaps give it the
    property of being soluble in alcohol in greater quantity; but
    there would be reason to apprehend that the alteration in its
    principles, carried too far, would give it no superiority over
     those resins which are most soluble in that liquid.
    To prepare Copal Varnish with Essence of Turpentine, with'
                 oni any 'mter mediate Substance.
       Take Copal liquefied, according to my method, 3 ounces.
              Essence of turpentine 20 ounces.
       Place the mattrass containing the oil in a balneum mnriz,
    and when the water is warm add the pulverized copal in
    small doses.    Keep stirring the mixture, and add no more
    copal till the former be incorporated with the oil. If the
    oil, in consequence of its particular disposition, can take up
    three ounces of     it,
                         add    little more; but stop when the
                                  a                               li
    quid   becomes  nebulous     then leave the varnish at rest.
                                  ;                                If
    it be too thick, dilute     with
                                  it   a little warm essence, after
    having heated  it in the balneum manse.        When cold, filter
    itthrough   cotton, and  preserve  itin a  clean bottle.
       This varnish has good consistence, and
                              a                     is  as free from
    colour as the best alcoholic varnish.        When extended in
    one stratum over smooth wood, which has undergone nq
                              1
                                                         preparation,

                    Theories     of Crystallography.              lag
preparation, it forms a very brilliant glazing, which, in the
course of two days in summer, acquires all the solidity that
may be required.
   The same essence employed with copal of two fusions,
that is to say, copal liquefiea a second time, takes up a third
more than in the former case.       But it produces very little
effect on copal not prepared.
   The facility which attends the preparation of this varnish
by the new method here indicated, will admit of its being
applied to all coloured grounds which require solidity,
pure whites alone excepteu.      Painted boxes, therefore, and
all small articles, coloured or not coloured, where it is
required to make the veins appear in all the richness of their
tones, call for the application of this varnish, which pro
duces the most beautiful effect, and which is more durable
than turpentine varnishes composed with other resinous
substances.
  XXIX.       Parallel of ROME DE L'lstE's and            the   Alle
              HAUY'S Theories of Crystallography.
       DEAR SIR,
                            To    Mr.   Tilloch.
Oo   early as in the first number of the Philosophical Maga
zine you turned your attention to the Abb6 Haiiy's theory
of crystallography : you seemed to predict that his labours
might lead on some future day to deep philosophical re
search.   An erroneous opinion, however, has been pretty
generally propagated in this country as to the similarity of
the systems of Rome de 1'Isle and of the Abbe Haiiy, which
gave rise to the enclosed paper.      With leave of the author,
the Abbe Buee, who had written it in French for a friend
of his, I send you a translation of it. It may awaken the
energies of the learned public ; and it may be gratifying to
you to find that the science of crystallography, as treated
 feythe Abbe Haiiy, will probably lead to the most philoso
phical results.   May       therefore, request the insertion of
                            I,
}t in one of your ensuing numbers           ?
                             I    remain, sir, yours, &c.
Welbeck-street,   No, 10.                              R. CLIFFORD.
                                                            A Letter

    16O                  Parallel of   Rome de   I' Isle's   and
A    Letter from the Al)U BUEE to Mr. * * *, on M. ROMR
-
     DE L'ISLE'S and tlie Able HAUY'S Theories of Crystallo
     graphy.
                SIR,
   IN consequence of your request, I send you the parallel of
the two theories of crystallography which seem to divide mi
neralogists in this country; those of Mr. Rome de 1'Isle and
of the Abbe Haiiy. You are perfectly acquainted with the
former theory, but nearly a stranger to the latter. Having
lived for six-and-thirty years in 'habits of intimacy with the
Abbe, I dwell with pleasure on his works, and will do my
•utmost to satisfy your curiosity.
   To Mr. de 1'Isle is due the merit of having called the
attention of naturalists to that neglected branch of mine
ralogy, crystallography ; of having discovered     that that
branch, though neglected, was perhaps      the most  interest
ing part of mineralogy, and the only part which could
raise      it           of a correct science ; in short, of hav
                to the dignity
ing             order,
          discovered    by numerous observations, as inge
nious as new, where a Cronstedt, a Bergman, a Buffbn, or
a Kirwan, could perceive nothing but confusion ; and thus
seemed to rescue nature from the charge of caprice, almost
imputed to             it,
                 because great mineralogists had neglected tQ
study its unerring laws.
   It was exclusively reserved to the Abbe Haiiy to point out,
to explain, and apply those laws.       He demonstrated where
De 1'Isle affirmed, lie discovered those hidden facts, which
he has since shown to be the mathematical consequences of
facts observed      De 1'Isle. If the latter furnished
                             by                               part        a
of the materials, the Abbe has augmented and employed
them.
   The discoveries of these two writers force me to subdi
vide crystallography into two distinct parts         descriptive,;
and philosophical    and under these two heads
                              :                      will rapidly
                                                               I
describe the labours of each author.
   Descriptive. The most important part of Mr. de 1'Isle's
work consists in his crystallographical tables.       In each of
these tables (seven in number) he describes          oue of the
principal forms assumed                by
                                 crystals and then delineates
                                                   ;
the different modifications of which that form           suscepti    is
ble,       by
         means of different truncations (troncatures}       as he
                                                     '
                                                                          ,
calls them.
   For elucidation, take      cube the primitive form of the
                                   a
second table.    A cube,          known, has
                                   it   is        faces,     solid
                                                             6            8
angles, and 12 edges.      If the cube be truncated in pa-                    a
                                                             rajlcl

         tlie Allc  Hauy's     Theories   of Crystallography.      161
rallel to one of its faces, a rcctanglcd paralldopipcdon will
be produced, and the equality of the faces will be destroyed.
If   the eight solid angles of the cube be struck off, eight ne\v
faces will replace the eight solid angles ; and in place of six
sides we shall have fourteen.           If the twelve edges be taken
off,   twelve   new   faces  will   succeed   the straight lines, and
the solid will have eighteen sides. Such are De PIsle's sim
ple truncations. They may be then combined with each
other, and made more or less deep : hence an immense va
riety of new figures. But these new forms again may be
truncated in the directions either of their faces, solid an
   les, or edges ; and these new truncations, more or less
s eep, called by DC I'lslc sur-troncatures, may also be com
bined with each other. Here the forms must multiply to
infinity, and their boundless numbers will soon bury the
primitive cube in oblivion.
     It must not be supposed that nature has furnished us with
this infinite series of forms ; indeed Mr. dc I'fsle in his ta
bles has only mentioned those he had observed, witfi some
few additional supposititious figures, of which several have
 been since discovered to exist.
     This ingenious naturalist has given us, as I have already
 said, seven crystallographical tables.          In the first, he de
 scribes the tetraedron and its modifications ; in the second,
the cube ; in the third, the rectangular octaedron; in. the
 fourth, the rhomboidal parallelopipedon; in the fifth, the
 rhomboidal octaedron ; in the sixth, the dodecaedron with
 triangular faces ; and to each are subjoined their respec
 tive modifications.        The object of the, seventh table is to
 point out     certain    modifications    of the octaedron and pa
 rallelopipedon,     whether    rectangular or rhomboidal.       Mates
 accompany       each   table,  where    the figures are drawn, and
 in the observations and notes on them arc to be found the
 measures of the principal angles.
     These crystallographical tables exhibit only general repre
 sentations of solids, which Mr. de 1'Isle in the course of
 his work applies to the different crystals which had already
 been discovered, and fallen within his observation. His work
 consists of three parts.        In the first he treats of saline crys
 tals ; in the second, of stony (picrreux) crystals ; and in the
 third, of metallic crystals. Those of the first class are arti
  ficial ; those of the two latter classes are natural, and sub
  divided into genera, species, and varieties.
      When treating; of a species or of a variety, he refers his
  reader to the table where the figure of that species or variety
  is to be found, and he then enumerates every thino; relating
              4                                                       to

 ifl«            Parallel of Romi:  de I' Isle* s and
to minerals assuming that crystalline form.            But I cannot
terminate   this  sketch  better than  by    the  following extract
from the Abbe Haiiy's Treatise on Mineralogy.
    " In short, Rome dc 1'Isle reduced the study of crystal
lography to principles more exact, and more consistent with
observation. He classed together, as much as he was able,
crystals or the same nature. From among the different forms
belonging to each species he selected one which appeared
to him to be the most proper, on account of its simplicity,
for the primitive form ; and then supposing it to be trun
cated in different manners, he deduced the other forms, and
established a certain gradation or series of passages from the
primitive form to that of polyedrons, which would scarcely
appear to have any connection with it. To the descriptions
and figures which he gave of the crystalline forms, he added
the mechanical measurement of the principal angles, and
he showed (a most essential point) that these angles were
constantly the same in each variety. In a word, his crys
tallography is the fruit of immense labour, by its extent ;
almost entirely new in its object ; and of great value for its
utility."    (Vol. i. p. 17.)
    The Abbe Haiiy in his Treatise on Mineralogy embraces
a far greater extent than Mr. de I'lsle.         His mineralogy is
not only descriptive, but it is physical, chemical, and geo
metrical.     In the persuasion that a mineral cannot be welt
described, nor even in many cases recognized, unless its
            chemical, and geometrical characters are clearly
Chysical,
  lid down, the Abbe never omits any one of those charac
ters, when ascertained, and exposes with the most scrupu
lous exactness, every thing relating to them that observation
has authenticated.      He has bestowed particular attention to
the electrical and magnetic phsenomena, and has enriched
the science with a multitude of new and curious observa-'
t ions.   He attentively examined the property of double re
fraction \\hich several transparent minerals enjoy ; and here
again he has extended the boundaries of science.             A few
minerals were known          to possess this property, and the
Abbe has discovered it in several where it had never been
surmised.
    When we consider that writers on mineralogy hare hi
therto grounded their systems exclusively, some on the
exterior characters, others on the chemical properties of
minerals ; and that the Abbe really has, pursuant to his plan,
(see in the beginning of the volume of plates, La distribution
metkodiaue des mineratix^ par classes, ordres, genres et cs-
peces, The methodical distribution of minerals into classes,
                                                             order?,

          the Able Ha'iiy's   Theories of Crystatlograpliy.   163
orders, genera and species,) united all that has hitherto been
discovered on mineralogy, without tailing into that confu
sion which has ever been imputed to other mincralogical
writers, we are almost astonished at his success.
     ," To class mineral bodies ;" " to furnish the means of
discovering to which class, genus, and species a mineral
 under examination belongs," are the two great problems
 which the Abbe Haiiy proposes for solution.
      He solves the first in following Bergman's method (found
 ed on chemical properties), much improved by the immense
 progress which chemical analysis has made since the days
 of that great chemist. In the solution of the second he
 follows Werner's method (grounded on exterior characters),
 but corroborated by a multitude of new experiments, easily
 made, and brought to a surprising degree of correctness by
 the Abbe's own labours, on the forms of crystals. But I
 perceive that the immensity of matter contained in this
 treatise is leading me from that point which I had particu
 larly in view, I mean crystallography.
      la the description of crystals the Abbe cmplovs three -
 different means.        1st, He draws their figure ; heroes not
  give crystallographical tables, as Rome de 1'Isle, which are
  only general representations, but draws separately each spe
  cies and variety.     Every form given in the plates has been
  examined by himself; he has calculated every angle, and,
  nevertheless, his plates contain one-third more figures than
  Del'Isle's tables. 2d, Hemakesuse of symbolic signs, than
  which nothing can be more simple, and which were invented
  not to recall the form of the crystal to the mind, but the laws
  by which it had been produced. Yet I have met with per
  sons who were so accustomed to these signs, that at the first
  sight of them they could immediately figure to themselve.?
   the form of the corresponding crystals.         These signs can
   also be spoken, and much circumlocution          in consequence
   avoided.    3d, A significative nomenclature, subdivided into
   general and particular. -The general is for the minerals, and
   comprises only substantives ; the particular for the crystals,
   and is entirely composed         of adjectives.   He studiously
   avoided introducing new names, and nevertheless has been
   obliged to introduce many, where new substances, names
   capable of giving false impressions, or others void of signi
    fication, and unsupported by long usage, required it. He
    then substituted names taken from the Greek; a language,
    he says, that eminently enjoys the faculty of combining -se
    veral words together, so as to form one representing Con
    cisely the object to be named.       The adjectives used in the
                                                            nomen-

 J 64            Parallel of Rome    de   I 'Isle's   and
  nomenclature of the crystals also allude to some remarkable
   circumstance of the crystalline form.
      I shall now proceed to philosophical crystallography,
  which might be called the philosophy of mineralogy.              It
   does not consist in searching for the primary causes or phae-
  nomena ; nothing can be less philosophical than such a re
  search ; primary causes will ever be beyond the reach of the
  human mind. The immortal Newton was the first to point
  oilt to uSj by the method followed in his admirable book of
  the Principia, that the only true philosophical way of treat
  ing a physical science, or of explaining a natural fact, was
  to demonstrate that it was the mathematical consequence of.
  a general law, grounded on an aggregate of facts already ob
  served and capable of correct calculation.          If any one of                 '
  these conditions be wanting, we immediately launch out
  into hypothesis; explanations become vague; and, however
  much we may be persuaded of the truth of our assertions,
  we can acquire no certainty.
      Let us apply these principles to our two writers. De 1'Isle,
  in declaring that the various forms observed in crystals of
  the same substance are only modifications of one constant
  primitive form, certainly announced a most important truth.
  It was a flash of genius ; but in a philosophical inquiry, to
  prove it,  and not simply to say    it,   was the necessary step.
  On the first inspection of his crystallographical tables,                    a
  student   is  tempted to think that important truth demon
  strated
        j    but, ona     closer examination, the impression                   is
  done away. The same order pervades every table. By slight
  passages the student   is    led from the simpler to the more
  compound     forms,   and  after every passage    tempted to say,
                                                      is
 This can only be modification of the primitive. Then when
                   a
 the real crystals and the figures of the tables are compared
 together, and all those of the same species (with         very few
                                                                a
 exceptions) are found in the same table, how easy                to it   is
 persuade    ourselves  that  nature  must operate         by
                                                       similar pas
 sages when producing the various forms of crystals             and      !
 the primitive of the table before us must be the primitive
 of the crystal under examination. In            a word,        the it   is
 most simple form   ;    and first impressions greatly strengthen
 the illusion.      If persuasion was the sole object of philo
 sophy, De I'lsle would have been         a powerful philosopher               ;
but philosophy must convince, demonstrate, and wrest con
sent, however violently opposed.            An enemy must not,
therefore, be able to make use of the same arms, or adduce
the same proofs, to establs'i   a    contrary opinion. Neverthe
less, such would be the case with Mr, de 1'Isle's tables, and
                                                                the

           the Alle  Hauy's    Theories of Crystallography.    1 65
   the application    of them. For it is an incontestable fact,
  that by a series   of arbitrary truncations we may pass insen
  sibly from any given form to any other. Grounded on this
  principle, and seconded by Mr. de PIsle's ingenuity, any
  ibrm may become primitive, and any other deduced from
  it. Now, as the combinations are infinite, a multitude of
  tables may be constructed ; forms of the same species may
  be , dispersed in different tables 5 the most simple of each
  table will be the primitive ; therefore forms of the same spe
  cies will have different primitives,     but when by the same
 principle    both sides of  the question  can be proved, nothing
 is proved.
      To say the most simple form must be the primitive, is
 an illusion ; for we know not what is the most simple for
 nature.       With our feeble organs and confined senses we
 can form no judgment of simple when the operations of
 nature are in question.        Nature embraces the entire uni
 verse ; her laws are simple ; but the combinations made
 according to those laws are unbounded, therefore compli
 cated.
     Let us not forget, however, that the idea of truncations,
 and the idea of taking the most simple form for the primi
 tive, are so natural, that they must have been the first to
 present themselves to the man who was opening the career.
 "   Often," says the Abbe Haiiy, (vol. i. p. 14.) " a more
 compound form only differs from a more simple one by
 certain little faces, which may be produced by sections ei
 ther at the solid angles, or on the edges of the simpler form.'*
 And in a note he says r " This was the observation which
 gave the celebrated Rome de 1'Isle the idea of his system of
truncations, that he might successively deduce from each
other the different varieties of crystalline forms assumed by
the same substance."
 . Mr. de PIsle terminates the introduction to his work by
certain axioms, as he styles them> the 2d and 1 6th of which
are as follow :
     II. " Every angular polyedron, or every crystallized sub
stance, is a SALT in the most extended acceptation of that
term."
    XVI. "     Every saline substance whose constituent parts
are perfectly saturated and combined, affects the cubic form,
or its inverse the octaedron ; whereas the salts which are
not neuter, or whose constituent parts are not exactly com
bined, affect either the prismatic or the rhomloldal forms."
    I need scarcely observe that, to treat such axioms only as
doubtful, would be treating them kindly. The other axioms
    Vol.  19.  No. 74. July   1604.     N                     are

                 Parallel of Rome  de  I'Isle's  an&
are matters   of fact from which    he draws no consequences ;
and indeed     it would have been difficult for him to have
drawn any.
    The Abbe Haiiy does not undertake to prove, generally,
that among the different crystalline forms of the same sub
stance, one of them is the primitive.         But he produces from
each crystal that primitive form which is always similar in
similar substances.      He demonstrates it analytically and
synthetically : by an analys is which might be called minera-
logical analysis, and pointed out by nature herself; by a
synthesis hitherto the property of mathematicians, but here
supported by the general laws which his analysis has re
vealed to him.       The constant accord found between this
synthesis,   and  daily observation, is a proof of the exactness
of his method.
    Two facts were the foundation of his theory.
    1st, Tn all times, jewellers and lapidaries have remarked
that stones are easier cut in some certain directions than in
others.
    2d. Whoever has been in the habit of seeing natural
crystals must have observed that, when their forms are well
determined, they are always terminated bv plane surfaces.
"   Thus," says the Abbe, " those soft outlines, and that
roundness so frequent in the animal and the vegetable king
doms, where thev are inherent to the organization and con
tribute even to the elegance of the forms, indicate, on the
contrary, in minerals, a want of perfection . The charac
teristic of true beauty in minerals is the straight line, and it
was with truth that Rome de l'lsle declared that line to be
the peculiar property of the mineral kingdom ." The first fact
suggested the mineraiogical analysis, and the second furnish
ed him with the laws on which he grounded his synthesis.
    Inquiries on the first fact.
    l3t, All crystals that can be split by mean1; of instruments
offer to the view, if split in certain directions, plane and
smooth surfaces.       If divided in other directions, the frac
ture is rugged. I use the word >plit, and not sailed or ail,
as the sections of the crvstal are not to be obtained by slow
and continued efforts, but by sudden shocks.              Patience,
dexteri'v, and habit enabled the Abbe to split a great num
ber of crystals ; in all he discovered plane smooth surfaces,
when split in certain directions, but when in other direc
 tions the fracture was always rugged and irregular.           I re
 quest, sir, your attention to this important fact ; it is fun
damental, and the more important, as several pcrsrins of
much general information have neglected to attend to it,'
                                    •-     .'              •
            3                                                   and

        the Alile Hauy's      Theories  of Crystallography.       167
'and in consequence have supposed the whole of this theory
to be grounded on hypothesis.          It would be equally errone
 ous to confound these sections of crystals with De ITsle's
truncations.      The latter, indeed, warns his readers that, by
the word truncations, he wishes only to figure the appear
ance of the crystal -examined.       They are not, therefore, real,
but only a means of warping the imagination to the exterior
form of the crystal, and are by their nature only descrip
tive. The Abbe Haiiy's sections are real, and are poin'ed
-out to the observer by the interior structure of the crystals ;
 they are experimental.
    2d, The plane smooth surfaces obtained by the above me
thod are respectively parallel to 3, 4, or 6 planes. The
 mutual inclination of these planes to each other is con
 stant in crystals of the same substance, \\ hatcver may be
the exterior form of the crystal.         Native antimony, phos
 phate of lead, and quartz, seem to show an appearance of
more than 6 planes, and live Abbe Haiiy leans to the opi
nion of only 5 planes in some cases ; but as these are ex
ceptions to the .general rale, and would only tend to com
plicate this statement, I shall take no further notice of
them.
    Let us suppose the smooth surfaces to be only parallel
•to 3 planes,     or, in other words, that the substance will
only split  in  three  directions. In that case, the sections can
only produce paralldopipedon, whose nature is determined
                a
by the mutual inclinations of the planes to each other.            If
the planes are perpendicular, it will be rectangular, &c.
    We next suppose the smooth surfaces to be parallel to 4
planes.     Here a distinction arises, whether 3 of these
planes   have  a common intersection, or nut ; and it must be
remembered that, if the 4 planes have a common intersec
tion, no solid can be produced ; as they can neither bound
nor include a space.       If, therefore, 3 of the 4 planes have a
common intersection, the splittings will ptoduce either
 1 hexaedral prism,or3 parallelopipedfons,      which will be simi
lar or dissimilar, according to the similarity or dissimilarity
of inclination of the planes, or 1 triangular prism. On the
contrary, if the 4 planes only intersect each other, two and
two, there will be produced either l octaedron, or 4 paral-
lelopipedons, or 1 tetraedron.
    Lastly, let us suppose the smooth surfaces to be parallel
to 6 planes ; then there arise an immense number of cases.
But we will for the present confine ourselves to the only
case that has hitherto been observed in nature*-— where the
          •                      N 2                    intersection

 168              Parallel of   Rome de  I' Isle's and
intersection of the planes is two and two. Then we obtain
either 1 dodecaedron, with pentagonal, quadrilateral or tri
angular faces, according to the sections made ; or 15 oc-
 taedrons, or 20 parallelopipedons, or J 5 tetraedrons. It
may be proper to observe here that, though the sections pa
rallel to the 6 planes may be clearly indicated, nevertheless,
it rarely happens they can all be executed ; but it will suffice
for the purposes of geometry, that they be clearly indicated
to render the consequences         drawn from them mathemati
cal I v correct.
    Having laid down these premises, let us proceed to the
dissection of a crystal of carbonate of lime (the spath cal-
caireof De PIsle), whose primitive form is a rhomboid, or
a parallelopipedon bounded by rhombs.              Hitherto sections
have only been obtained in the three directions parallel to its
 faces,    if these sections be directed so as to always pass
through the centre of two opposite faces, they will produce
8 rhrinboids equal to each other, and similar to the ori
ginal one. The same operation may be repeated on each of
these 8 rhomboids, and continued so long as the snbstance
remains ca> Donate of lime, that is to say, to be a combination
of 55 parts of lime, 34 of carbonic acid, and 1 1 parts of
water of crystallization (see Bergman) . But this division of
 the crystal into similar solids has a term, beyond which we
 should cou.e to the smallest particles of the body, which
 could not be divided wi hunt chemical decomposition, that
is to say, without an alteration in the proportions of lime,
 carbonic acid, and water. These last particles, which arc still
 rhomboids, are what the Abb6 Haiiy calls integrant parti
cles of the carbonate of lime.          In the supposition, there
fore, that a rhomboid of this substance can only be divided
in three directions, by sections parallel to the faces, it is
 evident the integrant particles must be rhomboids.
     If a crystal can be divided by sections in more directions
 than three, what will be the form of the integrant particle?
 For example, in the phosphate of lime (the chrysolite of
De l'lsle), where the sections are parallel to 4 planes, 3 of
 which have a common intersection. According to what
 has been said above, these seciioris can produce either 1
 hexaedral prism, or 3 paiulLlopipcdons,             or 1 triangular
 prism.     It is 'ivk'ent  that, bv carrying;   the division accord
 ing to those sections to its great?;.! length, either the last
 hexaedral prism, or the last 3 parallelopipedons, or the last
 triangular Dri*. , wilt be produr<d.       A e these la-it solids the
 integrant ^.uiUci^s ;    are  each  ol them    so 5 or is there only
                                                                  one

         the   Alle Hauij's       Tlieories
                                        of Crystallography .   160
one   of them entitled to     that denomination ; and if only one,
which of    them ?   My answer is. Only one of them, and
that one the triangular prism ; which mav be proved thus :
    It cannot be denied that the integrant particle is that lit
tle solid which contains the least possible quantity of the
body, without affecting the chemical composition of the
substance.       This granted, let us suppose the hexaedral
prism to be the integrant particle.         In that supposition the
last triangular prism must contain the last hexaedral prism,
and is equal to the latter more three triangular prisms ; or,
in other words, to nine similar triangular prisms, while the
hexaedral prism only contains six. But the last triangular
 prism, and the last hexaedral prism, each contain an exact
proportion, and therefore a similar proportion, of chemical
 component parts ; therefore their differences also contain an
 exact proportion.      But it is impossible to conceive how their
 differences can contain the exact proportion, unless each of
 the three little triangular prisms also contain it ; they must
 therefore contain   it,   and each of them must be an integrant
 particle;    therefore   the hexaedral prism cannot be one            :
 neither can the parallelopipedons be integrant particles, as
 the same arguments will stand good against them, which
 have been applied to the hexaedraf prism; therefore the tri
 angular prism must be the integrant particle; therefore the'
 sections producing the hexaedral prism cannot lead to the
 integrant particle therefore all sections, though perfectly
                     ;
 practicable in crystals, will not lead to the integrant particle.
     " The forms of the integrant particles," says the Abbe
  (vol.i.  p. 30.), "may be reduced to three        :the tetraedron,
 or themos't simple of pyramids; the triangular prism, or the
 most simple of prisms and the parallelopipLdon, or the
                              ;
 most simple of solids having parallel faces two and two and      ;
 as four faces are necessary to circumscribe        space,
                                                    a        it  evi
                                                                  is
 dent that the above three forms, in which the number of laces
 are successively 4,     5,  and     are again in this point of view
                                    6,
 the most simple posible."
     The phosphate of lime or chrysolite       is
                                               a  substance that has
  given  rise to much   curious   anecdote.   Itshows    what state.
                                                        in        a
 the Abbe Haiiy found the mineralogical nomenclature, and
  points out the accuracy of his analytical method. Achard,
a   chemist at Berlin, had analysed the chrysolite, and pub
 lished that    it   contained of silex 15 parts, aluiwinc 64j
  lime 17, and of iron l. This startled the celebrated Vau-
  quelin, who had seen Klaproth's analysis of the chrysolite-
  (the apatite of Werner), containing of lime 55. parts, and ok"
  phosphoric acid 45 (probably the water of crystailiaation            is
  added to the acid) .     A   Frenchman of the name of Launoy
                                   N     3                       smt.

1 TO                 Parallel of Rome       de   I' Isle's   and
sent from Spain a quantity of this substance to Paris : some
of itwas purchased by the Ecole des Miies, and Vauquelin
was desired to-analyse it. The latter soon suspected Achard
had been misled by the name, and had not obtained the pro
per subs'ance; a mistake the more easily made, as, says Vau
quelin,
        " the name of chrysolite was given to a great variety of
stones, such as the peridot, the chry sober             il,
                                              the olivine (since
found' to be the same as the peridot), and in general to stones
having yellow colour."
        a                      He observed that the chrysolite
 sent from Spain contained liineand phosphoric acid. "            had
no sooner made this discovery," says he, " than
                                                                        I
                                                            inquiredI
of Abbe Hauy whether he had compared the integrant par
ticles of the chrysolite with those of the apatite or crystal
lized phosphate of lime.       He answered me that he had not
made the comparison, but that he would get his papers on
 primitive forms," (this was four years before the publication
 of his work) " see what notes he- had made on each of those
 substances, a, id immediately compare them together when               ;
with pleasure he found that there was not the least variation
between them'. Thus had the Abbe Haiiy discovered, by
the help of geometry alone, that which          confirmed
                                                        I        che    by
mical analvsis and this satisfactory accord between two
                     ;
 sciences apparently so distant from each other, while secu
ring each other's steps, serves also to show the certainty of
 the principles on which they are grounded." —Journal des
 Mines, xxxvii. p. 21.
    A more singular anecdote         what took place with respect
                                       is
to the emerald and the bcril.           Vauquelin had analysed
 the emerald of Peru, and read the result of            at    sitting
                                                               it   a
 ot the Ecole des Mines, which                   is
                                           preserved   in  the  jour
nal, (No. xxxviii'.          p.
                          96.)  viz.  ofsiiex64,    of alumine    29,
 oxide of chrome 3, of lime          and of volatile substance
                                       J
                                       ,                                     2
                                                                             ;
I  have neglected decimals.      Soon after he discovered        new    a
 earth, wh.ch he called the glucine, and gives the following
 account of     to the National Institute: — "The Abbe Haiiy
                it
having observed       perfect conformity between the structure,
                         a
the hardness, and the weight of the beril and the emerald,
 pressed me    few months back to make an analysis of these
                a
 two substances, to know whether they contained the same
 principle?, and in similar proportions. In the result, the fact
that will most interest the Institute       the discovery of new
                                                   is                   a
earth, &c. &c." — {Annates de Qlvjmie, vol.xxvi. p. 157.)
 I    am certain, sir,       will give you no less pleasure to
                                  it
learn that Vauquelin, in consequence of this discoverv, made
au addition to the paper read at the Ecole des Mines, begin
ning thus " Since the reading of the above paper, having
            :
d:.cu\t:ed anew eaith intheberilj and as this stone, ac
                                                             cording

          the Albi Hauy's    Theories of Crystallography.    1-71:
cording to the observations made by Haiiy, contained sub
stances similar to the emerald ; I have in that point of view
 made a new analysis of this latter stone :" and the former,
 analysis was immediately corrected, and the 29 parts of
 alumine became 16 parts of alumine and 13 of a new earth..
 I hope, sir, it is not too much to say that, on this occasion,
a new earth was discovered, if not by, at least in consequence
of, a geometrical analysis.
    But to return to our subject. The abbe' makes a distinction
between the integrant particle and the primitive form. The
former, as I have said, is that last particle, which, pre
serving an exact proportion of the component parts, contains
the least number of those parts ; it is the last term of mine-
ralogical analysis. The primitive form, on the contrary, is its'
 first result, and, retaining the exact proportion of the com
 ponent parts, contains the greatest number of those parts. It
is easy to see, in the case above mentioned of the phosphate
of lime, that the hexaedral prism will be the primitive form,
precisely for the reasons adduced to show that it is not the
integrant particle.    Though the Abbe does not decidedly
define the integrant particle, as containing the minimum of
space under the maximum of surface, and the primitive form,
as containing the maximum of space under the minimum
of surface, the inclination of the intersecting planes being
the same ; nevertheless he makes a remark that authorizes
the above definitions (which, sir, you will observe, are mine,
lest any fault be found with them).       He says the dbdecae-
 dron with rhomboidal faces, which is the primitive form of
 the garnet (grenat), contains the maximum of space under
 the minimum of surface ; and if it be cut .into two equal and
similar parts, it will present the same form as the bottom
of the cell of the honey-comb, which has the similar pro
perty.
    An objection might be taken on the cuivre pyriteux and
the cuivre gris, or the yellow and gray copper ore of Kirwan,
 the Abbe mentioning the regular tetraedron as their primi
 tive form, and not the octaedron as in other cases.        The
 reason may be, that all the crystalline forms of these sub
stances which he describes are slight modifications of the
regular tetraedron.
    "The primitive forms hitherto observed," says the Abbe
Haiiy, " are reduced to G ; the parallelopipedon, the octae
dron, the tetraedron, the regular hexaedral prism, the do-:
decaedron bounded by rhombs all equal and similar, and the
dodecaedron with triangular faces, and formed by two right
pyramids united base to base."
                               N4                             He

1 72              On cutting Screws by Means                   of
   He also makes a distinction between integrant particle*
and sulitractive particles ; these latter are always parallelo-
pipedons.     I shall speedily mention whence they derive
their name.    They are substituted for the integrant particles
to facilitate calculations ; and it is worthy of observation,
that parallelopipedons can always be obtained in all dissec
tions of crystals.
   Thus far, sir, I have stated the first principles of mine-
ralogical analysis ; I shall now proceed to the synthesis.
                         [To   be continued. 1
XXX.     On cutting Screws      l\j
                              Means                of
                                     the common Turning
            Latlw. By     ROBERT HEALY,  A. B.
                          To    Mr.         Tilloch.
                                                             Dublin, Dec. t, 1803,
       SIR,                                                    Jamts-street,   4.5.
AN     application which   I    propose for adapting the plain
lathe to the purpose of    cutting screws    submitted to your
                                                        is
consideration, which     if you deem worthy of insertion, your
doing so will oblige
                         Your obedient servant,
                                                              ROBERT HEALY.
   Turning, like many of the other arts, unites the agreea
ble with the useful, and, whilst         necessary helpmate
                                              it   is   a
to several branches of mechanics,  often induces gentlemen,
                                             it
by the case with which         accomplished, to nil up their
                                     is
                              a it
vacant hours in forming        variety ot things the execution
of which both pleases the fancy and exercises the ingenuity.
But to expatiate here on its advantages       not my intention
                                                        is                            :
suffice  itto say, that of the different branches of the art
that of turning the screw has been most cultivated, not only
from the utility which arises from                it,
                                           but peihaps from the
celebrity that is gained       by     it,
                                    since he     looked upon as
                                                              is
having   obtained   the summit  of  perfection     his art, who in
can cut every variety of the screw with facility.          Thus,
then,  it was necessary for those who could not afford time
sufficient for this acquirement, either to resign all idea of
turning them, or else bear \» ith the inconveniences of doing
it imperfectly, till the traversing manderil was thought of;
and from its general use among one elate of turners,
                                                                                 it
                                                                                 is
obvious that      affords an easy, pleasing, and certain method
                  it
of turning screws. But to those who require must its as
                                                                           sistance

                                                                              '
                         the common Turning Lathe.                                         VJ3-
 nstance little advantage has arisen, owing as well to the
 expense of purchasing            as to its incapability of turning
                                       it,
 that variety which          necessary, since only screws similar:
                                  is
 to those traced on the traversing manderil can be cut wilh
it
 ;    and these are limited to       very small number. To those,
                                             a
 then, who find        difficult to cut screws without such an in
                         it
 strument, an apparatus            proposed,
                                        is                         by
                                                     th« application of
 which to the plain lathe that difficulty may be obviated.
 The plate represents        perspective view of the tool and the
                                   a                                                   ;
 letters referring to the different parts of              may, perhaps, it
 make its description clearer.          On the common manderil
A    (Plate IV.), is screwed          chuck, a                 B,
                                                    to which may be
 screwed the chucks of the lathe, as R.              On the outside of
 this chuck, B,       turned screw, which
                         is            a              fitted to an inside
                                                                    is
 or female screw worked in the circular block C, from which'
 block extends an arm, D, as long as may be thought fit for
 the purpose of permitting another arm, E, to slide up and
 down  it  :    piece of iron should be screwed to the circular
                a
 block, C, of such length as to be capable of moving in
                              a                                                              a
 groove that may be cut in the collar, or adapted to it. The
 rest, GFO, must not stand, as usual, parallel to the work,
 in cutting an outside or male screw; but at right angles, asf
 •when an inside or female screw              to be cut, is    order that         in
 the further arm of the rest,          may be joined to the end of
                                                 F,
 the second or intermediate arm, E.                 necessary that this
                                                              It   is
  second or intermediate arm, E, shall be capable of fastening
  firmly the first arm, D, to any part of the rest, GF, as also>
  to have   a joint at each end to admit in            horizontal plane
                                                                    a
  its free play. Thus, as the lathe turns to us or from us, the
 arms must traverse forward* or backwards which gives a                  ;
  similar motion to the tool H, that             held steadily or fixed
                                                              is
  with screw on the farther arm,
       a                                      of the rest and thus
                                                         F,                       ;          a
  screw is  cut with     tool of single point.
                              a              a               unnecessary It   is
  to mention that no joggling should arise from the motion of
  the arms, as that would cause          failure     acutting      in
                                                                  perfect-             a
  screw.    If the centre of the rest should be drawn nearer to
  us, and      that means bring the tool closer to the interme
               by
  diate arm     E,
                 then     screw of
                              a        much larger size will be cut;
                                                 a
  for as the rest, turning wiihin its socket (the thumb-screw
  for fixing       being in this operation always withdrawn),
                    it
  moves on      centre, the further the tool
                a                                      moved from this
                                                                    is
.centre the greater will be the radius of the circle described^
  and consequently the coarser will be the screw; and, vice
  versa, the nearer the tool is brought to the centre the smaller
  will be the radius of the circle, and thus the screw will be
  finer.   Should the intermediate amu                             E,
                                                        be connected to

1   74            On catling Screttis     ly Means      tf
the nearer arm of the rest G, and the tool held on the
further one, F, then a left-handed screw will be cut of a
thread the distance between the turns of which will vary
according to the distance of the point at which the tool is
held between the centre and extreme end ; for, as the
lathe turns to us, the arms receive a forward motion, except
the further arm, F, of the rest, which receives a backward
motion ; but when the lathe turns from us, then the further
arm receives a forward motion ; and as the tool meets the
wood, so it cuts a left-handed screw. It may be apprehended
that a piece of wood so far removed from the collar, K,
might spring in its motion ; but this may be obviated by
not making use of the traversing chuck, B, till the screw is
to be turned ; for, as the cutting of it is light work, there
•will be little resistance, and of course but little spring ; or
the traversing screw, B, may be turned on the manderil A.
Another disadvantage would seem to arise from the impos
sibility of cutting screws when the poppet head is made use
of, to prevent the springing of a long piece of wood. But
this may be obviated by lengthening the intermediate arm,
F., to the part where we intend cutting the screw, and thus
•we have the same screw as that of the traversing one : if a
finer or coarser screw should be required, then, by having
                                                                                  '
an arm of the rest to slide in and out, and the intermediate
arm to be connected to the centre of the rest, we have just
the same power of turning screws as in the former case.
A socket, S, is represented, the lower part of which slides
on the rest, and may be fastened firm to it by a screw : the
upper part, that turns on a pivot, admits the intermediate
arm to slide through         which arm
                           it,               held stationary in
                                              is                             it
by   a screw.     Should the difficulty that might arise from
turning screws with       aplain lathe be obviated           by
                                                         this me
thod,    Ishall feel  adouble gratification in the reflection that
that time which was spent in amusement has tended to the
advantage of others.
                          To     Mr. Tillock*.
                                                   Dublin, April 27,    1804..
         SIR,                                         James-street,    43.
I    PERFECTLY agree with you, that was the rest to make                     a
right angle with the piece of wood on which the screw was
   * In answer to letter
                  a         stating the objection mentioned in the begin
ning of the present letter, which we have published, as tending to explain
more f'jlly Mr. Healy's invention. — EDIT.
                                                                             to

                 the common    Turning Lathe.                175
to be turned, at the commencement of the process, and
to become parallel to it when the screw was finished, an,
approximation would take place from a larger screw to a
lesser, or vice versa ; but it is impossible that the rest could
become parallel to the work, from the connection of the
iirms.    Now let the traversing arm, D, lie in the centre of
the screw B, on which it plays, and let the rest make a
right angle with the wood on which we intend to cut the
screw.     The rest may traverse thirty degrees on either side
of the right angle ; which will not cause any sensible ap
 proximation in the thread, and will admit a motion suf
 ficiently extensive for turning the common length of screws.
 But as the method answers for a short screw of a few turns,
 that is sufficient for every purpose.      For, in order to make
 a long screw, there may be three different ways for doing
 it: — 1st, At the commencement the rest stands at right
 angles with the wood on which the screw is to be cut ; by
 it describing an arch of a few degrees, a short screw is cut ;
 then by bringing back the rest to its original angle, the right
 one, and sliding forward the single-pointed tool to the last
 thread of the screw that was just cut, we proceed to any
 length by repeating the same process.         2dly, When one or
 two threads of a screw is cut, by making u^e of a common
 screw tool, the most unskilful hand will be able to continue
 the screw to any length.        3dly, Should a side tool with
 many teeth be made use of, a screw of any length may be
  cut, the rest describing its usual arch.        But actual expe
                              I
  rience of the utility will, trust,   also do away all objection;
 for I assure you, when I first thought of the method, I re
  duced it to practice, and, having made the instrument,
  worked with  it,   to my utmost satisfaction, in the presence
  of many friends. Permit me to return you my many thanks
  for the trouble you have taken in considering this paper,
  and also for the friendly manner in which you expressed
  your objection.     Believe me, sir,
                              Your much obliged servant,
                                                ROBERT HEALT,
                                                        LETTER

                                  [     176    ]
                                                                              •
XXXI.       On the Catoptrical          and Dioptrical Instruments          of
                                the Antients.
                              LETTER III.*
 1.  As    I have reason to think that my two last letters have
not been unacceptable to many of your readers, I should now
proceed to inquire (according to my means) into the state
of catoptrics and dioptrics among the antients. But here our
learned and ingenious friend Mr. Johnston, who in translat
ing, as he has ably done, Beckmann's History of Inventions,
has had occasion to pay particular attention to the progress
of the arts and sciences, has very opportunely put into my
hand a work which will leave me little more trouble than
that of translation.         It is the Amusemens Philosophiques of
father    Alat,   printed, it would appear, for the first time, at
Amsterdam, and sold at Marseilles in 1763.                         If certain
parts    of  this  learned     performance       could   have   been  known
to Dr. S., whose book appeared in 1738, he would pro
bably have been induced to alter some parts of that valuable
performance.
     2. It is possible that some may think such an investiga
tion has little other use than to gratify an idle curiosity ;
and it must be confessed that such an opinion has received
but too much countenance from some men of character in
the literary world.           Dr. Thomas Burnet-\, in particular,
    * The first letter is inserted in the Philosophical Magazine, vol. xviii.
p. 53, &c.; the second, same volume, p. 245, &c.; and its conclusion,
vol. xix. p. 66, &c. — Part of the note to §       n   of letter ad, should be
read thus: Mr. Gibson, watchmaker, at Hamps'.ead, a very ingenious
 mechanician, whose late brother, at Kelso, was one of the first opticians
in Great Britain, and who has himself paid particular attention to per
spective, complains, that he scarcely knows a scientific (especially an
astronomical) book, the figures of which are free from gross errors in per.
spective, where perspective is necessary, or is attempted.          But he ac-
 knowledges the merits of many writers on this branch of science, parti
cularly Dr. B. Taylor, Hamilton, Noble, Tho. Malton, and H.Clarke;
and I hazard little in adding Gravesande, Murdoch, in the first sect, of
his Ne-wloni Genesis Curt/arum per Umbras, and Wolfius in his Elemenla
Matbcscos Urn-vers*        In § 19, line 9th from the bottom, for merely read
chiefly.   § xb, before Kepler, insert The. great, — In the note to § 38, 1
state the sum which Bacon laid out on experiments, &c. in twenty years,
at about 18,333!. of our present money ; but the learned Dr. Henry (Hist,
 of G. Btit. vol. viii. p. 117, id cd.) makes it about 30,000!. — At tlic
 cod of the next note are meant, of course, practical astionomy and navi
gation in their present improved state. — The writer will be thankful for
remarks and corrections, if made with good manners.
    f  Arcbtcologia Pbitoy>pbicat    lib. i. cap. 8, as quoted in Healbcote's
 Hiitoria Astronomic, p. 7.
             ;                                                           does

             On Caloptrlcal and Dioptrical Instruments.             r l?7
docs not scruple to speak          of such inquiries in these words :
" Ego      lites illas, &c. I hold these national controversies
about the origin of literature and the first discovery of the
sciences, to be of little moment, since there was nothing
to hinder them from being invented by several at the same
time; and it more interests us to know who extended and
promoted the sciences, how far they carried them, and what
monuments or precepts they have left to posterity, whereby
those sciences may be further advanced." — Undoubtedly
scientific     "   monuments and precepts," that is to sayr the
sciences themselves, are more interesting to us than it is to
know who were their inventors. Yet it is not easy to see,
why the
               " extenders and promoters of the sciences" have a
better claim to be remembered than the " inventors."                   The
truth is, that this learned and worthy author (for such he
was in many valuable respects) was a still greater master in,
classical and archaiological erudition than in strict argu
ment ; and, when he wrote this passage, seems not to have
recollected that a little fame, too often posthumous, is the
only reward * of many inventors ; a cheap reward, surely,
for all their labour and ingenuity.               Nor, judging from his
 Answers to the Exceptions against his Theory of the Earth,
 would he have been pleased, if he could have foreseen that
 his own elegant but unsound performance would be neg
 lected as it now is ; except by those philosophers who do
 not unreasonably deride antient writers (sometimes inclu
 ding those of the Bible), and who still respect Burnet for his
 excellent elucidations of many parts of the Scriptures, and
 other venerable antient writings.                 It may be said, that
 the love of fame is a modification of pride, and ought
 to be discouraged.           Perhaps I might accede to this pro
 position,      if accompanied with certain limitations, which
 I have not room to state. .At present I shall only ob
 serve, that it is entertaining enough to hear men talk thus,
 who in their practice act — just like other men; take hu
 man nature as they find it ; and even occasionally show that
 they themselves are not dead to the influence of the " uni
  versal passion."         I must, moreover, appeal to every discern
  ing, well-disposed man, whe'her he does not feel more sa
  tisfaction in tracing the progress of arts, and sciences, and
  civilization, in such a work as Henry's History of Great
  Britain f> than in wading through volumes filled with ge
                                                                 nealogies,
     *        <j>»»jevim Virtutem amplect'lur ips am,
        ¥ra:min si : alias f      ] uv KN.
     •f
        T)r, Ifriry* speaking of Roger Bacon, has these words : " We learn
  from the best auihoiity.iliat no lectures on optics had been read at t^aris,
  «r at any other place among the Latins, except twice at Oxford, before
                                                                       A.D.

1   73                 On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical
nealogies, and intrigues, and torturing, and throat-cutting*
 and desolation ; to which we must now add, the late im
provements in poisoning and guillotining. It                indeed,               is,
no wonder that such scenes should have provoked honest
Dr. Johnson to brand history in general with the name of
 * The Annals of Blood." But cannot stop to moralize.
                                                  I
    3. Before      proceed to Ahat, however,
                       T                            must lay before I
the reader      passage which
                  a                  have found since writing mv
                                          I
last (in Heathcote        Historia Astronomice, p. 41), and which
                                               " Wood Historia,
                            s
comes very properly into this place.                                          in
&c.      Wood,    in  his  Universal   History of Oxford, book                                     i.
p. 22,
     1     hath   extracted     passage from
                                     a             manuscript book  a
of Roger    Bacon,     De  Perspectiuis,      which  he appears to
                                                           in
own that the invention of the optical tube             much more         is
antient than his days. For he writes (Julium Cvesarem,
tuhi ope,      Gallicano littore, partus Anglice, urbesque mar
                a
ritimos spectasse, cum helium in Britannos meditaretur)
that Julius Ccesar,             by
                            the help of     tube, viewed, from the
                                                        a
coast of Gaul, the ports and maritime towns of England,
when he meditated          war against the Britons."
                                a                       Here there
is  not, any more than in Bacon's words to the same effect,
which       translated, at       25, of my last, any mention of
"
         I                           §
    raising up   speculums    to    great height," as Dr. S. would
                                          a
have     it,
           m order to make Bacon's glasses entirely fixed and.
stationary.     Yet,        if
                          Ccesar used telescopes,        natural to     it   is
think that he would carry them to the highest ground, or to
the specula, or w.atch-towers, which were erected along the
narrow part of the British channel, and of w:hich one
lately existed at Dover.        All that would be understood to
                                                       I
mean       is,
             that, as far as      can find, Bacon did not suppose
                                     I
that Ccesar instrument was necessarily fixed to
                  's                                      spot.               a
    4. Be this as      may, Bacon,s belief of this story of Julius
                           it
 Ccesar    optical tube, seems to be no bad proof of the ex-
          's
A. D.    1x67;  and that there were only three persons then in England
who had          any considerable proficiency in that science.
               made                                                Friar Bacon
 was one of those three     ;and that lie had made treat proficiency        we          in   it,
 have the clearest evidence still remaining      his admirable treatise De Sci-
                                                       is in
entia Persprctiva." — " In      word, there
                                 a              the clearest evidence, in the
.works of this wonderful man, that he was acquainted with the construc
tion of all the d:fferent kinds of instruments for viewing objects to advan
tage, which have been so much admired as modern inventions."              Hist,
 of G. Brit, zd ed. vol. viii.     198, 200, where the learned author quotes
                                     p.
 A. Wood Hilt, Oxon. lib.       p. 122; and O'.a Borrkk, De Orlu rl Pro?:
                                i.
Cbem. apud Mvtgtt, BMioib. Cbem.              pp. 31 and 600. Was not Jobn
                                              t   i.
 Peccam, archMshup of Canterbury, who wrote            book on optics in 1279,
                                                                a
 about nine vears after the celebrated Pole Fue'lio wrote his, one of the
three English opticians here mentioned         Dr. llemfi — Vid. IVclfii Elem.
                                                   by
Matb. Umv.        v. p.
                  t.
                         95.
                                                                                    cellence

                    Instruments    of the Antlentt.
 defence of his own.        For, if a man of his scrupulous, phi
losophical turn of mind, could believe, as he certainly ap
 pears to have done, that any optical contrivance could be
 useful at such a distance as even the smallest bceadth of the
 British channel, he must have had sufficient reason for such
 belief; and this reason, one would think, could only be the
 performance of his own instruments.                Mere speculation
 could never have produced such, a belief in suck a mind.
 Thus it was exactly, when the happy performance of Buf-
forfs burning, apparatus constrained the most fastidious
 sceptics to believe in the similar exploit of Archimedes.
    5. But I have now cited this passage chiefly to prove, as
 I think it does satisfactorily, that Bacon did not claim the
 invention of the telescope, or equivalent instrument, but
 referred it to an age much anterior to his own.               This leaves
 us at liberty to carry our inquiries on this subject into times
 much more remote. And this I shall do by submitting,
 though not implicitly, to the able guidance of Abat.                      I
 shall, however, take the liberty to retrench his French ver
 bosity when it becomes tiresome ; to support and illustrate
 his valuable text with occasional notes; and to express freely
 my dissent when I think him in the wrong.
    6.  "   On a mirror placed ly Ptolemy Euergetes upon the
 tower called the Pharos of Alexandria.
    "  We read in several authors that Ptolemy Euergete9
 caused to be placed on the tower of the Pharos, at Alex
 andria, a mirror which represented accurately every thing
 which was transacted throughout all Egypt, both on water
 and land.      Some authors relate, that with this mirror an
 enemy's fleet was seen at the distance of 600, 000 paces j
 others say 500 parasangs, or more than 100 leagues.
    7.
       "  Most persons whom I have heard mention this fact,
treated it as a random story, and as a thing impossible.
 There are even celebrated opticians who think that, if the
 fact was real, it could only be the effect of magic, or a de
 lusion of the devil. Such, among others, is the opinion of
 father Kircher, who, when speaking of several effects of
 superstition, includes this in the number.             The following
 are his words: (Ars magiia Lticis et Umtree, lib. x. c. 1.
 at the end) " Verum. cum hcecomnia, &c.               But as all these
 things are owing to the delusions of the devil, we shun
 them with all our might ; and, after the example of holy
 mother church, we condemn and execrate them *. Of this
                                                                     kind,
   * It it probable that many of the Scottish peasantry still follow, with-
                                      >                                 out

   1 80                   On the Catoplrical and Dioptrical
   kind,   if historians have truly related the facts, was that spe
    culum, which king Ptolemy Euergetes- is said to have con
    structed on the Pharos tower, in which were represented
    hostile fleets, and whatever else was to be seen by sea or
    land throughout Egypt ; to all which things, since they
    exceed the limits of nature, no credit is to be given."
       8. " Taught by experience        that many facts reckoned
   chimerical by a number of learned men, having been better
   examined by other learned men, have been found not only
   possible but in actual existence, I have suspected that the
   same might be the case with this mirror of Ptolemy.                              I
   therefore at once concluded that the decision of this fact
   ought not to depend on the sole authority of some learned
   men ; but that, in the laws of optics, dioptrics, and catop
   trics, we ought to look for just marks to condemn it as
  fabulous, or good reasons to demonstrate its possibility.
      9. " We frequently observe, that in historical details re
  lating to the sciences, which are commonly but little known
  to such authors, their ignorance makes them intersperse
  circumstances which render their accounts obscure and un-
  distinguishable, and even sometimes unintelligible or im
  possible, although, in truth, they may be perfectly real.
  Optics, catoptrics, and dioptrics, are among the sciences
 of which most historians are ignorant, or of which they
 possess but a very superficial knowledge.        To banish, then,
 to the regions of fable or impossibility this famous mirror
 of Ptolemy, it is not enough that we find in its historian*
 impossible circumstances which stamp it as chimerical ;
 we must moreover have proofs, which, independently of
 the accessory circumstances with which ignorance has
out knowing     it, the example of holv mother church, when they ascribe
 the wonders performed        by Michael Scot, to his beinga    warlock, or
                                                                         a    per
 son /'* compact ivi' the de'il.   They will te>l you, thatif      you put
                                                                        a    wand
 through the key-hole of his door at Melrose,         it   will come out peeled;'
 that the de'il carried him through the air to Rome, and back again, in
 one day, &c. &c.     It seems that Scot really was sent to Rome to represent
 to the pope the absurdity of some cbim of superiority over the clergy of
 Scotland, which had been set up      by   the archbishop of York.       About 17
or 18 years ago,      awriter   in one of the periodical publications alleged
(seriously to all appearance) that an air-balloon had been the vehicle in
this wonderful journey.       The believers       Sc t's supernatural powers
                                                 in                          al
ways add, that he got all his lai> and was taught all his uncanny tricks,
                                     .
at Oxford.    The truth is, that Michael Scot, of Balwirie, the cotemporary
of Roger Baon, (for he was born about the end of the nth or the be
                                                        " was one of the greatest
ginning «f the 13th century, and died       in 1190,)
philosophers,   maihcmatic.ians,    and  linguists,  of his age.''    See Mncken-
xic's Lives of Scottish Writers, vol.            114, as quotedin    Henry' Hist.
                                                                                    "
                                           i.   p.                      1
of G. iirit. ad ed. vol. viij..p. ait.— TrarttlMor.
                                                                      clothed

                                 Instruments       of ike Antlents.                           1S1
    clothed       place the principal fact beyond the bounds of
                   it,
    probability,   or demonstrate its impossibility.
        10. "        evident that the possibility of the principal
                    It   is
    fact, and of the foundation of this story, consists in the
    possibility of     mirror, which could alone enable us to see
                             a
    objects at as great      distance and with as much clearness
                                    a
    and distinctness, as      good telescope.
                                       a          The proofs of this
    possibility depend on several delicate experiments in catop-
.   tries and dioptrics, of which many persons conversant with
    those sciences are still ignorant.
      •11. " We shall have little trouble in discovering the
    source of the absurdities, which have been mixed with the
    history of this fact,     we prove that the execution of such
                                    if
    a mirror      possible, and that
                    is                     was also possible in the
                                                       it
    days of Ptolemy.      This will not be difficult and propose            ;        I
    to do      in the present memoir, which
              it                                     shall divide into
    two parts. In the first,      shall prove,
                                           I                        by I
                                                    the strictest evi
    dence, the possibility of this mirror      in the second, shall
                                                            ;                            I
    deliver some proofs that       really existed.
                                            it
        12.    "    PART FIHST. Proof                  of
                                         the possibility     tlie fact.          of
        "   Let  concave mirror be constructed, of
                   a                                      great size,           a
    and forming      portion of large sphere
                          a                    a   say, that in suchI
                                                                    :
    a mirror we may see objects as distant, and with as much
    clearness and distinctness, as with      good telescope.a
        13. " In order to this, the observer must stand between
    the object and the mirror, but so as not to intercept any of
    the rays, TJie mirror then should be so placed, that the in
    cident rays coming from the object, and the rays reflected
    by   the mirror to the eye, may make       small angle with the
                                                                a
    axis. This angle ought not to be greater than         necessary,            is
    in order that all the rays which come from the object to the
    mirror may pass               by
                            the observer.    Things being thus ar
    ranged, establish the following facts
               "
               I                                                :
        14.    First, If the eye be near the focus, or the place
    where the image of the object         formed, and between the
                                                       is
    focus and the mirror, the object will be seen much mag
    nified and in the natural situation.      But here we must re
    mark, that           if
                    the observer be    myope, or short-sighted., he
                                                   a
    will see nothing but       confused appearance.
                                        a                If his sight
    be good, and he be neither      myope    nor   presbyte,
                                                   a            he will a
    distinguish the objects well, and will see them much mag
    nified, but with some confusion and obscurity, unless the
    mirror be portion of
                    a           very large sphere.
                                           a           Lastly,      the                  if
    observer be     presbyte, or long-sighted, he should stand at
                         a
    the distance at which he sees the objects direct and much
       Vol. 19. No. 74. July 1804.                          O
                                                          magnified.

182                On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical
magnified.    And thus the objects will appear as dear arid
¦well defined, as if viewed through a good telescope.
    15.   "   Secondly,     If the   eye   of   the observer   be placed ex
actly in the focus, or very near             he will only behold
                                                it,                                a
very confused appearance,       without  distinguishing the objects
at all.
    16. " Thirdly, If the observer stand further from the
mirror than the focus, so that his eye be distant from the
focus about as far as he holds          book when he reads with
                                           a
ease, thpi,       say,
                  I     that  whatever   be the state of his sight,
long   or  short,  he  will sec the objects  much magnified, with
very great clearness and distinctness-, and as well as              he    if
viewed them with the best telescope.             In this case, how
ever, the objects will be inverted. —              have established
                                                      I
these facts        many experiments, some of which
                   by                                            shall   I
now describe.
    17. " E.rprr. 1st.      I took   concave slass mirror, which
                                       a
was silvered on the convex side, its diameter being some
what more than 10 inches (above 10 and 7-10ths English
inches), and its focal distance about 22 feet.         Standing be
fore this mirror, in the manner              have described,
                                                I                 saw     I
clearly and distinctly all the distant objects opposite to the
mirror.       1 must observe that this glass was coarsely po
lished, and of       bad material
                        a             which very considerably
                                       ;                                       di
minished the effect. This mirror was also too small.                          It   is
proper to add here, that mirror3 of metal, well polished and
accurately w rought, are better for this purpose, on many
accounts, than those of glass.
    18.,," Expcr. 2d.          1took     glass lens, both whose
                                           a
sides were of e<jnal com exit v, each side being           portion of
                                                                a
a  sphere, whose diameter was about 44 feet.              It was not
silvered, and was six inches and             half in diameter.
                                                 a                 Its
focus, made           by
                     reflection of the ravs, which after passing
through the first surface were turned back                     by
                                                         the second,
was distant about five feet and        half.
                                           a
    19.
          " Having placed this glass in the situation described
in the preceding experiment, in order to view the objects
by   reflection from the second surface, as             if
                                                      had been sil
                                                          it
vered,      saw them with much clearness and distinctness.
    20. "
          I
.             It  easy to conceive that the number of rays re
                   is
flected   by  the lens in this situation must have been very
small, in comparison to what           would have reflected had
                                       it                                      ft
been silvered; and consequently in this last case,             would it
have produced          much greater effect.
                        a                        Hence              it
                                                             appears,
farther, that       concave metal, well polished, of
                    a                                         regulara
figure, and of the same focal distance, would produce very                a
                                                                good

                         Instruments        of   the Antients.                         1 83
 good effect, although its surface should not be greater than
 that of the lens in this experiment.
      21. " Every optician will easily conceive, that
                                                                         by if,
                                                           with                           a
  single convex glass, he can see distant objects,        refrac
  tion, with as much clearness and distinctness as with                                   a
  telescope composed of several glasses, he will experience
  the same effect,        by
                        reflection, from single concave mirror.
                                                      a
I    shall therefore state some experiments and observations
 'which prove incontestably, that this effect may be produced
 with single object-glass which, consequently, will be new
       a                            ;                                             a
 proof that     single concave mirror will do the same thing.
           "
                a
     22.     M. de Fontcnelle, in his History of the Academy
 of Sciences for the year 700, tells us, that M. Tschirn*
                                        1
 iiausen had described to the learned, the effects of        new              a
 object-glass which he had made.         Its focal distance was
 32 feet:      was
               it     double convex,
                         a                Rhenish foot (12 and
                                                      a
 4- loths English inches) in diameter.      He used      without       it
 an eye-glass, and altogether uncovered      and he affirms that
                                                          ;
 objects were sf.cn more clearly with his single lens than they
 had ever been seen          with   telescopes,       and that they appeared
  brighter than to the naked eye.       Such    glass, then, will
                                                              a
  answer its end without any tube, and the object will always
  be seen distinctly, notwithstanding the solar rays, which
  pass between     and the eye.
                    it             The field, or the space which
  may be viewed at once with such       lens,   of incredible ex
                                                  a           is
  tent.   M. Tschirn/umsen assures us that, without either
 eye-glass or tube, he saw very distinctly, at noon-day,                               a
 whole town, at the distance of        German mile and
                                                 a             half           a
  (about six English miles).
    23. " After M. Tschirnhausen, the same thing was done
 by  M. Wolff, or Wolfius, with        large plano-convex, the
                                                 a
 diameter of whose convexity was 30 Rhenish feet (31 Eng
 lish). This lens was two feet long and         foot and      ahalf          a
 broad (24 inches 8-10ths and 18 inches 6-10ths English
 respectively). In his Elem. Diop, prol. 38. sc/iol. 4. wol-
Jius says, that in using this glass, which he left entirely open,
 without either tube or eye-glass, he saw very distinctly,
 with both eyes, some houses on the top of            hill, at the a
 distance of two German (or about eight English) miles.
 He saw them erect, when he stood between the focus and
 the lens, and inverted when he stood beyond the focus.
 He observes, that his lens was              by
                                      no means well polished*.
                                                                       13.   "     Fa-
  •    cannot but observe that particular attention,          in   due
   I                                                 my opinion,                  is
to this statement of Wolfivs, whose candour and honesty appear to have*
                                    O   i                                          been

1 84                  Cn ike Calopirical and Dioptrical
   13.      "
          Father ScJiemer, who, in his excellent work on the
solars pots, entitled Rosa Ursina, describes very clearly many
new dioptrical inventions, which others have since at
tempted to appropriate to themselves,       \vas the first who
observed that a single object-glass iniglit produce the same
effect as a telescope composed of several glasses.   He made,
in a camera olscnra, experiments similar to those of IVolfius
and Tschirnliauien, which I have just. mentioned; and he
made them public 70 years before M. Tschirnhauscn pub
lished his. Here follow the very words in whieh he states
the results of his experiments, lib. ii. cap. 6. at the end.
    14. " Qitcdsi (jms intim positna, &c.              But if any ontf
placed   within     (a   camera    olsaira,   or  darkened     chamber,)
apply   his  eye  between     the  paper  and   the  lens,           be   is,
                                                            (that
tween the focus, or place of the image, and the lens,) he
will see the external objects much larger, erect, and good                a
deal confused.         If he apply his eye to the place of the
image, or the paper, he will see           achaos     and
                                                       ;      behind the
                                                                if
place   of   the  paper,   or  the  picture,  he  will  see  every thing
larger and more distinct, but in an inverted posture. Hence
appears the vanity of the man's talk               (Iknow not who he
was) who applauded himself for the invention of the optical
tube; since the same effect of augmenting visible things,
may also be evidently obtained               byone large convex lens,
from    alarpre sphere."
    15. " This discovery of father Schemer was not altoge
ther unknown, or useless, during the interval between
his time and that of Tsclnrnlimisen            : for   find, in the de
                                                        I
scription of the cabinet of Manfredi Seplala, written in
Italian     byScaraldli, and printed at Tortona in 1656, that
this learned canon of Milan, celebrated, among other things,
for his famous mirror, which excited flame at the distance
of 15 paces*, had also two lenses, one of which was a. palm
and    ahalf     diameter, and its focal distance
                 in                                        brasses
                                                                7   and   ;
been equal to h'n ability, and   who, at the place cited   inthe text, mention*
.. paper, \vlvch he published    on the subject   in  the Ada Eruditwum for
October 1710.       He concludes the Scholium quoted above, wiih these
words: " Nee credo, &c. Nor do       I  believe that this dinars from the dis
covery of the illustrious TsfbirnhaHsei, which, as concealed         by
                                                                      him,   so
                                                                              is
highly applauded       by
                        the celebrated fonttnellt.  (Hist- Royal Acad. of Sc.
An 1701, p. if>5, Amst.edir.)         For, through a   glass not polished with
sufficient exactness,   Ihave observed the same things which Tscbirnbniutt
ilid with his single lens, and which he described to the illustrious Acad.
of Sciences; so tlm Fmtcndl: hnd no reason to suspect that there was any
secret in  the business." — translator,
   *                                feet French, these
    A    geometrical pace bein;j 5                      51  paces make neatly;
So English feet.
                                                                              the

                            Instruments     of the Antients.                   \ 85
    'the other about a palm in diameter, and about 5 brasses
     in focal distance*.           Scaralielli assures us, not only that
     both these lenses readily inflamed combustible bodies placed
     in their foci, but       also that each of them could be used         witli
     good effect      as a telescope,   in the open country.
          16. " Further; in searching for what old authors have
     written on the properties of convex lenses, I have found that
     John Baptista Porta, more than a century before father
     Schciner, and even before the use of telescopes became corri-
  •
     mon, knew that their end might be answered by a single
     Jens ; for in his Magiu Naturaus, lib. 17. cap. 10, he pro
     pounds this problem : ' With a lens of glass, to sec distant
     objects as if they were near.' Of this problem he adds an
     exact solution, although he gives neither the dimensions of
     the lens nor its focal uistancu ; and does not enumerate the
    •precautions which are necessary for success.                 His solution
     is this : ' Posito oculo, &c. Having placed your eye in its
.    centre, look at the remote object ; for you will view distant
     things so near, that you will seem, as it were, to touch them
    with your hand, and to see the clothes, complexions, and
    countenances of men ; so that you may distinguish your
     friends, though at a very great distance.' He knesv the im
     portance of this discovery ; for in proposing it he observes,
    that it well deserves to be reflected on : Quod scquitur, says
     he, longe precstantius vobis cogitandi principium ajfert.
          \ ".
                " Porta knew farther, that the same thing might be
    done with a concave mirror : for, in the 1 1th chapter of the
   *ama book, when speaking of the mirror of Ptolemy and its
    effects, he says, that he is wishful to show how it may be
•
    executed, so that we may know our friends at the distance
    of some thousands of paces (or some miles f), and read from
    afar very small characters.            He assures us, moreover, that
    the thing is extremely easy.             It is true that his explication
    of it is not intelligible ; but it appears that he has clone this
    on purpose, and with an intention, not to be understood ;
    for he says it is a thing which ought not to come to the
    knowledge of the vulgar J. What he advances, therefore,
    being very true and very easy, as he assures us, and as we
    have already evinced, we cannot without injustice deny that
    he possessed this knowledge.
       :"
            An Italian palm is between 8 and 9 English inches, and a brasse, or
   ITJCC, about 23 English inches.         See Dr. Hutton'si Dictionary, articles
   Measure and Palm.
        t   Mille passuuin = nolle fms = a mile = 1000 geometrical paces each
   5 feet = about 534.0 English fatt.—~Tru«slator,
       J   See § 19. of iny second letter. — Translator.
                                       O3                          18. "Thus-

1 S6             On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical
    18. "Thus the learned knew, before M. Tschirnhausen
taught them, that, with a single object-glass, distant ob
jects might be viewed, as with a telescope composed of se
veral glasses. I believe, however, that Tschirnhausen, when
lie published the properties of his large object-glass, had no
knowledge of what father Scheiner had written on the sub
ject, or of what had been executed at Milan by Septala,
who discovered the effect of his lenses, without having seen
Schciner. There may even be others who may have ob
served this property of large convex glasses, without having
had any knowledge of what had been written or observed by
the authors I have cited.
    19.  "I   never could procure such large object-glasses as I
wished, in order to repeat the experiments of these authors,,
and to make many more, which I have thought of. I have,
however, made some experiments with the largest lenses,
which 1 had it in my power -to make or procure. I shall
here give the results :
    20.  "  (I.) With an object-glass, whose focal distance
was about three feet, and diameter about six inches, by pla
cing my eye farther from the glass than the focus, I saw di
stant objects clearly and distinctly, considerably enlarged
and inverted.      This glass was a double-convex.
    21. " ^11.) I observed the same thing, with still greater
 clearness and distinctness, with a plano-convex object-glass,
 a segment of a sphere about six feet in diameter, its own di
 ameter being about seven inches.
    22. "i(lfl.) The clearness and distinctness, with which
 I saw the same distant objects, were much increased when I
 used a double-convex ot about six inches and a half in
breadth, and twenty-two feet 'focal distance. With this
 object-glass, I had a very accurate and distinct view of ob
jects, which I could by no means have distinguished so well
 with a good telescope.
 "   Remarks on the experiments which may be made with
               large object-glasses, and with others.
    23. " (T.) In all my experiments with these three glasses,
 I always saw the objects with the most clearness and di
 stinctness when they were inverted, by placing the eye be
 yond the focus.
    24.  "  (II.) The two first glasses did not produce a good
 effect, when, the eye being between the focus and the glass,
 the objects were seen erect; and the same is true of all other
 object-glasses of which the focal distance is not very con
 siderable.
                                                      25. " (III.)

                     Instruments     of the Antients.            187
   25.     "
          (HI.) In using the third object-glass, although          I
saw the objects clearly, by standing between the focus and
the lens, it was not without some confusion.     Yet persons
.whose eyes unite the rays from distant objects beyond the
retina, by standing between the focus ana the glass, will
see objects erect with much clearness and distinctness j' in
deed as well as with the best telescope, and even better.
   2G.      "
           (IV.) Objects seen through great lenses appear
jnuch more bright than they do to the naked eye, and as if
 they had a stronger light thrown on them. This effect is
 so sensible, that other objects seen with the naked eye, be
 side those looked at through these glasses, appear obscure,
 although equally illuminated.         The direct contrary takes
place, when objects are viewed through telescopes ; for they
 always appear less illuminated than when seen by the naked
 eye. Hence it seems very probable, that these convex glasses .
 and concave mirrors might be used with success, to view by
night, objects which cannot be seen only because of the de
 fect of light ; for, happening in a very dark night to try the
glass first mentioned, I saw distinctly objects which, with
 out  it,    could not see at all.
          " (V.) Through single great object-glass, several
          I
     27.                       a
 persons may view different objects at the same instant.         I
 have frequently observed that, in order to distinct vision,
.is not necessary that the eye be in the axis for, though
                                                    ;            it it
 be some degrees distant from the axis, the effect        not sen
                                                            is
 sibly   diminished.
     28. " But, what       yet more extraordinary in these large
                          is
 object-glasses     is,that  two spectators, without disturbing
 each other, may,         means of the same single glass,, view
                          by
 the same object at the same time.        In order to this, one of
 the two spectators must be so placed that the lens may be
 between him and the object, his eye not being in the axis,
 but  in  a line which, pajssmg through the point of concourse
 of the axes, and through the object, makes small angle a
 with the axis. Then,          if
                                a second spectator stand between
 the object-glass and the object, so that line passing through
                                               a
 his eye and the point of concourse of the axes may make
 w'uh the ax,is an angle equal to that which          line passing
                                                        a
 through the eye of the first spectator and the same point of
^concourse, and both spectators be on the same side of the
 axis ;I    say then, that both of them will see the same object
 at the same time, the first        by
                                    refraction, and the secona    by
  reflection.
     29.
          " Let AB (fig. 4. Plate III.) be large object-glass,
                                               a
 of which       G
                F    the axis, and
                    is                  the point of concourse of
                                         C
                                  O-t                          the

]   88         OH the Catoptrical and        Dioptrical
the axes ; I say that two spectators placed, the one in E
and the other in I, so that the angles GCE and FCI may
be equal, will see at the same time, the object placed at D;
the first through the object-glass AB, and the other by
reflection from the second surface ACB of the same glass.
     30. " If the object-glass be very large, and its focal di
stance great, the two spectators may be placed in the axis,
and they will both see the same object, though it be also si
tuated in the axis, the one by refraction and the other by
reflection ; and this disposition of things will not in the
least hinder the efiect. This property of large object-glasses
may be applied to useful purposes.
     31. " Fontenelle, in the Hist. Acad. of Sc. for 1700, after
 describing the properties of the glass of Tschirnhau!>en, of
which we have spoken, says, that, 'so many singularities in
 this lens of Tschirnhausen announce great and happy disco
 veries in dioptrics.      Although this science is yet in its in
 fancy,   \ve  shall  be  surprised at still making important dis
 coveries in   it,so much are we of this age accustomed to the
 rapid progress of the sciences.'
     32. " More than sixty years have elapsed since M. dc
 Fontenelle made this prediction         ;butI   do not see that          it   is
 yet   accomplished.       But  this does  not prove that the predic
 tion     not well founded for
         is                         ;   frequently happens that dis
                                        it
 coveries remain       a long time unfruitful. For example, the
 discovery of the reflecting telescope       is almost as old as that
 of the refracting one. This last was invented in 1609, and
I   find that the other began to be used as early as the year
  1616; so that between {he two discoveries there              only an
                                                                is
 interval of seven years.         Father Zucchi, an Italian Jesuit,
  (in his Optica PhJlosophia, printed at Lyons in 1652, par. .             J
 cap. 14. §5. p. 126.) says, thatiniei'e, reflecting on the
 theory of telescopes, then recently invented,              came into
                                                           it
 his head to employ concave metallic mirrors, instead of
  object-lenses of glass, in order to produce         by reflection the
  fame effects which result from refraction.           Having found,
  therefore,  in   a cabinet of curiosities  a concave metallic mir
 ror, exactly worked           by
                              an able artist, he applied to      itcona
  cave eye-glass,     and with this telescope observed terrestrial
  and celestial objects, and experience confirmed what theory
  had t.iiight him.        Ido not think that     a  more antient date
  of the reflecting telescope can be found.
      33. " It appear*, however, that this invention remained
 unknown, or neglected, till Newton,              along time after, in
  1672, constructed in London           areflecting telescope, which
 presently    became     celebrated   throughout Europe.       For         al
                                                               though,

                         Instrumeilts       of the Anticnts.                       189
though, after Zucchi, and before Newton, father Mersenn
had proposed to Descartes the idea of using concave mirrors
in making telescopes, and although James Gregory and
Cassegrain had given descriptions of reflecting telescopes,                              I
do not find any mention of such a telescope having been
executed before that of Newton*.
    34. " Notwithstanding the happy success of the Newto
nian telescope, and the great advantages expected from                                  it,
it was  a long time neglected, and there appeared to be little
 earnestness to bring it into use.  was only some years ago
                                                It
 that this instrument came into vogue, and was commonly
 used with effect      And how many other fine discoveries
                         f.
    * "It    must be acknowled that Mr. James Gregory, of Aberdeen, was
the first inventor of reflecting telescope. Mr. Gregory describes this tele
                          a
scope at the end of his Opticti Promola, published             in
                                                              1663    and was led to
                                                                         ;
the invention of    it,  not  by the consideration of the different refrangibility
of rays, which was not then known, but               by
                                                      an inconvenience he foresaw
                                                        " Dr.
would follow from an hyperbolic object-glass.                   S's Compl. Syst.of
Optics, Rem. 135. " Mons. Cane grain's               isnot pretended to have been
contrived before the year 1672, and Sir              I.Newton's was contrived in
 1666, and executed in 1670, or at farthest finished                in
                                                                    1671.    Besides,
M. Cass'grain's differs in nothing from Gregory's, but that he would have
 the small metal to be convex, which Gregory makes concave, and there
fore his instrument seems only to be Gregory's disguised."              Desagulicrs's
 Append, to the id ed.of Dr. Browne's Translation of Dr. David Gregory's
 (the nephew of James) Elem.              Catopt. et Diopt. p. 134..    There      no
                                                                                   is
 reason 10 suppose that       J.   Gregory knew any thing of the discovery of
 Zuccbi; for, in the Pref. to his Of/, from, he complains that he was not
 timely apprised of those of Descartes, on account of the bad supply of
 new matherratical books,          in the otherwise well-furnished public library
  at Aberdeen.       Nay, Descartes himself did not (not to say could not,
  though Mersenne did) know of the discovery of Zuccbi, who, as appears
  above, did not publish      it  till 1651; whereas Dsscarles's correspondence
  with Mersenne took place         in  1639, though      was not printed till 1666,
                                                          it
 three years after  J.    Gregory published his Oft. Prom.          (See Descartes'i
  letters, vol. ii.)  Add to this, that Mersenne proposed to Descartes hi»
  idea of reflecting telescope in
         a                              a  way so very unsatisfactory, as to induce
  the latter to endeavour to convince him of its fallacy.           If should be said
                                                                         it
  that
     J.     Gregory might have got the hint from Zuccbi             in
                                                                   Italy, the answer
  would be easy he published his Optica Promola in London in 1663, the
                :
   14th year of his age   ;  but did not go abroad till 1665.       In 1667 he pub
  lished, at Padua, his ftra Circuit et Hyperbola §jtadratura            and in 1668,
                                                                             ;
   at Venice, his Geometric Pars Unliiersatis. — See Dr. Hutton's Dictionary,
  articles Gregory and Telescope. — Translator.
 \       From our author's manner of expressing himself here, would seem      it
   that reflecting telescopes did not come into use in France nearly so soon
   as in this country.     For Dr. S., in his Compl. Syst. of Opt. Rem. 136,
   says,
          " These telescopes were first brought to perfection practice about
                                                                         in
   the year 1719    by the great ingenuity and industry of Mr. John Hadkyi
   Sir Isaac Newton's first, and Mr. Gregory's soon after." My original, at
   already obitrved, was printed in 1763.— Translator.
                                                                                        are

  JQO               State  of His Majesty's Flock of
 are there,   the  utility of which negligence alone        prevents    ik
 from seeing ?
    35.
          " I therefore join M. de Fontenelle in thinking, that
 great advantages might be derived from large convex glasses
 and .concave mirrors ; if they, who are blessed with a fertile
 genius and sufficient property, would particularly apply
 themselves to construct, in several ways, concave mirrors
 and convex lenses of a very large size, making at the same-
 time, all the researches and experiments of which such men
 are capable.
     36.  " Corollarv.          It is then very evident, from what
 we have said, that the mirror, which historians relate to have-
 been placed on the Pharos of Alexandria, was possible.
    [TJie Second Part of this Memoir of Abat  will be given in our next
                                 Number.]
 XXXII. A        Report of the State of His Majesty's Flock of
    fine-wooUed Spanish Sheep, for tlie Year ending Michael
    mas 1803.       By Sir Joseph Banks,         P.R.S.
 The      wether lambs of the last year having been sold in
 their wool, and the rams' wool retained, in order" that two-
 years' growth might be prepared for sale together, his ma
jesty's Spanish flock consisted, when shorn in June 1802,
of ninety-six ewes only ; the fleeces of these, after having-
 been washed on the sheep's backs as usual, weighed as
 follows :
    In wool,    as  shorn from the sheep            -         352 lbs
    .Loss in scowering          -                              96
    Amount of      scowered wool                         ^    256
•*11iis wool, w.hen sorted, produced as follows :
    Priuie wool, or R. - 221 lbs. at 5s. od. ^t?63 10                 9.
    Choice locks, or F.
    i'ribs, or T.    -   .   -
                               - 32
                                     3     '» 19, 053
                                            « 3    6   -     5 12     o
                                                        ^69       8   O
    After deducting the expense of sorting and scowering, at
the high rate which an individual who is not a manufac
turer must pay for these processes/ this wool is worth about
5l. a tod, or 431. 5s. a pack, as clipped from the sheep's,
back.
                                                                    The

                   Jlnc-woollcd Spanish   Sheep.               191
      The prime wool was purchased by John Maitland, esq.
  member of parliament for Chippenham, whose mercantile
  house, established for more than a century, has always dealt
  largely in the importation of Spanish wool, and who, from
  the first introduction of Merino sheep into this country by
  the king in the year 1 787, has uniformly given the most
  liberal and zealous aid to the promotion of his majesty's pa
  triotic views, though doubtful in the beginning of the ulti
  mate success of the project.
   '
      It was made into cloth by Mr. Edridge, a manufacturer
  of Chippenham, whose skill and respectability in his line
  are exceeded by no man.      He inspected its quality with the
  most minute exactness, and with an eye more inclined to ex
  pect symptoms of degeneration than of improvement, du
  ring the whole of the numerous processes to which wool is
  subjected in the making of broad-cloth, and he found that
. in every one of them it answered to his complete satisfaction.
      The cloth made from this wool proved so excellent in its
  kind, that the king was graciously pleased, at the desire of
  Mr. Maitland and Mr. Edridge, to permit these gentlemen
  to explain, in his majesty's presence, its qualities and pecu
  liarities.         . _t
      Samples of this cloth may now be seen in Mr. Maitland's
  warehouse in Basinghall-street ; and it will be found, in
  conversing with Mr. Maitland and his partners, that in their
  opinion the R's of his majesty's wool, considered as a pile,
  are inferior to but few of the best of those imported from
   Spain, though it is probable that no pile in Spain throws out
   so small a proportion of F's and T's.       From this opinion
   it may fairly be deduced, that his majesty's wool has im
   proved since the sheep were imported from Spain ; indeed
  there is every reason to believe that it is still improving, and
  will in a very few years equal, if not excel, the very best piles
   that have hitherto been imported into this kingdom.
      Mr. Toilet, a gentleman of Gloucestershire, who has
   purchased Merino sheep both from the king and from lord
   Somerville, has been very successful in improving the car.-
   case without damaging the wool ; he possesses a ram, bred
   from a ram and an ewe both purchased from the royal flock
   in 1801, which, when clipped in June last, yielded 11 Ibs.
    12 oz. of unwashed wool.      The carcase of this sheep was
   then estimated by good judges at 16 Ibs. a quarter, and it
   was admitted to be a handsome sheep.
       For this animal Mr. Toilet has refused an offer of 20O
   guineas, or of 100 for the next season's use of him j he also
   refused 30 guineas each for the sire and the dam, though
                                                                old

 1 92     State   of His Majesty's Flock of Spanish   Sheep.
old and infirm, being unwilling to part with animals which
had belonged to the royal flock ; he however sold their ram
lamb of the last year for 30 guineas, and thus made some
progress in ascertaining the value of this important breed.
   These facts, which prove an amelioration in the king's
Merino sheep, are fully confirmed by the improved shape
and weight of his majesty's sheerling rams of the present
year, and give a justifiable hope, that by a due selection
of rams   and ewes, and a correct judgment in matching them,
Merino    sheep will in time be produced, with carcases per
fectly fashionable, and wool as perfectly fine.
    No purchaser having been last year found for the lambs'
wool at a price adequate to its value, it was made into light
ladies-cloth, which proves excellent, and promises to be a
valuable article. A speculation, however, has offered for
 manufacturing the lambs' wool into superfine woollen hose,
 which seems likely to yield a still better price for the raw
 article than the cloth.
    The demand for his majesty's Merino sheep increases at
 present beyond all calculation. The best-informed clothiers
 in Gloucestershire, enlightened no doubt by the useful la
 bours of the Bath Society, and the valuable experiment of
Dr. Parry, as well as by the doctor's, and by lord Somer-
ville's publications, are among the most anxious applicants
to purchase.    The Bath Agricultural Society, whose atten
 tion has been most particularly directed to the improvement
of English wool, humbly requested the king to give them
a Spanish ram ; which request his majesty most graciouslv
 complied with last autumn, and they returned thanks in the
wannest terms of respectful gratitude and satisfaction.
    As speculation on the value of Spanish sheep is evidently
on the increase, and a reasonable probability now appears
that his majesty's patriotic exertions,       introducing the
                                              in.
 breed, will at last be duly appreciated and properly undei--
stood,  it would be palpably unjust should the -views of those
who wish to derive fair advantage from the sale of the pro<-
                       a
       of Spanish sheep purchased        by
                                         them from the roval
feny
   ock, be in future impeded    by continuation oT the sale of
                                     a
the king's sheep at prices below their real value.
    This circumstance having been stated to the king, his
majesty was graciously pleased to permit the rams and ewes
that are to be parted with from the royal Merino flock this
vear to be sold by auction, in the same manner as        done
                                                         is
at Woburn     by his grace the Duke of Bedford, and at Holk-
ham bv Mi. Coke, on -the presumption of this being the
most likely manner of placing the best individuals of their
                                                       improved

                         Theory   of mixed    Gases ;
                                                                       193
improved breecds in the hands of persons most likely to
preserve, and further to improve them.
    August i ;, 1803.                                  JOSEPH BANKS.
                               POSTSCRIPT.
     As the publication of this report has been delayed by un
avoidable circumstances to so late a period, it is proper to
add, that the wools of 1803 have yielded, both raw and
scowered, much as usual. The prime, or R., of the ewe
flock were sold for Gs. gd. a pound, and that of the rams for
6s. 6d.      These enormous prices, however, depended on a
scarcity    of  imported Spanish wool, and are highly distress
ing to the manufacturer : they ought not, therefore, to be
allowed to enter into the speculation of the grower.
     The sheep that can be spared' from the royal flock will
be sold by auction this year at a barn opposite the Pagoda
in Kew-lane, on the 15th of August next. Notice of the
particulars will be given as soon as possible.
    July 10, 1804.
XXXIII.        Illustration of Mr. DALTON'S Theory of ike Con
     stitution of mixed Gases.            By Mr. WILLIAM HENRY
     of  Manchester*.
                             To Mr. Dalton.
       DEAR SIR,
 AN    the first enunciation of a new theory, it is not unusual
 that some links are omitted in the chain of reasoning which
 led to its formation; and thus the doctrine fails of that
 ready and general acceptance whtch immediately follows
 its more distinct developement.            Such an omission appears
to me to      have    taken  place   in  your theory of the constitu
tion of    mixed    gases ; for,  according to your own candid con
 fession, several persons, versed both in chemical and me
 chanical science, have declared their inability fully to under
 stand the scope of the hypothesis, and consequently to
judge of its merits or defects.              In the discussions, also,
 which took place in this society, on your several papers,
    * "The editor has been furnished with a copy of this letter (which was
 read before the Manchester Society) as a sequel to the various interesting
 communications from Mr. Dalton on the same subject which have ap
 peared in the Philosophical     Magazine.    It may be proper to state, in
 apology for the repetition of a few circumstances already advanced in Mr.
 Dalton 's letter, published in our last number, that the author had not
 seen the letter alluded to at the time when these illustrations       were
 written."
                                                                        the

     101               Illustration of the Theory of
     the doctrine was opposed by almost every member interested
    in   such subjects, and by no one more strenuously than
    myself.      Subsequent attention, however, to the evidences
    of the theory, and, still more, the results of experiments,
    which were made under impressions very unfavourable to the
    hypothesis, have satisfied me that the opposition to it arose
    chiefly from an imperfect comprehension of the argument ;
    and that your theory is far better adapted than any former
    one for explaining the relation of mixed gases to each
    other, and especially the connection between gases and
    water.
        The distinguishing principle of your doctrine, I appre
    hend to be, thai mixed gases neither attract nor repel each
    other, and that every gas is as a vacuum to every other gas.
    It is not my intention to recapitulate your proofs of this po-»
    sition, but merely to add to them the evidence of a few facts
    which have occurred to me, and which strongly tend to
   establish the same conclusion.
        From a series of experiments, which I communicated td
   the Royal Society, and which appeared in their Transactions
   for 1803, it may, I think, be safely inferred, that the rela
   tion of gases to water is altogether a mechanical one ; for
   the quantity absorbed follows exactly the ratio of the pres
   sure: If then it can be shown that a gas, absorbed by
  water, is not retained in its place by an atmosphere of any
  other gas, we shall be furnished with a strong presump
  tion, that different gases do not gravitate on each other.
       It is well known that water may be charged with its own
  bulk, or rather more^ of carbonic acid gas under a pressure
  of 30 inches of mercury. The gas, thus absorbed, is re
  tained so long as the water is preserved from contact with
 any other gas ; but, when exposed to the atmosphere, the car
 bonic acid gas rapidly escapes. Now this effect can be only
 ascribed to one of two causes : 1 st, The affinity of carbonic
 acid for atmospheric air may surpass that of its affinity for
 water 5 or, Bdly, The air of the atmosphere does not press
 on the gas in the xvater, which is therefore placed under
 similar circumstances, as if exposed under the exhausted
 receiver of an air pump.
      Were the first explanation the true one, it might be ex
pected, that equal quantities of various gases would detach
different quantities of carbonic acid from like volumes of
impregnated water ; because the affinities of these gases, as
in all other cases of chertiical affinity, differing in force,
would occasion their combining with different quantities of
carbonic acid, and in a certain order. But in making the
                                                   . experiment,

                the Constitution  of mixed  Gases.            195
experiment, with all the attention I could bestow, this did
not. prove to be the fact : for similar measures of impreg
nated water gave up equal bulks of carbonic acid to like
quantities of all the different gases.
    The converse of this fact also occurred to me in the1
course of a series of experiments, to which I have already
referred; viz. that the admixture of common air with car
bonic acid gas»diminishes considerably the proportion o£
the latter gas taken up by water'.    Thus, when 20 measures
of pure carbonic1 acid gas are agitated with 10 of water, at
least 10 measures of gas are absorbed.        But from a mix
ture of 20 measures of carbonic acid with 10 of common
air, 10 parts of water take only six of carbonic acid. That
chemical affinity between the mixed gases is not the cause
of the diminished amount of absorption, is perfectly clear }
 since it is indifferent, as to the effect, what gas is added,
and the proportion alone influences the result. The effect is
therefore to be , ascribed to the diminished density of the
superincumbent carbonic acid by mixture with another gasj
and the pressure of gases being directly as their density, and
the quantity absorbed by water being as the pressure, the
 absorbed carbonic acid must necessarily quit the water.
This escape continues till the carbonic acid above the water
 has a density equal to that in the water, and no longer.
    Previously to my acquiescence in your 'theory ot mixed
 gases, I undertook an extensive series of experiments, with
 a view to ascertain the order of affinities of gases for water*
But, after a great variety of trials, made with ali the accu
 racy in my power, I could discover nothing like a series of
 elective attractions. Each gas, it was found, displaced every
 other, and, reciprocally, was dislodged by them.
    It may be urged against the doctrine of the non-gravita-*
 tion of gases on each other, that from water, impregnated
 with carbonic acid gas, and exposed to the atmosphere, the
 gas ought, on this principle, to escape as rapidly as under
 an exhausted receiver.      It must be remembered, however,
 that the escaping gas constitutes, by admixture with the air
 of the atmosphere, a gas of diminished density, but still of
 such density as to retard the escape of further portions.
 All that the air-pump effects is to remove these as fast as
 they are liberated.
    There are various facts satisfactorily explained oh this
 doctrine which ire irreConcileabletoany former hypothesis.
 Of these I shall mention only a few ; since the theory will
 receive from yourself all the elucidation that its establishment
 can require.
     1st, If each gas be a vacuum to every other, a heavier
                           2                                   gas

ig6                      Tlieory  of mixed   Gases,
gas should ascend into a lighter one without the aid of agi
tation ; and, on the contrary, a lighter one should descend
into a heavier one. That this is actually the fact, and under
circumstances very unfavourable to their mixture, your own
experiments have fully proved.
     2dly, The hypothesis, explains why sulphuret of potash
withdraws oxygen from the air without agitation, and whe
 ther placed at the top or at the bottom of a jar ; for it acts
as if the absorbed gas were the only one present in the
vessel.
     3dly, It explains why the last portions of common air
are expelled from water by carbonic acid and other absorb-
 able gases.       For these gases act as a vacuum to the air con
 tained in the water, whiqh must, therefore, necessarily quit
 its place.      It solves also the problem how to expel, com
 pletely, any gas from water ; for, to effect this, the water
 must successively be agitated with portions of some other
 gas of the greatest attainable purity.         Thus, to expel atmo
 spherical air entirely from water, it may be agitated with
 pure carbonic acid gas ; but as the liberated common air
 presses on that remaining in the water, according to the
  proportion it bears to the superincumbent carbonic acid, the
 gas thus employed must be removed, and fresh and pure
 portions used in succession.
      4thly, By applying the same general law, we are taught
  how to effect the highest attainable impregnation of water,
  with any gas. There could be no difficulty in accomplish
  ing this object if the gas and water were both absolutely
  tmcontaminated by admixture with other gases. But when
  pure carbonic acid is agitated with water, atmospherical air
  is extricated; which, mingling with the carbonic acid,
  lessens its density.       To obviate this difficulty as much as
   possible,  a   Quantity   of  water, to be impregnated fully with
   carbonic acid, should be agitated with several successive
  portions of the purest possible gas.          The unabsorbed resi
  duum should also be very large, in order that the carbonic
   acid may bear a large proportion to other aeriform substances
   accidentally mixed with it.
      These are, doubtless, only a few of the phenomena, to
   the explanation^' which your theory may be successfully
   applied ; and I confidently expect that many facts hitherto
   referred to chemical principles will be brought, in conse
   quence of your discoveries, within the department of me
   chanical philosophy.         I am, dear sir, yours very truly,
     Manchester,                           .       WlLLIAM HENRY.
    June 20, 18741
                                                      XXXIV.      Area

                              [   197    ]
XXXIV.       Area of the several Counties of England and
   Wales, in square Statute Miles and Acres, as measured on
   the Maps in C. Smith's " New English Atlas, 1804;"
   the Scate given on each Map having been examined, and
   Correction applied to such of the Scales as were found to be
  erroneous.     The Population of each County is annexed, and
  the Number of Persons to each square Mite.
           COUNTIES IN ALPHABETICAL           ORDER.
                                              Population,  No. 0
     COUNTIES.          Sq. Stat.      Acres.             son, !n a
                         Miles.                  1801.       Mile.
Bedford                    430        275,200    63,393        147
Berks                      744        476,160   109,215        147
Bucks          -           748        478,720   107,444        144
Cambridge      -           686        439,040    89,346        130
Chester                  1017         650,880   191,751        189
Cornwall                 1407         900,480   188,269        134
Cumberland               1497         958,080   117,230          78
Derby                    1077         689,280  161,142         149
Devon                    2488      1,592,320   343,001         138
Dorset                   1129         722,560   115,319        102
Durham                   1040         665,600   160,361        154
Essex                    1525         976000   226,437         148
Gloucester     -         1122         718,080   250,809        224
Hereford                   971        621,440    89,191          92
Hertford                   602        385,280    97,577        162
Huntingdon                 345        220,800    37,568        110
Kent                     14C2         935,680  307,624         210
Lancashire     -         1806       1,155,840  672,731        372
Leicester                  816        522,240   130,081        159
Lincoln                  2787       1,783,680  208,557           75
Middlesex      -           297        190,080  818,129      2754
Monmouth -                 516        330,240    45,582          88
Norfolk                  2013       1,288,320  273,371         136
Northampton                965        617,600   131,757        137
Nothumberland            1809       1,157,760   157,101          87
Nottingham                 774        495,360   140,350        181
Oxford                     742        474,880   109,620        148
Rutland                    200        128,000    16,356          82
Salop                    1403         897,920   167,639        119
Somerset                 1549         991,360  273,750         177
Southampton              1533         981,120  210,656         143
   Vol.  19.  No.  74. July    1804.        P             Stafford

i9g              Area and Population of the
                                                         Xo. of Per'
                       Sq. Stat.   Acres.   Population, .on, in a sq.
      COUNTIES.                                 1801.      Mile.
                        Miles.
Stafford                1 196      765,440    239,153         199
Suffolk                 15GG     1,002,240    210,431         134
                          811      519,040    269,043       332
Surry
Sussex                   1461      935,040    159,311         109
Warwick                   984      629,760    208,190        212
Westmorland               722      462,080     41,617           57
                                   821,120    185,107         144
Wilts                    1283
Worcester     -           674      431,360    139,333         207
York, East Riding        1268      811,520    139,433
       North Riding     2112     1,351,680    155,506     V143
       West Riding      2633     1,685,120    563,953
         England       50,210 32,134,400    8,331,434         166
Anglesey . -              402       257,280     33,806          84
Brecon        -   • -      731     467,840      31,633          43
Cardigan                   726     464,640      42,956          59
 Carmarthen -              926      592,640     67,317          73
 Carnarvon    -            775     496,000      41,521          54
Denbigh                    731     467,840      60,352          83
 Flint                     309      197,760     39,622         128
 Glamorgan    -            822      526,080     71,525          87
Merioneth -                691     442,240      29,506          43
 Montgomery                982      628,480     47,978          49
 Pembroke     -            575      368,000     56,280           98
 Radnor                    455      291,200      19,050         42
           Wales        8,125    5,200,000     541,546           67
                                     -5
                                            8,872,980          152
 England and Wales 58,335 37,334,400
          COUNTIES ACCORDING TO THEIR EXTENT.
 York, West Riding       2633    1,685,120    563,953
 ——. North    Riding     2112    1,351,680     155,506
       East Riding -     1268       811,520    139,433
   1. York     -         6013    3,848,320     858,892         143
   2. Lincoln -          2787    1,783,680     208,557           75
   3. Devon    -         2488     1,592,320    343,001         138
   4. Norfolk            2013     1,288,320    273,371         136
   5. Northutnber.   -    1809    1,157,760    157,101           87
                                                   6. Lancashire

                 Counties   of England      and Wales.                 199
—,
                                                                 No. of ?ci*
       COUNTIES.         Sq. Stat.     Ac ret.    Population,   una in a sq.
                          Miles.                     1801.         Mile.
  6. Lancashire           1806       1,155,840     672,731          372
  7. Suffolk -            1566       1,002,240     210,431          134
  8. Somerset             1549         991,360     273,750          177
  9. Southampton     -    1533         981,120     219,656          143
10. Essex                 1525         976,000     226,437          148
1 1 . Cumberland     -    1497         958,080     117,230            78
12. Kent                  1462         935,680     307,624          210
13. Sussex     -          1461         935,040     159,311          109
14. Cornwall              1407         900,480     188,269          134
15. Salop                 1403         897,920     167,639          119
16. Wilts      -          1283         821,120     185,107          144
1 7.  Stafford -          1196         765,440     239,153           199
18. Dorset     -          1129         722,560     115,319          102
19.   Gloucester          1122         718,080     250,809          224
20.   Derby    -          1077         689,280     161,142          149
21.   Durham              1040         665,600     160,361          154
22.   Chester -           1017         650,880     191,751           189
23.   Warwick               984        629,760     208,190          212
24.   Hereford              971        621,440      89,191            93
25.   Northampton    -      965        617,600     131,757           137
26. Leicester               816        522,240     130,081           159
27. Surry                   811        519,040     269,043          332
28. Nottingham       -      774        495,360     140,350          181
29. Bucks      -            748        478,720     107,444          144
30. Berks      -            744        476,160     109,215           147
31. Oxford .   -            742        474,880     109,620          148
32. Westmorland      -      722        462,080      41,617            57
33. Cambridge               686        439,040      89,346          130
34. Worcester               674        431,360     139,333          207
35. Hertford                602        385,280       97,577          162
36.   Monmouth              516        330,240      45,582             88
37. Bedford    -            430        275,200       63,393         147
38. Huntingdon       -      345        220,800       37,568          110
39. Middlesex               297        190,080     818,129        2754
40. Rutland -               200        1 28,000      16,356            82
         England        50,210 32,134,400        8,331,434           166
  1.  Montgomery     -      982        628,480      47,978            49
  2. Carmarthen      -      926        592,640       67,317            73
 3. Glamorgan               822        526,080       71,525            87
 4. Carnarvon               775        496,000      41,521            54
                                  P 9                        5. Brecon

    200              Notices respecting New Books,
                            Sq. Stat.                            No. of Per-
           COUNTIES.                     Acres.     Population,  MNUin a Sq.
                             Miles.                    1801.       Ilife.
      5. Brecon -              731      467,840        31,633          43
      6. Denbigh               731      467,840        60,352     *    83
      7. Cardigan              726      464,640       42,956           59
      8. Merioneth             691      442,240        20,506          43
      9. Pembroke              575      368,000       56,280           98
    10. Radnor -               455      291,200        19,050          42
    1 1 . Anglesey            402       257,280       33,806           84
    12.   Flint    -           309      197,760       39,622        128
                WALES      8,125      5,200,000      541,546           67
   England and Wales       58,335 37,334,400       8,872,980        152
       Scotland and Ireland are nearly equal to each other in area,
   and together are equal to England and Wales : wherefore
   the population of Scotland being 1,6OO,OOO, averages at 55
   to a square milej and the population of Ireland being about
  4,25O,OOO, averages at 146 to a square British mile.               The
  United Kingdom averages at 1 30 to a square mile, inclu
  ding about 470,000 soldiers and sailors.
       N. B. The area of a square statute mile is to the area of
  a square geographical mile as three to four.
                XXXV.     Notice respecting     New Books.
  The Philosophical Transaction* far 1804.         Parti,    208 Pages,
                          with five Plates.
  rp
   J.  HE contents are : 1. The Bakerian Lecture, Experiments
  and     Calculations relative to Physical Optics ; by Thomas
  Young, M.D. F. R.S.— 2. Continuation of an Account of
  a peculiar Arrangement in the Arteries distributed on the
 Muscles of slow moving Animals, &c. ; in a Letter from
 Mr. Anthony Carlisle to John Symmons, Esq. F. R.SS—
 3. An Account of a curious Phenomenon observed on the
 Glaciers of Chamouny ; together with some occasional Ob-
•servations concerning the Propagation of Heat in Fluids;
 by Benjamin Count Rumford, V.TP.R.S. Foreign Associate
 of the National Institute of France, &c.8cc. —4. Descrip
 tion of a triple Sulphuret of Lead, Antimony, and Copper,
 from Cornwall ; with some Observations upon the various
Modes of Attraction which 'influence the 'Formation of Mi
neral Substances, ahd upon the different Jwinds of Sulphuret
                                                                       of

                 Notices respecting New Books.            201
 of Copper;    by the Count de Bournon, F.R.S. andL.S.
 5. Analysis of a triple Sulphuret of Lead, Antimony-, and
 Copper from Cornwall, by Charles Hatchett, Esq. F.R.S.
 — 6. Observations on the Orifices found in certain poi
 sonous Snakes, situated between the Nostril and the Eye ;
 by Patrick Russell, M.D. F. R.S. : with some Remarks on,
 the Structure of th'osu Orifices, and the Description of a
 Bag connected with the Eye met with in the same Snakes 5
 by Everard Home, Esq. F.R.S. — 7. An Inquiry concern
 ing the Nature of Heat, and the Mode of its Communica
 tion; by Benjamin Count Rumford, V. P. F.R.S. Foreign
 Associate of the National Institute of France, 8cc. — 8. Ex
 periments and Observations on the Motion of the Sap in
 Trees ; in a Letter from Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. to
 the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P. R.S.
 Appendix, Meteological Journal kept at the Apartments of
 the Royal Society, by Order of the President and Council.
Analytical Essays towards promoting the Cliemical Know
    ledge of Mineral Substances.       By MARTIN HENRY
    KLAPROTH, Professor of Chemistry, &c. &,c. Vol. IF.
    8vo. translated from the German.
    This valuable volume is translated by the same learned
 chemist who favoured us with a translation of the first. Its
 contents are: 73. Examination of the Auriferous Ores
 from Transylvania. — 74. Analysis of the sulphated Oxide
 of Manganese from Transylvania.— ^7-5. Examination of
 Tungstate of Lime (Scheelium). — 76. Gadolinite. — 77- Ex
 amination of the Egyptian Natrum (Soda). — 78. Striated
 Soda. — 79- Analysis of the native Muriate of Ammoniac. —
 80. Examination of Saffblin. — 81. Examination of the PIu-
 mose Alum from Freyenwalde. — 82. Capillary Salt (Halotri-
 chium) from Idria.
                     — 83. Elastic Bitumen from Derbyshire.
— 84. Examination of Mellilito. — 85. Umbra (Umber). —
 86. Examination of the muriated Lead Ore. — 87- Phospha-
 ted Lead Ores. — 88.     Sulphated Lead Ores. — 89- Tabular,
 White Lead Ore, from Leadhills. — 90. Examination of the
 native Reguline Antimony, from Andreasberg. — 91. Anti-
 moniated Silver, from Andreasberg. — 92. Fibrous red An-
timonial Ore. — 93. White Ore of Antimony. — 94. Arse-
niatitd Olive Copper Ore. — 95. Muriated Copper Ore. —
 96. Phosphated Copper Ore. — 97. Kryofite. — 98. Beryl.
— 99. Emerald. — 100. Examination of Klingstone (Echo-
dolite).
         — 101. Basalt (Figurate Trapp). — 102. Pitch Stone.
•— 103. Addition to the
                            Analysis of Pumice Stone (Essay
33). — 104. Examination        of the Jargon (Zircon) from
                             P  3                    Norway.

202                 Royal   Society   of London.
Norway. — 105.      Examination of Madreporitc. — 106. Phar-
macoliie. — 107.    Scorza. — 10S. Examination of the Fibru-
ous Sulphate of Barytes. — lo9. Tabular Spar (Safel-spath) .
— 110. Examination of Miemite. — 111. Examination of
the prismatic Magnesian Spar, from the Territory of Gotha.
— 112. Examination of the striated gray Ore of Manganese.
— 113. Earthy, black Oxide of Manganese. — 114. Exami
nation of the Asphaltum from Albania. — 115. Earthy
brown Coal. — 116. The Hungarian Pearl Stone.
           XXXVT.      Proceedings    of Learned  Societies.
                  ROYAL SOCIETY        OF LONDON.
        . Smithson Tennant          has discovered two new metals
 in the black powder which remains after dissolving platina,
 of which he has given an account in a paper communicated
 to the society. Mr. Tennant's first experiments were made
 last summer, when they were communicated to the learned
 president, after which an account of one of these metals
 appeared in France by M. Descotil and M. Vauquelin, who
 ascribe to it the following properties : — 1. That it reddens
 the precipitates of platina made bv sal-ammoniac : 2. That
 it dissolves in marine acid: 3. That it is precipitated by
 gall? and prussiate of potash. The properties mentioned
 by Mr. Tennant are, that it dissolves in all the acids, but
 least in marine acid, with which it forms octaedral crys
  tals.   The solution with much oxygen is deep red, with a
  smaller proportion green or deep blue.         It is partially pre
  cipitated by the three alkalies when pure. All the metals,
  excepting gold and platina, precipitate it. Galls and pre
  cipitate of potash take away the colour of this solution, but
  without any precipitate, and afford an easy test of its pre
  sence. The oxide therefore loses its oxygen by water alone.
   When combined with gold or silver, it cannot be separated
  bv the usual process of refining these metals. As the French
  chemists have not given a name to the metal, Mr. Tennant
  inclines to call it iridium, from the various colours of it in
  solution.
      The second new metal is obtained by heating the black
  powder with pure alkali in a silver crucible.        The oxide of
  this metal unites with the alkali, and may be expelled by an
  acid and obtained by distillation, being very volatile.         The
  oxide has a very strong smell, from which Mr. Tennant
  has called    it osmium.       It does not redden vegetable
                                                                blues,

                      Board of Agriculture.
blues, but stains the skin of a deep red or black.             The
oxide in solution with water has no colour, but by combi
ning with alkali or lime becomes yellow.             With galls it
gives a very vivid blue colour.       All the metals, excepting
gold and platina, precipitate this metal. If mercury is agi
tated with the aqueous solution of the oxide, an amalgam
is formed, which, by heat, loses the mercury, and leaves
the osmium pure as a black powder.
                THE BOABD OF AGRICULTURE*
             Has offered the following premiums        :
   Culture of Plants. — To the persons who shall make the
most satisfactory experiments, tending to the improvement-
of the culture of each of the following plants respectively,
viz. wheat, rye, barley, oats, pease, beans, tares, buck
wheat, turnips, cabbages, rutabaga, potatoes, carrots, par
snips, clover, lucern, sainfoin, chicory, hemp, flax, hops, —
the silver medal.
   Accounts, verified by certificates, to be produced on or
before the second Tuesday in May 1805.
   The same premium for 1806.
   The same premium for 1807-
   Soiling Cattle. — To the person who shall, through the
entire summer of 1805, keep the greatest number ot cattle
in stalls, houses, or confined yards, and fed entirely in the
Boiling method, with green food, — the gold medal.
   Certificates of the number of cattle, and acres of food,
and sorts eaten, the quantity of dung made, with other cir
cumstances of the experiment, to be produced on or before
the first Tuesday in December 1805.
   The same premium for 1 80fl.
   The same premium for 1807.
   Comparison of Food to different Animals. — To the person
who shall, by experiments, ascertain in the most satisfac
tory manner, and report to the board, the comparative ef
fect of certain articles of food when given to various kinds
of live stock, — the gold medal.
   Grasses, natural and artificial, mown and weighed ; hay,
cut chaff, corn or pulse, oil-cake, turnips, cabbages, car
rots, parsnips, potatoes, &c. compared, in the production
of mutton, beef, butter, and cheese ; artificial grasses, cab
bages, roots, and corn or pulse, in the production of mut
ton, beef, pork, or the flesh of poultry.       It is required that
the food be weighed and registered, and the animals also,
with the increased weight noted from every sort of food.
              *  See our 17th volume, p. 285 and »7|.
                                P 4                      Accounts

2O4                Society   of Athenian Travellers, &c.
      Accounts to be produced on or before the first Tuesday
  in March 1806.
      Waste Land. — To the person who shall improve, and
  bring to tlie annual value of not less than IOs. an acre, the
•greatest    number of acres heretofore waste, not less than
  fifty, — the gold medal. .
,     Accounts of the improvement, verified by certificates, in
  cluding the state of the land before the experiment, and of
  the cultivation, expenses, and produce, to be laid before
  the board on or before the first Tuesday in March 1 805.
      Notice of the intended improvement to be sent to the
'board, and therefore secrecy cannot be required.
      The same premium for 1806.
      The same premium for 1807.
      Waste Land. — To the person, who shall describe to the
  hoard, in the most satisfactory manner, from actual expe-
'
   riment on not less than one acre, the most profitable mode,
   without the use of lime, of bringing heath land (the spon
  taneous growth of which is long or short ling, or heath)
  into cultivation, and a state of improvement, — twenty gui
    neas.
      Accounts of the soil previous to the improvement, and
    the means of effecting      it,
                               verified by certificates, to be pro
    duced on or before the first Tuesday in March 1806.
                 SOCIETY OF ATHENIAN TRAVELLERS.
       A new literary society has lately been established, which
    promises to be of great service to science            denomi
                                                              it   is
    nated " The
                                                          :
                   Society  of Athenian   Travellers."   The   fol
    lowing
              is
              a  correct list of the original members.      Future
    ones, who have visited Athens, are to be admitted          bal      by
    lot, according to the rules of the society.
       Earl of Aberdeen.            Mr. Morritt.
       Lord Brooke.                 Mr. Randal Wilbraham.
       Mr. Drummond.                Mr. Neave.
         Mr. Hawkins.                    Mr.   Hamilton.
         Mr. Thos. Hope.                 Mr.   Leake.
         Mr. Henry Phil. Hope.           Mr.   Squire.
         Dr. Clarke.                     Mr.   Aug. Foster.
         Mr   Cripps.                    Mr.   J. L. Foster.
         Mr. Cell.                       Mr.   Wilkins.
                     FRENCH NATIONAL           INSTITUTE.
         The following prize questions      were proposed      by
                                                             the Class
    of   the Mathematical      and    Physical Sciences in the public
.   sitting of June 25th.
                                                              Mathematics^

                   French National Institute.
                          Matliematics .
    " To give a theory of the perturbations of the planet Pallas,
discovered by Dr. Olbers."
    Geometricians have given, with sufficient exactness and
extent, the theory of the perturbations of all the old planets,
and of those which may be still discovered if confined within
the same zodiac, and if they have only a very small eccentri
city. Mercury till the present time was considered as the most
eccentric of all the planets, and at the same time that which
had the greatest inclination; but the smallness of its mass,
and its position at one of the limits of the planetary system,
render it very little calculated to produce very sensible alter
ations in the motion of the other planets.       Uranus, disco
vered twenty years ago by Dr. Herschel, is placed at the
other limit of the system, with a small mass and little ec
centricity : it has also the smallest of all the inclinations
known ; so that the formulae employed for Jupiter and Sa
turn have been more than sufficient for that new planet,
(peres, discovered a few years ago by M. Piazzi, having a
considerable eccentricity aud an inclination of 10° 38', must
be subject to strong and numerous inequalities.          It, how
ever, appears that all the astronomers who have endeavoured
to determine them have been contented with known for
 mula:, the development of which does not exceed the pro
 ducts of the three dimensions of the inclinations and eccen
 tricities.  Those of five dimensions have been employed in
 the Mecanique Celeste for a particular case, according to
 a formula   of M. Burckhardt.      The same astronomer has
 since presented to the National Institute the general and-
 complete development of the third, fourth, and fifth orders;
 but this degree of precision would certainly not be sufficient
 for the planet Pallas, whose eccentricity is even greater than
 that of Mercury, and inclination 34° 37'; that is to say,
 five times greater than that of any other known planet.        It
 is even difficult to conjecture what will be the powers and
 the dimensions of the products which it may be allowable
 to neglect ; and the calculations may be of such length, and
 the formulae so complex, that they might frighten astrono
 mers the best qualified to execute them. This consideration,
 has induced the Class of the Mathematical and Philoso
  phical Sciences to propose this subject as the question for
  which it will adjudge a prize on the first Monday of Mes-
  sidor, year 14.     It therefore requests geometricians and
  astronomers to discuss completely all the inequalities of this
                                                           theory,

   206               French National Institute.
  theory, and to omit none of them which may be found en
  tirely negligible ; and as these inequalities might vary very
  sensibly if the elliptic elements were not exactly known, it
  is indispensably necessary that the competitors should not
  confine themselves to giving the numerical co-efficients of
  the equations : they must also give the analytical co-effi
  cients, in order that one may be able to affix to them the
  most exact values of the mean distance of the aphelion and
  inclination, when these elements shall be better known.
  Another advantage will result from these analytical co-effi
  cients : — As there is so little difference between the distances
 of the planets Ceres and Pallas from the sun, that it is even
 very difficult at present to say which of the two is the nearest
 to mat body, the formula given for Pallas may, without much
  change, serve also for Ceres, as well as for any other planet
 •which may be discovered hereafter, and of which, by these
 means, a more certain and complete theory will be obtained.
 The class hopes that the question will appear interesting
 enough to astronomers to induce them to bestow upon it a
 care equal to the difficulty of the subject.
     The answers must be written in French or in Latin, and
 will not be received after the 1st of Germinal, year 14.
                        Natural Philosophy.
     The class had proposed as the subject of a prize the fol
                        "
 lowing question : — To determine, by experiment, the dif
 ferent sources of the carbon of vegetables."
     It continues the competition till the 1st of Germinal,
year 13.
     The class continues also till the 1st of Germinal, year 13,
the competition on the following question : — " To deter
mine, by anatomical and chemical observations and expe
riments, what are the phenomena of the torpidity which
certain animals, such as the marmot, dormouse, &c., experi
ence during winter in regard to the circulation of the blood*
respiration, and irritability : to inquire what are the causes
of sleep, and why it is peculiar to animals."
     The value of the two prizes is doubled : it consists in two
kilogrammes of gold, about 6800 francs each.
    The class had proposed for the second time, on the 15th
of Germinal, year 10, as the subject of a prize, to be ad-
           in the public sitting of Messidor, year 12, the fol-
1'udged
  owmg question :
                     — " What are the characters which di
stinguish in animal and vegetable matters, those which
serve as ferment from those which they cause to undergo
fermentation ?M
                                                                As

                    French National Institute.                207
    As the answers sent in did not fulfil the required condi
tions, and the class considering that this question has been
proposed during four years, it decrees that the subject shalJ
be withdrawn.
                             Astronomy.
    The decree of government, dated Floreal 13th, year 10,
which authorizes the National Institute to accept the gift
of a capital of 10,000 francs offered by C. Lai ancle, states,
" that,   agreeably to the intentions of the donor, the annual
                                                                   '
product of the capital shall be employed by the Institute to
give each year a gold medal, of the weight which the amount
of the revenue will permit, or the value of that medal, to
the person who in France or elsewhere, the members of
 the National Institute excepted, shall have made the ob
 servation most interesting, or published the memoir most
 useful, to the progress of astronomy."
    On a report by the commissioners named for that pur
 pose, the Class of the Mathematical and Physical Sciences
 of the National Institute decreed the prize to M. Joseph
 Piazzi, professor royal of astronomy and director of the
 observatory at Palermo, for a work he has published under
 the title of Prasciptiarum Stellarum inerranlium Positiones
 mediae ineuntc Sesculo XIX. ex Observationilus halitis in
 Specula Panormitana. Panormi 1803, one vol. fol.
    This work, which contains the positions of about six
 thousand stars, determined with the greatest care and the
 best instruments, is the fruit of ten years assiduous observa
 tions and calculations, which must ensure to the author the
 esteem and gratitude of all astronomers.        It was while em
 ployed   on  this catalogue  that M.  Piazzi  discovered,  on the
  1st of January 1801, the planet to which he gave the name
 of Ceres Ferdinandea ; but even before this interesting dis
 covery he was well known by the publication of two vo
 lumes of observations, which contain the foundations of
 his catalogue, and a long series of observations exceedingly
 useful to the theory of refractions.
                              Conditions.
     All persons,   the members    of the Institute excepted, are
  admitted as competitors.
     No answer must have the name of the author, but only
  a sentence or device : the author, if he chooses, may affix
  to it a separate billet, sealed, and containing, besides the
 «entence or device, the name and address of the author.
  This billet cannot be opened unless the paper has gained
  the prize.
                                                               The

208       Royal   Society  of the Sciences at Prague,  &c.
    The   papers must be transmitted to the secretary's office
 of  the Institute, free of postage, or to the perpetual secretary
of   the Class of the Mathematical and Physical Sciences.
    None of the papers will be returned, but the authors may
 take copies of them if they think proper.
    A  vacancy having occurred, by the death of Dr. Priestley,
 among the foreign associates of the National Institute,
M. Klaproth, chemist of Berlin, who is known as the dis
 coverer of three new metals and four earths, was elected to
 that place.    The other candidates proposed were: M. Pi-
azzi, astronomer, of Palermo ; Jacqum, botanist, of Vienna ;
Scarpa, anatomist, of Pavia; Vahl, botanist, of Copenha
gen ; Mascagni, anatomist, of Sienna ; Mr. Watt, of Bir
mingham; Verner, mineralogist, of Freyberg; Mr. Dal-                _
rymple, the geographer ; and the celebrated traveller Hum-
boldt.
      THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF THE SCIENCES           AT PRAGUE
        Has proposed    the two following   prize questions :
    " I.  To discover the means, besides those of the police,
for putting an end to, or at least lessening, the various
kinds of adulteration practised in regard to provisions."
    It is well known that there are three principal causes of
adulteration : the mixture of corrupted matters ; the intro
duction of foreign and prejudicial matters ; the preparing
and keeping food in dangerous or unhealthf'ul vessels.        The
society is therefore of opinion that it will be doing a great
service to mankind to collect all the means already known
and published by chemists for remedying these inconve
niences, provided they be accompanied with simpler, less
expensive, and more certain processes j and that they be
described in such a manner as to render them practicable
and intelligible to peasants.        The competitors, how.ever,
will still be at liberty to propose means of their own inven
tion. The memoirs must be written in German.                  The
prize will be 500 florins, and 400 copies of the successful
memoir, which will be printed at the expense of the society.
    " II. To examine and appreciate all the sources from
which materials may be drawn to throw light on the his
tory of Bohemia, and to point out and give a character of
the principal historical works which treat of that country."
The prize will be 30O florins, and 400 copies of the success
ful memoir, printed as the preceding. The memoirs must
be written in German, and transmitted, free of postage, to
the secretary of the society before the 1st of January 1806.
                                                   XXXVII.     7/i-

                             [   209   ]
      XXXVII.      Intelligence and^Miscellaneous   Articles.
                     VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY.
 J.T will  be remembered       that some time in the spring of
  1802, the ship named the Investigator was completely fitted
 up in the Thames, and amply stored and provided, and put
 under the command of captain Flinders, in order to proceed
 to the South Sea for the purpose of exploring the coasts and
 the interior of New Holland ; and that, besides the officers
 and crew, there were embarked persons skilled in practical
 astronomy, natural history in all its departments, and others
 accomplished in the art of drawing and painting.
     By a Danish ship arrived very lately at Dover, letters
 have been received from Canton, in China, by which it ap
 pears that the Investigator arrived at Port Jackson on the
 5th or 6th of June last year, after having finished a part of
 the intended survey of New Holland ; by which time she
had received such injury in the course of her voyage, and
was so rotten, that, on examination then made, she was
 condemned     as unfit for further service.
    The  same accounts further add, that the Porpoise, a small
armed vessel then at Port Jackson, under the direction of
            King, was pitched on to complete this voyage of
   iscovery : but that, being surveyed, she was also found unfit
fovernor
 for so dangerous a service.     It was then determined that the
 Porpoise should proceed to England with the officers of the
 Investigator.    To the men of science an offer was made of
 either stopping at Port Jackson till captain Flinders should
 return from England with another ship, or taking a passage
 home, as many as could be accommodated, in the Porpoise;
the rest to follow by the first proper conveyance that might
offer.
    The Porpoise sailed from Port Jackson about the 10th of
August 1 803, having under her convoy the merchantmen
Cato and Bridgewater, bound to Batavia. The intended
track was through Forrest's Straights, between the north
coast of New Holland and New Guinea, and so, getting
into the Indian seas, to follow the usual tracg of tfie In-
diamen, instead of the circuitous route by Cape Horn.
    The public has lately been informed of the unfortunate
result of this voyage.      The accounts now received are to
the following purpose :— About 10 o'clock at night> on the
 17th or 18th of August 1803, the Porpoise being a little
a-head of the Cato and Bridgewater, who were on the lar
board and starboard quarter, breakers were suddenly seen
                                                              from

210                  fay age of Discovery.
from the forecastle.   The vessel was at that time going right
before the wind at the rate of eight miles per hour ; and it
was so exceedingly dark, that the breakers, though tremen
dously high,were not discerned till they were within a quarter
of a mile. The helm was instantly put down, and an at
tempt made to brace round the yards, but before the ship
could be brought about she was amongst the reefs or shelves.
It was expected she would go down the instant she struck ;
but, providentially drifting on one of the reefs broadside-
ways, she heeled a little, and then , remained immovable.
The situation now was dreadful : so remote from land, the
night so dark and stormy, with the breakers driving over
the deck, and the vessel expected every moment to cro to
pieces. Yet, for all this, the accounts add, that the officers
and ship's company, having taken every precaution in their
power, remained as composed as if the vessel had been
riding at anchor.
   The people of the Cato and Bridgewater did not discern
the breakers so soon as those in the Porpoise.    When they
did, they instantly hauled for the wind ; but unfortunately
on opposite tacks, and so must have inevitably met one
another. To avoid this destruction there was no alternative
but for one of them to give way- This was done by the
commander of the Cato, the lesser vessel, under the as
surance of immediate assistance from the other ; which ac
cordingly poised and was saved, whilst the Cato went stern
on the reefs, and immediately sunk.       The people clung to
the rigging till the morning, when they found themselves
about half a mile distant from a coral sand bank, nearly as
much in circumference.       This miserable asylum they all
reached, except two or three who perished ; as also did the
company from the Porpoise, who found means of convey
ing hither the ship's provisions and part of the stores.
Afterwards, captain Flinders and the commander of the
Cato, with eight or nine hands, left the reef in the cutter
whictj belonged to the Porpoise, and reached Port Jackson,
a distance of more than 9OO miles, in safety.    From thence
the ship Kolla, in company with two schooners, one of
them commanded by captain Flinders, weighed on the 2Oth
of September, and made the fatal reef on the 8th of Oc
tober, and relieved those who had remained there. On the
6th of December the Rolla and schooners anchored safely
it Macao, where they found fifteen or sixteen Indiamen
nearly ready to sail, waiting for intelligence from Europe ;
in some of which die gentlemen belonging to the Investi
gator proposed taking their passage home.
                                                  PHOSPHATE

               Analysis of Dolomite. —Suberic Acid.            21 1
        PHOSPHATE OF POTASH FOUND IN VEGETABLES.
    Th. de Saussure has found in the ashes of the seeds
 of .maize, wheat, beans, and several other plants, a large
quantity of the phosphate of potash united to a small quan
 tity of lime or magnesia.
                     ANALYSIS     OF DOLOMITE.
    M.     Klaproth, in a letter to M. Vauquelin, dated Berlin,
January 22, 1804, says :        "  The object of my last analysis
was a more exact knowledge of the constituent parts of do
lomite.       The analysis of this stone of the St. Gothard, by
Saussure, is false ; and the division of Haiiy, founded on
this analysis of aluminiferous carbonated lime, can no
longer subsist, as this stone does not contain an atom of
aluinine. It is composed of carbonated lime 52, carbonated
magnesia 0'25.        The case is the same with the primitive
lime which constitutes the mass of the Alps (of Juliers and
 Rluetica) : it contains 48 per cent, of the carbonate of
magnesia, and 52 of the carbonate of lime.          All these dif
ferent stones form only pne family with the bitter spar and
miemite.
    " We have not yet been able to succeed in the synthesis
of the palladium announced by Mr. Chenevix."
                          SUBERIC ACID.
    When nitric acid is made to act upon paper, a Iarg«
quantity of suberic acid mixed with oxalic acid is obtained,
which seems to prove that Fourcroy was right in placing
cork among the immediate principles of vegetables.             For
this discovery we are indebted to Brugnatelli.
                           VACCINATION.
    By   letters from Russia we learn that this  practice is mak
ing rapjd progress in that country. In the
      a                                          year 1 803 about
15,000 children were inoculated in Lesser        Russia, not one
of which died. Drs. Ramm and Hahn have           lately published
an account of the progress of their vaccine institution at
Riga ; by which it appears, that in the course of five months
they inoculated 444 children and adults, none of whom
died, nor were exposed afterwards to the least illness.       The
exertions of these meritorious physicians to introduce this
practice in Livonia are entitled to the greater praise, as in
one parish alone of 436 children born, 196 were carried off
by the small-pox. Above a thousand children belonging to
the peasants have been inoculated in Livonia, Esthorua, and
Courland, with matter distributed by these physicians, and
all with the best success,
                S                                      METEORO-

312                                    Meteorology.
                             METEOROLOGICAL               TABLE*
                                                                 '
                                      fbr Ja/y      1804.
                       Thermometer.
                                              Height of
                              8
                                      JSi
                                      L) M
                                             the Barom.                       Weather.
                                               Inches.
 June       26         58°    70°      59°     30'18                   Fair
            27!        80     65       47         *01                  Fair, with wind
            28         51     59       50         •11                  Cloudy
                       53     69       56         •05                  Fair
            30|        59     70       60      29*98                   Fair
      July     1       65     76       60         •80                  Fair, with wind
              2        62     73       60         '83                  Fair
              3        61     63       55         *74       Degrees    Small rain
              4        57     69       57         •82       of Eva   Fair
                                                            poration
              5        60     65       55         •82                Cloudy
                                                            by  Mr.
              6        55     61       59         •76
                                                            Lester's
                                                                     Rain
              7        58     60       59         •78       Hygro      Rain
              8        60     70       61         •70       meter.     Showery     ~
        •
             9         61     72       60         •80                  Fair
            10         60     60       52         •69         15°      Rain
            11         52     59       50     30'02           51       Cloudy
            12j        52     62       51         •21         55       Fair
            13         60     69       61         '21         53       Fair
            14         55     64      56          •12         45       Cloudy
            15         60    69        61         •08         62       Fan-
                                                                       Fair
             17j I6j
                       64    76        67          13         91
                       68    77        66         •13         65       Fair
            18         70     75       60     29'88           55       Cloudy
                       61     70       55         •56         52       (Showers,with
                                                                         thunder
                       58     60      56          *65         25       Cloudy
                       56    66       61          •80         55       Fair
                       60    68       57         *68          26       Showery
                       60    66       58          •45         30       Showery
                       61     73      59          '64         71       Fair        .
                       60    68       58          •55         64       Fair
                       58    69       60          '51         64       Fair
                             •
                                 By   Mr.   Carey, of the Strand.

                             C   213   ]
  XXXVIII.      On tKe Mensuration       of Timler.     By Mr.
                         JOHN FAHEY.
         To the Editor  of  the Philosophical   Magazine*
       SIR>
    HE following paper was written at the particular request
of the very intelligent nobleman to whom it is addressed,
and who has since expressed a wish that I would publish it,
on account of the importance of the subject to land-owners
and growers of timber.       By giving it a place in your Maga*
zinc, you will greatly oblige, sir,
                             ~i our obedient humble servant,
June 15, 1804.                                     JOHN FAREY.
To the Right Honwralle Lord SHEFFIELD, President               of
                the Board of Agriculture, &c.
      MY LORD,
   IN complying with the wish which your lordship did
me the honour to express, to receive a communication from
me on the subject of timber, and particularly on the cus
tomary modes of measuring it for sale, it is necessary          I
should apologize for enumerating many things, for the sake
of connecting the subject, which have been often before
published, and are too well known to your lordship and
inrost other growers of timber, to have otherwise required
repeating. Timber in large quantities is generally sold by
the load, and in smaller quantities by the foot, without
its being generally understood or adverted to, that in reality
three different quantities pass under the denomination o£
foot, and the same of load : first, the cubic foot of 1 728
cubic inches ; second, the foot round measure, varying,
according to the shape or dimensions of the different parta
of the tree, from about 2200 to about 2500 cubic inches ;
and third, the foot square measure1, varying also, according
to the shape of the tree, from about 13(iO to about 2000
cubic inches.     In each of these cases the load is equal to
50  of the respective feet.
   The first or cubic foot occurs in measuring      square <awed
timber, or what is called die-square timber, and plank,
scantling, &c. (as also in the measure of hewn or sawn
stone-work), and is found by taking the length, breadth,
and depth of the piece, and multiplying these three dimen
sions together.     For example : suppose a piece of square
   Vol. 19. No. 75. August 1804.         Q_               timber,

* 14                On the Mensuration 6f Timter.
 limber, as fig. 1, (Plate V.) to be in length, AB or CE, 25
i'eetj in breadth, AC or BE, 24 inches ; and iivdeplh, AD.
 OrEF, 1 2 inches; then the breadth 24 multiplied by the
 depth 12, gives 288 superficial inches (144 of which make
 a superficial or plane foot) for the area or measure of the
 end, which being divided* by 144 gives two superficial feet,
 which, multiplied by the length 25, gives 50 cubic feet, or
 one load, for the measure or content.              Planks and board*
 are also reduced to this measure by taking their length,
breadth, and thickness;
    The second, or foot round measure, occurs in the com
mon method used in measuring round timber, or whole trees,
either while standing or after being felled. If the tree tapers
 regularly from the bottom or but, to the top or smaller end,
 as in fig. 2, it is measured by taking the length AB, and
 thereby finding the middle C, and then by a string taking
 the circumference or girt at C and applying the same to a
 carpenter's rule to take the inches f> one quarter of which is
 called the. quarter girt, or more commonly the girt ; then
 the girt is multiplied by itself, divided by 144 to reduce it
 to feet, and these multiplied by the length, to obtain the
 content.      For example: suppose a tree to be in length AB
 25 feet, and that its circumference in the middle at C is
 63 inches ; then the fourth of this, or 1 7 inches, is the girt,
 and tile girt 17 inches multiplied by 17 is 289 inches, and
 this divided by 144 is two feet, (neglecting the small frac
tion I- 144th of a foot,) which multiplied by 25 feet, the-
length, gives the measure or content 5(T feet round measure,
or one load. Now since the girt in the middle at C re
maining the same, the circumferences at the two ends may
and do in practice vary, in all proportions, from that of
being only 6 inches girt or 24 inches circumference at the"
smallest end B, fig. 3; the but A at the same time being
very large, and the tree then differing but little from the
cone At), to the case in which the two ends A and B are
   * In this and the following examples, I have reduced the area tnto feet
 (by dividing by 144) previous to multiplying by the length, as better
calculated for showing the reason of the operation ; but in practice it is
more usual and ready to multiply by the length previous to dividing by
 '44
    f  A s'ring is constantly used by the buyers of timber : but the gra
duated tapes invented for'thc purpose, and made by Cnry, optician, iiv
the St. and, are more ex?ct, and much more expeditions amt easy in prac
tice. ,)i«i here I would remark, that the allowance of the girt for the
bark ought to be 6$ times the thickness of the bark, and not any certain
 proportion of the girt, much less a fixed number of inches, as some buyers
will contend.
                                                                    equal.

                            On the Mensuration            of Timber.                   215
 equal, or the tree a cylinder, as fig. 4 ; a source of uncer
tainty and error hereby arises, besides the other source of
 error in taking l-4th of the circumference to be the side of
the square equal to the circle : these causes operate diffe
 rently in different trees, so as to cause the real content of a
foot of timber round measure to vary, as before stated, from
about 2200 to about 2500 cubic inches, always exceeding
the truth by more than one-fourth part of the whole.
    In case the tree does not taper regularly as above de
 scribed, but owing to knots or branches tapers irregularly in.
different parts, as in fig. 5, having .at the points B and T/
what are called stops or knots, occasioning the tree to lessen
suddenly at these places ; in such case the tree is measured
at three lengths ; first taking the length AB and girt at C,
then the length BD and girt at E, and lastly the length DF
and girt at G; and calculating the three pieces separately
by the above method, the three contents are added together
for the content or measure of the whole tree*.
   The third, or foot square measure, occurs in measuring
timber which has been hewn or sided in part, as in fig. 6 ;
the transverse section of such a tree being in fact an eight-
sided figure, contained under four straight lines and four
curved ones, part of the circumference of the tree; and
trees are never so much hewn or sided as to take out the
corners entirely, for then they would be called die-square,
as in the first case.   The method of measuring here is to
take the length AB, and thereby to determine the middle
point C, and, instead of girting it there, its depth DE is
taken with a pair of calliper compasses, which are after
wards applied ,to a carpenter's rule to get the inches therein :
in like manner its breadth FG is taken ; and if these differ,
they are added together and the half of their sum taken as
      *                      the larger piece is in length AB 17 feet and
          In   the above tree,    if
its                                 piece in length BD 17 feet and its girt
      girt at C 24 inches, the middle
at                                  piece in length DF 17 feet and its girt
      K be 15 inches, and the smaller
at G be 6 inches, then the whole length, or three times 17, being 51 feet,
and the girt at its middle 15 inches, (being also in this case the third of
the sum of the three girts, or         —    ^-5       -J;    therefore 15 multiplied    by
                                                          if by
15, this divided          by
                     244., and then multiplied       51, gives 79 feet as the
                                                                          J
content when measured in one piece: but              this tree be measured in
three lengths as above directed, then 24             —¦
                                                24    x  144 x 17 31 (>8 feet
the content of the greater piece, also 15 x        -r 144 x 17 = 26' feet
                                                          6 (5     —
the content of the middle piece, an         I x   6 -f- 144     17    4} feet
                                                                      x
the content of the smaller piece    the sum of these three or 68
                                       ;
                                                                      26$ +   +
4I a 3^1 feet for the content, when measured as three pieces, exceeding
tile other       by   19! feet.
                                           QJ                                      the

$16                On the Mensuration of Timber.
the calliper of the tree : this calliper is multiplied by itself,
divided bv 144 to reduce it to feet, and these multiplied by
the length to get the content or measure of the tree.        For
example: suppose a hewn tree to be in length AB 25 feet,
and at the middle C to calliper in depth 1 7^ inches, and in
breadth      lfi^ inches, then is 17 inches the calliper: this
multiplied by 17 gives 289, and this divided by 144 give-*
two feet (neglecting a small fraction), which multiplied by,
the length 25 feet, gives 50 feet square measure, or one
Ifcad.    On account of the tapering or unequal dimensions
of the two ends, also on account of the unequal manner in
which timber is hewn, some trees having only just a chip
taken off their sides, and others being hewn till nearly die-
square, and in all the intermediate degrees ; and further,
oil account of the loss of the corners, the real quantity of
the foot square measure is still more uncertain and vague
than the foot round measure, for it varies from about 13GO
to about 2000 cubic inches, being sometimes below and
sometimes above the truth : but it should be remarked, that
the cubic inches mentioned above, as the limits within
which the foot round measure and the foot square measure
vary, is only on a supposition that the sides of the tree are
regular, or that it has no particular swelling in the middle
or girting place to cause it to girt or calliper more, or hol-
Jow to cause it to girt or calliper less, than it would if the
tree were regular; tor in these cases (which too frequently
occur in practice) the round measure and square measure
arc often still more wide of the truth.
    If 'a sided or hewn tree does not taper regularly through
out, or has the knots or stops described above in the case of
round timber, then the tree is measured in different lengths,
and the contents of the pans arc added together for the con
tent of the whole tree, as in the case of round timber.       In
like manner, the branches reserved and sold for knees or
braces in ships, barges, Sec,, either round or hewn, are mea
sured in two lengths.
    The first of the above, or cubic measure, will prove con
sistent with the weight: thus, if 10 cubic i'ect of a tree.
we'igh 578lb., 30 cubic feet of the same tree will weigh
 1734 lb. ; but in either of the other measures it is but in
some very rare casts that 30 feet of a tree will be found to'
weigh three times as much as 10 feet of the same tree even,
when measured by the same mode ! The difference in the
weights of the round measure and the square measure is so
considerable, that for the purposes of freight or carriage it
is an established custom that 40 feet of round timber make
                                                         a load,

                          On the Mensuration            of Timber.                         2 17
 a load,    but of square or hewn timber fifty feet make a
  load.
     Notwithstanding the glaring inconsistencies of the two
  Ian methods, they are established, and from their facility in
  practice, especially to those who are expert at operating
  with     odecimals, and to others when aided
         c'.                                                Hoppus'              by
  tables and others in use for casting up or performing the
 numerical operation, or                 by
                                   the still more facile operations
 of the slide rule,     have no hopes of speedily seeing them
                           I
 laid aside and more correct methods introduced             they will            ;
 in all probability continue as long as the other heterogeneous,
 multifarious, and absurd denominations of our measures
•and weights *.      In the mean time          of importance to the
                                                       it   is
 grower, of oak timber in particular, to be able to calculate^
 in lot containing certain number of loads or feet of tim
     a                       a
ber, measured         the round, or as
                        in                    generally sold
                                                   it      is    the                  by
grower, how many loads or feet the same lot will measure
when hewn in any determinate manner                    e., when the    (i.
ratio or proportion between A and Bb, fig.    a             known),
                                                                             7,
                                                                             is
and afterwards measured by callipering                           it,
                                                    being the mode
in which       it   measured when purchased
                     is                                his majesty's   in
dock -yards, and        the private ship and barge builders, &c.
                          I by
in London. As am not aware that anv rules have been
laid down, or that any table for this purpose lias been pub
lished,  I  have constructed the following tabic, consisting of
four columns       the first containing the calliper Aa or Aa
                    ;
of hewn timber at the middle or girting place, (see fig. 7,)
wherein the diameter Bb or Bb               or 1*00; the numbers
                                                  is   1
herein begin at "70 or /fj-ioodths of the diameter, (which
is  something less than       tree can be hewn without absolute
                                     a
waste,) increasing in regular order
                                 a                         by
                                              l-ioodths to 1-00, or
the case in which the least possible thickness          hewn off the    is
tree :  but    must be remarked in this column, that between
               it
this regular series of numbers, •'JO, *71, "72, &c. other
numbers are inserted in their proper places, but carried to                                 a
greater number of places of decimals, for showing more ex
actly the proportions in some particular cases mentioned in
    * The tree content of any round free might be found         the help of      by
tapes and tables constructed for the purpose, in as short   time as     can  a        it
be m.asured     bythe present mode with     string and rule; and simple
                                                  a
tables might be mai'e for the allowance for the corners generally wanting
in hewn timber, and for showing its true or cubic continr.        Improved
slide-rules might also he used for the above purposes, instead of tables.
A very >imple instrument has been made, and used with great success by
a  friend of mine, Mi. Bevaa of Lcighton Buzzard, for rinding the true
content, or the customary content, allowing for the bark, &c.
                                          Q^.3                                             the

SI 8                       On the Mensuration     of Timber.
the fourth               column; thus '7071069, or          ^°^°000
                                                                              of   the   di-
ameter Bb will be the calliper A a, when the tree is hewn
to the inscribed square, or the most that it can be hewn
without waste.
   The second column shows the ratio or proporf. n, ex
pressed in decimals, between the content of any tree mea
sured in the round by girting               it,
                                        expressed        or unity,   by   1
and the same tree hewn in any proportion, expressed             its                 by
calliper in the first column, and then measured as square
timber          by
           callipering     or the ratio between the foot square
                                  it,
measure and the foot round measure, or between the loads
of the same denominations.       The third column shows the
proportionate price that the same timber, measured             the                  by
two methods, ought to bear (exclusive of the expense of
hewing, carriage, &c.), expressed in shillings and decimals,
assuming the price of round timber to be 100 shillings (5l.)
for the convenience of calculating.        In the fourth and last
column are mentioned the particular proportions of the num
bers before mentioned against which they stand            thus the
                                                        "
                                                                          :
<' side of the inscribed
                          square"      also is l-4th  of the  peri-
meter;" and when the calliper Aa            -8040316, the side
                                                   is                                     A
or     A        "
            l-5th of the perimeter," or sum of all the sides
           is
A,B, A, a,b, a, B, or outline of the figure; also "de
                    b,
crease of l-5th in content" against -70248 15, shows that in
this case the square measure of any tree           l-5th part less
                                                                is
than the round measure of that same tree at '7853982 they   ;
are equal, and at -9619124 the square measure exceeds the
rouna measure        half! In little more than in this last pro
                             by
portion     the small timber generally hewn, which
                is                                            used                 is
by the barge-builders, carpenters, coopers and others in
 London and     ;           in
                     the trade, the prices per load or foot of
round and hewn timber vary nearly in proportion thereto.
                                                                                         Th*

                     On the Mensuration      of Timber.                    gig
                The Content
   The calliper
                square Mea        Price of
  (A:i) of hewn sure, its Con hewn Timber,
   Timber, the                                       Proportions,    &c.
                  tent round  that of round,
  diameter (Bb)
                   Measure,      being 100.
  being — 1O0.
                    being 1.
     •70            •7343579    125-88784
     •7024S15       •3          125-00000    decrease of l-5th in content
     •7071068       •8105694   123-37006     side of inscribed square, and
     •71            •8172162    122-36662       side = l-4th of perimeter
     •7169672       •8333333    120-00000    decrease    of l-6th
     •72            •8403984   118-99116
     •7271375       •8571429    11C-66667    decrease    of l-7th
     •7:5           •8G;i9050  115-75345
     •7346727       •875       1 14-28568    decrease    of 1-Sth
     •74            •8877354   112-64618
     •7404805       ¦888888    112-50000     decrease    of l-9th
     •7450940       •9         111-11111     decrease    of l-10ih
     •75            •9118906    109-66228
     •7«            •9.i«3696   106-79540
     •77            •9611730    104-03958
     •78            •9863010    101-38893
     •7853982     1-000000     lOG-00000     calliper «= l-4th of circumfe
     •79          1-011753       9S-83839        rence, and equal contents
     •80          1-037529       96-38287
     •8040316     1-048013       95-41872    side   = l-5th of perimeter
     •81          1-063629       91-01774
     •82          1-090054       91-73856
     •8237824     l'l            90-90909    l-10th increase
     •8278*24     1-111111       90-00000    l-9th increase
     •83          1-116803       89-54134
     •8330404     1125           88-8S889    l-8th increase
     •8396260     1-142857       87-50000    l-7th increase
     •84          1-143875       87-42210
     •8483270     1-166667       85-71428    l-6th increase
     •85          1-171272       85-37722
     •86          1-198995       83-40322
     •8603606     1-2            83-33333    l-5th increase
     •8618760     1-204231       83-04054    side = 1-6th     of perimeter
     •87          1-227040       81-49692
     •8781018     1-25           80-00000    1 4th increase
     •88          1-255410       79-65525
     •8862271     1-273240       78-53980    side  of square equal to the
     •89          1-284104       77-87530        circle
     •8980504    ,1-307439       76-48537    side = l-7th of perimeter
     •90          1-313122       76-15437
     •3068998     1-333333       75-00000    1-Sd increase
     •91 .        1-342465       74-48983
     •92          1-372132       72-87930
     •9218736     1-377726       72-58335    side =»   l-8th of perimeter    .
     •93          1-402123       71-32042
     •9382994      1-427259      7006433     side   = l-9th of perimeter
     •94          1-432438       69-81 105
     •95          1-46:1078      68-34906
     •9500692     1-463291       68-33913    side   = l-10th of perimeter
                                             j increase
.    -96          1-494041       66-93255
     •9619124     1-5            66-66666
     •97          1-525329       65-55962
     ¦98          1-556942       64-22847
     •99          1-588878       62-93749
   J-OQ           1-621139       61-68503    side ^ 0, or circumscril>ing
                                                 square
                                    Q.4                                    For

220                 On the Mensuration     of Timber.
      For example : suppose a h£\vn         tree of any length,  and
 that when callipered in the middle, on the angles or cor
 ners, or in the directions Bb and Bb, fig. 7, tfie same are
 shown by the rule to be 26^ and 25-j inches ; add these to
 gether and take the hall thereof, and Ave have 26 iaches for
                                                                 the
      The mathematical       reader will readily perceive the mode
 of calculating      the content of a tree, either by the round or
 girt method or bv the square or calliper method, to be the
 same, except in determining the area of the section at the
 girting place; and that the numbers in the second column
 of the above table, expressing the content square measure
 in different     cases when the round measure is unity, do ex
 press also the ratio ot the areas of the girting or middle sec
 tions in each case : thus, in the first line of the table -70 +
                                           , 3141593 X31413Q3
             „„ , .,
 •70 = -49 Is the calliper
                           „¦                       --— —-      — x
                              r area, and            4x4
 •6168503      is the girt area; whence, as '6168503 : 1 : : -49 :
 •7943579      the  number in column the second : and thus the
 numbers answering to -71, -72, -73, &c. were determined.
 In    the second line    of the table, as there is to be a decrease
 of    1 5th or 2-10ths in the content, we have given -8 lor
the number in the second column; whence, as 1 : -6168503
 : : *8 : •4934802       the calliper area, whose square root is
 •7024815 as in the first column ; and thus, when there is a
 decrease of 1 -6th, l-7th, or an increase of 1- 10th, l-9th,
 &c. are the numbers determined.
      Let fig. 8 represent one quarter of the end of a hewn tree,
 (as fig. 7 delineated      the whole end,) draw the line CG,
 making the angle ECG (= GCH) = 45°, and join FC;
 then in the 20th line of the table, since the side is to be
 " I -5th of the perimeter," half the side (or DF) is to be
 equal to 4-5ths of the I -6th part of the perimeter (orDF
  -f FG), and DF is equal to 4FG; whence we have re-
           to divide an angle of 45° into two such parts, that
    le sine of the greater part may be equal to four times the
auired
arc of the lesser part.        Ly the help of Dr. Hulton's or Cal-
let's tables, and the method of trial and error, the greater
angle will in this case be found = 3ri° 28' 59"42" = DCF,
whose natural cosine is -8040316, the number in the first
column ; and in like manner we proceed when the side is
to be 1-fith, I -7th, &c. of the perimeter. The methods of
                in the remaining cases are sufficiently evident,
frocedure
   t may, however, be proper to state, that the prices being
reciprocally as the quantities, we have, in the second line, aa
•8:1:: 100 : 125 shillings per load, as in the last column.

                      On the Mensuration of Timber.
the diameter  Bb : in like manner let the tree be callipered
in the same place, but on the sides Or in the directions A a
                                                     •*-
and Aa, and suppose them 22 and 22-J.         Then say, by
the rule of three, as 2f>      '22"; -875
                                       :
                                       1
                                       :
                                       :    looking for this
                                                           :         :
number in the first column, we find the nearest number
thereto to be -8781018, and answering thereto in the se
cond column            is'l-SS,        ("   l-4th increase,") showing that
the square measure             of this  1-25 times that of its round
                                         tree   is
measure, or l-4th part more; and                               by
                                                the third column                                 it
appears    that  the  price per    load   square measure should be
80-100dths or 8-l(iths times that of the price of the same
tree per load round measure, exclusive of the cost of hew
ing, carriage, &c.       Suppose, therefore, the jiricc of the tree
in question per load found measure to be 5l. 10s. or 5-5,
this multiplied           by
                        '8 gives 4-4, or 4l. 8s. for the price per
load square measure or when hewn, for another example                                            :
suppose    a tree callipered in the middle, on its angles or cor
ners, gave 24 and          inches, then 24 inches
                           2   »                            the diame     is
ter Bb; and that the tree callipered in the same place on
its sides gave 19 and 183( inches; the half of the sum of
these being 16j, or 18'8/5 inches,              the calliper Aa, then
                                                               is
as 24
       :
       1
       :
       :        lb'875      '786: the nearest number to this in
                               :
                               :
 column the first       '7853982, in which case
                          is                              appears from   it
 column the second that the round measure and square mea
 sure are equal, the calliper being equal to l-4th of the cir
 cumference or to the girt         the prices per load should not in
                                       ;
 this case therefore vary.
    Suppose the price per load of hewn timber or of the square
 measure to be given, and also the proportion which the
 calliper bears to the diameter, or how many per cent, the
 former    isof the latter     the second column will in that case
                                   ;
 give  the  proportionate    price  of the same timber round mea
 sure:   thus,     hewn timber measured
                     if                             callipering     by
                                                                     be at             it
 ?1. 2s. 6d., or in decimals          125 pounds per load        that the
                                             is 7-
                                                                                   ;
 cost of hewing and carriage           2l. Os. fid. or 2-025 pounds
 per load  ;  the difierence of these or the net price being 5-I
  pounds, and that        be so hewn that the calliper Aa
                           it                                           90                  is
 percent, or 90-100dths of the diamecerBb: looking for
  •90 in the first column of the table,          lind against  I    in tRe             it
  second column 1-313122, which multiplied^                   '5-1 gives      by
  6-697 pounds, or 6l. 13s.                     lljd.,
                                               the price which this
  timber ought, independent of profit, to have borne at the
  place of its growth when round and measured                  girting it.    by
 A   gentleman or his agent having oak timber to dispose of,
  and being unacquainted with the difference of measures,                                        if
                     2s. per load
                                         by
 offered   5    1.                       a       timber dealer,           who stated at
                                                                                    th?

223                    Parallel of Rome       de   I' Isle' s   and
the same time, " it will cost me 2l. Os. 6d. to hew this
timber and carry it to London, where it will only fetch
7l. 2s. 6d. per load," he would instantly conclude what he
would think a good bargain ; not suspecting that the diffe
rence of measure      hewn, as in the last example,) could
                           (if
put nearly    112s. per load, or 31 per cent, into the pocket
                  1.
of  the dealer.
     It may be proper to add, that the way to examine any
lot  of hewn timber, with the view of determining to which
line  of the above table     should be referred,
                                  it                 to take the      is
calliper  in inches  of several of  the  trees indiscriminately
chosen in the middle or girting place, first on each of their
sides, or in the directions Aa and Aa, and place the results
\mder each other in column, and next callipering them in
                            a
the same place but at the corners or in the directions Bb
and Bb, placing these likewise in       column    then dividing
                                                   a             ;
the sum of the first column              by
                                   the sum of the second co
lumn, and carrying the division to three or four places of
decimals, the quotient or result       to be sought for
                                               is            the           in
first column of the table.
    Hoping that have made the above intelligible, and that
                       I
the table will not be unacceptable to the growers of timber,
their agents, and others.
                 remain, my lord, your lordship's
                  I
                     most obedient and humble servant,
Crown-street. Wesminster,                                            JOHN FAKEY.
      May 30, 1803.
XXXIX.        Parallel       of   ROME     DE L'ls^E's and the              All*
              HAUY'S        Theories   of  Crystallography.
                           [Continued from p. 171.3
PYNTHESIS       grounded, as
                  is             mentioned, on the fact, that
                                       I
all well formed crystals are terminated                   by
                                             plane surfaces.
   Since there exist primitive forms, there must also be se
condary forms, for the one supposes the existence of the
plher.   The secondary forms are such, that sections can be
made only parallel to the sides of the primitive     and when         ;
the primitive has been produced                    by
                                        these sections, the                     di
vision being continued the integrant particles are obtained.
   The mineralogical analysis descends from the secondary
to the primitive form, and from the latter to the integrant
particle just so the mineralogical synthesis ascends from
          ;
the integrant particle to. the primitive, and from thence to

          the Alle Hauy's       Theories of Crystallography.     223
 the secondary forms.            A  crystalline edifice is therefore
 raised by means of the integrant particles.           What are the
 laws of this extraordinary architecture ? By laws I mean
 the disposition of the laminae, not the means employed by
 nature to execute the curious structure.
      Laws must exist, 1st, For the formation of the primitive;
 and, 2dly, For the construction of the secondary form. The
 primitives are either similar to their integrant particles, or
 they are not.      If they are, their forms must be parallelopi-
 pedons,    and   their  laws of formation very simple ; for there
 will be the same number of integrant particles in each row,
 as there arc rows in each lamina, as there are lamina in the
 primitive form.        It is easy to conceive that all the joints
 perfectly    coincide     with each other and form continued
 planes   ; neither   will   there be any vacuity left between the
 particles.     If the   primitive  be not similar to the integrant
 particle, then the simplicity of the former case disappears.
 I have already stated that there are three forms of integrant
 particles 5 the tetraedron, the triangular prism, and the
 parallelopipedon.        There are also six primitive forms; the
 parallclopipedon, the octaedron, the tetraedron, the re
 gular hexaedral          prism,   the dodecaedron bounded by
•rhombs all equal        and similar, and the dodecaedron with
 triangular sides and formed by two right pyramids united
 base to base.      Of these six primitive forms there are only
  the parallelopipedon and the regular hexaedral prism that
  can exactly fill up a space without leaving any vacuity. The
  integrant particles of the former are parallelopipedons; of
  the latter, triangular prisms. As to the other four primitive
  forms, their integrant particles are tetraedrons. The do
  decaedron bounded by rhombs is produced by twenty-four
  similar tetraedrons        without any vacuity between them;
  the octaedron and tetraedron are formed by tetraedrons
  leaving octaedral vacuities; and the. dodecaedron bounded
  by triangles, to be formed of tetraedrons, must imply sec
  tions parallel to more than six planes ; which perfectly co
  incides with observation.
      These vacuities, whose existence must be admitted in the
  integrant particles, as well as between those particles when
  forming a primitive, give rise to the following reflections :
      When the elements of a substance are chemically com
  bined, that substance is homogeneous.'             Let us suppose a
   crystal of such a substance to be subdivided into small pa-
  rallelopipedons equal and similar: as the substance is homo
   geneous, and these little parallelopipedons leaving no vacui
   ties between them, it is evident the elements that com
                                                                  pose

 224             Parallel of Rome    dc   I' Isle's and
 pose    them arc equal in number and proportion.                 We
  will next suppose the crystals of this substance can be
  divided by sections parallel to six planes. In thai supposi
  tion, nineteen or twenty different species of parallelopipe-
  dons can be produced. Among these species some will
  be similar, others not ; but none of the species will be ex
  actly parallel to each other. We will proceed on two si
  milar crystals of the same substance and equal in solidity ;
  dividing the first into one species, the other into a different
  species, of parallelopipedons, 'equal in solidity but not in
  surface; and let the division of each be pushed to its last
  term. But as we are come by smooth sections to parailelo-
  pipedons of different species, those sections have also pro
  duced their differences : but by supposition these parallelo
  pipedons arc the result of the fast possible terra of division
  without destroying the chemical composition, and being
  equal in solidity, though not in surface, they cannot con
  tain each other; therefore if their differences aVe not inte
  grant parts of both, these differences must cease to be ho
  mogeneous, and we come to a sort of chemical decomposi
  tion.    It is true we cannot execute this excessive division,
  but we can form a very correct idea of it.        If the little pa
  rallelopipedons contain two sorts of elements, their differ
  ences will also, but in different proportions;         and, sir, if
  you   will turn to Bcrthollet's   Researches on the  Laws   of s1f~
Jinities, you will see him in all his experiments proving, that
  however perfectly a chemical decomposition may have been
 made, the results will always contain a certain portion of
 those substances from which it was the object of the ope
 ration to separate them. If these reflections, sir, are well
 grounded, do they not give us hopes, and perhaps show
 the possibility, of descending from the integrant particles
 to the constituent particles? This second research is of the
 same nature as the first.      It is more than probable that the
 constituent particles themselves are divisible, having no de
 termined figure, but are aggregations, subject to the same
 laws as the integrant particles. The object of "the natural
 philosopher is not to discover the forms of the ultimate par
ticles, but to determine their respective positions ; which,
if ever they could be determined in the integrant particles
and their component parts, the grand problem of chemical
affinities would be fully solved ; and should such ever be
the case, to the Abbe Haiiy's theory would be due the merit.
The Encyclopaedia Britaimica, under the article Chemistry,
in the Supplement, p. 396, says :
    '* This theory, to say no more of       it,     in point of in
                                                  is,
                                                           genuity,

        the Able Haiiy's   Theories  of Crystallography.     225
genuity, inferior to few ; and the mathematical skill and
industry of its author are entitled to the greatest applause.
    " But what we consider as the most important part of
that philosopher's labours, is the method which they point
out of discovering the figure of the integrant particles of
crystals ; because it may pave the way for calculating the
affinities of bodies, which is certainly by far the most im
portant part of chemistry.       This part of the subject, there
fore, deserves to be investigated with the greatest care."
    But I return to the point whence this digression carried
me, — to the vacuities left between the integrant particles ia
the construction of a primitive form.       The Abbe considers
them as filled either by the water of crystallization or by
«ome other substance.       Is it not an admissible supposition
that this other substance is composed of the same elements
as the integrant particles, but in different proportions ? At
least, such is the conclusion I should be tempted to draw
after reading Berthollet's excellent Researches on Affinities.
    1 shall now proceed to the laws of formation in secondary
crystals.    It is easy to deduce them from these two facts :
viz. 1st, That the sides of the secondary crystals are planes;
 2dly, That they divide by smooth sections parallel to the
sides of their primitive form.
    Let us take a rhomboid of carbonate of lime for example.
If on one of the sides of the rhomboid I wished to raise a
 pyramid, I should lay laminae of rhomboidal particles upon,
each other.      These laminae would decrease in surface until
the last is reduced to a single rhomboid.        Thus the second
lamina contains fewer particles than the first, the third
fewer than the second, and so on. As the faces of these
pyramids are always to be planes, the successive decrements
of the laminae must be equal ; that is to say, the second la
mina is less by one range in every direction than the first,
and the third than the second, &e.          If the decrement is
more rapid; that is to say, if two or three ranges are sub
tracted in the second lamina, the same number will be sub
 tracted from the third, and so on successively till the pyramid
 is completed. As the sc-ctions are to be smooth, the joints
must form one continued plane ; therefore the rangr.s and
 even the particles at the joints must not encroach on each
other: hence it follows that the iiitmlzr of ranges succes
sively subtracted from each lamina can never le incommen
 surable ; that is to say, the decrement may be 1, 2, 3, 4;
 &c.; but never \/2, \/3, &c.
    These are the decrements parallel to the edges,, or, as the
 Abbe calls them, decrements un the edges. But they may.
                                                             take

  826             Parallel of Rome    de I'Isk's and
  take place in a parallel with the diagonal of the faces of the
  primitive ; they are then called decrements on ike angles,
  because the diagonals are drawn from one angle to the op
  posite angle. This second species of decrement follows the
  same laws as the first.
     There is a third species, called by our author inter
 mediate decrements.       In this case they are neither parallel
 to the edges nor to the diagonals of the faces, but to inter
 mediate Tines, which if prolonged would intersect both the
 edges and diagonals, but otherwise they follow the same
 laws as the two first.     It is a general law, therefore, that in
 all cases the lamince decrease in arithmetical progression,
 and its ratio or the number of ranges subtracted is ahcays
 commensurable.
    The particles of which the laminae are composed are to
 be considered as parallelopipedons ; not that the integrant
 particles always have this figure ; but if they have it not,
 they must leave vacuities between them, and each vacuity
 being added to its corresponding particle, will complete the
 parallclopipedon.     If this was not the case, the faces of the
 secondary crystals    would   not be planes, nor could they be
 split smoothly in any direction.       These little parallelopipe
 dons which compose the subtracted ranges are what I called
above, alter our author, subtractive particles.
    I supposed the construction of the secondary form only
to take place on one of the faces of the rhomboid ; but what
was said relative to that face is applicable to all the others.
 It is also to be remarked that different laws of decrement
may affect the different faces ; even further, different laws
may successively affect the same face.          Hence a diversity
of forms arise scarcely credible to a person unacquainted
with the doctrine of combinations.           The Abbe Haiiy has
calculated, " that confining oneself to decrements by 1, 2,
3, or 4 ranges, and not taking intermediate or mixt decre
ments into account, the rhomboid is capable of 8,324,604
varieties of crystalline forms.
    It is an important remark, that whatever itviy be the va
riety of form, the forms (in complete crystals) will always
be symmetrical.       There are two sorts of symmetry, the
perfect and imperfect.       In the perfect, the right is sym
metrical with the left, and the top with the bottom ; but
in the imperfect, the top is not symmetrical with the bot
tom.      This latter species of symmetry appears, by general
observation, to be exclusively appropriated to crystals that
become electrical by heat ; tnat is to say, which being ex
posed to the heat of the fire, or plunged into hot water,
                                                            acquire

         the Alii   Ha'iiy's Theories of Crystallography.      227
*cquire the electric power.       These crystals, the tourmaenli
for example, acquire a positive electricity on one side, while
on the side diametrically opposite • their electricity becomes
negative ; and all observations hitherto made give us reason
to conclude that these sides are never symmetrical, and are
always produced by different or fewer laws of decrement*
" Hence," says the Abbe, " by mere inspection it is easy
to point out which is the side that will give the positive and
which the negative electricity."      (Vol. i. p. 237.)
   The astonishing variety in the crstalline forms leads us
naturally to ask, What can be the cause of this variety?
This question has not been treated by the Abbe : allow me,
sir, to submit a few ideas on the subject for the opinion of
mathematicians.
    First causes, I repeat, are not the object of this discus
sion.     I state the question thus : Why does the same sub
stance crystallize in such a variety of forms, always sym
metrical and always terminated by planes?
   The solution of this question seems to require three con
ditions : 1st, That the particles of the substance dissolved
in the fluid all leave the state of rest at the same instant, to
form the crystal by their aggregation : 2dly, That, while
these particles are in the act of drawing near to each other,
no foreign power shall imprint on them any other motion
than a common motion, whether it be in a straight line,
or rotary round their common centre of gravity: 3<I]y, That
the particles all arrive at the state of rest at the same instant,
which takes place when the act of crystallization is finished.
The second condition is necessary, and infers the first and
third. The natural consequence of these conditions will be,-
that the aggregation of the particles will only take place
conformabFy to a law acting equally on all of them, what
ever may be the law.
   Since they all leave the state of rest at the same instant,
they are in cquilibrio previous to that instant. Since they
all arrive at the state of rest at the same instant, they are in
equilibrio after that instant : but when particles that are
acted upon by no other force than that which they exercise
on each other, are in equilihrio, they are in the closest pos
sible union that concomitant circumstances will permit. If
the pai tides were in equilibrio previous to their leaving the
state of rest, something must have obstructed their approach.
Let us suppose that something to be the interposition of an
other substance, and that so long as the interposition re
 mains equilibrium is maintained.          But this can only be
 the case, in as much as the whole of the particles of the in
                                                          terposed

 228               Parallel of Rome    de      I 'Isle's   and
terposed    substance are in cquilibrio with the whole of the
 particles dissolved  and about to leave the state of rest, which
 in the future I shall call- the proper particles.         by any     If
 cause which acts uniformly on the whole surface of the dis
 solving fluid any of the interposed particles are subtracted,
 the proper particles must cease to be in tquilibrio.      A step
 toward aegrcgation will immediately take place, and the
 equilibrium will be restored.       A further subtraction will
 produce   a further step toward aggregation,  and a consequent
 equilibrium ; and these operations will be repeated so long
 as the cause of subtraction continues, and the longer its
 duration the larger will be the resulting crystalline mass.'
If  the above mode of reasoning be admitted, it will suffice
to apply the laws of equilibrium to deduce the laws of crys
talline forms.     The laws of equilibrium to which I allude
are those of the equilibrium of fluids, with certain modifica
tions which shall hereafter be explained. According to these
laws, that the preceding conditions may take place in the
formation of a crystal, it will be necessary that they take
place in the formation of each and eveiy part of            what       it,
ever may he the figure or the smallnessof those parts. They
must also take place in those last crystals which contain the
least possible number of particles; and as these particles are
in equilibrio, and in the greatest possible state of proximity
to each other which circumstances will permit,          must fol it
low, to fulfil all the conditions, that these particles form                 a
symmetrical polycdron.        This peculiar disposition of the
crystalline particles  constitutes the modification, to which                I
alluded, in the laws of the equilibrium of fluids;           being     it
necessary in this case to take the number of crystalline par
ticles into account, which     is not the case when treating of
the particles of    afluid.   In fluid, the particles and their
                                   a
reciprocal distances are supposed infinitely small but the        ;
crystalline particles and their distances to each other must
be supposed finite.       This material difference will neces
sarily cause   a difference between the forms of their ag-
  regales.  Those formed with the particles of          fluid will
                                                                 a
§c  bounded    bycurved lines  : the crystalline aggregates, on
the contrary,will be terminated        by
                                       straight lines; and when
these straight lines are not too small, the boundaries will be
sensibly rectilinear.
   To ascertain what the power          that holds the particles
                                       in is
in the state of rest, though not       close contact,     not the is
question but the form of the polyedrons which they pro
           ;
duce. The closer adhesion of the particles to be obtained by
the subtraction of caloric sufficiently demonstrates that the
     ;.,
       8                                                particle*

            tlie Able Ha'uy's Theories of Crystallography.        229
    particles are not in close contact with each other, and the
    constancy of the crystalline forms equally proves that they
     are in eqiiilibrio:  We will now proceed to the construc
    tion of a crystal with these crystalline particles. That the
    constancy of the form in the large crystal be preserved, the
    particles must he in cquilibrio.       That the equilibrium be
    preserved, the forces that solicit the particles to motion must
    mutually destroy each'other.      That the mutual destruction
    of these forces be effected, those forces after having been
    decomposed      into other relatively parallel to three axes per
    pendicular to each other, and having a common point or in
    tersection, must each meet in its direction another force
    equal and diametrically opposed to it. This will be obtained
    if the similar particles are arranged on straight lines parallel
    two and two at equal opposite distances from the common
    centre, and bisected by lines passing through that centre;
    but if the particles are thus arranged they must produce
    symmetrical solids bounded by planes ; a:id they are thus
    arranged : for if a foreign force^ an excess of caloric for
    example, does not impede the free arrangement of the par
    ticles in the formation of the crystal, their exterior dispo
    sition will follow as much as possible their interior arrange
    ment ; but their interior arrangement must be on straight
    lines, or the crystal would ceasd to be homogeneous ; their
    exterior disposition will therefore be on straight lines.
       As the circumstances giving rise to the approach of the
    particles may be in the highest degree variable, it must fol
    low that the forms produced may be diversified in the ex
    treme.    Such, sir, is the answer I should submit for the'
    solution of the question proposed*
       When speaking of the approach of the prdpcr particles^
    I said that it might be occasioned by the subtraction of
    certain interposed particles which obstructed the approach
    of the proper particles. The former are generally water,
    caloric, or any fluid clastic or not. Their exit may perhaps
    make place for others, such as liglit, electricity* &c. &Ci
    But the essential point   is,that whatever these panicles rtiay
    be, they are in perfect equilibrio with the proper particles^
    otherwise they would become perturbing forces. Hence
    it follows, that not only the integrant particles of the crvs*
    tal, but all those that are mixed with them, the chemicaf or
    component particles, and even the vacuities, must follow
    the same laws.    It  also follows, that if  each species of par
    ticle (even the chemical) that enters into the formation of
    the crystal be separately considered, each species will have
'
    its distinct symmetrical and polyedral form.           Tile forms
       Vol. 19. No. "5. August 1804.        K                     will

230                   Parallel ofRomi;   de   I' Isle's   and
will penetrate each other, while the particles will not only
not penetrate, but not even touch each other. All forms
would stand in the same predicament as the regular octaii-
dron, which contains, as the Abbe Haiiy has demonstrated,
six regular octaedrons and eight regular tetraedrons, each
tctraedron containing one octacchon and tour tetraedrons.
It will further follow, if the chemical elements can be looked
upon as particles which are uot in -contact with each other,
that we may from thence mathematically determine che
mical affinities.
   I have now, sir, but one task left ; to speak of the appli
cation our author has made of algebra and geometry to crys
tallography.     Many persons complain of the difficulty ne
cessarily resulting from it in the study of mineralogy; and
dare not engage in           uncertain whether they will find
                               it,                                                a
compensation for their trouble.       Our author has thcrcfora
adopted      double plan, and begins
              a                                   by
                                             exposing his theory
by    series of reasonings and arguments which will suffice
      a
to make the reader understand it, or any discoveries made
in consequence of it. He then exposes the theory in the
most correct of all languages — mathematical analysis                         ;   by
far the most interesting, and the only means of making dis
coveries oneself: and who can be callous to the pleasure of
discovering an unknown truth         If the solution of problem
                                     ?                               a.
gives so much satisfaction, though the data be only ima
ginary, what must be the sensations of those who are happjr
enough to solve problems wluse data arc set           Him whom  by
the greatest of pagan philosophers calls the eternal Geome
trician? This recalls reflections to my mind which cannot            I
suppress.     Conversing one day with the Abbe Haiiy, he
was taking      cursory view of all the modern discoveries;
                  a
when he could not help remarking, that ihere was not ono
of them but what furnished victorious arms to the cause of
religion.    My answer was, that        future the name of God
                                             in
would be as distinctly written on crystal as a       had hitherto
                                                            it
been in the heavens. The observation of this most religious
and ingenious man reminds me of the savins of lord Bacon
" littk- philosophy estranges us from religion, but great
                                                                                  :
 A                                                                        a
deal reclaims us again."       Kvcn d'Alcmbert could not help
Raying:
           " An  atliei>t    the
                               inCartesian system        philoso
                                                                is
                                                                a
pher mistaken        ;he principles   but an atheist in the New
                      is in              ;
tonian system       something worse, an inconsequent philo
sopher."
   But to return to the mnthcma'tical part of our author'*
theory the branch of mathematics, and the manner in
          :
which he treats          it,
                       are almost new.     The theory of polye-
                                                            drona

         the   Able Hauy's   Theories   of Crystallograhy.           23 1
 drons had been nearly neglected by geometers, both on
 account of the difficulty to represent a polyedron on a plane,
 and because they did not feel the utility of the pursuit*
 Nevertheless, strange to say, all the regular figures that are
 to be found in one of the three kingdoms of nature are po-
  lyedrons. In this point of view, the branch of mathematics
  illustrated by the Abbe becomes very interesting; and it is
 not a little so, to see with what ingenuity he extricates him
 self from the difficulties he meets with in his researches.
 He forms all the polyedrons, however complicated, of little
 equal rhomboids or parallelopipedons, and by that means
 he reduces the theories of every possible polyedron to that
 of the rhomboid, which is extremely simplified by two ve>y
 simple remarks:       1st, That in all equilateral  rhomboids,
 whatever may be the species, their projection on a plane
 perpendicular to their axes will always be a regular hexagon:
 2dly, That the axes will always be trisected by perpendicu
 lars drawn from all the lateral solid angles.    His theory has
 also led him to discbver in a variety of crystals geometrical
 properties, which must be highly gratifying to geometers.
 But the great advantage to be derived from it       is,
                                                     that    enait
 bles us with the fewest possible data to calculate the crys
 talline forms just as astronomers do the motions of the hea
 vens. By the very means      by which the latter determine the
 future motions of the heavens, the Abbe decides which
 forms arc possible and which are impossible.         It  thus by
                                                           is
 his simple and general law of crystallization, " the number
 of the ranges of the subtractive particles must always be            a
 commensurable quantity," that he has demonstraied the
 regular dodecaedron and the regular icosaedron to be im
 possible forms in mineralogy.       As the immorlal Newton,
by having discovered the law of attraction to be " in the
inverse ratio of the squares of the distances," explained and
calculated every thing in the vast regions of the firmament           ;
so at the other extremity of the creation the Abbe Haiiy, by
means of      a single law which he has discovered, explains
the irregularities and calculates those problematic forma
tions with which the mineral kingdom had hitherto asto
nished the natural philosopher.
     Laws, sir, that result from the Study of nature enjoy this
inestimable advantage, that they always lead to equations             ,
and it   is only  by the help of equations (expressed or under
stood) that questions can be solved which relate to objects
that can be either counted or measured.
     Of late, sir, the word nature has been so much abused,
that
   I      must beg leave to state the precise sense in which         I
                               R   2                         wish

232                On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical
wish to be understood whenever T have made use of that
word in the course of this letter.            The Abbe Haiiy found it
necessary      to  take  a   similar   precaution at the beginning of
the excellent work (Traite ae Physique) he has lately pub
lished.      He says : " This word Nature, so frequently in
our mouths, can only be looked upon as an abridged ex
pression, either for the result of those laws which the Great
Creator has imprinted on the universe, or for that aggregate
of beings the works of his hands. Nature, thus viewed in
its true light, is no longer a subject of cold and sterile spe
culation.        The study of its productions, of its phamomena,
ceases to be a mere exercise of the mind ; it moves the heart,
and strengthens the moral virtues in man, by awakening in
his mind sentiments of respect and admiration at the sight
 of so many wonders bearing the visible characters of infinite
power and wisdom."
                  With     these sentiments     I remain, sir, yours,
July   13,1804.                                             A. Q. Buee.
 XL.     On the Catoptrical         and Dioptrical Instruments       of  the
                                   Antients.
                                LETTER III.
                            [Continued from p. 190.]
 "   Part Second.              Conjectures   on the Existence      and the
                  Reality of     the Mirror of Ptolemy*.
   49-   " J_t   is by no means so easy for us to satisfy ourselves
 with respect to the reality of the fact which we are exa
 mining, as to demonstrate its possibility.                The proofs of
 the possibility of facts subsist throughout all ages ; time
 cannot destroy them ; and they may always be discovered
 by diligent search.          But when the question concerns thing*
 which have existed formerly, but do not now exist, we have
 only remaining monuments, or the testimonies of historians,
 to convince us of their past existence. If such monuments
 and testimonies have not come down to us, we have no
 other means whatever of establishing such facts.
     50. " Hence, in our researches concerning the possibility
 of facts, we may find complete evidence. But, in inquiring
 into their real existence, we are frequently obliged to stop
    * The render is
                       requested to correct the numbers of the paragraphs in
 the first part, which ar>- 48 in all.
                                                                          in.

                    Instruments oftlie Antients.              233
  in uncertainty and doubts which we cannot resolve.          We
  are often obliged to content ourselves with probabilities ; and
 at best we can only arrive at a degree of certainty propor
  tional to the number, quality, and circumstances of monu
  ments and historical testimonies.
     51."    The testimonies of the existence of Ptolemy's mir
  ror on the Pharos, are not commonly thought to have the
  authenticity necessary for the solid establishment of a his
  torical fact. Two reasons, which at first sight appear plau
  sible, may he alleged for the rejection of those testimonies.
     52.  " The first reason is, that some authors attribute this
 mirror to Ptolemy, and others to Alexander the Great.
 John Baptista Porta, father Kirclier, and father Gaspard
  Schottus, are among those who place the construction of
  this mirror in the time of Ptolemy.      M. dc lu Martiniere,
  in his Geographical Dictionary, cites Martin Crusius, who
 in his Titrco-Grtccia says, on the authority of the Arabians,
  that  " Alexander the Great caused to be placed on the top
  of the Pharos tower, a mirror made with such art, that in
  it might be seen 500 parasangas, or above 100 leagues off,
  hostife fleets coming against Alexandria or against Egypt,
  and that after the death of Alexander, this mirror was broken
 by a Greek named So/lor, who watched his opportunity
 when the soldiers in the fort were asleep.
     53.  " But this difference of opinion respecting the origin
 of the mirror cannot affect the truth of the fact. For it
 often happens in history, that different authors attribute the
 same fact to different men, without our regarding the fact
 itself as fabulous.    Of this we have an example in the erec
 tion of this very tower, the Pharos, which is ascribed by
.some to Alexander, and by others to Ptolemy.           It would
 seem that they who have spoken of the mirror, have thought
 that it was constructed by the very person who built so won
 derful an edifice.
     54. " The second, and the strongest, reason against the
 existence of this mirror, is the impossible circumstances
 and properties which historians ascribe to it.     Paul Aresa,
 bishop of Tortona, in his Impreita Sacra, Impr. 54. n. 1
 and 2, cited by Scarabclli in his MUSKO Sefta/iano, says :
 " He knew that Ptolemy saw, 600 miles oft', fleets coming
 to the port of Alexandria, not by strength of sight, but by
 the virtue of a crystal or glass." But he adds, " that he
 suspected the truth of this fact, on account of the rotundity
 of the earth', which rendered it impossible."
     55. " But I maintain, that this circumstance of seeing
 COOjOOO paces, or 5.00 parasangas off, totally impossible as
                                Hs                              it

834                   On the Catoptr'ical and Dioptrical
it  is *, does not derogate a tittle from the probability of the
fact in question.    For, if this mirror existed, it is probable
 that it was the only one of its kind, and that no other mean
 had then been found of viewing distant objects distinctly.
 It must therefore have been considered as a great wonder m
those times, and must have filled with astonishment those
who saw its effects.     Even though its effects had not been
          than those of a small telescope, it could not fail to
freater
   e regarded as a prodiay.    Hence it is natural to think that
those effects were exaggerated beyond all probability, and
even possibility, as commonly happens to rare and admira-                                      .
ble machines and inventions f.        If we abstract then, from
 the accounts of the mirror of Ptolemy, the evident exagge
rations of ignorance, nothing will remain, but that at some
 distance, provided nothing was interposed between the ob
jects and the mirror, those objects were seen more distinctly
 than with the naked eye ; and that with the mirror many
objects were secn^ which, because of their distance, were
 imperceptible without it. Here is nothing but what is both
 possible and probable.
     56. " Let us next inquire whether the knowledge which
the antients had of dioptrics and catoptrics, and especially of
     * It   is certain, hpwever,         that, under some circumstances, objects may
be seen at a greater distance than is generally supposed,    For example :
it is said that the Isle of Man is clearly visible fom the summit of Ben,
Lomond, in Dumbartonshire,      which cannot be less than a direct distance
of  120 miles.    Mr. G.'as, in his History of the Canary Islands, affirms,
that the Peak of TenerifTe is visible 120 miles in approaching          and 150it,
in leaving it. The difference, no doubt, arises from the difficulty        man       a
has to distinguish from     cloud the first appearance of
                                 a                               mountain be
                                                                          a               is
approaching, and the ease with which             leaving the mountain he can
                                                           in
Veep   itin view till     gradually disappear.
                            it                     Brydone,        mistake not,
                                                                          if
                                                                          I
says that, from the summit of Etna, mountains may be distinguished at
the distance of even 200 miles.     Whether in this instance any mention
is made of glasses    do not recollect.
                        1                  But the most extraordinary fact of
this kind    Ihave met with,         be  iffact,
                                              it   ato be found in the Encycl.
                                                                is
Britan. art. London,     22, where we are told that the illumination of the
                         §
atmosphere       by
                 the great fire at London        1666,     in
                                                          said to have been
                                                                     is                  vi
sible at Jedburgh, in Scotland.— 7raj;j/tf/or.
 t   Witness the strange stories propagated about the barometer possessed
 by   DavidGregory, of Kinardie. See Hutton's Diet. art. Gregory; ot^tlie
Suppl. to the fincvcl. Brit, same article. Here       cannot help cxpiesiing
                                                                     I
my satisfaction at finding that,   dissenting from Sir Isaac Newton, wlmh
                                              in
I did with    trembling pen, respecting the ctic-cts of Gregory's wallikc
                a
engine,    have the learned editor of this 1-ist excellent work on my side.
            I
I need scarcely add, that the same opinion extends to Mr. Gillespie 'jlicw
invented revolving battery    which, as powerful, cheap, "and compen
                                     ;                 a
dious instrument of defence, attracts more and more the attention of offi
cers of distinction both naval and military. Sec my first Letter, towards
fhe end.— Translator.
                                                                                         the

                       Instruments of ike Antlents.                         235
 the art    of working mirrors, was sufficient to enable them to
 invent, or to find out by chance, a mirror which could pro
 duce such effects ; or whether this kind of knowledge was
 in such a state among the antients as to put the fabrication
 of such a mirror beyond the limits of probability, or make
 it fit to be considered as morally impossible.
      57-
           " The antients certainly possessed a great variety of
 knowledge which has not come down to us ; and, among
 those parts of their science of which 'we have still some ves
 tiges in the authors of antiquity, some are not sufficiently
 intelligible for want of attention in the readers, or because
 they have not been clearly enough explained by the writers.
 Hence it is that we discover, from time to time, in those
•antient writcis many things which we have bf-'u accus
 tomed to consider as new discoveries. Consequently we
 run much greater risk of being mistaken, by averring that
 tlifrantients did not possess certain parts of science known
 to Is, than hy endeavouring to prove that they did possess
 them. For the testimony oT one antient author is sufficient
 to prove that they had the knowledge of a particular thing;
 whereas, to prove the contrary, it would be necessary to
 consult all the antient authors who may have spoken of
 that thing, and to be very sure that we rightly understand
  them.
      58. " As to catoptrics and dioptrics, T say, thai, the sci
 ence of the antients went somewhat further than is gene
 rally believed.        Of this assertion I shall give some proofs,
 and chiefly such as may contribute to give probability to
 the existence of the mirror of Ptolemy.
      59.
           " M. de Fo/ilenelle, in the Hist, of the Acad. of Sc.
 for 1708, says, that " burning mirrors were undoubtedly
 known to the antients ; for some historians allege that Ar
 chimedes used them in burning a fleet ; and, although they
 attributed to them an impossible effect *, even this circum
 stance proves them to have been known.                     But it is certain
 that those mirrors which they contrived must have been of
     • The actual
                     production of this
                                         " impossible effect," by Buffbn, in the
   par 174.7 (not to mention what had been d^ne by Leonard Diggfs and
   kher Ktrcber in the two preceding centuries) proves how very cautious
   lilosophcrs ou^hi to be in dogmatically applying the epithet impossible
      natural effects whicli thry have never seen or experimented.        About
    [
    b same period another imfossitilitr was performed, when Franklin drew
   fchtning from a thunder cloud,       r'onlenelle lived to see both these dis-
   tverics, and no doubt to be convinced that such language from men of
 eminence tends exceedingly to retard the progress of knowledge, by dis
 couraging the attempts of persons of less celebrity perhaps, but often of
 equal or superior ability. — Translator.
                                        R4                               metal,

 g3(5                 On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical
   metal, and concave, having a focus by reflection ; and it is
   the common op.nion, that the antients knew nothing of the
 foci by refraction oi convex glasses."
      60. " M. de Fvnteiielle and M. de la Hire prove satis
  factorily*, bv several passages horn. Aristophanes and his
  scholiast, and from I'iiny and Lactantins, that the antients
  also knew the effects of convex glasses and globes of glass
  in burning.     In the History (of the Acad, of Sc.) which I
  have quoted, we find all thccc passages ; to which I may add
  another, from S. Clemens Alexandrians, Stromatum lib. vi,
  cited by father Fcijoo, Theat. Crit. torn. 9. p. 146 : " Viam,
  excogitat, qua lux, quce a sole procedit, per vas vitreum,
  aqua plenum, ignescat\.       He devises a way by which the
  light, proceeding from the sun through a glass vessel filled
  with water, excites fire." Here also I may add another
  passage from S. Isidore, of SevillcX, in his Eti/mol. lib. »vt.
  cap. 13, where, speaking of crystal, he says : " Hie oppo-
 situs radiis solis, adeo rapitjiammam, ut aridis fungis vel
foliis ignem prcebeut. When opposed to the rays of the
 sun, it so urges flame as to set fire to dry agaric, or leaves."
     61. " But M. de Fontenclle, in the place above cited,
 and other philosophers with him, suppose the antients to
 have been ignorant of several things which they certainly
 knew, as I shall prove in the following articles.
     62. " In the first place, it is by no means certain, as
 M. de Fontenelle alleges, that the minors of the antients
 must have been concave. There is nothing to induce us to
 believe that they did not know the manner of burning with
 an assemblage of plane mirrors; and, if they had this know
 ledge, it is plain that their mirrors were not necessarily con
cave.
   63. " Although this invention of burning with plane
mirrors be regarded by some as very recent, yet it is, in
truth, very antient. According to several modern authors,
the burning mirrors of F rot his and Archimedes were com
posed of plane ones.   If this opinion be correct, the anti
     * In Hi.'f.   <If 1'Aca.t.  R. dts S : 170S, p. 137, &c. Artist, idi-. See
:i\sr> tvncycl- bar. or         Hutton's Dicr. art. Burning Glass or Burning
M. r<or. — Translator.
   + The san.e passage is quoted by Rrgnni/// in his Orig. Ancim. de la
phys. Uowu. torn. 1. p. 175, with this difference, that l.c begins       " An
                                                                       it,
viam rxiognat, &c. Art devises         way," txc. — TramliUor.
                                         a
  *   Isidore of Seville, otherwise called Isidores HispaJntsit, the latest of
those called antients      this memoir, fiouiijlcl ajout the middle of rhe
                           in
seventh century.    Set Fallemom, Elem. de        Hist. t. iii. p. 350.
                                                   I'                    Abal,
in the uork now before me, p. 438, says, ihir. this Isidore died A. D.
636.
     — Transialut.
                                                                        quity

                            Instruments    of   the Antients.                       237
quity of this invention stands established.        I shall examine
it further on. Only I now remark, that the first author, as
far as I know, who held this opinion was father Kircher,
who, in his Ars magna hncis et Umlrrce, 1. x. p. 3. c. i,
 prob. 7, expresses his belief that Proclus, who lived in the
 fifth century, used plane mirrors to burn the enemies' fleet
at the siege of Constantinople. Several authors have adopted
 Kircher's opinion, not only with regard to the mirrors of
 Prochts, but thpse also of Archimedes.           All the learned,
before that reverend father, and several since his time, be
lieved that all those anlient burning mirrors were parabolical.
     64.  f This invention of plane burning mirrors is so fine,
and has for some years made so much noise in the learned
 world, that it well deserves some detail of its history and
origin ; which will show that we do injustice to the antients,
when we deny that they had this kpowledge.
     65. '* Among the catoptricians of these last ages, father
Kircher was the first who asserted, that, with plane glasses,
it was practicable to compose burning mirrors superior to
any before known, &c*
     66. »• Alter Kircher, father Gaspard Sclwttus e;ave (in his
Mazia Universalis, torn,          the solution of
                                         i.)         problem con a
cerning plane burning       mirrors, in two different ways. He
has, however, done nothing more lhan copy the former,
without adding aught of his own, either            theory or prac
                                                                in
tice.
     67-
         "    It astonishing that so fine an instrument, ex
                   is
plained    so neatly and precisely in the works of these cele
brated men, which are well known to the learned, should
have lain dormant above         century, before any one thought
                                     a
of bringing      into use. Fontenelle,
                   it                         true, in his Eulogy
                                                     it   is
on Hartsoeker           ¦+
                     tells that this philosopher, in his observa
                        ,
tory at Amsterdam, attempted          large burning mirror, com
                                                a
posed of several pieces connected together, like that, which,
according to some, was used             Archimedes. But M. de
                                                by
Fontenelle does not tell us, whether or not those connected
pieces were plane mirrors, or what was the success of the
attempt.
   • Here my learned author goes on to sate,             om Kiieber, the facts
                                                           f.
ivhii
    h I  have alreariy given, in myfiist letter (concerning Lord Napiir't
Memoir. &c.) in vol. x\ lii. p. ;3> &c. of this magazine.           Almost the
                    p is,
only difference       .'liar he cites Kiicbn's Ats Magna Lrins rt Umbra,
lib. 10. psr.  3.    765, 771 et 771. edit. Amst. and      ; cite that father's
                                                                     1
Magi it Catopliica, ;is qnoied      faiilian. — 'Translator.
                                    by
 t    The celebrated Dutch philosopher, Ilar.sorier, died                in
                                                                 the year 1725.
$te Pau.'ian's Diction, de Physique, article Haitsceier. — Translator.
                                                                              68.   "   It

  238               On the Caloplrical and Dioptrical
     68.   "  It was reserved for the genius and ability of M. de
 Buffon,    to execute these machines with such happy success,
 that he ought to be regarded as the inventor of them ; espe
 cially since we know, that, before the execution of these
 plane mirrors, he had not read father Kircher*; that he
 used methods of his own; that he has given them some
 advantages ; and has brought them to such a high point of
perfection as was formerly unknown, and has left us no
 thing to wish for on the subject.
    69. " What we have said only regards the recent history of
this invention.         If we now examine its antient vestiges, we
shall find, that although it had been neglected for above
 1000 years, when Kircher revived it in the last century, it
is not on this account the less antient.
     70. "Anthemius, who lived under the emperor Justinian,
in the sixth century, not only contrived a way oY making
burning mirrors with plane ones, but found that twenty-four
    • From something in the manner in which
                                                      Buffon mentions Kircher,
I  took it for granted (Lett. I. § 1.) I thought naturally enough, that lie
had seen that father's book before lie entered on his experiments.          But,
as my ingenious author thinks differently,       I  b/g leave to lay before the
reader a translation of Buffon's own words; of the fidelity of which he
may satisfy himself by comparing it with the original (for which          I have
pot room) in the Mem. de C Acad, des Sc. 1747. pp. I44, &c. Amst- edit.
" While I was employed," says that celebrated philosopher, " on these
mirrors, I was ignorant of the detail of what the ontients had said of
them ; but I was not displeased to gain information in this respect, after
I   haJ succeeded in making them. M. Metal of the Acad, of Bella
Lrttres, and one of the king's librarians, whose great erudition and ta
lents are known to all ihe learned, had the goodness to cemtnunicate to
me an excellent dissertation, which he composed on this subject, and in
which he gives the testimonies of all the authors who have spoken of the
                                      "
burning mirrots of Archimedes.'' — In the same dissertation of M. Me lot,
1 found that Kircher had' written, that Anbimedes had been, able to burn,
at a great distance, with plane mirrors." — " In fine, in the Mem. etc
I.'Ac id. 1726, M- du Fay, whose memory and talents              I shall always
honour, appears to have touched on this discovery.            At the end of his
Memoir, he says, that some authors (he means no doubt father Kircher)
have proposed to form a mirror of a very great focal distance, with a
great number of small plain mirrors, &c."
                                                — Now I must fairly confess,
that  it would  not be easy to convince   me,  that  Buffon, a celebrated philo
sopher, in habits of intimacy with very many other celebrated philo
sophers, was unacquainted not only with the works of Kircher, which,
as my author observes above,
                                 " are well known to the learned," but with
a transaction better known to common fame than any other work of the
renowned Archimedes; a transaction, I had almost said, which every
school-boy has heard of.     Was it not sufficiently creditable to Buffon to
have verified that famous experiment, after it had been pronounced incre
dible, and even impossible, by some of the greatest judges in Europe;
without aspiring at an entire originality of idea, by putting the credulity
of his readers to so severe a trial i—-Translator.
                                                                             of

                   Instruments of  the Antients.              239
of   these last were sufficient to produce fire. Vilellio assures
us of this fact, in the flfth book of his optics.      This pas
sage, then, proves, that the invention is at least 1 200 years
old.
    71 .
          " This antiquity will be increased by 800 years, if Ar
chimedes really used plane mirrors to set on fire the Roman
fleet at the siege of Syracuse.      Although this circumstance
cannot be directly proved by any positive passage in any an-
lient author; yet, from the words of Tzetzes, when speak
ing of this fact, we may draw arguments which will enable
us to conjecture with much probability.          For he says pre
cisely,   thit  the  apparatus of Archimedes     was composed of
many mirrors, and that those mirrors were moveable, by
 means of certain planks.
     72.
          " On this circumstance, I observe in the first place,
 that although a compound burning mirror may be formed of
 concave mirrors, as well as of plane ones, while it does not
 appear that Archimedes used the one rather than the other;
 yet we have at least as good a right to say, that his mirrors
 were plane, as that thev were concave. A machine is more
 simple and more easily executed with plane mirrors than
 with concave ones: it is therefore more natural to think,
 that Archimedes composed his machine of the former than
 of the latter.
     73. " Add to this, that to compose a burning mirror of
 concaves, it is by no means necessary that they be moveable;
 though this property be of great utility if the component
 mirrors be plane. For the making concave mirrors move
 able will not alter their common focus, or carry it to many
 different distances, and consequently by their means flame
 cannot be produced at more than a determinate distance.
 Hence it follows, that when the burning point was to be
 carried either nearer or further off, a new and totally diffe
 rent machine would have been necessary, which could not
 but be attended with great difficulties in practice.
      74.
           " But if the machine were composed of plane mirrors,
  all these difficulties would disappear: even inconveniences
  would vanish; the burning point might have been carried
  to very different distanceSj    greater or less, as might have
  been required, merely by a greater or less inclination to each
  of the plane mirrors.
      75. " The object of Archimedes was to produce fire at a
  great distance. For this end, it was necessary for him to con
  struct it in such a manner, that he might easily make the
  burning point fall exactly on the Roman ships, to which lie
  fished to set fire. The distance of those ships was always
                                                         uncertain,

 24O               On the Oatoptrical and Dioptrical
 •uncertain, and might change every minute.   In order then,
 that Archimedes might succeed, it was absolutely necessary,
 cither that he should be provided with a great number of
 burning mirrors of different focal distances, or with one
 only, the focal distance of whch he could augment or di
 minish at pleasure.    Otherwise his success would have been
 left to accident ; for, if the distance of the ships changed
 while he was directing his mirror towards them, he ran the
 risk of embarrassment^ if he could not have altered its fo
 cal distance.    Now the focal distance of concave mirrors
 being invariable, it is plain that if Archimedes had wished to
 use such, and had not made the distance of the focus ex
 actly equal to that of the ships from the mirror, he would
 have lost all his time, trouble, and expense.
    76.
            "
           But by using plane mirrors, his machine \vould have
 always answered equally well.       If he had mistaken the di
 stance of his object, he could have easily remedied the
error, by only changing the position of his component
plane mirrors.
    77.
         " From what has now been said, it follows, that if it
be true,- as Tzetzes assures us it          is,
                                        thatjhe component mir
rors of Archimedes were moveable,               also proved that
                                                       it   is
they   were  plane; and  consequently    the invention   of raising
flame       by
             plane  mirrors     as antient
                                  is         as the  days of that
philosopher*.
    78. " In the second place,             not certain, that the
                                           it     is
burning    mirrors  of  the  antienls  were  necessarily metallic;
for  I  snail presently prove, that they might have been of
glass.
   79.
            "
          Thirdly, M. de Fontenelle positively affirms that the
antients were ignorant of the power of glass globes to mag
nify objects. So much indeed was he persuaded of this,
that he labours to prove why they were unacquainted with
this property of glass globes, while they knew their power
of burning.   The truth           is,
                             that they were equally well ac
quainted with both these properties; as        proved       this is            by
passage from Seneca (Natural Quest, lib.     cap. fi.) Literte,
                                                            i.
quamvis minutae et.olscurce, per vitream pllam, aquce ple-
 *     This argumem, which    I      could not put into fewer words, without
entirely dcpaning from the original, is, a*     1 t,ike     it,
                                                           perfectly conclusive.
It is, hi  wever, natural for me to think so; for as far as motion          conis
cerned, the reasoning  is    'he sime. mutatis rmann-iis, with that     which
                                                                          by        I
endeavoured to prove    (§     24 of my i4 lett
                                              )   that when       Baton talks of
                                                                      R
making the tun, &c. appear 10 us to be over the heads of our enemies,
any optical instrument contrived to produce this ettlcton an enemy always
in ;r.'jtion, UiUsi itself be movejble. — JramUtlw.
                                                                               nam,

                        Instruments of the Antients.                        241
toam, majores, clarioresque              cemuntur:        Letters, although
minute and         obscure,    are  seen   larger and clearer through a
glass globe filled with water*."
     80.   "   I prove also, by a passage in Pliny, that the anticnts
were acquainted with the property of concave transparent
bodies, in rendering vision more clear, and also that they
possessed the art of producing this figure.                     What Pliny
(lib. 37. cap. 5.) says         of the  emerald,    appears   to  me decisive
on this point.         "   lidem," (Smaragdi)         "  pkrumque et con-
cavi, nt visum colli (rant.            Quapropter    decreto    hominum, ris
parcilur, scalpi        velitis.      Quorum    vero  corpus   extensum      est,
eadem       qua specula ratione, supini, imagines rerum reddunt.
 Emeralds are mostly concave, that they may collect the
 sight.       Hence, by the common consent of men, they are
 spared, and the engraving of them is forbidden.                    But those
  which have a plane surface, being held up, reflect the images
 of things like mirrors."
      81. " On this passage I observe, 1st, That concave eme
 ralds were common in the time of Pliny; as the adverb pie-
 rumque (mostly) proves. — 2dly,That thisconcavity must have
 been artificial; for emeralds are not naturally concave ; or, if
 by accident one should be so, this could only happen very
 rarely.       For the same reason, then, that concave emeralds
 were common, their concave figure must have been artifi
 cial; so that the cotemporaries of Pliny must have possessed
 the art of rendering emeralds concave, and of polishing them.
 —3dly, The phrase, ut visum colligant, can have no other
  sense in this place, than that concave emeralds were proper
  for" rendering vision more distinct.              What Pliny says a few
  lines lower (when speaking of plane emeralds, nc only at
 tributes to them the representation of images in the way of
  mirrors) proves that he knew that concave emeralds could
  assist the sight in virtue of their concavity only; and in a
 manner which those of other figures did not do. — 4thly, If
  the antients knew the property of concave emeralds in as
  sisting the sight, it was very just and reasonable to prohibit
  the engraving of those to which they had once given this
  figure.       But if they were ignorant of this property, and if
   Pliny's words, ut visum colligant, had meant something
      * In the same chapter of this first book, Seneca has these words t
  "  Quiilquiclv.diiur />n bummem, longe ampliui'vero est; Whatever is seen
   through a liquid is far larger than the truth."         And, cap. 3. ibid, the
   same snticnt philosopher says: " Poma per vilrum aspicientitms, multo
   majora sunt. Apples are much        larger to those who view them through
   a glass.''    See Re^r.aul!, Orig,  A.cicn. di la P'ojs. NiV, t.  1. p. 174.—
  SramlatoT-
                                                                       common

 242            On the Catoptrical and Dioptricat
 common to emeralds of other figures, the prohibition to en
 grave conca.e emeralds in particular, would have been ridi
 culous and without any reason.       It is therefore established
by the authority of Pliny, that the antients knew that the
concave figure of transparent bodies gave them the property
 of rendering the sight more clear and distinct; and that
they knew how to give them this figure, and how to polish
 them.
    82. "  Further : the antients were acquainted with the pro
perty by which concave mirrors enlarge bodies by reflection.
They made such mirrors from pure curiosity, and in order
to have the pleasure of seeing objects magnified by them.
They even made very large ones for this purpose. To be
convinced of this fact, we have only to read attentively the
 I 6th chapter of the 1 st book of Seneca's Natural Questions*
It is also evident from the 5th chapter of the same book,
that the propertv of concave mirrors in inverting the images
of objects was known to the antients. They knew likewise,
that a spectator may stand before a concave mirror, in such
a position, as to see the image in the air between the mir
 ror and the eye.      For Artemidorus of Parinum, cited by
 Seneca, in the same book, chapter 4th, says: " Si speculum
concavum feceris, quod sit scclce piles pars, si extra medium
constiteris, quicunque juxla 4e sleterint, universi a te vide-
luntur propiores tibi quam speculo : that is, " If you make
a concave speculum, which is the portion of a sphere, and
if vou stand beyond the middle of it (or further from the
mirror than the centre) you will see those who stand by you
nearer to you than the speculum.
    83. " The art of making large mirrors was not unknown
to the antients. For Quintilian, in the last chapter of his 2d
book De Oratore, and Plutarch, in the life of Demosthenes,
tell us, that this famous Athenian orator, when young, used
to declaim before a large mirror, in order the better to re
gulate his gestures.      Seneca also, towards the end of the
17th chapter of his above-cited book, says, that mirrors
were made as large as the human body.
    84. " The antient Peruvians, in the time of the Incas, had
the art of making mirrors plane, convex, and concave, of two
kinds of stone, capable of receiving a fine polish ; and also,
according to some, of a composition of several metals now
unknown.       They were all plane on one side, and concave
or convex on the otlftr.     Don Antonio de Ulloa, .who saw a
great number of them in South America, says,
                                                     " They were
as well finished as if those Peruvians had had all the neces
sary machinery, and great knowledge in optics."          He saw
                                   4                          one

                      Instruments      of the Ant'ients.               243
one whose principal surface was concave, and a foot and a
half over. He says that " this mirror greatly enlarged ob
jects, and that it was as well worked, as well polished, and
 as perfect, as if it had been made by one of our present
 skilful artists."
     85. " These, however, having no immediate connexion
with my principal subject, I shall not now dwell on them,
 but pass to other indications of the knowledge which the an-
 tient inhabitants of our own continent had of mirrors. The
 antients, in addition to what we have stated, possessed the
 art of making mirrors of glass, as is evident from a passage
 in Pliny, lib. xxxvi. cap. 26. where speaking of glass, he
 says,
          " Aliud fiatu Jitjuratur, alhid torvo teritur, aliud ar-
genti modo ccelatur, Sydone quondam lis officinis nohili, si-
  qu'idem etiam specula excogltaverat .           Some of it is figured
 by blowing, some turned in a lathe, some embossed like
 silver; Sidon having been formerly famous for such manu
 factures, since even specula had been contrived there."                 If
 we had more particular accounts of the glass-works and the
 manufactures of Sidon, and their arts of forming and po
 lishing mirrors plane, concave or convex, of glass and
 metal, we should perhaps find out some secrets, as well as
 antient inventions, which we believe to be modern ; and
 should see that the limits of their knowledge were not quite
 so narrow as we arbitrarily prescribe.
     86. " But be. this asit may, I shall now prove, that the an
 tients possessed more than sufficient knowledge of mir
  rors to have furnished Ptolemy with that of which we speak.
 —We learn from experience, that the mirrors which we call
  plane, are not really so when strictly examined. They are
almost always irregularly concave or convex, or both ; and
 this is a necessary consequence of the manner of working
 them.       Every intelligent artist, in preparing large object-
 glasses    for telescopes, has frequent occasion to be convinced
 of this fact*. It is true that the concavities and convex
 ities in mirrors intended to be plane, arc commonly por
 tions of very large, spheres, and do not enlarge or diminish
 objects ; so that, as to sense, they produce the same effects
 as if they were perfectly plane.
    • I have heard that
                           intelligent and philosophical artist, and worthy
 man, Mr. Samuel Farley, explain the cause of this inequality of plane
  mirrors, and indeed the whole prociss of grinding and polishing glasses,
 in a very satisfactory manner; while he was performing with his h?.nds
 the work which he was describing. This method of illusrratingby actual
 performance, the nicer mechanical operations which occur in experimen
 tal philosophy, Mr. Parley prac.ises in other instances; which renders
 bis lectures uncommonly interesting and instructive.— 'translator.
                                                           87.   "Among

244   •             On the Catoplticat and Dioptrical
    87.   "Among the great number of mirrors considered              ii
plane, there are some so sufficiently and regularly concavey
as to produce the effect of concaves, when the mirror, the
object, and the spectator happen to be properly situated.
Father Zahn, in his Oculus Artificialis Teledioptricus Fun-
dam. 3. Synlag. 3. cap. 4. Prob. 6* mentions a singular oc
 currence which happened to a canon of Erfurt, and which
proves my assertion. This canon walking one day in his
apartment, happening to look at a mirror hanging on the
wall, saw a crucifix as large as life, which seemed to be the
same with that on the altar in his church.           On changing
his situation it disappeared,     but when he returned to the
same spot he saw it again.       Looking around he could set
nothing to   which  he  could  ascribe   so large a figure ; but at
last he perceived,  in  an elevated   situation, a small image of
a  crucifix; on  removing    which,    and returning to his first
situation, he no longer saw the image in the looking-glass.
Not being able to account for so small an image appearing
so large in a mirror, which he had always considered as a
plane one, he mentioned the phamomenon to father Zahn,
who very properly told him, that his pretended plane mirror
wis really concave; that the diameter of its concavity being
great, it did not sensibly enlarge the faces of those who
stood near      it,
                but that, at considerable distance, they must
                                               "
                                a
of course be magnified. He added, that          Plura simiha, &c,
Many such things occur, which appear altogether astonish
ing to those who are ignorant of their causes."
    88. "  I never yet met with      mirror, which, being accu
                                           a
rately examined, turned out to be perfectly plane; but       1have
met with more than one supposed plane mirror, which were
not only concave, but of        tolerably regular concavity
                                a                                so
                                                                 ;
that whetij from       considerable distance,
                         a                         viewed remotes
                                                   I
objects in them, saw those objects sensibly enlarged with
                         I
out being disfigured.
    89.
        "      evident from Zahn's observations and my own,
               It   is
that among mirrors given to us as plane ones, we may hap
pen to find some which are concave, whose focal di-
sance     30, 40, 50, &c. feet, and whose curvature
          is                                                 at the
                                                            is
same time regular.      will add, that there
                         I                         greater chance
                                                   is   a
of our meeting with mirrors of regular concavity or con
                                           a
vexity than with those which are perfectly plane. For ar
tists, who have been long employed on large object-glasses
for telescopes, know that        it much easier to make glasses
                                      is
perfectly spherical than perfectly plane. If necessary,              it
would even be easy to demonstrate rigorously, that let mir
rors intended to be plane, be worked how they may, they
                                                              must

                     Instruments     of the Antients.                245
 must of necessity degenerate into concavitv or convexity.
 Yet when the diameter of their curvature is very great, and
  their spherical figure perfect, they ought to be considered as
  perfectly plane. An easy and sensible proof of this is, that
  none of our mirrors can beconsidercd as more plane, even,
 and regular, than the surface of perfectly tranquil water.
 Yet this surface is really convex, the diameter of its con
 vexity being the same with that of the gl )be.              But a dia
 meter of convexity of some hundred fal horns, is sufficient to
 denominate our spherical mirrors, plane ones.
    90.
          " Let us now endeavour to make it appear, from what
 has been said in this memoir, that the existence of the mir
 ror of Ptolemy is very probable ; and for this purpose, each
 of the two following considerations is more than sufficient.
    91 •
         "  First, It cannot be doubted, that in a city so power
 ful, opulent, and flourishing as Alexandria was in the days
 of the Plolemys, mirrors were very numerous, and even
 very large*.     It appears from history that Alexandria was
 then the centre of the arts and sciences; the liberality of the
¦Plolemys having attracted to it the most learned men and
 the most skilful artists.
    92. " Without either granting or refusing to the Alexan^
 drianarts and sciences, such perfection as the intentional fa
brication of such a mirror would require, I say that it is
no way contrary to probability, that in the great number of
mirrors in that city, some one should be found of a conca
vity sufficiently regular, and whose focus, in some circum
stances, might become sensible by its effects.
    93.
         " This being so, there is nothing extraordinary in con
ceiving, that some philosopher or artist, happening to stand
favourably with regard to the mirror and di.-tant objects,
should see those objects larger, and more clearly and di
stinctly, than with his naked eye ; and that, after several
trials, he should find the spot from which the effect was the
greatest.
    94.  " Whether     the cause    of this phenomenon     was known
or not,   is a matter of indifference,      and  could not  hinder the
knowledge of the effect,        which    must  have  been  regarded as
wonderful; especially       if  the  cause   was  unknown.      Such a
mirror must have been looked upon as a present worthy of
Ptolemy Eucrgetes, who having been so great a protector of
the sciences, and a lover of curiosities, would recompense
the donor magnificently. And it is extremely natural to sup
pose, that he would place it in that superb edifice, the Pha-
                           *  Sec $ 83, above.
Vol.   19.  No.  75.  August     1804.         S                   ros,

846             On the Instruments       of the Aniients.
ros, where it would be more useful than in any other situa
tion.
   95.
         "  Secondly, The learned of Alexandria might come
to the knowledge of such a mirror, in a way which is yet
more probable.          It is indisputable, that the aniients were,
acquainted with burning concaves, and with their property
of magnifying objects, which was to them a source of
amusement; as appears from the 1 6th chapter of Seneca's
book, above quoted. Is it then impossible or even impro
bable, that some Alexandrian philosopher or artist, in amu
sing himself with viewing objects in a well-finished con
cave mirror, six, eight, or more inches in diameter, and
eight or ten feet focal distance, should place his eye in the
point from whence distant objects could be seen t6 the best
advantage ? This appears to me so clear, that I do not think
any one will dispute its probability.          What very much aug
ments this probability is, that a good effect may be produced
by a mirror of not more than six or seven inches in dia
meter, and five or six feet in focal distance.
   96.
         "  Corollary. From what has been said, then,                      I
conclude, that historians having positively affirmed that this
admirable mirror existed, anil was placed on the Pharos ;
and the fact, in itself, being neither impossible nor difficult,
but on the contrary very probable ; ive have no reason what
ever to condemn this piece of history as fabulous; and this is
the point mhich       I proposed to prove *."
   97.   With     this  corollary my author closes this his sixth
recreation or memoir, and I shall close the present commu
nication.      In my next, I propose to give a brief sketch of
his eighth and ninth memoirs, and to conclude with some
inferences from the whole of the premises. In the mean
time, dear sir, I remain, very truly,
                                             Yours, &c.            *D.
   * It is observable that Alat takes no notice of the opinion of some of
the learned, (whether well founded or not I shall not inquire,) that trans*
parent gUss was unknown to the antient Egyptians.        But this circum
stance, even  if fmved, would not affect his reasonings respecting the con
cave mirror of the Pharos. — Translator.
                                                             XLI.     Six-

                                [247        ]
           Sixteenth Communication from Dr. THORNTON,
                  relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                              To Mr.   Tilloch.
                                              June i   c, 1804..
        SIB,                      No. i,  H;nd-'ircct,  Mv   ihcster-srvnre.
 ^^
  _L  HERE is a very prevailing notion that the aerial practice is
 excellently suited for the cure of asthma, as the medicated
 airs go to the part supposed to be affected, and the common
 air in different places and times has a most extraordinary
 and undoubted operation on persons labouring under this
 cruel disorder.
                            Case of Asthma.
     William Exall,     set. 44, formerly a coachmaker in Wel-
 beck-street,    residing at Headley, near Farnham, Surry,
 was afflicted with a most distressing asthma, as the parox
 ysms which came upon first going to bed would continue1
 the whole of the niuht, and it was towards morning before
any expectoration arose, when an hour or two of sleep might
 be obtained : his breathing was excessively laborious ; nor
 did the wheezing completely go off during the following
 day, being more or less perceptible, and very much so tipoii
drawing in a deep inspiration.           This disease , increasing iri
violence made Mr. Exall come up to London to be under
my care; and as different asthmas require different airs,
biit from no very accurate criterion that I have hitherto ob
tained, I wished him to inhale the hydro-azotic gas equally
 diluted with atmospheric air, and to take some ot the usual
tonic medicines.        From this plan the asthma was relieved
in less than four days, and disappeared totally in the course;
of a fortnight. Upon making a deep inspiration no wheez
ing was perceptible; and having returned home, six months
after, he again called upon me in London, and says " he
has had no return of asthma, and enjoys now a better state
of health than he remembers for many years past."
            Observations   on this Case    ly Dr. Thornton.
     1. Some cases of asthma arise, I suppose, from a morbid
irritability of the membrane which coats the lungs and
adjoining parts ; hence the commencement of some asthmas
is shown by a continual sneezing.
     2. Where this is the case, to lessen the quantity of oxy
gen iii the air, and take off the morbid irritability of the
Astern by tonic medicine, as bark and bitters, is the philo-
                                 S 2                               aophic

248                   Letter from   Dr. Thornton
sophic way of remedying such a complaint, and was at*
tempted here.
   3. The hydro-azotic gas is made by burning a table-
spoonful of vitriolic aether under a bell-glass suspended
over water, when the oxygen gets destroyed, and some of
the hydrogen or inflammable gas mixes with the remaining
azotic gas, producing an air of a lower standard.
   4. About forty pints of thr. air, the nostrils being free,
was inhaled daily, and always produced a great relief.
   5. In another case of asthma (I hope shortly to publish)
an equal advantage was derived from the vital air; but the
disorder was of longer duration, and another theory of the
disease will be then attempted.
   In the interim, I have the honour to remain, sir,
                Your much obliged and faithful servant,
                                      Robert John Thornton.
XLII. Dr. Thornton's            Third Letter to Mr.         Arthur
              Atkin, Editor of    the Annual Review.
      •                                August io, 1804..
      SIR,                     No. 1, Hind-street, Manchester-square.
 W e both      of    us stand upon the same ground, being able
to boast of fathers whose celebrity is already allowed ; and
following their footsteps, " haud passibus aequis," when we
come forward to the public view we arc " tremblingly alive"
not to sully a name they have honoured. As public lecturers,
both of us cannot but he sensible how distressing it must be
to be publicly accused " of not understanding the sciences
we pretend to teach :" also, as your brother Mr. Charles
Aikin, surgeon, has compiled a book, like myself, in favour
of vaccine inoculation *, undoubtedly with the same disinte
rested motive, and        with myself, an honorary member of
                         is,
Guy's Medical and Physical Society, and probably, we may
boast also of having had him as pupil to that medical school,
                                    a
where how have the honour of being one of the teachers, —
          I
it must have been doubly galling for me to see your name af
fixed as editor to an attempt to hold me forth to the world "a»
a man of the weakest memory," p. 876;                 "
                                                    of the most
impetuous and desultory imagination,"          876; " of judg-
                                                p.
            been previously acquainted with this little work,
  *  Had  I                                               I   might have
speken in mine  in praise of its utility, and as such rcconimendedVit to
the public.
                                                                 ment

                          to   Mr. Arthur Aikin.                          £40
ment the most deficient," p. 876 ;            "  the iuventor of an un
heard-of moon," p. 8SO; " vain,"' p. 882; " insufficient,"
p. 882; " ignorant of botany ;" passim; my whole labours
"    a national dishonour," p. 880; and other such passages of
 personal abuse, disgracing, I presume, the character of a re
view *. More than twice did I turn to the title, to see
whether your name was really affixed as the editor ; and
when I contemplated the weakness, or rather ignorance, of
the sneers, I cannot call any part of this review, argument,
but the whole as designed and ignorant abuse, I was asto
nished !— So public, so open, so violent an attack, either de
mands your assent or dissent; and I am persuaded you possess
too much justice in your character not freely and chearf Villy to
retract all such charges ot " ignorance" against me, as I shall
be able satisfactorily to prove to you to be completely ground
less. The duties of an editor certainly make you in this
affair a party concerned, and my only anxiety has been,                       I
assure you, to see myself so attacked in a work wherein your
respectable name was prefixed to it as the editor ; and it would,
I am persuaded, redound more to your honour, to acknow
ledge
          " hits," when these are fairly obtained, and for you
afterwards to come handsomely forward and " repair" the
injury occasioned, than to continue to lessen the fortune,
and wound the feelings, of one who hopes and trusts he de
serves from the family of the Aikins              f  a far different treat
                                                                       ment.
    '"*
        Nothing can be better drawn up than the imperfections of a review,
p. 64.8, of the Retrospect of Domestic Literature, in the supplementary
number of the Monthly Magazine for July, so easily do we see the moat
in our neighbour's eye. " 1'lie A/ni-'Ja ukit Rfjitiv gives offence to the
moderate, the well-meaning,        an<l the well-mannered     of loth parties.
They make no distinction between the cal n investigations of a philo
sopher and the factious .philippics of a demaijoijue.         The Edinburgh
Reviewers arc also unsparing in severity and Ivtterness of expression.
They seem to take delight in saying severe and ill-natuietl things-, and
the feelings of an author are wounded by them wi'h the most frigid and
c:illous indifference.   The palpable partiality uniformly shown by the
Edinburgh reviewers towards Scotch authors, is an evidence that they are
not above the influence of personal feelings! !"
    t   Dr. Aikin, tlic celi-b.atcd biographer, is the e&lar of the Monthty
Magazine.       In the supplementary number, published July «8, p. 649,
the writer of the Retrospect of Domestic Literature, with, I suppose,
the approbation of Dr. Aikin, says: " This work (The Temple of
Flora, with the New Illustration) was not intended for the common class
of readers. It is dressed out for the levee' and the drawing-room of
princes and nobility.    The plates are finished with rxqititite Jetiiacy, and
will immortalize the vanity and insufficiency of Dr. Tborntortv" Compare
\vh.tt was previously said in the saint magazine for May, p. 3.^9. Speaking
of this work, it was there declare j, •' tha: it encouraged the fir.e arts;
                                     S 3                                   that

250                 Letter from Dr. Thornton
ment.      From a critic I do not sue for lenity. This charac
ter (who guides the balance betwixt the author and the
public) I hold as sacred, and we all bow before the tri
bunal.      But previous to judgment being awarded, and sen
tence of condemnation on the author passed, the mind of
the critic should be unclouded by prejudices, and the equity
of the decision certain. Much honour, otherwise, must be
lost; and when it is said, " that to acknowledge an error is
                           "
an acquisition of glory       it is only when with such con
fession a becoming apology is given, and then the honour
is in the apology, — vhich has not been made, nor do I ex-
      it from the reviewer, you engaged, — but it would come'
  andsomely from you, if you think, inforo conscientice,
Eect
that I have refuted the charges against me.
    In my last letter 1 might have mentioned, that my Tem
ple of Flora, or Garden of Nature, was intended partly as
a supplement to Dr. Darwin's beautiful poem, The Botanic
Garden.       In this part of my work will be found, 1. the
Passifloras Coerulea; 2. Alata ; 3. Quadrangularis; 4. Re-
nealmia; 5. Dragon Arum; 6. Oblique-leaved Begonia;
 7. Pontic Rhododendron;        8. Hirsute Stapelia ; 9. Carna
tions; 10. Auriculas; 1 1. Hyacinths; 1<2. Meadia; 13. Li-
modorum; 14. Strelitzia Retina; 15- Narrow-leaved Kal-
mia; 16. Nelumbium speciosum; 17. Nymphoea Lotos;
 1 8. Pitcher plant ; 19. Superb Lily : CO. American Aloe, &c.
flowers not so much as named by Dr. Darwin in his
immortal poem. To each description of these flowers by
             '
me, some friendly muse has kindly furnished appropriate
verses.    Besides the contributions of the late Dr. Darwin,
Dr. Shaw, of the British Museum, the Rev. Mr. Maurice,
of the British Museum, Miss Shceles, George Dyer, &c,
I have just received some beautiful lines, on the Strelitzia
Reginn, from the Poet Laureate.    "7 wish," says Mr. Pye,
" they were wore worthy of your splendid work, and the illus
trious company of poets who have contributed their labours
to it." — In order to blend the " utile" with the " dulci,"
each flower there represented has been carefully dissected
•by me, and fa.lhfully delineated under my own eyes; and
that the arts and sciences hiving a Kind rf iclationsh/p, and being con-
cecieJ, ,i> Cicero expressesit,   by
                                  a chain, explain and mutually a'.sist each
other; snd further, that such productions are monuments of the state
lid progress of the arts    in any given period  :   as such  it  was recom-
me nded to persons wl o, with     taste for the polite arts, possess a'so tho
                                  a
¦Yeans or indulg-' g   it; and to public libraries, the archives of what   is
curious ina   country; and even as     aibrtu-book of the two universities,
tOiforeignus who mi^ht visit the head seats of science."
                                                                       these

                       to  Mr. Arthur Aikin.                   251
these   dissections have met with the         full encouragement
of professors Martyn, Rutherford,        and Dr. Smith — in short,
with   the approbation of    all who are conversant with art and
science.     1 he rest of my botanical plates are, I believe, su
perior to those of any former work. Am I accused of
"   vanity" because these have met with universal approba
tion ? I acknowledge the crime; and as St. Paul boasted what
he had undergone for the cause of religion, so I feel an ex
ultation in what I have attempted for the cause of botany.
I am proud that, when Dr. Smith quitted the chair at
Guy's Hospital, he kindly said, " that so handsomely
elected to this station, he would not have quitted the du
ties of it unless he had found one fully adequate to fulfill
them." I am proud when such a man a3 the Rev. Mr.
Martyn, the professor of botany at Cambridge, equally in
 capable of false flattery, writes*to me, that
                                                    " all my bota
 nical works are admirably adapted to improve our favourite
science, and meet with his approbation."          I am proud when
Dr. Rutherford, the professor of botany at Edinburgh, also
writes to me, " anxiously do I wish that you shall meet with
suitable encouragement, and enjoy health and leisure to en
 able you to finish your noble undertaking."            I am proud
 of the testimonies of men of sterling merit, " Laudari bo
 nis viris est vera laus ;" nor do I refuse the pleasure that
even any part of my works, for the plates constitute some
part, are capable of extorting from your reviewer more than
 taint praise. My father, Bonnell Thornton, was the first who
 persuaded Churchill to write; and unless I had brought for
 ward these choice representations of select flowers, the lyres
 of several of our first English poets on subjects of botany
 might have remained unstrung: and as a Laura produced the
 sonnets of a Petrarch, so my work has drawn forth the most
 charming effusions on the sweetest flowers from heaven-born
 poets ; sounds which, if they cannot touch the strings of your
 reviewer's heart, might even rejoice his " dancing cows." I
 am proud that such a man as Dr. Thomson, speaking publicly
 of my medical work, should say, " Thus have we given a
 brief analysis of the Philosophy of Medicine, or Medical
 Extracts, which will be found of the highest use to all those
 who are desirous of preserving or regaining the invaluable
 blessing of health.     It is the best uork on the subject in any
 language: it is the production of a mind, learned, compre
 hensive, candid, open to, and desirous of, information; cau
 tious in investigation, yet resolute to embrace the truth ; a
 friend to mankind, ardent in his hopes, as in his efforts, for
 increasing the stores of knowledge ; and particularly inte-
                                  S 4                        rested

                       Letter from  Dr. Thornton       .
 rested      in the   general adoption and success of Pneumatic
 Medicine: of         the advantages of which the author (for he
 has drawn from the facts of others his own conclusions, and
 incorporated his own observations) entertains a. most un
 bounded expectations, showing evidently that temperament
 wb>ch accompanies genius." (English Review.) Afterwards,
 when dining at the veterinary professor's, the Doctor ac
 knowledged lie did not know at the time who was the author,
 but imagined it to " have proceeded from the masterly pen
 of a Beiidoes or a Darwin."           1 am proud that the late Dr.
 Cruickshank proclaimed this work as one " that would do
 credit to the knowledge of the first medical character in
England," (see his work on Perspiration ;) am! he was asto
 nished at my period of life, when I atterwards informed
 him I was the author, I am proud thai this work still
 continues to be recommended from the chairs in the dif
 ferent universities. I am also proud that my earliest pro
 duction, the Philosophy of Politics, or Political Extracts,
was handsomely spoken of in the Critical Review. " When
we took up this work, we expected," say they, " to find
it an ephemeral production, devoted, as usual, to some party
 or other, and we were agreeably disappointed in our expec
 tations, and with pleasure discovered it to be a work planned
with tlie last de-signs possil'lt, executed with the greatest
propriety \ and noticed throughout the traces of a sound,
discerning wind, neither led away by the dvliisive theories of
•modern times, nor yet a slave to antiquated prejudices. The
author has made a very excellent use of the writings of the
lest politicians, and brings the most valuable parts of their
Several works to bear on the subjects most deserving poli
tical inquiry ; thus constituting, upon the whole, a most
excellent compendium of general political science."                  I am
 even proud that I have stemmed, in part, the difficulties of
the most adverse times, and though greatly reduced in my
patrimony from my works, and hourly sinking yet more of
my principal in my unprofitable, yet grand, botanical un
dertaking, that under these losses I still persevere*, and ul
                                                                timately
   * After the publication of the Annual Review, every one cried out that
my work was ruined, — .as L'nnxus rcpotts, '• That it xvps in the moi.th
of every one, thi> Sigesbe> k had overthrown liim."    " He has been un-
fcr ;«..' are enough," says Di. Smith, president of the Linnean Society,
" to be always iicld forth as the botanic Zoilus; but I think there have
been some critics, even in our own country, who for futility, ignorance,
and malevolence, would have much greater claims to that title, V they
were of consequence enough to claim any title at all."   It is unfortunate
for science wiien such men can influence the. pubjic ppinion and guide
                                                                    - their

                              to  Mr. Arthur Aikin.                         $53
 tlmately hope that, from the kind countenance of the pub
 lic, my Temple of Flora and Philosophy of Botany will sur
 mount the assaults of my enemies, and pass down to pos^
 terity approved. Yet am I still conscious that I have no
 other merit but that of patient industry, and that my works
 will be found to be established chiefly by the genius of
 others ; and all I assume is taste, sufficient to feel, and
judgment, to discriminate where true merit lies, and a
 capacity, to blend it with my labours. Those, sir, who
 know me personally, see nothing in me of the arrogant
 coxcomb, nothing of empty vanity, but only a laudable
 zeal, such as have inspired the Aikins *, to amuse and in
                                                                          struct
 their  taste.  Sorry am    I  to say, that in consequence of this review, many
 of   my subscribers have relinquished my wo k, many impertinent anony
 mous letters have been written to me, and           I am reluctantly obliged to
 come forward       in my own vindication, and claim a merit which had     I
 much rather leave to others than publish myself.          But the occasion de
 mands some answer, and 1 endeavour to acqnit myself as well as             I ana
 able:    Thus it was Pope overcame by his Dunciad his rancorous and
 numerous enemies.
     * Dr. Aikin has even
                              lately condescended to publish a Series of Letters
 to a young Lady on a Course of English Poetry.            " To the many and
 substantial obl.gations which the rising generation owes to Dr. Aikin, he
 has now added another, namely, this publication.        The correctness of Dr.
 Aikin's taste, poetical and moral, united to his sound and discriminating
judgment, admirably qualifies him as a guide through the mazy and se
 ductive pa- lis of poetry.     The utility of such a work as the present must
 forcibly impress any one who reflects on the vast and increasing number
 of English poets, whose volumes solicit the perusal of young persons.
To have the best authors pointed out, their beauties and defects exa
 mined and unfoided, and the tendency of their works expose ', are im
 mense advantages to young persons who are entering on a course of Eng
 lish poetry.    Dr. Aikin does not assume the office of a master, requiring
 that "his pupils should damn where he censures, and extol when he ap
 proves: his object is to form their judgment and improve their taste, in
 order that they may themselves be trusted with the delicate task of selec
 tion ; at the same time pointing out those sources from which the finest
 sentiment! may be imbibed, and the most pure, harmonious, and appro
 priate lan^uige learnt."— From the Retrospect of Domestic Literature in
 the Monthly Magazine for "July 1804.. — To all which praise I cordially
 asssnt, and, from my heart, have the highest opinion of Dr. Aikin and
  his family.    It has ever been a privilege allowed to authors so sell their
 publications, for reports to be made on them, and these to be circulated,
 without vanity being imputed on that score. Also it may be said : ,
               Sweet is the concord of harmonious sounds,
               When the soft iute or pealing organ strikes
                The well-attcnipcr'd ear; sweet is the breath
               Of honest love, when nymph and gentle swain
               Waft sighs alternate to each other's heart :
               But not the concord of harmonious sounds,
               When the soft lute or pealing organ strikes
               The wcll-attempsiM car; nor the sweet breath
                                                                              Of

                       Letter from       Dr. Thornton
struct mankind ; and posterity will determine how far my
labours will have attached to them " national infamy," or
gome small degree of praise.
    Quitting the " dancing cows," a story designed to hum
ble my vanity, I shall descend now to your reviewer's re
marks on my pig story, which may lessen his boastings
as to pretensions to knowledge in natural history.                  I leave
my Botany to the last, as the public will, for the present,
allow me some credit for that.
    After having traced the analogy of the seed in the seec?-
vessej, fixed to it by a cord resembling the umbilical cord,
attaching the foetus to the uterus, I compared the lohes, or
seminal leaves, in their office, after the most celebrated bo
tanists, to the mammae, or dugs of animals.                     Here your
reviewer observes       : "But     no  absurdity,  or  opposition to fact,
can stop the      doctor   in  his   ardent  pursuit  of  analogies *. As
the number of cotyledons, we beg his pardon, [a sneer]
of mammae or breasts, is different in different seeds, ' it is
thus,' he observes, ' with the parent animal which pos
sesses one or more dugs.' This all the world knew. But we,
at least, did not know that ' the number of dugs is always
proportioned^ by nature to the offspring to be produced;
and thru it may be remarked, as, in a Titter of pigs, each
pig always goes to its own dug and never usurps that of
another, so children, when first born, show the same par
tiality towards one breast.'            If this were strictly and uni
versally true, the cow must have at one birth at least double
the young of the human mother; whereas both of them
             Of honest love, when nymph and gentle swain
             Waft sighs alternate to each other's, hcai t,
             So cliarm with ravishment the rapnir'd sense,
              As does the voice of well-dcserv'd rcpirt
             Strike with sweet melody the conscious soul !
                                                            Dr. ROBERTS.
   •  The reviewer should have added, "that Dr. Thornton makes thtsc
lobes or seminal tenvcs of the greatest importance to the young plant; for,
when removed, this indeed grows, but is dwarfish, weak, and stcril.
In  his note to ihise experiments, he remarks, this vegetable f^ct may
teach us a truth respecting the rearing of our own children : the babe
requiring that food which natjre has kindly provided for him.        It is in
vain, he continues, that ibis analogy be shown to the inccnsidaale.
             For you no Dryads dress the roseate bower,
             for you no Nymphs their sparkling vases pour,
              Unmaiked by you, light Graces swim the green.
   It cannot, however, fail to sti ike tbost
                       Whose mind the ivtll-attempcr'd ray
              Of lust/ and virtue liglns with purer <lay;
              Whose Jixer itnie each soft vibration owns,
             \Viih sweet responsive sympathy of tents.'"         DARWIN.
   t  I never said, exactly froforiioncJ,
             4                                                         have

                            ;        to   Mr. Arthur Aikin.                           2SS
 have generally  only one, and the woman, we believe, has
 twins more frequently titan the cow.   We have cojisulted *
 those who have had more experience in these matters than
 ourselves, and are assured that new-born children do not
 show a partiality for one breast, but, which may easily be
 explained on other principles, are vften found to incline to
 that which they sucked last. Were we even to admit the
 doctor's assumption as a fact, to make it harmonize with
 his system, a woman should always bear twins, each of
 which should have exclusively its own breast."
    I would here beg your reviewer to read what is said .in
 the Elements of Natural History, (published for Cadell jun.
 and W. Davies, and William Creech, Edinburgh, 1801,)
 p. 66 : — " The breasts or dugs (mamma?) of these animals,
 in which the milk is secreted from the blood, are furnished
 with teats or nipples, which the young suck. The dugs are
      * As this reviewer is
                                    extremely fond, in all difficulties, of consultation,
  the philosophic world would wish to know a little of the nature of these
  wise men he consults, as described by the reviewer himself, p. 834..
  When reviewing Dr. Shaw's work, the writer says : " It is pleasant after
  a short separation to rejoin an intelligent fellow-traveller, from whose
  extensive acquaintance with the country, and liberal communications con
  cerning   it,  we have already derived much entertainment and instruction               ;
  and though we arc not likely to accompany him again through scenes
 squally luxuriant and romantic, we still associate with his person the pro
 spects which we Iwe formerly enjoyed, and find something to delight us
 >n our passage over manv                dreary heath.
                                          a                With sensations of this kind
 •we take up the fojfth volume of Dr. Shaw's General Zoology.                       We re
  cognize the countenance and manners of an old friend. We enter at once
  into his style of composition; and though his present subject may not
  promise us all the satisfaction which ihi former part of his woik afforded,
  •we are persuaded that we shall not tise from                     disappointed and dis-
                                                                        it
 fleai d." This consistent reviewer, in " ge or two after, coming
                                                           a   p
  to the genus H'jloccntrvs and Bod;anus                     Here," cries the reviewer,
  " we confess ourselves to be completely posed. We had learnt, indeed,
                                                      :
  something concerning the size and colour of the scales                   but as far as re-
                                                                                 ;
  lares to the'e, any one of the species might be pUced with equal propriety
  under cither of the genera           and with respect to their roughness or smooth
                                          ;
   ness, we were still as much at             aloss as ever.   Conceiving that we must
  have overlooked some part of the description, and attributing the over-
v sight to the infirmity of eyes impaired             bythe midnight watching: of many
   years, we fi'.st    tt'immeii om lamp          then laijifd our spectacles; and then
                                                  ;
  took down a p.tir             ofgreater magnifying power, which we use only to
  rifnd our prn and on other special occasions (he should" have added, and
                                                           :
   blew our noses, to clear oitr bcai!s;) but all to no purpose.                As our Inst
   resort, we applied to all our fellow critics "             solemn divan assembled:"
                                                               in
   bv.t still in vain.     The difficulty was no sooner stated, than every one, as
 if    animated   by   one soul, rapidly exclaimed, Daunt jnm, not: CEcfipus:            it
 is   a knit which none but a g'ni, or one inspired             the gods, can untie.
                                                                   by                    To
   be serious;    generic characters so constructed           are      di'gracc to science.
                                                                             a
   They assume     3   scicr.:ij'.<: nfftarance, but they teach nothing."
                  i                                                                      in

 256                  Letter from Dr. Thornton
 in pairs, either   at the breast (mammee pectorales), or on thfe
 belly (abdominales), or between the hind feet (inguiuales).
 In general, their number is equal to the number of young
 which are commonly brought forth at a time."                 S our re
viewer even, though bred a cockney, in some of the envi
 rons of London might have observed the fact. The first pig
born is the largest, and assumes the foremost rank in suck
ing; the last pig born is the least, and has a particular name,
 and takes the rear. Every pig, therefore, demands and fights
 for his own dug; and when any one pig is killed for a roaster,
that very dug then dries up, and only so many swollen dugs
furnishing milk remain as there are living piss. How sight
less it would have appeared had the beautiful human form
been, like the figure of Isis, furnished, like the mother sow,
•with breasts down the whole body !             The word dug means
the breast of a beast, and when applied to the woman it is
in derision, and to excite disgust. Thus Spenser :
                                    -Of her there bred
      A  thousand young ones, which she daily fed,
      Sucking upon her poisonous dugs ; each one
      Of sundry shape, yet all ill favoured.
    So Cowley     :
      Envy   at last crawls forth from that dire throng,
      Of all the direfuH'st ;  her black locks hung long,
      Attir'd with curling serpents ; her pale skin
      Was almost dropp'd from the sharp bones within        ;
      And at her dues stuck vipers, which did prey
      Upon her panting heart both night and day,
      Sucking black blood from thence, which to repair.
      Both night and day they left fresh poison dieie ;
      Her garments were deep stain'd in human gore.
      And torn by her own hands, in which she bore
      A knotted whip and bowl, that to the brim
      Did with green gall and juice of wormwood swim ;
      With which when she was drunk she furious grew,
      And lash'd herself. Thus from the accursed crew.
      Envy, the worst of fiends, herself presents ;
      Envy *, good only when she herself torments.
   • The Rev. Dr. Milne, author of the Botanical Dictionary, writing
to me on this controversy, says: " Dr. Thornton will console himself on
tbi* and other such invidious occurrences, which men of talent must ex
pect to encounter from the conjuined efforts of ignorance, malevolence,
and a narrow mind, with the fine observation of the poet :
          " En-jy does merit as its shade pursue,
          " But, like the shadow, proves the substan e true."    Pope.
                                                                 Now,

                      to Mr. Arthur Aikin.      .             257
    Now, your reviewer     has described the cow as having four
dusjs   or breasts, whereas the cow, in fact, has only one
stock, or udder, and four teats.         The word dug, as the
Elements before mentioned would have taught him, is the
breast of a beast, and teat is its appendage ; for, when ap
plied, as above, to the female form, it is in derision; and
the word breast is used for the human subject, and its ap->
pendage is the nipple. The cow and the woman here are not
therefore at all objects of comparison ; and he might have
learnt, p. 123 of the same Elements, " that when a cow
happens to have two calves, one of them a male the other
a female, the former is a perfect animal, but the latter is
incapable of propagation, and is called by farmers a free
 martin."                                             ,
    When speaking of      the undoubted instinct of young pigs,
 I  only casually mentioned, in the same note,      that infants
 oftentimes showed the like partiality for one       breast,  and
 probably from the same instinct.
    As your cockney reviewer seems as ignorant      as the   Lon
 don painter, who represented his partridges billing, and
 perched upon a spreading oak-tree, I must, for his sake,
 trace a little further this subject.
    When a ewe dies, leaving the bleating lamb, the other
 ewes would beat this off, even the one that had lately lost
 its own.     Shepherds under such circumstances take off the
 skin of the dead lamb, and sewing it on the body of the
 living orphan bring k to the ewe so habited ; who smelling
 the fleece, supposes its dead one restored, and cherishes the
 orphan whom otherwise she would have rejected.
     So with fowls; one brood is put under a hen with an
 other brood, and the first hen kept out of the way. This is
 impracticable in the day-time; the second hen would kill all
 the stranger chickens : but not seeing them at night, they
 partake by morning of the smell of the first, and she knows
 not the difference.
     It would be endless to give instances of my own and
  others' observations of the prodigious sagacity of divers ani
  mals in hunting, particularly nounds, setting-dogs, &c.
  one therefore shall suffice of Mr. Boyle's, viz. " A person
 of quality, to make a trial whether a young bloodhound
  was well instructed, caused one of his servants to walk to
  a town four miles off, and then to a market-town three
  miles from thence. The dog, without seeing the man he
  was to pursue, followed him by the scent to the above-
  mentioned places, notwithstanding the multitude of market-
 people that went along in the same way, and of travellers
           2                                                  that

858              Letter from Dr. Thornton
that had occasion to cross it.   And when the bloodhound
came to the chief market-town he passed through the streets*
without taking notice of any of the people there, and left
not till he had gone to the house, where the man he sought
rested himself, and found him in an upper room, to the
wonder of those that followed him." — Boyle detertn. Nat.
of Effluv. c. 4."
   That most accurate observer of nature, L'nnaeus, has re
marked "that the cow eats 276 species of plants, and rejects
£18; the goat eats 449, and rejects li>6; the sheep eat*
387> and rejects 141 ; the horse eats 262, and rejects 212;
but the hogj more nice in its taste than any of the former,
eats but 72 plants, and rejects all the rest."
   The wonderful narrative of Galen is familiar to every
physician.    " Nature," says this author, " forming, fa
shioning* and perfecting the parts of the body, hath so
brought it to pass, that they should of themselves, without
any teaching, set ahout and perform their proper actions :
and of this 1 once made a great experiment, bringing up a
kid without ever seeing its dam. For, dissecting some goats
big with young, to resolve some questions made by ana
tomists concerning the oeconomy of nature in the formation
of the foetus in the womb> and finding a brisk embryon
(young one), I loosened it from the matrix after our usual
manner, and snatching it away, before it saw its dam,         I
brought it into a certain room having many vessels full*
some of wine, some of oil, some of honey, some of milk,'
or some other liquor; and others, not a few, tilled with all
sorts of grain, as also with several fruits, and there laid it.
This embryon we saw fust of all getting up on its feet and
walking, as if it had heard that its, legs were given it for
that purpose ; next shaking oft' the slime it was besmeared
with from the womb; and moreover, thirdly, scratching its
side witb one of his feet : then we saw it smelling to every
one of those things that were set in the room, and when it
had smelt to them all, it supped up the milk ; whereupon
we all for admiration cried out, seeing clearly the truth of
what Hippocrates saith, that the natures and actions of ani
mals are hot taught, but by instinct. Hereupon I nourished
and reared this kid, and observed it afterwards not only to
eat milk but some other things that stood by it.       And the
time when this kid was taken out of the womb being about
the vernal equinox, alter some two months were brought
unto it the tender sprouts of shrubs and plants, and it again
smelling of all of them, instantly refused some, but was
pleased to taste others ; and after it had lasted, began to eat
                                                             of

                                  io  Mr. Arthur Atkln.                                    525$
of       such as are the usual food                   of goats." — Galen, lib. vi.
cap. 6.*
       By smell the dog discovers the truffle, although the foot
be buried deep under ground.
      The huntsman who means to surprise the wild boar, is
obliged always to proceed in a contrary direction to the
wind.
       Crows       are said to smell gunpowder half a mile off.
      If a     moth be put into a box, and the top be covered with
gauze, and placed any where in a garden, other moths of
the same species are sure to be conducted there and taken
in the place.                                    \
       Having        the   Hirsute      Stapelia in my drawing-room, which
smells like carrion, the window being Opened, in less than,
five minutes above ten blow-flies were killed on the plant in
the act of blowing it.
       In a place where there is a decoy for ducks, the master
approaches it with a piece of burning peat on a fork before
his mouth, or every duck would at once rise, by know
ing the enemy's advance frorn his breath. Out of revenge
a man, half a mile off", put a little assafcetida in his pipe,
 and not a duck but took flight, and left the decoy-yard
from a dislike to the smell.
       The attachment, on the contrary, of cats for valerian,
and their perception of it at a distance, is a well known
fact.
       The agency of smells in the animal ceconomy has been
too little considered.                                '          >
       Haller, whose authority is great, says " that infants are
 first conducted to the breast from instinct alone, before they
 possess the least understanding."
      * 'H JiaTrXaratra    ti  xai ttxtixcaiu. >pvri; upyao.aTO £*pfc StoWxaXia; liri o.xtta*
 IMpyKat rpi£i>rflai' umt $acant vt jaure> iuivwrTm iTroimraaiiy 7toti ^fi.lii lp..; .>,
 an> Tou &f«r«rdat Tt.Tt tiij Xjiirao'ay ai^sf yaf lvKvfxvia$ atari/Ami ttixa too
 I^TnuJVrV 5fa»rliiiM TCtCd,STO/LtiXO(( atiftLOt OZipiTl)f »XTa TI MVWfAttQTCUCfOiUJA;p
 iup», ir&Ti yiviinvt to i/aCouo?, a'viXuo'a /Uit Tnf /unTpac aVfftp ti&6afui«* if»aiat it
 *rp«>§ta?ae&at Tn>Krttcarat lie cmct /t*lt Tira xc/uii.nf xaTiSn«a,         oroXXa /Air t^oita
 Xixatia' T3 (At, ettu/, to it iXouoUt to it pfXtToc* to it yaXaxT'f, n xXXeu Ti>-( l/l.pclr
 frXnpie>, ot/x oXtys V aXXa voir AnpitTptw          *opv*rt mrlt't it xal T«, mKp'ifum'
 tdlaraZAlda it T> liuCpu>>m>to, 7rp»To, |UIt #ao:£sr Tc,f ff:O-|f, wrvtp axintoore iyfxol
 £a3\rla\~ *XM T* ffll'Xn' friuTip.T iI ammo/unMV Tut IX TX; /btiiTp*c{vvfvrrtrtt9 xai
 TpiTOV I9TI T LTV Xl/O-O/Ut>OV    IH T«T 1TOoVl>
                                                TI>FTr.IfOa,, HT* •O'|UaiiMlrOVlliofAtV ttWTOtmV
 XI(/UI>a", XXTS TOY OtXOT!<»JT:U, oif         TTa>TONOfTUOTO TOU vaXaXTO$ AWiptftlfftl, I>
 W Idl afi«psva^ft a'.rn>TE., itap^wc OOOfTTICCTrfp 'ifrttOXpaTT; lf> ^UOJI; faoro
 ao\$a«T:i.       Kat Tot,t/r ncti euSf l4.°iunT l*ll,o Ta fpi^icr, li^..|ut> ti   1Tpalr^ifpC|Ultt>
 l/a'Tipo, ov to ^aXa fAQtfft, aXXa xai aXXa T,,a t*> xtiivtttxT' o»tc' ?i Tty xsipcv xad' c*
  ifipidn txc p*nTpsc o tpi^ec. l^yn; t>k: iiapitn; 1--^fpia?, iuiTa im oreu iunta;
  I. . " /:u>r 3;.>t;>at/TV iuuXaKcu: a«p«/A9VscSafAM"     if xat 4>uT*», *t rr«Xi> xat atT"
 t:w-:awh:> rirvTi**. t>iey/Air Iy6t»c awlo'TO, T.10TT f^Jaiyl vluffarSai, xal vtvim
 itim liri Tr,r tS«in [Tpa7/XTi t»t xai Taif iUi^aXai; ai^t >tu>i9«t i^o-iuarwr.
                                                                                        " The

$60        Method    of preparing      the Chinese Soy.
   te The babe," says the illustrious Dr. Darwin, " soon
after it is born into this cold world, is applied to its mo
ther's bosom ; its sense of perceiving warmth is first agreea
bly affected ; next its sense of smell is delighted ivith the
odour of her milk ; then its taste is gratified by the flavour
of it ; afterwards the appetites of hunger and thirst afford
pleasure by the possession of their object ; and lastly, the
sense of touch is delighted by the softness and smoothness
of the milky fountain, the source of such a variety of hap
piness."
    Unless smell directed, how should the calf immediately
raise itself up, and at once fix where its nourishment is
lodged ?
   Is it not more reasonable to suppose instinct, enabling
to discriminate the difference of two breasts, in the child,
than understanding?
   Who taught it first bow to suck ?
   For the child to remember the breast last sucked, is less
credible than to be led on by instinct.
   Analogy in matters of difficulty must be resorted to when
we cannot prove it otherwise.
   Surely what I have advanced is not deserving to be ranked
as " absurd," and " contrary to fact ;" and whenever your
reviewer goes out of his way to attack me, (for it was only
casually mentioned, like the satellite ot Venus, in a note,)
he is sure to stumble, and evince not mine, but his own
" insufficiency."
                  I have the honour to remain, sir,
                       With       respect and esteem,
                            Your faithful obedient servant,
                                 ROBERT JOHN THORNTON.
XLIII. Method of preparing the Chinese Soy, ly M. DB
  GRCBBENS ! extracted from the Memoirs of the Aca
  demy of Sciences at Stockholm for \ 803, Jirst Quarter,
  ly M. LINDBOM, Captain of tlie Swedish Mines*.
J. HE Transactions of the Swedish Academy for the year
176t contain a description of the method of preparing soy,
by the late captain Ekeberg; but as this description's in
complete as well as incorrect, since the real Chinese soy
will not be obtained by following        it,
                                       am fulry persuaded
                                           I
               From the Annales
           •
                                  de Cbimie,   No. 148.
                                                          that

                 Method      of preparing        the Chinese Soy,           261
that M. Ekeberg never saw, nor was acquainted with, the
true process for preparing this substance.    There is reason
to believe that he gave his description from the accounts
of the Chinese, who are not always ready to speak the truth,
as I observed during the five years I resided in China, when
I  wished to obtain complete information in regard to the
method of managing a certain kind of silkworm which
spins five or six times -every year; the 'method oi dyeing
silk and cotton, and various other particulars in regard to
the Chinese ceconomy.
    Having since obtained, for a very high price, certain
information in regard to these points, 1 have seen how
much their accounts differed from the truth. The case was*
the same when I wished to be made acquainted               with the
preparation of soy ; but as I have now procured a very cor
rect account of        it,
                       think
                          I       my duty to communicate
                                           it                    to     it
the Academy.
    Soy    prepared from
           is                  kind of beans which are whiter
                                       a
and smaller than those of Turkey, the farina of wheat, salt,
and water.     The proportions are, 50 pounds of beans, 50
pounds of salt, 60 pounds of the farina of wheat, and 250
pounds of water.
    After the beans have been well washed they are boiled
with well water in an open pot for some hours, or until
they become soft enough to be kneaded with the fingers.
During the boiling they must be always covered with water
that they may not be burnt.          Care must be taken not to
boil them too much          they
                             :     are
                                  if   diluted, too much of the
substance remains in the juice.       When the beans are boiled
they are put into large flat wooden tubs, or, as the Chinese
do, into vessels made of thin broad splinters ofbambou,
two inches and       half in depth and rive feet in diameter.
                       a
In the latter they are spread out to the depth of two1 inches.
When they are sufficiently cooled to be touched with the
hand, the farina of wheat           added, and well mixed with
                                            is
them and this
      ;               continued till the whole farina
                       is                                       ex     is
hausted. When the mass becomes too dry for the farina
to adhere to the beans,     little \\arm juice
                                    a               added.  is
    When the whole       well mixed the mass
                              is                      spread out in
                                                             is
the tubs above mentioned, taking care that the .strata are not
 more than an inch or an inch and         half in thickness. The
                                                   a
                                   is by
mass   is then covered      placing over         lid which exactly
                                                       it
                                                       a
closes it.    When           observed that the mass becomes
                             it
mouldy, and that heat         disengaged from
                                     is                          it,
                                                       which takes
place in the course of two or three days, the cover must be
 raised up     placing two rods below
                 by                          in order that the air
                                                       it
    Vol.   19.   No.   75. August 1804.             T                   may.

              Method       of preparing        the Chinese Soy.
may have freer access.           In' the mean time a rancid odour
is exhaled.     If the mass assumes a green colour, it is a sign
that every thing goes on well ; if it begins to grow black,
the cover is raised a little more, in order that the mass may
be more in contact with the air.           When the mass becomes
completely black it is entirely spoiled,
    As soon as it is observed that the whole mass is green
and mouldy, which is generally the case in eight or ten
days, the cover is removed, and the mass is exposed for
 some days to the air and the sun.
    When the whole mass has become hard like a stone, it is
 cut into small fragments, which are thrown into an earthen
 pitcher, and 250 pounds of water, in which 50 pounds of
 fcalt are dissolved, are poured over them.         The whole is well
 stirred ; and the height which the water occupies in the
 pitcher is noted.       In case one pitcher is not sufficient, the
mass, is put into several, taking care that each be propor
 tioned to the quantity of the matter.
     When the pitcher is thus filled it is placed in the sun.
 The matter must be regularly stirred and shaken every morn
 ing and evening, but at night care must be taken to put the
 cover on it to preserve the mass from the cold.           This cover
 is made convex on the outside that the tain may more rea
 dily run off from         it,
                          and    it   employed also in the day time
                                      is
 when  it  rains. The greater the heat of the sun, the mora
 ine preparation of the soy       is accelerated.   This operation         in
 general is   undertaken only irr summer, and yet           continues
                                                                 it
 for two or three months.
     In proportion as the mass decreases by evaporation, well
 water is  added, and this       is continued till the salt water has
 entirely  dissolved  both   the  farina  and the beans. The pitcher
is   then left some days longer in the sun, in order that the
 solution may be so much the more perfect, as on this de
 pends the good quality of the soy, and even during this time
  the matter must be stirred every day.
     When the mass has become very succulent and oily, the
  whole is  poured into bags, which are pressed to squeeze out
  the soy, which       tjjen pure, and ready to be employed.
                      is                                                   It
is    not boiled, as M. Ekebere asserts.                then put into
                                                       It   is
 bottles, which are well closed. The Chinese who deal in
 this .11ui ,c putit  into large pitchers. The soy before             it   is
  squeezed out   is  of dark brown colour, but
                           a                                afterwards
                                                                 it
  becomes black.
     The Chinese prepare from the refuse that remains two
 other kinds of soy. The first time they add i.W) pounds of
  water and 30 pounds of salt having~ squeezed this mass,
...
                                           :
                           -                                      they

               On some rare Fossils      of Vestena Nffva.            «63
they again pour over it 100 pounds of water and 20 pounds
of salt, proceeding always in the same manner as above
described.
     The last two kinds are not strong, but very salt ; espe
cially that of the last extraction, the colour of which is also
clear. These two kinds are the commonest in China. The
difference between them is as 8, 4, 1 .
     In the year 1759 I prepared in this manner, in my lodg
ings at Canton, all the soy which I employed.                   I even
brought some bottles of it to Sweden: it was succulent,
oily, moderately salt.,, and entirely different from that usually
sold in Europe : in regard to its taste it was equal to that of
Japan, which is generally considered as the best.
     This description is the more certain, as I always executed
 the preparation myself: I will even venture to assert, that
it is that used to obtain soy of the best quality.
     M. Kkeberg asserts that the soy is boiled, and that sugar,
ginger, and other spiceries are added : but this is void of
foundation and cannot be true, since a Chinese pound of
soy does not cost more than two canderins Chinese money,
which arc equal to 1^ skilling Swedish*. This was the
usual price during my residence in China, and there is no
reason to believe that these ingredients were employed in
the preparation of it,        Besides," soy has no taste either of
sugar or of spiceries ; the prevailing taste is that of salt.
 XLIV.      Memoir on some rare Fossils of Vestena Nova, in
     the Veronau,    not yet described, which were given to the
     Museum of Natural History at Paris ly M. DE GAZO-
     tA.   BlJ FAUJAS-SAINT-FONDt-
  -I HE collection of fossil fish found at Vestena Nova, in the
Veronais, with which the Museum of Natural History is
enriched, must be considered as unique in its kind. To
employ the same constancy and activity in research that
M. de Gazola has done, ont- must be animated with a noble
enthusiasm for the advancement of that knowledge which
relates to the theory of the globe ; one must possess the
same fortune and disinterestedness           to sacrifice large sums
for the acquisition of cabinets, and to cause researches to
be made for thirty years, in the bosom of a mountain co
vered with lava.       It was in this manner that this naturalist
    • A canderin is equal to about
                                   3 sou« j\ dtnie-s French money,
    t  From AttneUa du Museum tiat,v. 1 4' Hiitoirt XwuttUe, >"    ij-
                                     T2                       obtained

 264          On some rare Fossils       of   Vestena Nova.
  obtained the most numerous collection of this kind which
  an individual could procure 5 at present it forms one of the
  principal ornaments of one of the galleries of the Museum
  of Natural History ; M. de Gazola still proposes to enlarge
 it,   by generously adding to     the fruit of his new researches.
                                   it
  Being desirous on the other hand to render his discoveries
 more generally useful, he has caused to be engraved the
  different and numerous species of these ichlhyolites, in                  a
 work, the publication of which he has entrusted to the ca
 non Volta, of Mantua, learned naturalist, much versed in
                               a
  the knowledge of fish*.        There are found in the stones
 which contain the fossil fish of Vestena, plants of the                   fa
 mily of the ferns, the mimosa, and other terrestrial plants,
 which prove, that at the period when these fish were living,
 in the bosom of the sea, the waters did not cover the whole
 surface of the globe; and that there were parts of the earth,
 and perhaps even whole continents, more or less elevated,
 where vegetation was able to develope         part of its riches.
                                                a
     Does not this truth, proved not only at Vestena Nova, but
 at jEttingen, Pappenheim, Rochesauve, and                by
                                                         the argilla
 ceous schists which cover the coal mines, clearly show, that,
 since plants and quadrupeds then existed, as             attested
                                                           is              by
 several instances, there must at the same time have been
birds?  I    know that the facility with which birds can fly,
may    often   rescue them from the danger of perishing            thein
water, and that those which are aquatic are still in less dread
of that element Ornitholites, therefore, have hitherto been
                    ;
very rare, some naturalists even have denied their exist
ence.                      '
    That in the cabinet of Darcet,       figure of which has been
                                         a
given    in the  Journal de  Physique, along with         memoir of
                                                           a
Lamanon, has not been admitted either dv Camper or For-
tis:I     have examined      itseveral times, but still entertain
great doubts on the subject.         The same Journal for the
month of Thermidor, year            contains an engraving of an
                                   8,
ornitholite, or rather the impression of         bircl found in the
                                                  a
plaster-quarries     of Montmartre      this
                                        ;    fragment     belongs to
M. Allum of Abbeville. As no person, however, at Paris
ever saw the original, and as M. Alluin has given no de
scription along with this figure,        will be prudent to wait
                                         it
for further details;     if the drawing, however, be correct,
one cannot help observing the two legs of           bird.
                                                      a
  +    Iniologh del Musco-Boniano, ora nanesso quello del cenre Gio-
                                                  a
van Battisra Gazola edi aliri gabinetti dt to-ili Vcronesi, con la version*
Latiiia. Verona dalli itamperia Guikri, 1796,    in  fol. magna, with mag
nificent plates.
                                                                     When

                   On some rare Fossils
                               of Vtstena Nova.       265
  When we read in the same number of the Journal de
Physique what professor Cuvier has written on the^bot of a
 bird, the osseous parts of which are incrusted in gypsum,
 from the quarries of Clignancourt near Montmartre, there
 is no reason to doubt that real ornitholites exist, at a great
 depth, in old strata of gypseous matter.
     On the other hand, Blumenbach, in his Manual of Na
 tural History* , mentions bones of aquatic birds found in
 the marly schist of the quarries of ^Ettingen, and the bones
 of swimming birds, or anseres, discovered in the calcareous
 schist of Pappenheim.
     I here annex a confirmation of these facts, in the figure
 of two feathers found in the middle of the quarries of Ves-
 tena Nova, in the same stones which contain the fish, and
 which I caused to be engraven of the natural size, to avoid
 details in regard to measures.         (See Plate VI.)
     That represented fig. 1 , is in perfect preservation, and as
 it were amalgamated with thestone: what is most remark
 able is,  that        of
                      it   is very black colour;
                                     a                  extended and
                                                                  it   is
 flat, and except some barbs which cross each other, the. rest
 are arranged         the most regular manner.
                         in                                cannot be    It
 confounded with certain fuel, which have some apparent
 resemblance to feathers, because the barbs of the latter are
 furnished with other barbs.          Professors Jussieu, Lamarck,
 Des Fontaines, and Thouin, who have examined                 with at         it
 tention, consider         as   real feather.
                                it       a
     But    if,notwithstanding the discussion of philosophers
 who are accustomed to acute observation, any doubts
 should be entertained of the identity of this fossil with
a   feather,     second feather found in the same quarry will
                  a
 serve to fix in an irrevocable manner the opinions of
 philosophers on this subject.         The latter, of which we have
a   counter-part,           is
                       represented    of the natural size, fig.    and             2,
.3. The stone broke so fortunately, that, like those contain
 ing the fish,      opened in the middle, in the part even con
                      it
 taining   the  feather,   which left its impression, while the body
 of the feather was found on the other; one might even say,
 that the feather as         wereit  divided in the middle.
                                              is
     This feather       smaller than the other, but in
                           is                                preserva         A
 tion equally perfect; all the barbs on the left side, fig.         are            2,
 in their natural position those on the right side are
                                             ;                                          di
 vided into small bunches.           From the middle almost to the
  extremity           little arched, and its colour, instead of be
                  is it    a
 ing black,          is
                 grayish.
                  * P.     408, of the       nth   vol. French Translation.
                                              T    3                                This

 g66          On some rare Fossils      of   Vestena Nova.
   This   feather was discovered  in 1 777, and came into the
 possession   of I.    Dionisi, canon of the cathedral of Ve
                       1.
rona, who is     fond of the study of natural history.  It was
considered as a very rare object, for it was the first feather
ever found in the quarries of Vestena Nova.
     In regard to the first feather that is to say, the one re-
   resented fig. 1, it was sold, about ten years ago, to count
?gnatius Ronconi, of Florence, then resident at Verona, by
the workmen, who had taken it from that portion of the
quarry of which M. de Gazola is proprietor. These work
men, tempted by the price which M. Ronconi, who was then
forming a collection, set on this rare article, privately be
trayed the confidence of the person who.employed them as
cjay-labourers.     M. de Gazola, some time after, purchased
from the heirs of M. Ronconi the feather with its double
impression : there is seen on the stone of one of the coun
ter-parts a small fish.       M. de Gazola, when he gave the
feather to the Museum which I have caused to be engraved,
reserved that part to which the fish is attached; but being
pleased with the reception given to him by the professors of
the Museum, he has promised to deposit the second frag
ment in the galleries of geology, along with that which is
already in it.
     I have caused to be delineated on the same plate a small
crab and a marine insect,, presented by M. Gazola along
with the stones which contain feathers: both of them were
found in the quarrry of Vestena Nova.
     The marine insect, fig. 4. seems to belong to the genus
pycnogomim of Fabricius, or to a genus which must ap
proach very near to it.       It is not an asilus attached to the
tish, for the asili have fourteen claws, and their mouth is
not formed into a tube: whereas the pyenogonum has only
eight claws, and its mouth is tubular: a character found in
the insect of Vestena Nova, fig. 4. Rondelet has given
 the figure of an insect of the Mediterranean, which has a
great relation to the one in question; he distinguishes                  it,
after Aristotle, by the Greek name oiolpof, in Latin, asilus,
 and in French, thon marin. He has eivenan engraving and
description of    it  from the insect which he found adhering
 under the    fins of  a tunny fish    in
                                      the. Mediterranean. • The
 figure given    by Rondelet*   resembles, in regard to the cha
                                                           racter
   *    " Having seen the animal." says Rondeler, " have added what
                                                    I
  follows, to the description of Aristotle
                                       :    Instead of mouthit  has
                                                                  a  small
  long tube, and on both sid-s of the body there are, at
                                                       it  were, two
                                                                   li in ':
'
  which turn towards the mouth   j     then follows the hollow part of the
                                                                      body,

                On some rare Fossils    of fastens Nova.                Sfl7
racter of the mouth, the insect of Veslena Nova, which
differs from it only in the form and size of the body, but
which, like the fishes of that quarry, belongs in all proba
bility to an exotic insect; I have, however, published a
very accurate figure of it. The zoologists will be enabled
to compare it \vith marine insects of the same genus, which
we may receive in the course of time from the Indian seas
or from New Holland.
    Fig. 5. represents a fossil crustaceous animal of the same
place, in good preservation : it resembles the Crustacea
known under the name of shrimps, which belong to the
genus Palcemon and Crangon of Fabricius ; Cancer (aria-
cits') squilla, Herbst, Plate XXVII, fig. 1 .          Cancer- (artacus)
cratigon, of the same, Plate XXIX, fig. 3 and 4. But the
Cancer squilla being much smaller than the fossil, it would
be more proper to refer it to the crangon, which is the opi
nion of M. Latreille, whom I consulted. However, not
withstanding the respect due to the opinion of a naturalist
well versed in the knowledge of crustaceous animals, I
should rather be inclined to consider the fossil crab in ques
tion, as nearer to the Cancer pedunculatus of Herbst, of
which a representation has been given by that naturalist, in
his 43d coloured plate, fig. 5. But as the latter, which is
exotic, is rare, and not in the collection of the Museum, we
can refer it only to the figure ; it is therefore prudent to
suspend our opinion till more favourable circumstances en
able us to examine the insect in its natural state.
    I might publish in the annals of the Museum a descrip
tion of some other objects of Vestena Nova, confining my
self to those which do not belong to the beautiful series of
fish of the same place, destined to form the Ichthyology of
the Veronais, undertaken by the canon Volta ; I should
even have considered it as a merit to glean in a field which
belongs to him, and which he knows how to cultivate with
so much benefit to natural history, had not M. Gazola as
sured me, that M. Volta's work will be exclusively conse
crated to a description of the fossil fish of that mountain.
body, with indentations the end of which there are six feet; the two which
are short at the end of the hollow part of the body are the largest and
the longest; the two following a little less, and the other two \vhich are
more
 '
        on the side, are the smallest of all. Ronticlet Hist. <tes Ptissunt,
         folio, p. 78.
                                    T4                      XLV. Me-

                                [  268  ]
                                                           *•  »
XLV.     Memoir respecting the State of Vegetation on high,
    Mountains. Read in the National Institute, June 1804.
 J- HE first thing which strikes an observer of plants at the
entrance of high mountains in our temperate regions, is the
vigour and luxuriance of vegetation : every thing he has seen
in the adjacent plains suddenly changes its dimensions, its
aspect, and its form; he scarcely knows the most common
plants under the new dress which they have assumed.       The
stems are high, the flowers enlarged ; and even the leaves
of trees have acquired such an amplitude, as often excites
some doubt in regard to the identity of their species.     The
groves are better clothed with foliagej the grass thicker as
well as more abundant, its green colour livelier; in a \vordj
every thing is enlivened with more brilliancy, from the
depths of the valleys to those heights where the eye can
discern nothing but bare rocks and eternal snow.
    The plants being thus endowed with a vigour of vegeta
tion unknown in other places, they tend with more energy
to pass'through the periods of their existence. Time, which
regulates the periods of it, creeps on with a slow pace in
our plains, but in the mountains it flics. Every thing
hurries on along with it: meteors succeed each other with
extreme rapidity ; the air there is in continual agitation; all
the determining causes act at once with their whole force;
the signal of germination, floration, and fructification is
given at the same time to all individuals placed under the
same conditions.      The decoration of the meadows and fo
 rests changes suddenly at the pleasure of the south win» i\t
 of a storm, or stroke of the sun, which uniformly affects th:*j.-i.-,
 whole of certain kinds of species; and each day of the fine /»
 season is the spring of an order of vegetables, or of one of
 the regions in which they grow.                  ,
    This first view is succeeded by another; in traversing the
 mountains and valleys, each situation has its own soil, and
 each region its climate. These particular regions have each
 their productions : each has its own characteristic vege
 tables, which are distinguished in the number of those cos
 mopolite plants, whose temperature, more robust or more
 flexible, seems to adapt themselves to every soil, and to tri
 umph over every climate. In the plains these local distinc
tions occupy immense spaces, the limits of which are too
 extensive and too indeterminate to be easily perceptible.
 In the mountains every thing, on the other hand, is con
 fined within narrow limits, which the eye often embraces
                                                              at

        On the State of  Vegetation on high Mountains.      969
at one time : a humble hill continued between two valleys,
a ridge of rocks, and some steps, which the traveller passes
over in a few instants, are the insurmountable barriers
which nature has raised between things which it has thought
proper to separate.
   Among these different causes of separation, one more ap
parent seems at first to direct all the rest : it is the eleva
tion of the different stages of mountains; every hundred
metres of height lower the temperature about half a degree
of the common division of our thermometers ; and if we
take as the term of cold that which generally suspends the
progress of vegetation, the eternal ice with which the sum
mits are charged will represent the ice also eternal with
which the pole is covered ; and each hundred metres of ver
tical elevation will correspond to a degree of the distance
of the mountain from the pole.
   It is on this short scale that the phsenomena of the cli
mates which succeed each other on the surface of the earth
are presented ; the circumstances are different, but the re
sults are nearly the same : on the one hand, the increase of
the cold is accompanied with a shortening of the column
of air; on the other, with an obliquity ot the rays of the
sun. The vegetables, however, are distributed in a manner
nearly similar ; and ttrs conformity teaches us to ex.lude
from the number of the causes which act on this distribu
tion, those which are not common to the two scales on
which they have been executed by nature. Thus, in the
Alps and the Pyrenees trees stop at the absolute elevation
of 2400 or 2500 metres, as they do about the 70th degree
of latitude; and the band of the mountains occupied by
these large vegetables is divided into as many particular
bands as the trees constitute different species : oaks remain
at the bottom; the beech occupies the mean heights; and
above these are the pitch-pine and the yews, which soon
give place to the pines, and these pines both in the Pyre
 nees and the Alps are those of Scotland and of Riga :
while the latter chain possesses also the cembra and the
larch, which are foreign to the former; but it wants the ce
dar which grows on the Lebanon, and which would, no
doubt, thrive in our mountains of Europe, had nature placed
 them there, as it has done on the mountains of As;a. But
 such is the mystery of the original dissemination of vege
 tables, that nature seem?, in turn, indifferent in regard to
 the similitude of places and the distances by which they
are separated ; sometimes placing in similar climates the
plants of countries the most distant from each other, and
                                                     sometimes

   tJO On    the Slate  of Vegetation  on high Mountains.
   sometimes refusing this conformity of productions to re-*
   gions which unite all the conformities of soil and of cli
  mate.
      In the zone of trees is seen a shrub common to all the
  mountains of Europe, and which is at the same time pecu
  liar to them : it is never found any where else. Intractable
  to cultivation, it languishes in our gardens : it .requires the
  soil, air, water, and snow of its native place ; it requires
  mountains, and it must even have a particular determinate
  situation. The plant here alluded to is the Rhododendron :
  nothing can be more brilliant than this shrub when in
  flower, but nothing is more delicate or intractable.       It ap
 pears in the Pyrenees exactly at the absolute height of 1 60O
 metres, aud stops exactly at 2600 ; but between the limits
 within which it is confined it is so abundant and so vigo
 rous, that it would almost be as difficult to extirpate as it is
 to transplant it.
     The juniper traverses this band, and ascends much higher.
 I have found it at the altitude of 2QOO metres above the
 level of the sea; but at each stage to which it rises it loses
 some part of those characters by which it is distinguished
in our plains. In the high region it is the juniper of Swe
den and Lapland, lo\v and stunted, with its trunk creeping
 over the ground to seek for shelter between the quarters
of the rock which are within its reach.          There conducted
by nature, as it would be by instinct, it searches for and
finds, without ever being deceived, the faces of the rocks
•which are exposed to the south or the west; rises upon
them, and expands its butnches in the form of an espalier,
with a regularity scarcely to be attained by art.
     Higher up, the severity of the climate admits nothing
but low shrubs, which can be entirely covered by the
first snow ; but still higher, this shelter is insufficient against
the cold and the length of the winter: nothing exists but
what is contained in the earth ; the only vegetable produc
tion* found here are herbs with vivacious roots, ana nature
has almost entirely banished from these places the annual
plants which would deceive its hopes, when in the course of
a •summer reduced to a few days, and often to a few hours,
a gust of wind, or a frost, may blast its flowers scarcely ex
panded, bring back winter, and terminate the year.
     On the other hand, no elevation checks those vivacious
kinds which, on the approach of the intense cold, entirely
re-enter under the double shelter of the snow and the
earth, and revive from their roots on the first fine weather;
their duration, exhausts all the changes of the seasons to
                                                             attain

        On the State  of Vegetation  on high Mountains.     27,1
»ttain sooner or later to the year favourable to the matura
tion of the seeds from which they are to be renewed.
    At Neouvielle, at an elevation greater by 250 metres than
thar of the Pic du Midi, and at which the thermometer
rises in summer only to 8 degrees, I collected, during five
excursions, twelve species, all vivacious.
     On the summit of Mount Perdu, at the absolute eleva
tion of 350O metres, in the bosom even of the permanent
snow, but under rocks freed from it by the inclination of
their sides, I collected six species exceedingly vigorous.
 Here on one of the warmest days of a year remarkable for
its heat, the thermometer rose only to 5-5°, above the freez
 ing point, and it no doubt descends in winter to 25° and
 30°; and is it certain, that the plants which I found here
 uncovered, in a year when the snow had undergone an ex
 traordinary diminution, disengage themselves from it every
 year? Besides, I have seen some reappear, which existing on
 the edee of the permanent snow, remain almost always bu
 ried under its extension : they do riot see the lieht perhaps
 ten times in a century, and then they pass through the
 circle of vegetation in the short space of some weeks, to
  sleep again during a winter of several years.     It cannot be
  expected that plants subject to conditions of existence      so
  singular should be found among the number of the species
  which we observe in the plains of our temperate climates:
  they belong either exclusively to the highest summits of the
  mountains, or they are represented merely in the polar
  countries of Europe.      Norway, Lapland, and Greenland
  are countries which furnish plants analogous to those
  which grow on the summit of the Alps and the Pyrenees ;
  they are not found in Siberia or Kamschatka, nor in the po
  lar countries of America, though it isas difficult to conceive
  the diversity which prevails among the vegetable produc
   tions of countries so similar and so near to each other, as it
  is difficult to explain the conformity which exists between
   the vegetation of one of them and jhat of the summits of
   some mountains which are 40 degrees distant from them.
      But we are informed by observation that the propasationof
   vegetables docs not always lake place parallel to the tquatoi;
   that if a certain number of plants confined by their tempe
    rament to a determinate climate are found at some distance
   under the same latitudes, many others, on the contrary,
   seem to have been carried away in the direction in which
    our continents separate, and to be dispersed in the direction
    of the meridians. On the south, America, Africa, and
    Asia; on the north, Europe, Asia, and America, are far
                3                                           from

 273       On the State    of Vegetation on-high Mountains*
  from presenting the same vegetation on the same parallels %
   while a multitude of plants faithful to each of these parts of
   the world, faithful even to certain subdivisions of these
  grand divisions, brave all those obstacles which diversity of
  temperatures oppose to them, to propagate in a direction
  absolutely contrary to that to which they are called by the
  conformity of climate.
      But, not to wander from the subject, it is thus, for ex
  ample, that several remarkable vegetables of Sardinia, Si
  cily, and Italy, climb the Alps, pass over them, and spread
  to the Lower Germany, without yielding to the invitations
  of climate, which would carry them to the contrary side.
  It is thus that the Pyrenees receive from Spain a great num
  ber of the plants of Barbary, and convey them to the western
¦ part of France.      The meadow saffron, which grows in the
  north of Africa, shows itself in Andalusia, Castile, Arragon,
 the Pyrenees, and descends even to the department of Landes;
 the Hyacinthus tardisus, the Narcissus bulbocodium, have the
  same origin and pursue the same route ; the Antliericum bi-
 color, setting out from Algiers, traverses the same chain and
 arrives at Anjou ; the Scilla umbeLlifera, the Saffranum mul-
 tifida, go from the Pyrenees to England, without any of
 these plants proceeding laterally to meet those which the
 Alps receives in like manner from the south to proceed to
 the northern parts of Germany.                ,
     But it is in the large valleys of the Pyrenees hollowed out
 from north to south, that these directions assume a cha
racter altogether striking and singular.
   I find the large Dianthus ptumarius at the entrance
of the valley of Canopan and that of Gavarnic.    It tra
verses them entirely without entering any of the obliqua
valleys which open into it. The verbascum micoiii, that
beautiful and rare plant, which neither belongs to the genus
in which Linnaeus has placed          it,
                                      nor perhaps even to any
family of plants now established, and which having            fo
                                                              a
reign air amidst our vegetables of Europe,       isdistinguished
among them as the alcyon       among our indigenous birds.
                                is
The verbascum miconi affects the same preference for the
same direction.      It found in all the large valleys of the
                          is
Pyrenees, where       shows itself indifferent to all soils and
                     it
all exposures; and the same soils and the same exposures
do not attract  itinto any of the collateral valleys.     Icould
quote multitude of examples
       a                        of the  same  fact    but
                                                      ;   it will
be sufficient to mention only one, that  of box.    This  shrub,
so robust, grows in the mountains like the most delicate
plants on the first regions
       :               "     of the Pyrenees    itcovers all the
            5                                                 hilli

       On the State     of Vegetation   on high Mountains.   J73
hills both on the side towards France and towards Spain.
These large valleys, lying north and south, open before it ;
 there it enters, but never to issue from them : in vain do
 the ramifications of these valleys present it on all sides other
 Valleys to people ; it passes over these openings, and, con
 tinuing its route in the direction it has adopted, it ascends
fiom north to south, stops at the bottom of the ridge of
the chain at about 2000 metres of absolute elevation, and,
reappearing on the other side at the same height, descend*
towards the south in the same direction from which it has
constantly refused to deviate.
    It is thus that the first designs of nature preserve more
determinate tracts in the mountains, where each order of
vegetables confines itself within limits better defined and
more difficult to be passed, and where the influence of the
places resists more powerfully the influence of secondary
causes, which incessantly tend to confound what the pri
mary causes had separated ; and even these numberless mo
difications have been introduced by the lapse of ages, and
in particular by the presence of man. I traverse the im
mense deserts of the lofty mountains : suddenly, among the
rare plants which compose their herbage,        I discover some
of our trivial plants. The verdure assumes a darker tint,
which forms a contrast with the. bright green of the alpine
turf. I advance: the ruins of a hut, or a rock blackened by
the smoke, explain to me the mystery ; around this asylum
of man the plants which surround our rustic habitation*
have been naturalized ; the common mallow, the nettle,
the Anagallis arvensis, the chenopodium, and the common
patience; with which is mixed the patience of the Alps, as
the chamois are seen to approach the domestic goats.           A
shepherd has sojourned there several weeks, perhaps some
years.    In conducting his flocks he has carried thither,
without knowing    it,  the birds and insects of the valleys,
the seeds and germs of his village. He will, perhaps, never
return thither;   but these savage countries have received in
a   moment the indelible impression of the domination of
man.     So much weight has        being of this importance in
                                    a
the scale of nature !
    In other places it    is   by
                                destruction he has marked his
presence :   on  approaching   the mountains, he has torn in
every part the immense veil of the forests which covered
their bases. The woods are not the habitation of man. He
dreads the windings of that vast labyrinth     :he  issuspicious
of its shades he regrets the want of the sun, towards which
             :
be turns a   look of respectful hope    he never penetrates thi
                                        :
                                                            ther,

 57  i       New Method      of preparing Nitrous Ether.
ther, but to carry with him fire and the axe.            The germs of
nemoral plants sleep in the dried earth, which is not proper
for their development. Their place is supplied by other
vegetables.      The climate itself has changed, and attracts
 new species.       The temperature rises ; rain is less frequent,
 and more abundant ; the winds more inconstant and im
 petuous ; the torrents increase ; the declivities become fur
rowed with ravines; the rocks are stripped of the earth
which covered them, and of the plants with which they
were ornamented.          Every thing grows old with increasing
rapidity   :  an age   of  man presses on the earth more than
 twenty ages     or  nature.
    And, however, it is still there that places and their pro
 ductions have preserved more of tht;ir original character. It
is there that the primitive distribution of vegetables has been
less interrupted ; that circumscription has been less strongly
traced out; that the influence of soil and climate is most
 perceptible.       It is there that the comparison of objects
 shows in turn symmetry and contrasts, and that the eye
 can embrace at once every thing which attracts observation
and determines the judgment. And if it be in the structure
of ihe grand chains that the geologist ought to study the
Structure of the earth and the history of the grand cata
 strophes which imprinted on it its last form, it is in these
 mountains also that the botanist will attempt to penetrate                ,
the mastery of the original dissemination of vegetables and
of their successive propagation.
XLVF.        New    Method    of preparing      m a speedy       Marine*
    Nitrons Ether, without       the Application    of external Heat.
    By BRUGNATELLI *.
JT UT    into a tubulated retort an ounce of sugar, and pour
over it two ounces of pure alcohol : adapt to the retort a
capacious receiver; wrap round it cloths moistened in wa
ter, and cover the joints with pieces of paper rolled round
them. Then pour through the tubulurc of the retort three
ounces of concentrated fuming nitrous acid. An effer
vescence immediately takes place; the mixture becomes
hot; the sugar dissolves ; the solution seethes ; and the al
cohol converted into ether passes over into the receiver. By
these means the whole of the alcohol, changed into excel-
    ** From Anaali tit Caimia di Brn^natelii, 1801, com. .\r\. p. 99.
                                                                      lent

     On the Affinities         of different Earths for Carlon.            87*
lent ether, may be collected in a very short time. The
ether has a weak orange colour, with a very agreeable smell;
it does not change blue vegetable colour to red ; and exhi
bits in general      the phenomena of the best nitrous ether.
                     all
   During the    formation    of the ether there     disengageda is
some   nitrous  gas,   which  may be known                 by
                                                     red vapour
diffused throughout the apparatus. When this vapour ap»
pears, the receiver must be changed.       The sugar which re
mains in the retort may be easily converted into oxalic acid
by treating     with
                it      fresh quantity of nitrous acid.
                           a
XL.VTI. Experiments                to ascertain ivhether   there exists    any
    Affinity betwixt Carlon and Clay, Lime and Silex,                      se
    parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide  Iron              of
    forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By DAVID MUSHET,
     Esq.  ofthe Colder Iron-Works.
                           [Continued from p. 141.]
HAVING     thus ascertained certain peculiar affinities betwixt
carbon and  clay and silex, manifested               by
                                            the disappearance
of the former, when exposed to melting heats in contact
with the latter,   now proceeded to investigate what effects
                     I
would be produced in the revivification of iron from ores
compounded with various proportions of mixture.
 I   combined malleable iron with oxygen, and thus formed
a considerable portion of rich oxide. This was pounded,
and afterwards mixed with various earths and proportions
of carbon. Thus prepared,     was found to contain,
                                         it
                 Iron                                  74
                 Oxygen
                               -     -        -        34
                 Moisture                                  2
                                                      100 parts
   The following experiments were made with this oxide
and carbon, to ascertain the proportions of carbon neces
sary to revive   given quantity of iron.
                     a
    I.200 grains of oxide were fused per se.     A very dense
glass of iron was obtained with    partially crystallized frac
                                              a
ture. The surface contained some beautiful crystallizations
of detached radii possessed of various shades of colour but           j
no appearance of revived iron.
    II.   2OO   grains of oxide,
            6   —— of carbon, or l-40th,
                                                                           The

                         On the Affinities    of
   The fusion of this mixture afforded glass of iron less per
fect than the former.       The fracture divided itself' into two
distinct  beds.     The  under   one was a smooth black shining
glass  : the   upper possessed  a  similar fracture and appearance
to what was obtained in No. I. This difference was evi
dently the result of the combination of the small portion of
carbon : for in the smooth black glass a disposition of the
metal to separate was manifested by the formation of a mi
nute cell exactly in the centre of the glass.            This cavity is
uniformly obtained in all experiments of this nature, and is
sometimes found containing beautiful prismatic colours and
possessed of an uncommon degree of luslre.
   III. 200 grains of oxide,
             8         of carbon, or 1 -25th part.
   The fusion of this mixture afforded a very neat spherule
of metal, which was found to weigh 8 grains or 4 per cent.,
or 1 grain of metal for 1 grain of carbon. The glass was
black and shining throughout, resembling very much the
lustre and polish of a highly finished razor.            The iron ob
tained   was    soft and   ductile.    It  easily  flattened  without
cracking     when    cold,   and   exposed     a  fine   gray spotted
shale.
   IV.   200 grains   of oxide,
           10         of carbon, or l-20th.
   The result of the fusion of this mixture was a minute
though elegant spherule of iron, possessing some .fine wa
tery shades.      It was found to weigh 10 grams, or equal to
5 per cent.      This, as in No.    Ill,  is exactly 1 grain of iron
for every grain of carbon added.          The glass in this experi
ment was still more shining and perfect than in the former,
and the quality of the iron was equally soft and malleable.
   V. 200 grains of oxide,
          20         of carbon, or l-10th.
   An elegant ovular button of iron was obtained in this
experiment ; the surface was possessed of an uncommon
lustre and polish, contrasted by a variety of shades.                It
veighed exactly 56 grains, or equal to 28 per cent. The
quantity of iron revived is nearly 2^ grains far each grain
of carbon in the mixture.
   The glass was not perceptibly different from that of
No. IV. The quality of the iron was malleable, though
not so soft and ductile as in former experiments.
   VI. 20') grains of oxide,
           30         of carbon, nearly l-7th.
   From the fusion of this mixture a very smooth beautiful
metallic button was obtained, which was found to weigh
                                                                    94

                    different Earths  for  Carlon.             27 J
 94 grains, and equal to 47 per cent.          The proportion of
 iron revived in this experiment exceeds 3 grains for each
 grain of carbon. The surface of the glass was striated, of a
 blueish white pearly colour. The fracture, however, resem
 bled the glasses obtained in Experiments III, IV, and V.
 A few faint impressions of crystallization were observable
 upon the under surface of the metallic button.           This al
 ways   indicates  a combination   of carbon,  and uniformly an
 nounces a change to the state of steel.
    VII. 200 grains of oxide,
            40         of carbon, or l-5th.
    This mixture was reduced in 15 minutes, and a perfect
 metallic button obtained, which weighed 1 23 grains, equal
 to 6\\ per cent. The quantity of metal revived was nearly
 in the   same proportion to charcoal as in the former experi
 ments.      The quantity of glass was now considerably dimi
 nished, and was not sufficient to cover the upper surface of
 the button.     In point of colour and opacity, however, it
 was not materially different from Exp. V and VI.             The
 quality of the revived iron was highly decarbonated, of a
 white crystalline fracture.
    VIII. 200 grains of oxide,
              50 — — of carbon, or 1 -4th.
    From the fusion of this mixture there resulted a partially
 crystallized button of crude iron which weighed 140 grains,
 or equal to 70 per cent. The glass had entirely disappeared,
 excepting a thin crust of a blackish green colour, attached
 to the edges of the button.      The proportion of iron revived
 to carbon in this experiment is as     i\ to 1.
    IX. 200 grains of oxide,
            60         of carbon.
    The fusion of this mixture yielded a very perfect metallic
 button which weighed              -         -        140 grs.
 Globules of a silvery colour thrown against the
    sides of the crucible                                4
                                                       144
             Equal to 72 per cent.
    In this experiment only a very thin film of glass was
found of a light lead blue colour ; and, as there remained
untaken up 4 grains of the charcoal, it is presumable that
the whole contents in iron contained in the oxide, making
allowance for unavoidable loss, was now revived and col
lected together.     As the quality of the metal now obtained
was still highly deficient in carbon, it appeared probable
   Vol. 19. No. IS. August 1804.            U                that

 278                     On the Affinities  of
 that by carbonating the product a larger quantity by weight
 would be obtained.
    X. , 200 grains of oxide,                                    :
         100          of carbon.
    This proportion of mixture was found but partially fusi
ble.    A considerable portion of iron was revived in large
 and small globules beautifully carburated. Part of the mo-'
 leculce of the oxide had lost its oxygen, and was either re
 solved into an imperfect carburet with the charcoal, or into
             -----
minute malleable grains of iron.
    XI. 400 grains of oxide,
          200          of charcoal.
    Although the proportions in this experiment were the
same as in the former, yet a perfect reduction was effected,
and a fine button of carbonated           metal obtained which
weighed                                                 280 grs.
    Globules thrown up in the ebullition of the
       metal       -         -         -        -        12
          Equal to   73 per cent.                      292
    The under surface of the product now obtained was richly
carburated, the top plain and smooth.          The fracture open
and gray, resembling       No. I, (or smooth-faced) pig iron.
    The different results of these two last experiments are one
of the many instances which occur in this department of
metallurgy, where the perfection of the operation depends
more upon the quantity of matter used than the direct pro
portions of the mixture.
    The deductions which arc liable to be made, arising from
this source of error, are sometimes most erroneous, and
frequently beyond belief.       For example :
    XII. 1 750 grains of oxide,
              87-^
                         of charcoal, or 1 -eoth.
    This mixture was fused into a dead ponderous glass of
iron wherein no trace of revived metal could be found: now
in Experiment IV, the same proportion of mixture yielded
5 per cent, of iron.     Again,
    XIII. 1750 grains of oxide,
              175         of charcoal, or l-ioth.
    The fusion of this mixture afforded a black, shining,
heavy glass, without the most minute particle of revived
metal. In Experiment V, with the same proportions of
oxide and carbon, 28 per cent, of iron was revived.
                   —
   XIV. i 750 grains of oxide,
             850         of charcoal, or l-7th.              '
                                                            This

                     different Earths   for Carton.
      This mixture     was perfectly fused, and equally destitute
   of  revived iron as the former. In Experiment VI, the same            ')
   proportion of mixture yielded 47 per cent, of iron.       I after
   wards found that, when this quantity of oxide was used,
   the first symptoms of separation took place with l-5th its
   weight of charcoal.
      I know of no satisfactory reason which can be given to
   solve the material difference of the results in these experi
   ments, simply arising from quantity, unless the additional
   exposure requisite to reduce the large quantity destroys a
   greater portion of the charcoal uselessly than when the small
   portion of matter is operated upon.          The process of sepa
   ration divides itself into branches. The first consists in the
.' action of a well known affinity, — the combination of the
   carbon with the oxygen of the oxide, which leaves the par-           ,
   tides of metal highly disposed to become the subject of the
•  second affinity, viz. the combination of the carbonaceous
   matter with the iron.       Now, if we suppose that in both
   series of experiments there existed in each mixture a particle
   of carbon for every particle of metal, and one for every par
   ticle of oxygen (if I am allowed the expression), then we
   cannot see that in either operation a difference of result           '
   should take place, provided the experiments are alike accu
   rately performed, and the time of exposure similar.           The
   fact, however, turns out very differently, and, I make no
   doubt, is guided by some regular and well established cause.
   May not the last portions of oxygen be more difficult to re
   move from the large than from the small quantity ? or, in
   other words, May they not require a greater dose of carbon         (
   to saturate them under the double circumstance of increased
   quantity and approximation to fusion ?
      Although I could not reduce the mixture operated upon in
   Exp. X, I found this easily effected by the addition of chalk.
       XV. Oxide of iron          -      -     200 grs.
              Charcoal      -     -      -      100
              Chalk         -     -      -     100
       But in  place of finding the   revived iron carburated as in
   that experiment,     I found it quite the reverse.
       A  review of these experiments performed with pure iron,
   oxygen, and carbon, will convey a pretty accurate idea of
   the real quantity of the latter necessary to revive certain
    portions of iron.      It is however most difficult to decide
    what portion of the carbon unites to the oxygen of the ox
    ide, and what to the metallic part.      I have uniformly found
    that all iron ores and oxides take up a portion of carbon,
    before   any.of  the metal is separated.      This combination
                                    U a                        brings

230                            On the Affinities of
brings the glass of iron more and more to the metallic.
state, undoubtedly by removing a portion of the oxygen,
This appears most evident from Experiments          and IV,             III
where only yne grain of metal was revived by each grain of
charcoal in the mixture. As the quantity of oxygen by this
means became reduced, we find that the quantity of iroii
revived increased in a greater ratio, and at some times ex
ceeded 3 to 1 of the charcoal.     (See Experiments VI and
VII.)
Recapitulation of these Experiments, and the Rate of Char
    coal at which t/ie metallic Particles become revived.
     Zxp. I. Fusion per         se, afforded      no metal.
            IT. Oxide, and          of charcoal; no metal.
                                1 -40th
           III. ditto   —  "l -25th of ditto; 4 percent, of                       irort
                                                              revived
           IV.   ditto   —      1 -20th    of ditto,        5 per   cent.
           V. ditto       — l-10th of ditto,            29
           VI.   ditto    — l-9th          ofdrtto,     47
      VI f.      ditto   — l-5th           of ditto,    61$         •
      VIII.      ditto   —      I   -4th   of ditto,    70
      In   these eight experiments the charcoal had totally dis
appeared.
           IX.   ditto   and    l-3d       of ditto,    72
Along with which               was    found   a   residuum of           4   grains of
carbon.
   Tl is also worthy of remark, that in the early proportions
of charcoal, when one-half of the metallic contents only
arc rCvivcd, the metal is then discharged      from the oxide in
a state of coiiiplet'- malleability, though highly red-short.
This takes place in all experiments of this nature with a
sufficient dose of carbon ; and I have frequently taken ad
vantage of this circumstance to form an opinion of the pro
perties and strength of the malleable iron which any given
ore was likely to afford from the manufacture of the pig.
   Part of the metallic contents of any ore or oxide being
thus precipitated by means of charcoal in a state of uncom
mon softness and ductility, we are led to infer that any ad
ditional portion of carbon would only increase the quantity
of malleable iron, and ultimately produce the whole contents
of the ore in a state of malleability.    This, however, is by
no means the case ; for as soon as nearly one-half the metal
it>revived,    more powerful affinity
                 a                           established betwixt
                                                       is
it and the additional carbon.      Steel or crude iron   formed             is
through the whole mass bv this extra combination, and every
appearance of softness and malleability vanishes. This takes
                                                                                 place

                       different Earths      for   Carbon.                *81
place when nearly 3-^ths of the whole metal is revived, and
decidedly proves a reverse of affinity to what at first existed.
   At the beginning of the experiment we find that the char
coal prefers uniting with the general body of oxygen, rather
than clearing a minute portion and reviving its appropriate
metal. This takes place till a considerable part of the oxy
gen is dissipated.      In the progress of this, the affinity be
twixt the carbon and iron is gradually developed ; and be
fore it is fully established a portion of the iron is precipitated
in a malleable state, not as a direct consequence of the union
of the carbon with         but in consequence of the oxygen of
                             it,
the oxide being removed, and the particles left in            metallic
                                                                  a
state.   So long as this takes place, look upon the affinities
                                              I
of carbon for the remaining oxygen of the ore, and for its
metallic contents, as nearly balanced          and this will always
                                                   ;
have a  direct reference to the proportion of each. When this
equilibrium       destroyed by the addition of certain extra
                  is
portions of carbon, paramount affinity
                           a                       immediately esta
                                                         is
blished betwixt these and the iron which had before been
separated in the malleable state, and steel or crude iron of
various degrees of saturation proportioned to the carbon                   is
the result.
    From another mode of operation                pretty evident that
                                                   it   is
                                                                           it by
this reverse of affinity       occasioned in
                                   is               great measure
                                                         a
the temperature,     particularly  as in the   above   case, where
uniformly    isproductive    of fusion.     If  the  same  oxide here
operated upon,      or  indeed    any  ore,      exposed to
                                                    is           tem  a
perature   in   contact   with   charcoal    considerably    short -of
fusion,  a deoxidation nearly complete will take place, pro
vided the experiment as to proportion of mixture and time
has been properly conducted. The matter thus exposed will
be found to have lost considerably in weight by the loss of
oxygen.     If    it
                  iscarefully freed from the surrounding char
coal, washed, and immediately dried and introduced into                    a
clay crucible and exposed to         very high heat,
                                        a                   button of
                                                                  a
metal will be found, amounting to 8-10ths or 9-10ths, the
whole produce in iron which the ore contained. This iron will
be in tne state of malleability nearly as soft as copper when,
cold, but uncommonly red-short when heated beyond                          a
bright red. The deficient iron, amounting to              or 2-10ths,
                                                              1
will be found in small portion of glass of iron attached to
                       a
the edges of the button, and which may be easily called to
existence    bythe addition of      few grains of carbon.
                                        a
    This still proves that the temperature employed in ce
mentation, though adequate to remove the greatest part of
 the oxyirni, yet      insufficient to dissipate its last remains.
                        is
                                            Us

282              Notices respecting   New Books.
To   effect this, a higher temperature and a more powerful
affinity must be exerted.      That this effect is complete we
have no proof, but that a larger portion of metal is called
into existence.     If the affinity continues to increase in the
ratio of the diminution of the quantity, then a much higher
temperature and a more powerful affinity may be requisite
to remove from iron the last portions of oxygen than any
with which we are acquainted.
    The external characters assumed by iron separated in this
simple mode of assaying, are of much importance in under
standing thoroughly the process.        As long as malleable iron
continues to be precipitated, the metal, if covered with glass,
possesses a surface of the highest polish.        The colours are
 frequently various, chiefly shades of blue and azure, some
 times black-watery inclining to rich deep brown.             The
union of carbon, even in small quantities, under the same
 pressure of glass, is immediately known by the fine crystal
 line form which begins to spread over the surface : some
 times the entire surface is thus elegantly marked.       As the
 quantity of carbon increases to form steel, the crystallization
 assumes a radiated structure, convex upon the upper surface
 and concave below.       This form continues through all the
 states of Steel, but in approaching to crude iron the under
 surface loses the concave and crystallization, and assumes
 a smooth skin, sometimes          marked with hollows equally
 smooth.      When the combination of carbon is sufficient to
 change the fracture of the metal from white to mottled or
 gray, every trace of crystallization then vanishes, and a sur
 face comparatively rough, but highly convex on all sides,
 »uccecds.
             XLVIII.    Notices respecting   New Books.
 MrLR.    PARKINSON, of Hoxton, to whom chemists are in
 debted    for a very useful publication, the Chemical Pocket
  Book, of which we have more than once had occasion to
 speak, has just published the first volume of a new work,
 which will be found extremely interesting and useful to
 geologists and mineralogists,       it is entitled, An Examina
  tion of the mineralized Remains of the Vegetables and Ani
 mals of the Antediluvian World, generally termed extra-
 neons Fossils. 4to, 471 pages and an index.
     This volume, which contains the vegetable kingdom, is
  embellished and illustrated with a frontispiece and nine
                                   2                        plates,

                           Royal Institution.                  283
•plates, containing accurate delineations of a great number
  of curious fossil vegetable remains coloured after nature.
     In a future number we shall give a further account of this
  useful and valuable work.
 Shortly will be published a new Edition, with improve
                              ments, of
  The Magnetic Atlas, or Variation Charts of the whole ter
    raqueous Globe, comprising a System of the Variation
    and Dip of the Needle, on the Projection of the former
    Editions, ly JOHN CHURCHMAN, Fellow of the Russian
    Imperial Academy of Sciences.
    This plan represents on a plane as truly as on a globe the
 necessary proportions of every country, and the true nature
 of every curve. The improvements of the new edition will
 consist principally of Halleian lines drawn through all the
 different places where the degree both of variation and dip
are the same, and thus avoiding the trouble of measuring
angles.     These charts will be found to possess great advan
tages, particularly in cloudy weather ; for the darkest clay at
 sea often shows the sun long enough at noon to observe the
latitude.     Or the clip alone (being easily found at all times)
 is sufficient near the land, as the lines of equal dip inter
sect every part of any coast in certain latitudes.      Thus the
difficult problem of the longitude may be determined at sea
by two different methods : 1st. From a true knowledge of
the latitude and variation: 2d. Of the latitude and dip.
Perhaps no observation, except the dip, can be taken so fre
quently as the variation.       That a mean of these observa
tions can be found accurately enough at sea, many expe
rienced navigators have already borne witness; the only
difficulty arising from the iron on ship-board giving some
times a false direction to the needle, may be overcome by
ascertaining the magnetism of the ship.
XLIX.      Proceedings   of Learned and Economical      Societies.
                      ROYAL INSTITUTION.
AT a     special meeting of the managers      and visitors,  held
                   the  1 Jth day  of May 1804,
              The Duke of Somerset in the chair,
The following address to the proprietors, subscribers,        and
   others, respecting a proposed mineralogical collection,
   and office of assay, was read, approved, and ordered to be
   «irculated :
                                 U4                             In

2S4                             Royal Institution.
    In the progress of their labours for the improvement of
the Royal Institution, the managers and visitors have lately
had the pleasure         noticing the liberal donations already
                          of;
made towards      a  mineralogical collection.     They have notf
the greatest satisfaction in announcing the receipt of pro      a
posal to raise    afund of 40001., in order to contribute fur
ther towards forming, and connecting with the Institution,
an extensive and useful collection of minerals; so as to esta
blish there, on       great .scale, an assay office, for the im
                      a
provement of mineralogy and metallurgy.
    The gentlemen to whom the public at large, and the
Royal Institution in particular, are indebted for this patri
otic proposal, are the right honorable Charles Francis Gre-
ville, and Sir John St. Aubyn and Sir Abraham Hume,
barts. They observe, that the mining concerns in this
                                      a by
kingdom are cqnducted            individuals with such advantages
of capital, and with such degree of speculative enterprise,
as to exhibit those effects of combined chemical and me
chanical powers applied to them, which no other country
in the world has hitherto been capable of producing; whilst,
at the same time, no other state           so deficient
                                             is           inthe pro
portionate means of rendering the knowledge of minerals
accessible to persons desirous of instruction.          This defect
they  impute
               "  to the want   of an  adequate public   fund, to be
applicable, under the direction of mineralogists and che
mists, to the following purposes; — viz. the formation of            a
scientific collection of minerals on such           scale as to in
                                                      a
clude all the latest discoveries'; — the arrangement of the
collection  in    a manner to exhibit all the interesting series
of ininefalogical facts — and the establishment of an assay
                                 ;
office, to be exclusively employed for the advancement of
mineralogy and metallurgy."
   The formation of such collection of minerals, and the,
                                       a
foreign and domestic cprrcspondence incidental to              it,
                                                                will,
they conceive, afford sufficient employment for the whole
time of   a  mineralogist of cgnsiderable talent; while the
conduct of the assay office must require the continued at
tention of    a  chemist of approved abilities.        Hence, they
infer the expediency of considerable fund for the improve
                                  a
ment of mineralogy and metallurgy             and hence, the ne»
                                                  ;
ccssity of an union of men of science, talent, and practical
experience, to direct the application of the fund to its ap
propriate object.
   The proposal then proceeds to notice    suggestion, that
                                                      a
private collections of minerals might answer the desired ob-
jectj  and that men of science have never been wanting to
                                                   elucidate

                       Royal Institution.                    S8i
elucidate those material facts which scientific inquiries or
accidental circumstances have placed within the sphere of
their observation.     Upon this they remark, that " it must
be obvious that the researches of private collectors seldom,
or at least very gradually, extend beyond a limiLed circle ; and
that gentlemen who occupy their leisure hours in pursuing
interesting inquiries in chemistry, cannot interrupt them, in
order minutely to examine and investigate an incidental fact
in mineralogy, which may, at the moment, be deemed a
new discovery."
    To corroborate this, it is further stated that specimens for
analysis of corundum and muriate of lead had been given
by Mr. Greville to Mr. Woulfe, Dr. Withering, and Mr.
Kirwan, several years before they were sent by him to Mr.
Klaproth; who immediately analysed them, and published
the result thereof in the foreign journals.       And they ob
serve, " that the more perfect description of these and other
rare minerals, in the joint papers of Count Bournon, Mr.
Hatchett, and Mr. Chenevix, recently published in the Phi
losophical Transactions, cannot be taken to the credit of the
private collections which contained them. Mr. Hatchetl
and Mr. Chenevix fortunately had peculiar leisure for the
analysis ; and the whole time of Count Bournon was at that
period employed in forming one collection, and in arranging
two others ; a circumstance which gave him the same ad
vantage as if the collections had been public.         The joint
papers    of these  three  gentlemen may     be  proposed as the
models of the plan to be followed in the examination of
minerals in the British dominions in every quarter of the
globe ; — supplying examples from which may be formed
the most interesting collection of geology that can be ima
 gined."
    To attain this national object,  and to encourage contribu
tions to the funds for the original establishment of the col
 lection and assay office, it is proposed to give the subscri
 bers similar privileges to those on which a large sum has
been recently and rapidly collected for the library of refe
 rence, —with only this difference, which the difference of the
 object appears to warrant, that, in case of a patron's sub
 scription to this collection, whether a proprietor, a life
 subscriber, or an annual subscriber to the Institution, it may
 be competent for him to exercise the rights of a patron; —
 and that a select committee shall, from time to time, be ap
 pointed by the managers, from among the subscribers, to
 form and arrange the collection, and direct the operations
  of the assay office,
                                                              For

286                     Royal Institution.
     For the provision to be made for the future expenses of
 the collection and office of assay, the managers look
 with confidence to the public for sufficient assistance, in
 case the measure shall appear, upon investigation, to be de
 serving of it.
     With respect to the subscription for the collection, it is
 proposed to open   it,   not only to the proprietors and sub
 scribers of the Institution, but to the members of the dif
 ferent mineral companies and others in this kingdom, and
 also to the members of those learned bodies which do so
 much honour, and render such essential service, to this
 country     and particularly to the fellows of the Royal So
              ;
 ciety, of the Society of Antiquaries, of the Society for the
 Encouragement of Arts, &c., and of the Linnean Society;
 to the trustees of the British Museum, to the members of
 the Board of Agriculture, and of the British Mineralogical
 and London Chemical Societies.
    It   isalso proposed,    that the patrons of the collection
 shall, with the 'sanction of the managers, have the power to
 form any arrangement with the trustees of the British Mu
 seum or others, whenever     it shall appear that
                                                 it  may tend to
 the advantage of their respective collections of minerals.
     Upon an attentive view of the subject, the managers and
 visitors discover great advantages which may result from
 the execution of this measure, on           scale worthy of the
                                             a
 British empire; which has, from the most remote antiquity,
 been peculiarly distinguished for mineral productions.       To
 the British Islands, and to the lesser territories which form
 their immediate appendages, the benefit of the proposed
 collection and office of assay will be highly important. But
 in the immeirse territory which now forms our East India
 possessions, are to be found the most valuable mineral trea
 sures that are known in this globe    ;  and from the wisdom
 and liberality of the East India Company, great and effec
 tual assistance may be hoped for in aid of the execution of
a   plan,     the adoption or which the intrinsic value of those
              by
 treasures may be ascertained and brought into use.
    The proprietors and subscribers may be assured, that the
 managers and visitors will never consider their labours as
 finished, while there remains any effort to be made for tiie
 diffusion and useful application of practical science in this
 country.    They would indeed have deemed themselves ex
tremely culpable,  if   there had been any neglect or delay on
.their part, in submitting to the consideration of their mem-
Jjers, and of the public,   a  plan which promises essentially
 to promote the prosperity of the Royal Institution, and at
                                                             the

                          Royal Institution.                  28"
the same time to contribute to the extension of useful sci
ence and to the increase of our national resources.
                                         SOMERSET, Chairman.
    1 7th  May,   1804..
Plan of       (lie proposed  Collection  of Minerals and Office of
                                 Assay.
     I.   The collection of minerals and office of assay shall be
and     remain under the same direction and government as
the other parts of the Institution; subject only to such pri
vileges (to be enjoyed by those proprietors or subscribers
who shall think tit to qualify themselves as patrons of the
collection) as are hereinafter mentioned, or may be hereafter
conceded by the by-laws of the institution.
     II. Proprietors and subscribers contributing to the collec
tion lool. or upwards, shall be hereditary patrons of the
 collection.
     III. Proprietors and subscribers contributing 50J. or up
wards, not amounting to JOOl., shall be patrons for life.
     IV. Subscribers of lesser sums (when their united sub
 scriptions amount to sixty guineas or upwards) may, by
 writing, appoint, of their own number, any one, being a
 proprietor or a subscriber, a patron for life.
     V. The application of the subscriptions, in providing and
 arranging the collection and establishing the office of as*
 say, shall be under the direction of the patrons.
      VI. The collection shall be open at times to be fixed on
 the part of the Institution for the proprietors and subscri
 bers; and also for scientific men, of this or any other coun
 try, to be introduced or recommended by the patrons; each
 patron having a power to introduce or recommend one such
 person, each day, to the collection.
      VII. No person shall be capable of exercising his right
  as a patron, except during such time as he shall continue
  and be a proprietor or subscriber to the Institution.
      VIII. In case of the death of any of the patrons for
  life, the surviving patrons may elect in his room a life pa
  tron, who shall have previously paid, or secured to be paid,
  the sum of sol. or upwards to the funds for the support
  and increase of the collection ; which money shall be forth
  with applied accordingly, under the direction of the pa
  trons.
       IX. The patrons ahall make rules for the direction of
  their mode of proceeding, and shall elect a chairman, de
  puty chairman, treasurer, and secretary, and appoint com
                                                           mittees

  288         Academy    of  Sciences at Peterslurgh.
 mittees and sub-committees for such part of their business
 as they shall think proper.
     X. A select committee shall, from time to time, be ap
 pointed by the managers, from among the subscribers to
 the collection, to arrange the collection, and direct the ope
 rations of the office of assay.
     Subscriptions to the collection and office of assay will be
 received by William Savage, at the Royal Institution, and by
 the following bankers: Messrs. Ransom, Morland, and
 Co., Pall Mall ; Messrs. Hoare, Fleet-street ; Messrs. Her-
 ries, Farquhar, and Co., St. James's-street ; and Messrs.
 Pybus, Call, Grant, and Hale, Old Bond-street.
         ACADEMY     OF SCIENCES AT PETERSBURGH.
     The following account of the transactions of the Aca
 demy in the course of the year 1803 has been published :
     The papers read in the different sittings were, 1st, On
 siliquose plants, by T. Smelovsky.          2d, A brief account
 of the extraordinary cold which took place at Saratof on
the 13th of January, by F. A. Meyer.             3d, A specimen
of Phoenician literature in some inscriptions of Citium,
described and decyphered from their analogy to the wedge-
formed characters, by Lichtenstein.           4th, Doubts in re
gard to the system of Dr. Gall, by C. A. Rudolphi.
 5th, A speech addressed to the Chamberlain Novosilzof on
the day he took the President's chair, in the room of the
President Fuss,      fith, Account of some general results
from the tables of births, deaths, and marriages, at Pe-
tersburgh, by Kraft. 7th, On the integration of a dif
ferential equation, by Fuss.       8th, On the loxodromic curve
described on any round body, by F. T. Schubert.                 9th,
History   of  the Imperial Academy      of  Sciences for  the years
 1797—1798, by Fuss.         10th, Observations on the stuffing
and preserving pf animals, by Dr. LangsdorfF.          1 lth, New
observations on stones formed by aggregation, by Sever-
guine,      12th, An attempt towards explaining different
phenomena connected with the crystallization of salts, by
Lowitz.      13th, Ob oqnemere, ill oradii koim moshns epre-
dcldt vsi stepenl skara rotschin, Zacharova.         14th, A de
scription of some rare plants.            15th, Memoir on the
tables of the population of the, imperial establishments for
the mines of Catherinenbourg,          transmitted by Mr. Her
mann, by Kraft.          16th, On the viburnum opulus, by
Oscrctzkovsky.        1 7th,  Some astronomical observations
made at the Observatory of Petersburgh, by Inschodzpf.
                                                              ISthj

             Academy of Sciences      at Pelersbtirgh.
  18th, Speech of (he President Novosilzof, on the day
 when he announced to the academy the confirmation of its
 new regulations.      1 Qth, Plantse contortae discovered   at the
 Cape of Good Hope, by C. P. Thunberg.                 20th, Re
 searches respecting the first integrals of equations with
 partial differences, by Trembley.       21st, On the great use
 of continued fractions in the integral calculus, by P. Kaus-
 ler.   22d, A specimen of the metamorphosis of amphi
 bious zoophytes, by Lichtenstein.          23a, Observation on
 the white variety of the lepus timidut, by A. Pansner.
 24th, Detailed plan of a new Technological Journal, pre
 ceded by some general reflections, &c., by Fuss. 25th,
 Dissertation on the loxodromic curve, &c., continued by
 Schubert.     26th, New method of making platina mallea
 ble, by Count Moussin-Pouschkin.           27th, Chimilscheskoie
 ispytanii e kammennych ugol' yev llir goroda Eorovoitschii ;
sotch,   Volkova.
    The following    observations, experiments, and notices,
 were laid before the Academy. — Meteorological experiments
 were made at St. Petersburgh, by Inschodzof; at Mosco,
 by Professor Bause ; at NicoTayef, >at the school of naviga
 tion for the Black Sea ; at Kasan, by M. Lachtin ; at Ka-
 tharinenburg, by M. Hermann; at Saratof, by M.Meyer.
M. Kraft communicated observations respecting a galvanic
experiment ; an experiment on the preparation of jelly
from bones ; on the present declination of the magnetic
needle.    M. Lowitz transmitted notice of a fat substance
extracted from Siberian cochineal, with a specimen, and
observations on a remarkable crystallization of nitro-mu-
riate of platina, effected by intense cold.         By Mr. Her
mann,     account   of   a new   gold  mine   discovered   on the
Tshussovaia ; on the freezing of quicksilver at Kathcrinen-
burg, and on a remarkable fire-ball observed at the same
place.    By M. Kritschevskii, on some phenomena which
occurred during the freezing of quicksilver ; and, by M.
Robertson, a notice in French, respecting observations
made in the upper regions of the atmosphere, during an
aerial excursion.     The Academy has lately published the
first number of a Technological Journal, of which a vo
lume, consisting of two numDers, will appear annually .The
object of this useful collection is to make the public ac
quainted, in a manner suited to the capacity of readers in
general, with the newest technological discoveries, and
their application to different purposes.
                                                                  •
                                                          Peters

S9O    •        Academy     of  Sciences at  Berlin.
                                        Petersburgh,  July  n, 1804.
    The aerial excursion undertaken bv order of the Acade
my of Sciences for making scientific discoveries has had
the wished-for result.      On the 12th instant the Academi
 cian Sacharoff, who is an excellent chemist, and Professor
Robertson, ascended from the gardens of the corps of
cadets at twenty-five minutes past seven, the weather at
that time being fine. The learned bodies, and all those
interested   for the progress of the sciences, were pre
sent at this ascent, which was the finest ever seen at this
place. The three small balloons which were previously let
off proceeded first southward, but soon after were driven
towards the Baltic.      This, however, did not prevent the
two philosophers from undertaking their journey, for which
a great many instruments had been provided in order to
make experiments.        The balloon hovered more than an
hour above the sea.      It was found that there were two cur
rents of air.     The spectators observed the travellers make
a manoeuvre, the object of which was to avoid the higher cur
rent and to cause the balloon to proceed more to the south.
It was then observed to rise gradually higher till about "ten
o'clock, when it entirely disappeared from the persons who
were stationed on the Observatory.          In the evening of the
following day    an  account   was   brought to the Academy of
Sciences, by a courier, that the travellers had arrived safe
at Sivaretz, sixty versts from this capital.       They descended
about forty-five minutes past ten at the English garden,
opposite the seat of his excellency General P. G. Demidof,
by whom they were received in the most hospitable manner.
The result of this aerial excursion, undertaken merely for
scientific purposes, will soon be published.                       ~f
                     ACABEMY      OF   BERLIN.
    Colonel von Knobelsdorf, ambassador at the Ottoman
Porte, who was received on the 7th of June as a member
of this learned body, presented to the Academy twelve
volumes of Persian manuscripts which he had collected in
the East.    This valuable present consists of the following
works : 1st, Rauzat al Safa, the Great History of the East
by.the celebrated historian Mirkond, in seven volumes, of
which an account may be seen in Herbelot, and in the
history of Gengis Khan, by La Croix.            2d, Zobde Tavari,
Select Histories.    3d, A History of the Family of Scfi to
Schah Abbas.        4th, History of Nadir Schah.           5th and
                                                               etb,

              Academy   of Sciences at   Turin, &c.             29  1
(Jth, The Works      of the  celebrated    poet   Grami, entitled
Divan.
             ACADEMY    OP SCIENCES       AT TURIN.
   The class of the physical and mathematical sciences has
proposed the following prize questions : — 1st, The pheno
mena of electricity and galvanism present on the one hand
so many analogous circumstances, and on the other such a
great number 01 different effects, that many philosophers con
sider them as identic, while others suppose that there are two
different fluids.   The Society therefore requires new expe
riments, which may determine in a definitive manner whe
ther the fluids are the same or different.
   The prize is 600 franks ; and the papers must be sent in
before. the 20th Dec. 1804.
    2d, It appears by the Connoissance des Terns, an 12,
p. 217, that the refraction assumed does not make the ob
servations of the summer and winter solstice of the years
7, 8, and 9, to coincide so exactly, as to give to the
ecliptic that obliquity which it ought to have; and it is
evident that a difference of eight seconds, found in the
result of the calculations, not of one or two, but of all the
observations made on different days of different years,
must arise from some cause or other : a satisfactory expla
nation of this subject is required. The prize ana period
the same as above.
   The class of literature and the arts have proposed the
following question : — To show whether the science known
under the name of Statistics be new; and what advantage
states derive from it.   Prize and period as before.
   The papers may be written in Latin, French, or Italian           j
and must be sent to the Academy post paid.
           THE MARKISH      ECONOMICAL       SOCIETY.
   This society has offered a premium of twenty-five rix-
dollars for the surest and best means of extirpating cater
pillars.   The premium will be adjudged in the spring of
the year 1 806, but the papers must be transmitted to the
society before May 1805.
                ITALIAN NATIONAL       INSTITUTE.
                                                 Paris, Auguft 8th.
    Equally desirous of conferring      the   blessings of order
 and the happiness derived    from    science, his Imperial Ma
jesty has decreed a National    Institute  for the Italian repub
lic. This body of scientific men opened their sittings at
                                                           Bologna

    f 92                 Board   of Agriculture •;
    Bologna on the 10th       ult.  All Italians eminent for learns
    ing, illustrious from talents, and respectable for virtues,
    arc members of it.     The constitution of the Italian Insti
    tute is the same as that of the French, and foreigners may
    be elected members of         it,and received as such,          the   if
    Emperor approves      of  the  choice.     The  report,   that   all
    learned Frenchmen, members of our Institute, are, dejure,
    members of the Italian Institute,          without foundation
                                                  is                           ;
1
    though the Italians,     by free-will, and without any foreign
    impulse, have chosen many French literati for their asso
    ciates in the difficult task to enlighten the superstitious
    nations of Italy.    His holiness the Pope has been elected
    deputy protector, the Emperor their sovereign           being the
    natural protector; but Pius VII.,              by
                                                the advice of some
    fanatics, has declined the proffered honour        and the Vice-
                                                             ;
    president  Melzi  has   been   chosen   in  his place.    Among
    its most remarkable members            Signer Paulini from Ra
                                             is
    venna, who, though blind,          one of the first Italian ma
                                        is
    thematicians, at the age of only eighteen. The Italian
    men of letters, subjects of the Emperor of Germany, and
    of the King of Naples, have returned the diplomas sent
    them as members of the Italian Institute.; no doubt            the    by
    orders of their respective sovereigns.
                      BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.
                   Premiums offered          by   this Board.
                         [Continued from p. 104.]
      Draining. — To the person who shall lay before the
Board the most satisfactory account of one of Mr. Elking-
ton's drainages       the silver medal.
   The soil, and state of the land before draining, the me
thod and expense of the improvement, with             plan, and*  a
the result of the operation, to be produced on or before the
second Tuesday in December, 1805.
   Draining. — To the person who shall execute, and report
to the Board in the most satisfactory manner, the greatest
drainage in any method the most applicable to the state of
the soil     the mid medal.
   The soil, and state of the land, before draining          the          ;
method and expense of the improvement, with           plan, and    a
the result of the operation, verified                   by
                                            certificates, to be
produced   on   or before  the  second  Tuesday in December,
1805.
   Folding Sheep. — To the person who shall,                     by   series of
                                                                      a
the most satisfactory experiments, ascertain                     the compara
                                                                            tive

                        Board   of Agriculture.               9Q3
tive advantages and disadvantages,           and best method of
folding    or cotting sheep        the gold medal.
    Accounts, verified by certificates, to be produced on or
before the first Tuesday in April 1805.
    The same premium for 1 806.
    The same premium for 1807.
    Irrigation. —To the person who shall, in a country where .
irrigation is not generally in practice, watet1 the greatest
number of acres, not less than ten, and in the completest
manner         the gold medal.
    To the person who shall, under similar circumstances,
water the next greatest number of acres, and in the com
 pletest manner         the silver medal.
    Accounts of the old and new state of the land, and its
 value, and of the method, expense, and produce, verified
 by certificates, to be laid before the Board, on or before the
third Tuesday in January 1 805.
    The same premiums for 1 806'.
    Horses and Oxen. — To the person who shall make, and
 report to the Board, the most satisfactory experiments on
 the comparison of horses and oxen, in the general business
 of a farm         the gold medal.
    The account, verified by certificates, to be produced on
 or before the last Tuesday in April 18o5.
    The same premium for 1 806.
    The same premium for 1867.
    Manures. — To the person who shall lay before the Board,
 the most satisfactory account, verified by chemical experi
 ments, or other sufficient authorities, of the nature ot ma
 nures, and their effect on the principles of vegetation'
 the gold medal.
    To be produced on or before the first Tuesday in Decem
 ber   1804.
    The   same premium for 1805.
    Manures. —To the person who shall lay before the Board,
 the most satisfactory account of the application and effect
 of manures, verified by practical experiments on not less
 than one acre for each sort of manure            the gold medal.
     To be produced on before the first Tuesday in Decem
 ber 1804.
    The same premium for 1805.
     Marl and Chalk, — To the person who shall report to the
 Board, the result of the most satisfactory experiments,
 made by or under the inspection of the reporter, on marl
 ing, chalking, or claying, not less than 100 acres of land
        the gold medal.
     Vol. 19. No. 75. August 1 804.             X                 It

                        Miscellaneous Correspondence.
  It  is required that the nature and quality of the manure,
and    ofthe land on which it is spread be described.
   Accounts, verified by certificates, to be produced on or
before the first Tuesday in March 1805.
                   L.     Miscellaneous Correspondence.
                               To   Mr.   Tilloch.
ONK         essential    service which is rendered by a Philosophical
Journal, conducted on             the plan which you pursue, is to
 unite, and bring into a more general point of view, many
 curious facts and remarks that are scattered up and down in
 literature, and often in works where you would least expect
 to find them. The learned Warburton, in his Divine Le
 gation of Moses (vol. ii. 4to. ed. p. 241.), has the follow
 ing note, referring to this preceding passage: " We are
 totd (hat Pythagoras's popular account of earthquakes was,
 that they were occasioned by a synod of ghosts assembled
.under ground."     But Jambhchus informs us, that he some
 times predicted earthquakes, by the taste of well-water. —
 One scarce meets with any thing in antiquity concerning
 Pythagoras's knowledge in physics, but what gives u*
 fresh cause to admire the wonderful sagacity of that extra
 ordinary man. This story of his predicting earthquakes
 has so much the air of a fable, that I believe it has gene
 rally been ranked (as it is by Stanley) with that heap of
 trash, which the enthusiastic Pythagoreans and Platonists
 of the lower ages have raked together concerning him.
 Yet we learn from the collections of Pliny the elder,
 which say, " futuro terra; motu, est in puteis titrlidinr
 aqua," 1. ii. c. 83. that the antients profited of this dis
 cover)', verified by a modern relation of Paul Dudley, Esq.
 in the Philosophical Transactions, No. 437. ?• 72, who,
 speaking of an earthquake which lately happened, was sur-
         to find his water, that used to be always ssveet and
   impid, stink to that degree that they could make no use
 Jirised
 of   it,nor scarce bear the house when      was brought in
                                                     it            ;
 and thinking some carrion was got into the well, he
  searched the bottom, but found      clear and good, though
                                             it
  the colour of the water was turned wheyish, or pale.      In
 about seven days after the earthquake, his water began to
 mend, and in three days more returned to its former sweet
 ness and colour.           Yours, &c.
                                                      R. MlNOBQCRKN.
                                                                'Mr.

                 Miscellaneous Correspondence.               295
          Mr. Tilloch.
     On Tuesday the 14th instant (August), about ten at
 riight, the atmosphere being rather cloudy, a most brilliant
 stream of light suddenly appeared at Petworth in Sussex,
 extending from the N. E. towards the South Downs. It
 lasted about a minute and a half, and then gradually dis
 appeared, beginning from the N. E.         Probably some of
 your correspondents may have also observed this curious
 meteor.     1 never witnessed any so singularly beautiful.
                          Yours, &c.                    J. S. S.
          Mr. Tilloch.
     Your excellent publication possesses, in my opinion, an
 additional value, from the extracts you have lately inserted
 from curious and scarce books, which now are not gene
 rally known. With this idea I send you the following
excellent recipe for the speedy recovering of the use of the
 foot or hand that has been violently sprained : which ap
 peared in the Annual Register for 1 760, signed Theoph.
Lobb, Bagnio-court, Newgate-street.
     "  1. Let it be fomented with vinegar, a little warm, for
four or five minutes at a time, once every four hours : this
will render the circulation of the fluids in the parts affected
more ea3y ; and either prevent a swelling,, or promote its
 subsiding.
     " 2. Let the person stand three or four minutes at a
 time on both his feet, in their natural posture, and some
 times move the strained foot : and sometimes, when sit
 ting with his foot on a low stool, let him move it this way
 and that, as he can bear it. This will eontribute much to
 contract the over-stretched vessels, and to recover a due
 circulation of their fluids through them.
,    "3.   Let a gentle dry friction with a warm hand he
  sometimes used to the parts affected, which will conduce
 much to the same ends.
     "  4. Two hours after every application of the vinegar,
  let the part affected be just wetted with the rectified spirits
 of wine, and then gently rubbed.
     "  By these means persons to whom I have advised them
 have recovered from the effects of very violent sprains in
  a few days, as some others have been weeks in recovering
 by different ways of management; such as a continual
  resting of the strained foot, and disuse of its motions."
                                                          F. M.
                                X!                          Mr.

208              Particulars of        the Sale    of Part of
                                  Mr.    Tilloch.
      DEAR SIR,
    As it is the wish of philosophers to collect every thing
that has occurred relative to the stones which, at different
periods, have fallen on our globe, I send you the following
extract    from the third volume* of the poet Cowper's cor
respondence, as published by his learned friend Mr. Hay-
ley, June 13, 1783.
    " The fogs I mentioned in my last still continue;
though, till yesterday, the earth was as dry as intense
heat could make it.              The sun continues to rise and set
without his rays, and hardly shines at noon even in a
cloudless sky. At eleven last night the moon was a dull
red ; she was nearly at her highest elevation, and had the
colour of heated brick.                She would naturally, I know,
have such an appearance looking through a misty atmo
sphere ; but that such an atmosphere                   should obtain for so
long   a  time,    and    in   a  country     where   it has not happened
in my remembrance, even in winter, is rather remarkable.
We have had more thunder storms than have consisted
 well with the peace of the fearful maidens in Olney,
 though not sq many as have happened in places at no great
 distance, nor so violent.                Yesterday morning, however,
 at seven o'clock, two fire-balls burst either on the steeple
 or close to it. William Andrews saw them meet at that
 point, and immediately after saw such a smoke issue from
 the apertures in the steeple, as soon rendered it invisible :
 the noise of the explosion surpassed all the noises I ever
 heard : you would have thought that a thousand sledge
 hammers were battering great stones to powder, all in the
 same instant."                        Yours, &c.                  J. S. S.
            LI.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 PARTICULARS          OF THE SALE OF PART OF HIS MAJESTY'S
                      FLOCK. OF SPANISH SHEEP,
                 On the       \bth Day of August          1804.
 It is   a  singular circumstance, considering the great length
 of time     that fine or broad woollen cloths have been in use
 in Europe, that the wool from a particular breed of sheep,
 kept only in Spain, where there are exceedingly large flocks
            • Page           In  a Utter  to the Rev. John Newton.
                     178.
                                                                         of

            His' Majesty's Flock of Spanish   Sheep.         297
of them, should have heen essential to its fabrication.
These sheep are known by the name of the Merino breed,
and were peculiar to Spain till about the year 1786, when
the unfortunate Louis XVI. introduced a Hock of them
into France, the progeny of which are still subsisting:, and
their wool possessing all its original qualities, upon the
national farm at Rambouillet, and in the neighbouring
communes.       His Britannic Majesty was not unmindful of
 this object, and within a year of the same period began,
and continued from time to time, the importation of small
flocks of Merino sheep, which were, with his majesty's
 known liberality, presented to different agriculturists and
 breeders ; or sold, with a view of disseminating the breed,
 at the common prices of English sheep at the time.           In
 the year 1792, through the medium of lord Auckland, who
had been ambassador to Spain, his majesty procured from
the marchioness Del Campo Dialange, forty of the best
Spanish sheep, in exchange for eight fine English coach
horses : this flock his majesty confided to the care of Sir
Joseph Banks, bart. president of the royal society, who
has paid more attention to the subject of wool (and is with
out doubt the most perfectly informed on all points relating
to its production and uses) than any other man.        His royal
highness the dnke of York's park, at Oatlands, was se
 lected as the scene of these interesting and national expe
 riments.
    Sir Joseph Banks had assiduously employed himself upon
his estate in Lincolnshire, since the first introduction of
Spanish sheep, in trying the effect on wool and carcase,
 Of all the crosses which could be made hetween them and
 the different breeds in England ; but on receiving charge of
 the royal Merino flock, in 1 792, he disposed of all his own
 sheep, in which there was any mixture of Spanish, and has
 confined his views in the management of the royal flock to
the preservation of the original breed of 1 792, having since
 admitted no crosses, not even of newly imported Spanish
 sheep, however superior their pretensions.       These sheep
 are very far from handsome in their shape, and too gene
 rally look thin and poor ; they are principally distinguished
 from other sheep, next to the superior fineness of the fibre
 of their wool, by the dirty appearance of their fleece outside,
 though beautifully white within, owing to the greasy mat
 ter, or yolk, as it is called, with which it abounds, causing
 the dirt of the iand to adhere to the wool \ they have alsa
 white faces, of a peculiar silky appearance; just above the
 nose are two or three singular wrinkles, and upon the heaj
                               X  3                      behiI1(j

  298             Particulars of the Sale of Part of
  b ehind the horns, is a soft protuberance of flesh : they are
  a'so less in size than a great proportion of the English sheep.
  The Merino flock continued healthy, and increased very
  fast : but the buyers of wool were averse to the idea that
  any wool grown in England could answer the purpose of
  that imported from Spain, in the manufacture of fine cloth;
  and Sir Joseph Banks was unable to obtain more than Ss.
  per pound for the wool of these sheep in 1796, and only
  2s. 6d. in 1 797-     In 1798, this wool was washed previous
  to the sale, and sorted into three different parcels, according
  to its fineness, as fs done in Spain, viz. prime wool, or
  Raffinos (R), which sold for 5s.: choice locks, or Finos (F),
  at 3s. 6d.; and fribs or Terceros (T), which fetched 2s. 6d.
  The fleeces of 1 799 from this increasing flock, treated in
  the same way, were sold ; the prime wool, or R's, for 5s. 6d.,
   the choice locks, or F's, for 3s. 6d., and the fribs, or (T's),
   for 2s. ; — 5s. 6d. being in these two last years the standing
   price of the very best imported wool.        The royal Merino
   flock at Oatlands continuing to increase, in 1800 the R's
   produced 5s., the F's 3s., ana1 the T's Is. 6d.     In 1801 the
   R's fetched 5s. 6d.; the F's 3s. 6d.; and ihe T's Is. gd.
   Eleven wether or castrated sheep were this year fatted, and
   at Christmas 1801 sold at good prices; the mutton also
   proving excellent in quality : and very unexpectedly the pelt
   wool, or that obtained from the skin by the fellmonger,
   produced 10s. for each sheep, after all expenses attending
    it were paid.
       In 1 802 Sir Joseph Banks obtained for the wool of his
   majesty's Spanish flock, the R's 5s. gd.; the F's 3s. 6d.; and
   the T's Is. gd. ; and in the year 1803, the prime, or R's,
   produced 6s. gd. ; the F's 4s. 6d., and the T's 2s. The quan
    tity of the inferior sorts of wool, from each fleece, has
    evidently decreased since these sheep were in England, and
    at this time less of the fribs will be found in any number of
    fleeces of his majesty's wool, than in the same number and
   weight of fleeces produced in Spain ; a proof that the wool
'
    is not disposed to degenerate in our climate. The wool of
    the present season was washed on the backs of the sheep in
    the English way, and sold all together without scouring
    or sorting, at 4s. 6d. per pound. The royal Merino flock
    in June last consisted of 100 ewes, 5 rams, and 78 lambs ;
    these 78 lambs being the produce of go ewes, with which
    4 rains were used; also of 23 shearling rams, 7 rams of
    greater ages, and 14 ewes, which were selected for the in
    tended sale, in a paddock in Richmond park, by the side of
     Kew Foot-lane, not far from the Pagoda.
                                                           Among

             His Majesty's Flock of Spanish   Sheep.          299
     Among i.hose,who have most distinguished themselves in
 seconding the noble views of his majesty, in introducing
  and extending the breed of these sheep, arc to be named,
  lord Somervifie; Dr. Parry, of Bath; Mr. Bridge, of Win-
  ford Eagle; Mr. Ridgeway, of Upperton; Mr. Toilet, of
  Gloucestershire; and the Bath Agricultural Society; while
  Mr. John Maitlaud, of Basinghall-street ; Mr. Laycock,
  of the Borough; and Mr. Ednge, of Chippenham, have
  done them elves great honour in their endeavours to pro
  mote the sale and manufacture of English Merino \\ooll
  Mr. Gibblet, of Bond-street, and Mr. King, of Newgate-
  market, are also deserving of great praise for their exertions
  in removing the prejudice which was generally entertained
 against Spanish mutton, on the first introduction of the
 Merinos into this country.
     Mr. Toilet possesses a ram, bred from a ram and ewe
 sold to him from the royal flock in 1801, which in June
 last yielded 11 Jib. of wool of the very first quality.    The
 same care and attention which have been for some years past
 paid to the improvement of other breeds of sheep in this
 kingdom, by breeding constantly from the most perfect ani
 mals in the flock in preference to others, have succeeded in
 the carcases of several of the royal Merino flock; and as
 Sir Joseph Banks, in a late address to the public, observes,
 — " give a justifiable hope, that by a due selection of rams,
 and a correct judgment in matching them, Merino sheep
 will in time be produced, with carcases perfectly fashion
 able, and wool as perfectly fine."   The same address, after
 noticing that the demand for his majesty's Merino sheep
increases prodigiously, particularly in Gloucestershire, thus
introduces the notice of the present sale from his majesty's
flock: "As speculation on the value of Spanish sheep is
evidently on the increase, and a reasonable probability now
appears that his majesty's patriotic exertions in introducing
the breed, will at least be duly appreciated and properly un
derstood ; it would be palpably unjust, should the views of
those who wish to derive fair advantage from the sale of the
progeny of Spanish sheep, purchased by them from the
royal stock, be in future impeded by a continuation of the
sale of the king's sheep, at prices below their real value."
    This circumstance having been stated to the king, his
majesty was graciouly pleased to permit the rams and ewes
that are to be parted with from the royal Merino flock this
year, to be sold by auction, in the same manner as is done
at VVoburn by his grace the duke of Bedford, and at Holk-
Jiam by Mr. Coke, on the presumption of this being the
                                X4                        most

300           Particulars of the Sale of Part of
most likely manner of placing the best individuals of their
improved breeds in the hands of persons most likely to pre
serve and further to improve them.
    Notwithstanding the heavy and almost incessant rain on
the morning of the day of sale, near 50 gentlemen and
breeders of sheep assembled soon after eleven o'clock, at
the pens of sheep intended for sale, and minutely examined
them. Sir Joseph Banks, who has but just got abroad from
a severe fit of the gout, ventured out, and staid in the field
the whole time.
    About two o'clock, Mr. Farnham, the auctioneer of
Richmond, opened the business by a short but neat speech,
on his majesty's gracious views in promoting the breed of
excellent sheep before them, and read the printed conditions
of the sale. After Sir Joseph Banks had stated that his
friends Sir Richard Worsley, of the Isle of Wight, and Sir
James Riddle, of Scotland, not being able to attend, had
commissioned him to bid for six or more of the sheep, the
sale commenced, — at which much keen bidding was seen
among the amateurs and breeders present.
    The first twenty-three lots consisted each of a single
shearling ram.           ,
    Lot ] , was a ram, labouring under a temporary privation
of sight, which Sir Joseph Banks and Richard Stanford,
the king's shepherd, stated to be not very uncommon with
these sheep at this season, but from which there was no
doubt he will perfectly recover; the weight of his fleece
was stated to be, at the last shearing, 3lb. 4oz.; he was
knocked down to captain Macarthur, at 61. 15s. after Sir
 Joseph had apprised him that an old act of parliament stood
in the way of exporting sheep from this country —the cap
tain's object being to take the sheep which he was purcha
 sing to New South Wales, in about three weeks time, to
 add to the flock which he is rearing near to Botany Bay,
with a degree of success which promises to be of the
 greatest national importance. The sheep intended for lot 2
was unwell, and not offered for sale. Lot 3, fleece 4lb. 3oz.
was sold to George Home Summer, Esq. at 7l. 12s. Lot 4,
 fleece 3lb. of very fine wool, was sold to Mr. Knowles, at
 9l. 10s. Lot 5, fleece 4lb. was bought by Mr. Andrews,
for Mr. Buckingham, near Canterbury, at 10 guineas.
Lot 6, a very lively sheep, was bought by captain Macar-;
thur, at 111. Lot 7, fleece 3lb. 12oz. with bad eyes at
present, was knocked down to Sir Joseph Banks, for one of
his friends, at 61. 7s. Lot 8, fleece 5lb. 4oz. was sold to
Mr. Knowles, at 10 guineas and a half. Lot 9, fleece 3lb.
                                                        12oz.

           His Majesty's Flock of Spanish     Sheep.        301
12oz. was bought by       J. W. Allen, Esq. near Bury, at 30
guineas.     Lot  10, fleece 3lb. 6oz. was sold to Mr. Leith,
at 10 guineas and a half. Lot 1 1, fleece 3lb. 12oz. of better
wool than the last, sold to captain Macarthur, at 15 guineas.
Lot 12, fleece 5lb. 4oz. was sold to George Home Summer,
Esq. at 27 guineas. Lot 13, fleece 3lb. 4oz. was bought by
captain Macarthur, at 16 guineas. Lot 14, was sold to Mr.
Warren, at 15 guineas. Lot 15, a sheep at present blind,
fleece 4lb. 15oz. sold to captain Macarthur, at 22 guineas.
Lot 16, a very perfect sheep and fine fleece 4lb. 4oz. sold to
Sir- Joseph Banks, at 20 guineas. Lot 17> a sheep having
the disorder called the foot rot, fleece 4lb. 12oz. was sold to
Mr. Warren, at 12 pounds. Lot 18, fleece 4 lb. 8oz. was
bought by Sir Joseph Batiks, at 14 guineas. Lot 19, fleece
4lb. 12oz. very fine wool, was sold to G. H. Summer, at 20
 guineas. Lot 20, fleece 4lb. 6oz. was bought by Sir Jo
seph Banks, at 15 guineas.         Lot 21, fleece 5lb. to Mr,
Beckingham, at 25 guineas. Lot 22, fleece 4lb. 4oz. to
captain Macarthur, at 21 guineas. Lot 23, fleece 4lb. 8oz.
to Sir Joseph Banks, at 20 guineas. Lot 24, fleece 5lb.
 12oz. to Mr. Freeman, near Henley, at 42 guineas, which
finished the shearling rams.          Lot 25, a full-mouthed
 ram, which had not Ijeen used, though so expressed by
mistake in the bill, was sold to general Robinson, of Scot
land, for 7 guineas and a half.        Lot 26, a full-mouthed
 ram, called Young Snag, four years and a half old, whose
 sire was in' as much repute among the king's 'sheep, as
Eclipse among race-horses,- and who had been used in the
 king's flock, fleece 5-Jlb. was sold to G. H. Summer
 for 18 guineas. Lot 275 a four-tooth ram, which had not
 been used in the royal flock, fleece 7lb. Soz. was sold to Mr.
 Jefferson, at 38 guineas. Lot 28, a ditto, fleece sib. was sold
 to Mr. Heaven, at 25 guineas. Lbt 29, a four-tooth ram,
 which was used last year in the king's flock, was sold to
 John Proctor Anderson, Esq. at 24 guineas. Lot 30, a
 ditto, fleece 7lb. 2oz. was sold to captain Macarthur for 27
 guineas. Lot 31, a good ditto, fleece 6lb. 8oz. was sold to
 Mr. Kidd at 24 guineas, which completed the lots of rams;
 the remaining fourteen lots being full-mouthed ewes, which
 bad been bred from in the royal flock, and were warranted
  good bags.     Lot 32 sold to Mr. Beckingham at 9 guineas.
  Lot 33, to Mr! Hallet, at 8 guineas. Lot 34, to Mr. Beck-
  iiigham, at 7 guineas and a half.    Lot 35, to Mr. Freeman,
  at 7 guineas.   Lot 36, to Mr. Freeman, at 8 guineas. Lot
  37> to Mr. Leith, at nine guineas and a half.      Lot 38, to
                                                             Mr.

    302                         Copernicus.
    Mr. Eyton,    at 11  guineas.     Lot 39, to Mr. Knowles, at
    7 guineas.     Lot 40,    to  Mr.,  Beckingham, at 8 guineas.
    Lot 41, to captain Macarthur, at 11 guineas. Lot 42, to
    Mr. Campbell, at 9 guineas. Lot 43, to colonel Greville,
    at nine guineas. Lot 44, to general Robinson, at 7 guineas;
    and lot 45, to Mr. Hallet, at 6 guineas.
       The sale ended about a quarter past four o'clock, when
                                                                     '
   Sir Joseph Banks    stated, that the prices at which the sheep
   had been sold exceeded his majesty's and his own expecta
   tions and wishes on the subject ; his majesty never having
   before sold a Spanish sheep for more than six guineas, (they
   were always before sold by private contract) while he had
   given away more than 170 sheep: but from the eagerness
   exhibited this day in bidding, he had no doubt but his ma
  jesty's intentions, of placing the sheep in those gentlemen's
   hands who would most value and attend to the increasing
   of the breed, would be fully answered. It was stated, that
   the sheep might stay three days in his majesty's pasture,
   or even a longer time, at the risk of the purchaser, if
   not convenient to remove them sooner; but such was the
  eagerness of the buyers to bear off their lots, that two or
  three carts appeared in the field in a few minutes, and were
  loaded with the sheep ; and one gentleman took away a
  sheep he had bought in a post-chaise with him ! Besides
 the gentlemen mentioned above, as present, we noticed
 Henry Hugh Hoare, Esq. Mr. Chute, Mr. Snart, superin-
 tendant of his majesty's farm at Richmond, Mr. Lawrence,
 Mr. Farcy, Sec. This show and sale of sheep is intended to
 be annual ; and next year a larger number of ewes are in
 tended for sale, his majesty's flock having now arrived at
 the number intended to be kept.
                            COPERNICUS.
     The following letter of count Thadaius Czacki and colonel
Molski, who have been employed in collecting information
respecting this celebrated man, has lately been published in
 one of the foreign journals :
     "During the tour which we undertook with a view to col~
lect monuments of our country, now become extinct, we
sought for the remaining traces of Copernicus. Our disco^
veries have not been great ; but, agreeably to our own
wish, and the desire of our society *, we have deposited
them in the hands of a person who has resolved to makq
              * Of the Friends to the Sciences at Warsaw.
                                                          particular

                                 Copernicus.                           303
particular researches respecting the life and writings of
Copernicus *. N. Copernicus was a canon at Ermeland,
and administrator of the possessions of the chapter of
Allenstein. As he had therefore two places of residence,
he had observatories          at both.    In the habitation possessed
at present by an evangelical Lutheran pastor, there were
some manuscript verses, written by Copernicus with his
own hand, pasted to the chimney piece ; but about fifteen
years ago a pastor who left the place carried with him this
memorial of that celebrated man.               The name and arms of
Copernicus were also painted in colours on a pane of a
window; but this monument, which had remained three cen
turies and a half, disappeared likewise about a dozen years
ago.      Over the door is shown a place where there waa
an aperture, through which the solar rays entered at stated
times and passed into another chamber ; but six years ago
the present possessor caused the hole to be filled upf. The
tower in the neighbourhood, on which Copernicus made
his observations, is kept in bad repair, and serves for the
confinement of prisoners, the rattling of whose chains we
could hear. When we arrived at Frauenburg we visited
the church where the ashes of Copernicus are deposited,
and several times repeated his name — a name never men
tioned by the old or the young but with the greatest re
spect; they leave to the learned to pay honour to the extent
of his scientific knowledge, and venerate the remains of a
man who is their neighbour. Frauenburg has a high situa
tion : where the church stands there is no water, nor is
there a single mill in the surrounding district. Copernicus
 constructed half a mile higher up the river an oblique darn
fifteen ells and a half in length, where he erected a mill, and
 the water was raised by a wheel to the summit of a tower,
 from which it was distributed by pipes, so that each of the
 canons had water conveyed into his house. This machine
 has been worn out. The chapter, whose finances in the
 year 1772 were in a bad state, are now about repairing this
 work. It is a common saying among the learned of thi»
 place, that a model of this machine was requested in the
 time of Louis XIV.             We entered the church. Near .the
 £ltar is a grave-stone covered in part by a marble balustrade
    * I. Sniadecki.
    f  It is probable that this was an astronomical gnomon, which Coper
 nicus had caused. to be constructed in his habitation for, the purpose of
 observing the equinoxes, solstices, and inclination of the ecliptic. — Note
                                                                      which

 304                          C-opernicus.
which surrounds the altar.         Spheres cut out on it in relief,
and the letters Nicol, showed the place where the ashes
of this man were deposited. The chapter were so kind as
to permit us to remove every incumbrance. Having washed
 the stone, we found the following letters Nicol                  ....
Cop . . . .cus, and in another line an .... m ; the other let
ters were obliterated.      We raised up the stone and came to
the grave, where we found only the remains of mouldering
bones, of which the chapter kept a part, and gave us five
fragments with an attestation by the chief prelates : two of
these fragments we have reserved for ourselves, another we
sent to Pulavy, and two we shall bring to the society. We
searched for the manuscripts of this great man, and found
some of his signatures among the acts of the chapter. It
gives' us pleasure to remark, that the tour of Copernicus to
Italy, where he seems to have formed his system, was defray
 ed by the chapter*.       The inhabitants of Frauenburg relate,
according   to  an old  tradition,  that there were there some ma
thematical instruments made by Copernicus himself.                Ty-
cho Brahe in the 16th century set great value on an instru
ment called a paralladicum, which, as he said, had been
constructed by that incomparable man, and which was
presented to him by Hannof canon of Ermelahd.                All these
monuments are lost, and those who have seen them differ
in their accounts. We endeavoured to find some work of
Copernicus ; but all his works, unfortunately, have been di
 spersed.   His work on the establishment of the mint, to an
office in which he was appointed like Newton, is lying
somewhere in a town of West Prussia. We, however,
found some of his letters on private affairs.             One of them
we transmit, in order to verify his writing, in case any of his
manuscripts should be discovered. We were also in the
place in which he resided.         It is a small chamber in the
upper story, from which there was a passage to his observa
tory ; and of the steps some fragments are still remaining.
On three sides he had a view of the strait ; on the fourth was
a plain, which at present is concealed by a tower built at a,
later period.                                   Thad^us Czacki,
                                                Martin Molki."
              •
                 M.  Sniadecki is of a different opinion.
                                                           HUMBOLDT

       Humloldt    the Traveller. —Professor Pallas, &c.        305
                  HUMBOLDT      THE TRAVELLER.
    It gives us much pleasure to be able to state that the ru
mours of his death, which have found their way into dif
ferent journals and newspapers, are unfounded.             A letter
from Baltimore in America, dated the 16th of June last,
states his arrival there from his tour through a great part of
South America ; and we learn by subsequent accounts that
he reached Bourdeaux on the 6th instant (August), accom
panied by M. Bonpland,            after a favourable passage of
twenty-nine days from Philadelphia.          Besides the geologi
cal collections transmitted to Europe, they brought with
them nearly thirty boxes of different articles, which are the
more valuable as the countries traversed by these travellers
                                                                *
have been little visited.
                        PROFESSOR PALLAS.
                                          St. Petersburg, i^th July.
    "  The   celebrated  professor Pallas, whose death has been
announced in the public journals, is now residing in good
health in the neighbourhood of Achmetshet, or Simphcro-
 pol, the capital of the Crimea, called at present the pro
 vince of Taurida, on an estate given to him by the late
 empress Catherine II., and on which he has lived for several
 years."
                             LECTURES.
     On the 1st Monday in October next will commence
 Lectures on Physic and Chemistry, bv George Pearson,
 M.D. F.R.S. of the College of Physicians, London j and
 senior physician to St. George's hospital.
    A lecture is given on Therapeutics, from a quarter before
 to a quarter past eight o'clock ; on the Practice of Physic,
 from a quarter past eight to about nine ; and on Chemistry,
 from a quarter after nine to ten every morning, excepting
 Saturdays; on which days a lecture is delivered on the Prac
 tice of Physic, from eight to nine, and on the Cases of Pa
 tients, from nine to ten.
     A complete register is kept of the cases of Dr. Pearson's
 patients in St. George's hospital, and an account is given
 of their progress, treatment, and termination, every Satur
 day morning.
     In the course of lectures on the Practice, as preliminary,
 theoretic Principles of Physic are delivered ; the text or heads
 of which are contained in a printed work for the pupils only.
                                                               Here

 306*                        Lectures*
Here are fully explained the laws of excitability ; the leading
 characteristic symptoms of each disease are given ; the evi
 dent causes of diseases in general are arranged and explain
ed ; and the means and substances for the prevention and
cure of diseases in general are also explained, according to
an arranged plan.
    The articles of the Materia Medica, in the Therapeutics,
are arranged in a printed work for the pupils only, accord
ing to the principal effects on account of which they are
prescribed in diseases; specimens of them maybe seen;
the natural and other parts of their history are related ; the
forms of administration ; the doses ; the indications they
can fulfil, or diseases in which experience has shown them
to be efficacious, are fully explained.
   During the summer courses, evening lectures are given
on Pharmacy, in which the London Pharmacopoeia for 1 791
is used as a text book, which may be attended gratis by the
perpetual pupils to all the other lectures ; as well as lectures
on the Cow -pock, at the. Institution, 44, Broad-street.
The following     courses of lectures will be delivered during
   the ensuing winter at the Medical Theatre, St. Bartho
   lomew's Hospital :
    On  the Theory and Practice    of Medicine, by Dr. Roberts
and Dr. Powell    : Clinical Lectures on select cases occurring
in the hospital  will be occasionally given by Dr. Roberts.
    On Anatomy and Physiology, by Mr. Abernethy.
   On the Theory and Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Abernethy.
   On Chemistry and the Materia Medica, by Dr. Powell.
   On Midwifery, and the Diseases of Women and Children,
by Dr. Thynne.
   The Anatomical Lectures will begin on Monday, Oc
tober the 1st, 1804, at two o'clock j and the other lectures
in  the ensuing weelc.
    Further particulars may be known by applying to Mr.
Nicholson, at the apothecary's shop, St. Bartholomew's
Hospital.
   At the Theatre of Anatomy, Blenheim-street, Great Marl-
borough-street, Mr. Brookes will commence his autumnal
course of lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgery, on
Monday, the 1st of October,' at two o'clock.
   A suite of spacious apartments, thoroughly ventilated,
and replete with every convenience for the purposes of dis-
            3                                            sccting

               List of Patents for Inventions.             307
secting and injecting, will be open every morning till two,
where Mr. Brookes attends.
   N. B. All the subjects are preserved by an antiseptic
process..
   Dr. Hooper will commence his autumnal        course of lec
tures on the Practice  of Physic, Materia Medica,    and Phar
maceutical Chemistry, on Wednesday,        the 3d of October,
at a quarter before  eight o'clock in the morning, at Mr.
Brookes's Theatre of Anatomy.
   Dr. Batty's lectures on Midwifery, and the Diseases of
Women and Children, will begin on Monday, the Slh of
October, at half past ten o'clock, at Mr. Brookes's Theatre.
   For particulars, and a prospectus, apply to Mr. Brookes,
Theatre of Anatomy ; Dr. Hooper, St. Mary-la-bonne In
firmary ; and Dr. Batty, Great Marlborough-street.
LIST OF PATENTS FOR INVENTIONS,           FKOM    JULY   24 T©
                      AUGUST 24,    1804,
              That have passed the Signet-office.
   His Majesty's grant,
   To W. Warris, of Sheffield, in the county of York,
optician, of the sole use, benefit, and advantage of his in
vention of an improvement in the mounting of glasses,
commonly called opera-glasses. To hold to him, his exe
cutors, administrators, and assigns, within England, Wales,
and the town of Berwick upon Tweed, for the term of 14
years, pursuant to the statute in that case made and pro
vided.
   To Edward Greaves, of Sheffield, in the county of York,
razor manufacturer, for his invention on razors.
   To Joseph Huddart, of Highbury Terrace, in the county
of Middlesex, esquire, for his invention of a mode or art of
manufacturing and spinning yarn, different from any such
now in use.
   To Barker Chifney of London, gentleman, for his inven
tion of a composition to be used in washing, inorder to
render muslins and linens beautifully white, and for other
purposes.
   To John Gregory Hancock, of Birmingham, in       the county
of Warwick,    die engraver, for his invention of a method of
forcing or working the bolts of presses, or of engines, used
for the purpose of cutting, pressing, and squeezing of me
tals, horn, tortoise-shell, leather, paper, and other sub
stances.
                                                    METEORO-

308                                            Meieorology.
                                  METEOROLOGICAL                 TABLE*
                                         For August            1804.
                           The rmomt ter.
                                                                   DegreesofDry-
                            r3>           ^2
                                                    Height of
                                                                                     Hygrometer.
                                           u •
Days of the                        <U+25A1>      -o *2
                       —   'c      o                the Baiom.
                                                                   nessby Leslie's
    Month.                                                                                                 reather..t'*|-
                       u   s       o
                                   2,     "°   f'    Inches.
    July   27          60°         65°     58°       29*50             40°                         Cloudy
           28          59          68      60           •51            35                          Showery
           29          63          69      59           •68            44                          Showery
           30          61          73      61        30'02              75                         Fair
                                                                                                                            3UH
           31          63          78      69           •20             93                         Fair
August                 70          80      62           •30             58                         Cloudy
             4 3 2 l
                       62          71      58           •16             32                         Cloudy
                       61          79      64        29*85              36                         Cloudy
                       63          72      58           •77             28                         Cloudy, rain
                                                                                                     at mght,                ^
                       64          72      61           •85             55                         Fair             .       tW,.:
              6 5
                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                           ,
                       63          70       58       30'00               71                        Fair
                       57          68       56          •08             60                         Fair
              9 8 7
                       60          69       56       29'62              31                         Showery
:                      59          60          57       •82              54                        Fair
             10        58          69          56       •60             50                         Showery
             11        58          68          57    30'03              53                         Fair.        .-.^J,,
             12        60          66          54    29'68              42                         Showery,                          ...
                                                                                                                    ^
                                                                                                                            .'
             13        55          60          49       •56               15                       Rain\        .                        i.
             14        52          67          55       •50              47                        Fair                 .                    >
             15        58          68          57       •57              52                        Showery
             16            59      67          56       •72              41                        Stormy
             17            58      66          50       •87              45                        Showery
             18            52      64          54       •94              38                        Showery
             19            55      63          51       •80              40                        cloudy               .        .         . .
             SO            54      64          52       •86              46                        Fair
             21            55      64          55       •92              47                        Fair
             22            56      63          49       •98              49                        Fair
             23            55      63          53    30-10               49                        Fair
             24            56      65          57       •15              49                        Fair                              '
             25            55      63          57       •15              43                        Cloudy
             26            57      65          58       •30              43
                                                                                      '
                                                                                                   Fair
                                                                                                                                 .       -
                                   •
                                        By Mr. Carey, of the Strand.

                                  [   309    ]
LI I.    An Inquiry     concerning the Velocity of the calorific
     Rays  which  proceed from tlie Sun, with a View of ascer
     taining  the Rate of it experimentally, though it should
     not be jar short of the Velocity of Light, &c. &c.
-I  HE author of the following paper sends it with his most
respectful compliments to Mr. Tilloch, and refers the pub
lication of           it,
                in his valuable Philosophical Magazine, en
tirely to his convenience.     Though     has been but lately
                                                 it'
drawn up, yet the general view of the subject, and the the
ory of the experiment, were fully explained        the author   by
to   a few of his philosophical friends and correspondents
more than year ago.a
  RAMSGATU, 9, EfEngham          Phcc,
       15 August, 1804.
     TILL of late times, whatever effects
                                        were observable    the        in
case     of different
                    substances  being, for   longer or shorter
                                                       a
time, fully exposed to the influence of the sun,     was hel     it
as evident that all such had      necessary dependence upon
                                      a
his rays of light.    The changes produced on vegetable co
lours, the aromatic oil of plants, their acquiring the pro
perty of being combustible, the irritable state of their
leaves   and further, certain curious effects on the mineral
         ;
acids, on manganese, on the oxides of silver, lead, bis
muth, &c.; nay even the burning heat of the focus of lens             a
or speculum.       All these changes and effects were con
sidered as in some way or other produced                   by
                                                the action and
properties of the sun's light.   This conclusion seemed in
disputable as derived from the direct information of sense.
                  ;
In this however we meet with remarkable instance of our
                                         a
being sometimes liable to error, from the limited nature of
our faculties, even when pursuing philosophical researches
according to the rules of just and cautious induction.
                                 a
  It   was not then suspected, that in the solar beam were
blended other emanations, which, being unrelated to vision,
had altogether eluded our notice; or that the marvellous body
of the sun,            by
                those recondite processes      his atmosphere
                                                       in
which    our telescopes show to be in perpetual activity,
might   be the great fountain not only of light, but of other
radiant principles, subservient also to the (Economy of na
ture, as established        in
                        the planetary system.
   That the sun's radiations are actually so compounded,
and richer far than had been thought of, has lately begun to
appear       by   two very interesting discoveries.        .
  Vol.       19.   No. 76. Sept. 1804.       Y                         The

310              On the Velocity   of  the calorific Rays
    The numerous and important experiments of that excel
lent and most indefatigable philosopher Dr. Herschel, mani
festly show, that rays of a nature different from light, on
which?       depends the vivifying heat of the sun, are also
emitted by him, and are subject to similar laws of reflection
and refraction.       By the experiments also of the admirable
Sclieele and Scncbicr, as further cultivated by Messrs. Kit-
ter and Bockman in Germany, and bv Dr. Wollaston in,
Kngland, \ve have still more recently detected a third sort
 of rays, fairly separable by the prism from those of light
 and. caloric, and which, beyond the visible boundary of the
 violet colour, are found to produce very peculiar effects,
 heretofore falsely imputed to the sun's light.
     These two discoveries will probably be thought important
 by the philosophical chemist.            At any rate, they will de
 mand of him to review and new model certain received
 opinions, and may ultimately lead to no small improvement
 of his science, by discarding from it several imaginary ef
 fects of light, and tracing the same to their real sources by
^hnorc enlarged experience.
     Ever since considering the sun's emanations as so com
 pounded, and as consisting at least of three different prin
 ciples, namely, light, caloric, and rays also of what has
 been called the deoxidizing principle, — it has appeared a cu
 rious question, how far these radiations may differ in rc-
 Spect to the velocity with which they arc emitted or sent
 forth by the sun.        This inquiry seems not only interesting
 on its own account, but because, were their velocities found
 unequal to any considerable degree, we should have an ad
 ditional argument of much force in favour of such rays
 being of a nature entirely different.
      In a valuable philosophical work lately published by a
 very respectable author, there is an observation relating to
 this subject expressed in the following terms ; " That as
  the rays of light and of caloric, emitted by the sun", accom
  pany each other, it cannot be doubted that they move with
  the same velocity*."         But as to this, so far as the meaning
  is understood,    there  seems  to be some mistake or oversight.
 If by the rays so accompanying one another be meant that
  all the constituent particles of each of the two kinds, at the
  same instant emitted, still keep contiguous, each to ea^h,
  in their progress forward from the sun, then surely they
  must move with the same common velocity.                   This, ho\v-
     * feee Mr. Thomson's                       id
                           System of Chemistry,    edit. Edinburgh, 1^04,
  vol. i. page 306.
                                                                    ever,

                  which proceed  J ram the Sun.                 311
ever, seems to be merely an identical proposition, or a beg
ging of the question. For where is the proof of their so keep
ing together ? Perhaps it may be said it consists in this,
that we always find a body is both illumined and warmed
as soon as exposed to sunshine; which shows that, wherever
the luminous particles are found, they are accompanied by
those of caloric.      But this may be very possible without
supposing    the particles in question have kept contiguous in
their journey all the way from the sun, or indeed longer
than a very small moment of time.            Their velocities may
differ exceedingly, and yet, as to sense, particles of each kind
may every instant arrive simultaneously, and affect the
body. For this, nothing more is required than that the in
terval of time between the arrival of one particle after an
other, belonging to either of the rays, be so very transitory
as wholly to elude. our perception:        a position which it is
presumed will not be disputed.
   The same author, in the way of further proving the great
velocity of the rays of caloric, refers to some experiments
made by the ingenious M. Pictet, of Geneva, the result d£
which shows, that they pass over a space of sixty-nine feet
in an interval of time too minute to be measured.          If how
ever the velocity in question, even supposed much slower
than the astonishing speed of light, approximates to that
high scale of rapidity, such experiments would be utterly
incapable of assisting us when aiming at any measurements.
For, though the motion were a hundred times slower than
that of light, still the calorific rays would be propagated
trom the sun at the rate nearly of two thousand miles in a
second of time; a transit far too rapid to be measured or
ascertained by M. Pictet's method.
   If, indeed, the sun had been so constituted as that, now
and then, a total failure of his emanations took place for
twelve or fifteen minutes, their relative velocities could have
been determined, according to Mr. Pictet's method, by
watching the order of their arrival after such an inter
mission.     According to this, should his light, for exam
ple,  move    with double the velocity of his calorific rays,
a lens 'or speculum might give a bright image of the sun
deprived of all power of affecting the thermometer for near
 four minutes, till the arrival of the rays of caloric, which
would then give a burning focus.              In like manner we
might    wait  shorter  or longer,  before   the effects of the de-
oxidiziris; rays could be perceived beyond the violet colour
of the prismatic spectrum, according to their velocity com
pared to that of light.       Such means of trial are, how
ever, utterly to be despaired of.
                               Y 2

812        On tlie Velocity   of   the calorific Rays
    It shall next be attempted to explain the principles of an
experiment applicable to the same purpose, and which does
not seem to be altogether beyond ourreach.        Though great
difficulties may stand in the way of an adequate apparatus,
yet at any rate it may not be amiss to expound the theory
of the method, so as to have it in reserve. The history
of science affords not a few instances of great difficulties
of a practical kind being at last surmounteu.
     It is well known to astronomers how, by Dr. Bradley's
noble discovery of what has been called the aberration of
the fixed stars, the velocity of their light has been deter
mined.      The observations of the same astronomer prove
also the remarkable fact, that the velocity of all star-light
is the same.       From this circumstance it might have been
concluded, upon the strongest grounds of analogy, that the
light of our sun is emitted with equal rapidity.       But pre- .
vious to the discovery of aberration, the velocity of the
sun's light, as reflected to us from Jupiter's satellites, was
determined by Romer in a different way; and the near
agreement between this and that of star-light makes it still
more reasonable to believe that the velocity of the sun's
emitted light makes no exception to the general law.
    It must therefore be so astonishingly rapid, as to carry the
rays over a space little short of two bundred thousand miles
in a single second of time. Still, however, rapid as this             in,
the velocity of the earth in its orbit     found to bear some
                                          is
sensible proportion to it.    In consequence of this,        de
                                                            it   is
monstrable that we can never behold the sun in his true
place in the ecliptic, but always removed from          towards
                                                        by it
the west, or contrary to the order of the signs,       an angle
of twenty seconds, corresponding to what has been called
the aberration of his light.
    Were the sun's light to be emitted with only one half or
one third of its present velocity, the corresponding aberra
tion or apparent change of place towards the west, as                 is
well known, would be doubled or tripled the centre of his
                                               }
disk al! the while still keeping in the ecliptic.
   .In like manner, were the sun all at once to emit an addi
tional set of rays equally refrangible, suppose of-         deepa
violet culour, but with one tenth part only of the velocity
belonging to his present white light, the centre of this vio
let disk would appear to us more westerly on the ecliptic
than that of his usual white disk,       an angle of three mi
                                        by
nutes • that being the difference of aberration correspond
ing to the supposed difference of velocity of the two kinds
of light.      Thc?e two equal round disks, therefore., each of
                                                          whose

                 which proceed from the Sun.               313
•whose  diameters would subtend an angle more than ten
times greater than this separation of their centres, would
appear in the heavens not entirely to coincide, but to over
lap one another, as represented in fig. I. (Plate IX.) where
the strong marked circle stands for the sun's usual white
disk, and the-faint one for the disk corresponding to the
Supposititious violet rays, and the line EC for the ecliptic
passing through the centres of both.
   The consequence of this overlapping would be remark
able. We should behold what now might be called a com
pound disk of the sun, a little drawn out or elongated iu
the direction of the ecliptic, and having the hmula or cres
cent \V shining with white light, forming its eastern limit,
and an equal and opposite crescent V shining with the
supposititious violet light, while the intermediate portion of
the disk bounded by the two crescents GGGG, would shine
with both the white and violet light blended together.
  The very same description would equally apply to an image
of this kind of sun, formed by a large object-glass of long
focal distance, on a white screen or plane placed at the focus,
and perpendicular to the principal axis of the lens.       The
image formed on the screen would consist of the white and
violet crescents, and the intermediate space of a mixed co
 lour ; only inverted as in fig. 2: just as it would be were
there no aberration in the case, and as if such a party-co
loured sun as in fig. 1, really shorie in the heavens, the
earth being supposed at rest.                         «
   To draw nearer to what is ultimately to be illustrated by
this detail, let it next be supposed, that either the calorific
or the deoxidizing rays were emitted by the sun, in place of
the violet rays above mentioned, with the same slow velo
city, but agreeing with the sun's white light in refrangi-
bihty. Then it is evident that the rays of caloric, for in
stance, would be collected in the very same circular space
on the screen which was formerly occupied by the violet
rays ; that is, within the space defined by the faint circle,
tig. 2. The consequence of this would be, that tl.e portion
of the bright image represented by the crescent W would
be wholly deprived of the rays of caloric, whilst the rest
of the image would be overspread by such rays. Further,
it is manifest that another space V beyond the image, but
bounding   it,  corresponding to the former violet crescent,
would also be overspread   by  the rays of caloric.
   Thus, therefore, would the sun's bright image on the
screen be attended with extraordinary circumstances, which,
though not in the least perceivable iu the first insjance   by
                           Y    3                          our

314          On the Velocity of ike calorific Hays
our sight, yet might be made evident by a careful applica
tion of very minute delicate thermometers, or by any
other means suited to discover to us the presence of calo
ric. For thereby that whole portion of the bright image
answering to the crescent W would be incapable of heat
ing or affecting the thermometer, since bv hypothesis no
rays of caloric are there to be found ; whilst all the rest
of the image, as well as the dark space beyond it corre
sponding to the crescent V, would suddenly heat and affect
the instruments.
   It may be observed, in passing, that similar extraordinary
circumstances would also attend the sun's bright image, in
relation to the deoxidizing rays, upon the same assumption
of the slowness of their motion and equal refrangibility.
For a narrow slip of paper, prepared by the muriate or ni
trate of silver, would not be discoloured when exposed any
where within the bright crescent W, which bv hypothesis
is deprived of the deoxidizing rays ; but would soon be so
in any other part of the image, and even when exposed in
the dark crescent V.
   But to return to the instance of the calorific rays: it will
easily now be understood that the greatest breadth AB,
fig. 2, of either crescent W, V, will be more or less consi
derable, according as their velocity falls more or less short
of that of the sun's light. For these crescents, so related
to the sun's image on the screen, maybe considered merely
as creatures of aberration, so to speak, arising from the
difference of velocity of the two sorts of rays.    AB there
fore, the greatest breadth of either crescent, must in all
cases be equal to PO, the separation of the centres belong
ing to the bright image and circle comprehending the rays
of caloric. But, from the principles of aberration, this
space PO, or its equal AB, considered as lying in the
plane of the sun's image on the screen, must subtend at
the vertex of the object-glass, an angle equal to the diffe
rence of the aberration of the rays of light and of caloric.
If, therefore, we could by any means ever measure this
space A B, the greatest breadth of cither crescent, we should
immediately discover the difference of aberration sought.
For, the focal distance of the image being always given,
that would be to AB, suppose found, as radius to the tan-
gtmt of the angle, required ; from which the velocity of the
calorific rays is immediately deduciblej as will more fully
appear in the sequel.
   Further, it is obvious that the space AB, so to be mea
sured in the screen, would become more and more extended
         3                                                  in

                      which proceed from the Sun.                       31c
in proportion       the image itself and corresponding circle
                     as
of calorific rays   are enlarged by increasing the focal di
stance.    Even though the velocity of the rays last men
tioned fell but little short of the vast rapidity of light, still
the crescents might be measurable on the screen, if we
had it in our power to extend   the focal distance at pleasure,
with  suitable enlargement of aperture, so as to give an
       a
image of the sun a little hotter than common sunshine.
                                 Part II.
    To enter now, a little, upon a practical view of the sub
ject, it comes to be considered how much slower the velo
 city of the sun's calorilic rays ought to be, compared to that
of  his light, before we might expect to discover, by the most
delicate thernjometric trials, the presence of the two cres
cents susceptible of being measured.       In order to this, it is
apprehended that a focal distance of at least fifty feet could
be so managed, by a proper apparatus, as to give sufficient
steadiness to the image, whose diameter on the screen would
be about five inches and a half, as in fig. 2.*       Next sup
pose that, by thcrmomctrical trials, we found out the two
crescents, the bright one from B to A relatively cold, and
the opposite dark one hot to the distance of A, and that
AB, the greatest thickness of cither, measured 2-10ths of
an inch.      From this last datum, the velocity of the calorific
rays, corresponding to       it,
                              would be determined           by
                                                        the fol
lowing analogy As six thousand, the focal distance ex-
                     :
          in tenths of an inch,     to two-tenths the greatest
                                       is is
  readth of either crescent, so
Eressed                             radius  to   fourth propor
                                                    a
tional,   the  tangent  of an angle  of sixty-eight seconds, or
l'  8".    This would be the difference between the angles of
aberration of light and the rays        question, which when
                                               in
increased       by
                 twenty  seconds, the  known   aberration of the
former, would give an angle of eighty-eight seconds for the
real aberration of the calorific rays.      Lastly, as       well
                                                              it   is
known that the velocities of any two sets of rays must be
inversely as the tangents of the angles of aberration corre
sponding to them, or to the angles themselves when very
small,      follows that, in the present example, the velocity
           it
of the calorific ravs would be to that of light in the ratio of
20 to 88    ; that    is,
                      only between four and five times slower.
  It   is  of importance here particularly to remark, that
   * In the original
                     diagrams sent with this article the diameter of tiio
circles was 55 inches, but  inthe engraving this has necessarily been re
duced to   3inches. — Edit.
                                   Y   4            ,
                                                                 though,

316            On the Velocity of the calorific Rays
though, with this extent of focal distance, we discovered
 not any symptoms whatever of such crescents, vet still such
 an apparatus, if sufficiently manageable,      would enable us
to conclude, in the way of approximation, that the velocity
of the calorific rays comes nearer to that of light than in
 the ratio above mentioned.        For otherwise the crescents
 would be rendered very palpable by the power of such an
 apparatus.
    It is almost needless to mention, that the foregoing ex
 ample would equally apply in the case of inquiring about
 the velocity of the deoxidizing rays ; since, bv their property
 of quickly changing      the colour of certain prepared sub
 stances,   the  crescents corresponding to them might, by
 careful trials, be either made evident, or, if that failed, a
 certain conclusion might be drawn in the way of approxi
 mation.
    It will not probably   have escaped notice, that hitherto it
 has been all along supposed, that crescents only of very small
 extent would be the consequence of the different aberrations
 arising from the different velocity of the sun's several radia
 tions.   This has arisen, in some measure, from having pre
judged the question, by thinking it most probable that the
 difference of the velocities may be so inconsiderable.     But,
 for what is at present known to the contrary, the crescents
 may be found somewhat more extended, and so much the
 more favourable for the experiment proposed.
    Possibly it will not immediately occur to those who think
 that the velocity of the calorific rays may be comparatively
 exceedingly slow, why we have adhered to the supposition
 of crescents of any size. It may be said that, according to
the principles laid down, and the possible sluggish motion
 of the rays, we ought, in place or two crescents, rather to
 look for a total separation of the sun's bright image from
 the circle comprehending the calorific rays, and to some
 distance, more or less considerable, on the screen.     To this
 it can be answered, that though the aberration would cer
 tainly, in an extreme case, produce that effect, were the
 velocity so slow as is contended for, yet many facts already
 well known ineontestably prove the contrary of that low
 degree of velocity. For, in the manifold experiments which
 have been occasionally made with lenses and mirrors exposed
 to the sun, some of which were of considerable focal
 lengths, it was never observed that the burning focus lay
 separated from the concentrated light, or distant laterally
 from the sun's bright image; which' ought to be the case
  on the hypotheses alluded to. No lens or speculum has
                                                            ever

                  which proceed from the Sun.                  3 17
ever been found to produce >a bright and cold image of the
sun in one place, and to burn at another. This fact is now
referred to, for the first time so far as we know, as a com-
        demonstration that the motion of the calorific rays
  ooks up to some high scale of rapidity
f)lete                                        ;  though as yet we
know not whether it equals or exceeds,          or how far it falls
short of, the velocity of light. This view of the subject will
fully account for our having confined the foregoing illus
trations to the case of even small crescents.
                             Part III.
    In  order to take still a nearer practical view of the whole
of this matter, it is full time now to mention, that though,
for the sake of greater simplicity, all the illustrations have
 proceeded on the supposition of the sun's image being
 formed by refraction, yet the image made by reflection from
 a metallic speculum would exhibit the same phenomena
 of the crescents, &c. as have been treated of at so much
 length.
     Indeed it is only in this way that trials on the principles
 advanced can be attempted : and for two reasons.         1st, Be
 cause we can easily command a competent aperture for the
 object speculum, in order to obtain, at a long focal distance,
 an image of the sun sufficiently hot for the intended experi
 ments. Double or triple the force of common sunshine
 may probably be found the most commodious.             2dly, Be
 cause, by reflection, the foci of the calorific and deoxidizing
 rays, how much soever they diner from light in refrangi-
 bility, would lie in the same plane with the luminous image.
 This condition, it is evident, would be quite necessary for
 discovering the crescents, if such existed to any sensible
 extent, and especially for measuring AB, their greatest
 breadth. In order to this, it would not be requisite to have
 the sun's image projected on the under side of any scieen
   laced at the focus of the speculum, where it could not
 E e seen or examined without uneasy postures and much in
 convenience. The place of the image, free from any screen,
  and when formed in the air, might in several ways be made
 visible so far as to-ktiow where to apply the thermometers
  or minute spherules of wax or jelly at the two opposite
  points, where the crescents, if existing, ought to be broad
  est, as at A and B, which may be called their vertices.
      As the success of the experiments would much depend
  upon our knowing at any time the precise place of either
  vertex, the following short theory of them ought to be fully
  understood : —
                                                            When

  318           On tlw Velocity  of the calorific Rays
     When the principal axis    of the speculum, by    means of a
  telescopic finder of sufficient magnifying power, is directed
  to the centre of the sun's disk, it may be considered as pa
  rallel to the plane of the ecliptic ; the sun's parallax being
  so very small as not sensibly to alter the case.        For the
  same reason the plane of the ecliptic may then be regarded
  as cutting the image at right angles and centrically.       The
  diameter of the image, corresponding to this common sec
  tion, must therefore lie in the direction of the earth's mo
  tion in the orbit at the time. The aberration, accordingly,
  of the sun's rays must lie in the direction of that diameter
  of the image which, if produced a little at one extremity,
  must consequently pass through or mark out the vertices
  of both crescents, should any such be formed by a diffe
  rence of aberration of the rays of light and caloric.
     To find out practically this diameter, or directrix as it
 may be called, some apparatus would be necessary near the
 focus of the speculum.      It might consist of frame-work, so
 contrived that two harpsichord wires stretched across one
 another in the same plane, and revolvible on a fixed centre,
 might be made to intersect at any angle. Let the centre
 round which the wires turn be placed in the axis of the
 speculum, at the focus, and the plane of their revolution
 at right angles to it. Then, on any day at noon, when the
 centre of the sun's image is brought to the intersection of
 the wires, turn one of them into the plane of the meridian,
 and then the other till it cuts the first at the same angle
 which the ecliptic does the meridian, at the time, as found
 by calculation, or nearly so.     Then this second wire will
 lie in the plane of the ecliptic, and in the direction of the
 earth's motion at the time, and consequently will be the
 directrix sought, passing through the vertex of each cres
cent, should any such be formed by a difference of aberra
tion.
     Should the experiment be reserved for the noon of the
day    of either solstice, selecting such as fall very near to
noon at the place of trial, a horizontal line, conceived drawn1
through the centre of the image, would then be the direc
trix, and would continue so, without an equatorial motion,
for such short time as might suffice for some trials of the
crescents.
    The same may he done at any time of the day and year,
by first setting the two wires to the same angle which the
ecliptic makes with the parallel of the place for the time,
and then turning round both till the sun's upper or under
                                                            limb

                 which proceed from the Sun.               319
limb keeps on one of them as it passes through the field of
view. Then will the other wire lie in the plane of the eclip
tic, and so will become the directrix, marking out the ver
tex of each crescent when the axis of the speculum is again
pointed to the centre of the disk.
    Some have imagined that rays of any kind which are less
refrangible than others must, on that account, move with
a greater velocity before incidence.    According to this opi
nion, those calorific rays, which Dr. HerscheT's late admi
rable discovery has shown to be less refrangible than light,
must move the swiftest of the two ; and light, in like man
ner, swifter than the deoxidizing rays, which, by a more
recent discovery, highly interesting also, have been found
more refrangible.     But such conclusions do not appear to
be at all sufficiently supported.     They depend on several
assumptions ; particularly on this, that the constituent par
ticles of the three different kinds of rays, were they to begin
their motion at equal distances from the retracting surface,
would be equally accelerated in the perpendicular direction
by the power of the medium.         For what can be shown to
the contrary, however, this may be wide of the truth. May
not the refractive power of the same medium accelerate very
differently the particles of which rays wholly different in
their nature are constituted ? May not those even be re
fracted the least whose velocity is the slowest, and in a ratio
little depending on the velocities; according to what may
be called elective attractions, or peculiar affinities, which
may obtain between the medium and rays differing so much
in kind ? The phenomena of the different dispersions of
the constituent parts of the same rays, namely light, evi
dently show some variable affinity of this sort, according to
the nature of the refracting medium.          Why, therefore,
may not such an affinity be anomalous, according to th*
nature of the rays which differ from one another so much ?
    Though therefore the rays of caloric, as emitted by thfr
sun, were all found the least refrangible, yet their velo
city may be far inferior to that of light. For what we know,
the fact really may be, that the refracting medium governs
the motion of the latter much more powerfully than that of
the calorific rays.
    As in the present state of our knowledge we can entertain
nothing but conjecture on a point so interesting, so the ne
 cessity of having recourse to some experimental mode of
 proof, to clear away doubts and lead us to the truth, appears
 m a strong 'point of view.
                                                         Before

320      Velocity of the Rays which proceed  from tlie Sun,
    Before concluding it may shortly be hinted, that the prin
ciples which have now been explained mav possibly serve
also for discovering whether the colour-making rays them
selves which constitute the solar white light be all of them
emitted with the same or with a different velocity.
    If ever it shall be found practicable to procure a very
sharp image of the sun by a speculum of such small aper
ture and feeble reflecting power as to admit of our viewing
the image in the way of Dr. Herschel's front view, at a
focal distance of about a hundred feet, and without the in
tervention of any medium put before the eye-glass, it would
be well worth while to examine carefully whether the ex
treme verge of the limb of that image on the opposite sides,
as pointed out by the directrix so often mentioned, assumed,
in any degree, tints allied to the red- and violet-making
rays.     If so, this would manifestly be the effect of aberra
tion arising from the different velocity of the extreme pris
matic light. Though this were so small as to make the
difference of aberration half a second only, still the space
at the image corresponding to this angle would be three of
those parts of which an inch contains a thousand.           Such
therefore might be considered as the greatest breadth of the
incipient crescents, so to speak, in this instance.       These,
if at all perceivable, would be distinguished from one an
other by the outermost confines of the one being related, in
 point of tint or colour, to the least refrangible rays, and of
the other to the most refrangible.       In looking tor such a
criterion, our sight would enable us to discern very minute
and delicate differences.
    It is not at present asserted that a telescope such as has
been described would have power enough to decide the me
rits of that theory which makes the different refrangibility
of the. prismatic rays of light to depend on their different
velocity before incidence.      But should the power be sufn->
 cient, and supposing the experiment practicable, if no sym
ptoms of such incipient crescents were perceivable, the ne
gative of the theory would thereby be demonstrated.           In
 either case, therefore, such an experiment would be highly
valuable also by settling a matter which has long been merely
 conjectural, and which, besides, is intimately connected
 with other elementary points of great importance to optical
 science, themselves doubtful, at this day, by resting on.
 hypotheses.
                                                      LIU.   At-.

                              [   321    ]
Llli.    Account of the Object and Destination of the             Jirst
        Voyage round the IVbrld undertaken by Russia.
 J. HE great number of establishments which the Russian
American company, encouraged by the favourable result of
its fur trade, has formed in the course of a few years past,
on the north-west coast of America, from Cook's River to
Norfolk Sound, and the great increase of the seamen and
other persons in their service, render it necessary to send
thither a larger quantity of European manufactures, am
munition, and even provisions, for no corn is cultivated
either in the Aleutian Islands or on the American coast.
A dock for ships has, however, been constructed at Prince
William's Sound, where vessels of 250 tons are built ; but
no materials for constructing and rigging vessels can be
found, except timber.          Hitherto the company's establish
ments have been supplied with necessaries and stores
through lakutsk and Ochotzk; but the great distance, and
the difficulty attending the transportation of them, for
which four thousand horses are annually employed*, raise
the price of the articles even at Ochotzk 560 per cent, and
more.       A pood of rye meal, for example, costs five
rubles, a pood -of tobacco twenty- five, and a gallon of
brandy twenty rubles, &c. These articles also, when they
have got half way, are frequently plundered, and a remnant
only, which has been saved, reaches Ochotzk. It appeared
at first that to send thither anchors and cables would be al
most impossible ; and as those articles could not be di
 spensed with, it was necessary to have recourse to moans
which occasioned the loss of many ships : cables were
cut into pieces of seven or eight fathoms, and after
 wards joined when they reached Ochotzk; by which process
 they always lost some part of their strength. The anchors
\verc also transported in pieces, and afterwards welded; but,
 in consequence of the want of good workmen, they were
 put together in a very imperfect manner.                But however
 difficult and expensive the transportation, might be to
    * Those who have read Muller's, Lf ssep's, and Billing's Voyages,
 must know, that from lakuuk to Ochotzk there is no road for carriages ,
 and that all goods must be transported on horseback : each horse carries
 about five pood, and with such a load CHn travel twenty vcrsts a day.
 The carriage is a copcc for each verst; one driver is allowed to six
 horses, besides another on which he rides, and he carries with him two
 relay horses.  Ochotzk is a thousand miles diuan: from lakurzk.
                                                             Ochotzk,

322               First Voyage round      the     World
Ochotzk, it   was still more so to the islands            and the coast
of America.       The ignorance         of the
                                        greater part of the
commanders, and the stormy nature of these seas, which
renders it dangerous during the greater part of the year for
such vessels to navigate in them, occasioned every year the
loss of a great many ships and of the valuable cargoes with
which they   were laden ; even at present no intelligence ha9
been received these three years from Kodiak, and therefore
it is not impossible that the vessels expected from that
place have perished.
   This trade, however, which, notwithstanding difficulties
that might have discouraged a nation possessed of a less
enterprising spirit than the Russians, produces great profit
to those engaged in       it,and would no doubt be attended
with still greater advantages, were these obstacles only in
part removed  ;   and since the fur trade has been carried on
not   by individual merchants, but       bycompany, some mea-*
                                           a
sures have been adopted which cannot fail of having           verya
happy influence on the progress of their commerce.            The
company     have taken  into their service  an Englishman,   who
constructed on the coast of America very fine ship, which
                                              a
he commands himself, and who has entered into            contract
                                                            a
to build more. They supply the captains of their ships
with the best sea charts, the necessary mathematical and
astronomical instruments, the latest voyages, and the best
books which treat on the subject of navigation.            But        it
was only since the accession of the present emperor, who
interested himself   in   particular manner for the success of
                          a
the American company, took          share in
                                    a               it,
                                                 and encouraged
others to do the same, and on whose protection dependence
can be placed, that the company has exerted itself with
zeal and activity to give      new form' to this trade, so long
                                a
and so much neglected.
   Nothing therefore was more natural than that their first
object should be to supply with the necessary stores and
provisions those colonies which were first established, and
which, in an inhospitable country destitute of every thing,
must soon have fallen to ruin       ;to place them in      proper
                                                              a
state of defence against the attacks of the natives, to which
they are so much exposed       to procure to their agents better
                                ;
means for building ships to supply them with good tackle,
                              ;
anchors and cables; and to give them more skillful com
manders and more expert seamen.
   In the month of March last year, when the emperor granted
permission to the officers and sailors of his navy to serve oa
hoard merchant ships, the company engaged         very expert na
                                                      a
                                                         vigator.

                       undertaken  ly  Russia.
           M. Chuvastof, whom they sent along with a mid
shipman, named Davidof, to Ochotzk, to assume at that place
the command of one of their best ships.          The company,
however, would not have entirely accomplished the object in
view, had they not, in order to supersede the necessity of
the difficult and dangerous land carriage, resolved to dis
patch ships direct from Cronstadt to the north-west coast
of America, which, after delivering their lading, were to
take on board a part of the furs which are collected in
larger quantities in the isknds and on the coast, than can
be disposed of at Kiachta, and to convey them to Canton,
to be exchanged for Chinese articles, which not only find a
 ready sale in Russia, but can be sold at a very great profit.
 Under the reign of the late emperor, captain-lieutenant
 Von Krusenslern, a meritorious officer, who served several
 years in the British navy, and had made a voyage             to
 India and China, transmitted to count Kuschelef, then mi
 nister of the marine, a detailed plan for a voyage of this
 kind; but, in consequence of some causes which are not
 known, it was never carried into execution.       Since the ac
 cession of the present emperor, this plan, and the represen
 tations made on the same subject from other quarters, were
 thought worthy of a more minute examination.           Admiral
 Mordvinof, who succeeded count Kuschelef in the naval de
  partment, was desirous that the first voyage might be un
  dertaken by government : and this would have been the
  case, had not the American company offered to fit out two
  ships at their own expenses ; an ofler which the government
  immediately accepted, and at the same time advanced to
  the company for this undertaking the sum of 250, 000 rubles,
  at five per cent, interest, for eight years.
      As there were no ships in Russia fit for the purpose, it
  was resolved that two should be purchased in England.
  Captain-lieutenant Lisianski, destined to command one of
  the vessels belonging to the expedition, was for this pur
  pose sent with M. Rasumof, an eminent ship-builder, to
  this country, where they bought for 50O01. sterling the
   Leander of 470 tons, three years old; and for 17,000?. the
  Thames of 430 tons, built twenty months.          The sheath
   ing with copper and the repairing of these ships cost about
   50O01. more.    The name of the former was changed to the
   Nadcskda (the Hope), and the other to that of the Neva,
   and both were to proceed to Cronstadt as soon as the sea
    son would. permit.    The names of the officers appointed to
   the Nadeshda were as follows :
                                                     Kmsensteni

 324            First Voyage round    tJie World
      Krusenstern, captain-lieutenant, commander.
      Badmonof,     -v
      Bomberg,       1
                       lieutenants.
      fcolovaschef,  f
      Lovenstern,   J
      Bellingshausen, midshipm.in.
      Kamenschikof, pilot.
      Bistram, garde marine.
      Dr. Espenberg, surgeon.
    Those appointed to the Neva were :
      Lisianski, captain-lieutenant, commander.
      Arbusof, iieutcnant.
      Kalinin, pilot.
      Dr. Labaud, surgeon.
    While the ships were getting     ready, and other prepara
 tions making for the voyage, the government resolved to
 embrace this opportunity of sending an ambassador extra
 ordinary to Japan. The trade with these rich islands seems
to promise the greatest advantages to the American com
 pany. The neighbourhood of Kamtsehatka, which produces
so many articles suited for the Japanese market, such as furs,
the teeth of the walrus, whale's blubber, salt fish, &c. must
be very favourable to this branch of the Russian commerce.
The attempts made from time to time by individual navi
gators, to open a commercial intercourse with the Japa
nese are well known, and also the mission of lieutenant Lax-
man, who was dispatched by government, in the year J 7U-',
for the purpose of carrving home some Japanese who had
been wrecked on the Russian coast.          The favourable an
swer given to the request of the Russian government, for
leave to send a ship every year to Naneasati, certainly af
fords reason to hope, that a solemn embassy attended with
the necessary pomp and splendour, and accompanied with
valuable presents, will make a still greater impression. The
counsellor of state, Rcsanof, whom ihe emperor had nomi
nated one of the lords of the bed-chamber, was appointed to
this important and honourable mission. To receive a favour
able reception to his propositions, he has not only carried
with him a great many valuable presents, but also some Ja
panese who were wrecked in the year 1 793 on the coast of
the Andreanofskoi Islands, aiul who since 1 797 resided at     <
lakutzk. As the ambassador took his passage on board
the Nadcshda, the return of the vessels, in consequence of
the embassy, may be delayed a year longer than it other
                                                          wise

                            Undertaken    hj Russia.                       $25
wise would have been ; and on this account the emperor
has engaged to defray the whole expense of this vessel.; but
he allowed the company to send out in her, without paying
freight, as large a quantity of goods as she could conveni
ently take on board.
    The lading of both ships consists of iron, sail-cloth, an
chors, cables, ropes for rigging, gunpowder, cannon, mus
kets, pistols, sabres, flour, wine, rum, French brandy and
other spirits, coffee, sugar, tea, and tobacco; all kinds o(
tools and instruments proper for mechanics ; and various
articles fit for carrying on trade by barter with the natives
of these isl.tnds and of the coast of America. The com
pany engaged two ship carpenters, together with lock
smiths, common smiths, and carpenters, who will settle
                                                             '
in America, and be conveyed thither by these vessels',"
    The following is the route of the voyage : Both vessels
double Cape Horn, and proceed to the Sandwich Isles,
where they will separate: the Nadeshda will then d'rrect her'
course to Japan, to land the ambassadors, and go to winterJ
at Kodiak.     The Neva will sail straight from the Sandwich"
 Isles to Kodiak, and at the proper season proceed to the'
coast of America : she will winter also at Kodiak.        In the
month of April the second year, both ships will steer for [
the coast of America, in order to visit the different Rus
sian establishments, and to take in the' lading destined for ".
China. In the month of August they will direct their'
course to Canton, and, having exchanged their American-
for Chinese articles, will return the third year to Russia by '
                                                               '
the way of the Cape of Good Hope.                            ¦                   ~".
    Both ships sailed from Cronstadt on the 26th of July,
 1803. The presents carried out by the embassy, for the em
peror of Japan, were selected from among the curiosities .
preserved in the hermitage of the imperial winter palace';                     J
and in the choice of them great attention was paid to the
taste of the Asiatics.    Among them         beautiful piece of
                                                 is   a
mechanism representing          peacock
                                    a    of  the  proper" size,
which spreads out and folds together its magnificent fea
                                                                 "
thers with the most perfect imitation of nature;            sur- it   is
rounded         great many small birds, which all move in the
               by   a
easiest manner, and emit the notes peculiar to each         this      :
beautiful automaton was purchased            Catharine II. for
                                                   by
1  5, ooo rubles.
    The number of the Japanese wrecked on the coast of
Russia amounted to sixteen*, but four of them afterwards
                    to some accounts, ihey airivcd at Irkutsk in the montn of
    »
        According                                                                  .
    Vol,     10.    No.   76. Sept. 1801.          Z                   died:

390           First Russian    Voyage round tlie World.
died  :  of the remaining twelve four embraced Christianity j
only    three of them resolved to return to their own country,
ana even one of these will accompany the embassy back to
Russia.     They have made themselves          pretty well acquainted
with the Russian language,          and may be    of great use as in
terpreters*.
    But besides the commercial and political objects of this
expedition, it is destined to promote the cause of science.
The emperor, desirous that so favourable an opportunity of
enlarging human knowledge might not be lost, invited sci
entific men to take a share in it. M. Tilesius of Leipsic,
and Dr. Horner of Hamburgh, were accordingly engaged to
accompany the expedition, the former as naturalist, the latter
as astronomer. The two surgeons, Dr. Espenberg and Dr.
Labaud, are also men of talents, who will keep regular jour
nals of every thing remarkable that occurs.             The latter had
left Petersburg on a literary tour to Paris, and had reached
Riga, when he was overtaken by a courier, who brought
him a commission as surgeon on hoard one of the vessels f.
    The chief of the expedition, M. Von Krusenstern, is not
only an expert navigator, but a man of excellent character,
and inspired with great zeal for the success of the expedi
tion, which he once proposed himself.                 He married not
long ago a respectable lady whom he was obliged to leave
behind him in Russia, because he had given up his cabin to
the embassy ; but the pain of this separation has been
much alleviated by the munificence of his imperial majesty*
This magnanimous prince, to render M. Von Krusenstern
easy in regard to his family, whatever may be his fate, has
   *
      The situation of the Japanese who have remained in Russia was
determined in the following manner by an ukas of August la, 1S03 :
one of the:n who, at baptism, assumed the name of Kolotygin, and who
had been before appointed teacher of the Japanese language at the school
of Irkutsk, with a salary of 100 rubles, returns to his post, and besides
his salary will receive a pension to the same amount during life.     The
other eight: Andrew Kondratvcf, Ivan and Semen Kisselef, who have
embraced Christianity;   and Min Sucha, Motsch Si Fey, Seen Sa Buro,
Schee Sa O, and Sa Day, who have adhered to tHe religion ef their
 country, are each to receive a pension of fifty rubles for life, with ex
emption from all taxes and services, and liberty to reside in any port of
the empire, and to follow whatever occupation they think proper. Those
who wish to return to Irkutsk are to receive money from government to-
 defray their expenses.
   t   Besides these men of science, Dr. Langsdorf of GBttingen accom
panies the expedition.   His zeal for the progress of natural history in
duced him to repair to Copenhagen, and to offer his services without any
view to pecuniary remuneration; but M. Von Rcsanof and captain Kru
senstern immediately engaged to defray the expense of his maintenance
on board ship, which will-amount to 800 rubles per annum.
                                                              consigned

               First Russian Emlassy    to Japan.           321
consigned to his lady an estate in Poland, worth 3000
rubles per annum.
    A letter received by the Academy of Sciences from cap
tain Krusenstern, dated Santa Cruz, in the island of Tene-
riffe, October 25, 1803, states that the vessels had arrived
there in safety after a short passage from Falmouth ; there
was not a single person sick on board, and the Russian
sailors were in high spirits, and performed their duty with
alacrity, thpugh no Russian ship had ever proceeded so far
south.     The Spanish governor received captain Krusen-
stern and his fellow-navigators in the most polite manner,
fitted up as an observatory for them the house where the
Inquisition holds its sittings, and transmitted their letters
to Europe by the speediest conveyance.                         ,
    On the 25th of October the vessels had taken on board
water, with a supply of wine, and were to set sail next day
in order to proceed to Rio Janeiro in Brazil, where they in
tended to remain a few weeks.       In latitude 37° 40X north,
and longitude 3° 28' east, the Russian navigators had an
opportunity of observing a very remarkable meteor. At
half past eight in the evening, October the 10th, they saw
in the south-west a large fire-ball, which proceeded in a
horizontal direction, at the elevation of fifteen degrees, to
the north-west, where it disappeared.       It had a very long
tail, which was so bright that the whole ship was illumi
nated by it for a minute.       What was most remarkable,
however, and perhaps unexampled, is the great strength of
the light; for after the meteor disappeared there remained a
bright line in the same direction, which was visible for an
hour.     M. Krusenstern communicated also to the Aca
demy some important observations on currents, which
he had an opportunity of making in the course of his
voyage.
    The last letters received from the expedition are dated
from Brazil, January 22 : at that time M. Krusenstern had
sent the crews of the vessels on shore to procure refresh
ments. He purposed putting to sea in the beginning of
February, and expected to reach Japan by the middle of
June.
LIV.    Account  of the fast Russian Embassy    to Japan in the
                     Years 1792 and 1793.
 J- HE Russians have been acquainted with Japan ever since
their second voyage of discovery in the eastern ocean, or
                              Z2                            the

328                First Russian Embassy        to  Japan.
the second Kamtschatka expedition. In the year 1 73S cap
 tain Spangenberg explored the whole Kurile Archipelago,
 which had been known to the Russians but imperfectly
 since 1711, and the islands of Matinai and Niphon, on
 which occasion both he and lieutenant Walton, who com
 manded the second vessel, landed in Japan.
     This attempt, the immediate and principal object of
 which was to rectify the geographical knowledge of that
 part of the world, was attended with no beneficial conse
  quences to commerce, and forty years elapsed before a
 Russian ship appeared again on the Japanese coasts ; but
 during that period government established a school of na
 vigation at Irkutsk, in which young persons who were bred
 up to the sea received instruction also in the Japanese lan
 guage.
      In the year J 777 some private Russian navigators made a
  second landing on the Japanese coast : a ship fitted out at
  Oehotsk, by SchelechofT and company, which had come
  to anchor at the 18th Kurile Isle*, in order to winter, dis
  patched thirty-three men in haidarsf to Matmai, where
  they went on shore in the neighbourhood of a village named
  Atkis.      The Russians were received with great friendship
  hv the Japanese, and an interchange of presents, consisting
  of such articles as they had with them, took place between
  them.
      The ship which performed this voyage, after remaining a
  fortnight at Oehotsk, proceeded a second time to Japan,
  under the direction of AI. Schcbalin, a merchant of Ir
  kutsk.      She wintered at the 18th Kurile Isle, and next
  year,    that  is in 1799, AI. Schcbalin sailed with forty-five
  men to Atkis. Here' he met with an officer of the Japanese
  government, to whom, during a formal audience, he ex
   pressed a'wish, that in future a trade by baiter might be
  established      between Russia and Japan ; but this proposal
  the Japanese endeavoured in a civil manner to decline.
   M. Sehebalin, without accomplishing the object of his
   voyage, then returned to the lSth Kurile Island, from
   which     he proposed     next year to proceed again          to Matmai,
   but was prevented. by an earthquake, winch took place in
   the month of January 1 7SO.              No attempt of importance
   to cultivate an acquaintance with the Japanese was then
   made for thirteen years; but in 1792 a vessel was fitted out
      • Tl*'s island, in the
                             language of -the natives, is called Urnp-, but by
   the TUissiam, who in a bav at the eastern side of it have farmed, the
  settlement of Kwih Hossii. it lias bet.n named Alexander's Island.
      f A particular kind of boats.
                                                                            at

                First Russian Embassy      to   Japan.      329
 at Ochotsk by order of government, for the purpose of car
 rying back to his own country a Japanese merchanr, named
 Kodoiu, who had been wrecked at Unalaichka, in a ship
 laden with rice. Some of the Japanese who accompanied
 him cam a to Petersburg, where they received presents
 from the empress ; and all of them had experienced so much
 attention to their situation, and so much friendship, parti
 cularly in Siberi ), that they (pitted their benefactors with
 every mark of the liveliest gratitude. As M. Lax man of Ir
 kutsk, in particular, had acquired their confidence in the
 highest degree,.his eldest son, lieutenant Adam Laxman, was
 appointed commander of the expedition; and at the same
 time was charged to exert his influence to procure to the
 Russians, if possible, liberty of trading to Japan on defini
 tive terms.   That the embassy was not intrusted to a per
 son of higher rank, and that the empress did not, on this
 occasion, herself write to the emperor of Japan, but gave
 orders to the governor-general of Irkutsk to write a letter to
 the Japanese government, arose in all probability from her
hsitiv unwilling to expose her dignity in an affair the result
of which might be uncertain; but there is great reason to
think that in consequence of this neglect the mission was
 attended with so little success.
    It is however probable, that the formal embassy accom
panied by valuable presents, which the emperor Alexander
lately dispatched to Japan, will make a greater impression,
and meet with, a more favourable reception.        Of this em
bassy some account has been given in the preceding article;
and we shall now, as a companion to              it,
                                                lay before our
 readers an extract from the journal of lieutenant Laxman,
which contains several       curious particulars respecting the
Japanese.
Extract from     the   Journal   of   Lieutenant Adam Laxman,
  kept during Voyage to Japan, undertaken in the Years
                a
  1792 and 1793,        by
                    t/w Command       Empress Callia-
                                            of
  ri/ie   II.
   Lieutenant Laxman received orders            Ijy
                                              an imperial re
script, addressed to M. 1'iel, governor-general of Irkutsk
and Kolyvan, to carry home in     vessel fitted out at the ex
                                      a
pense of government some Japanese, whose ships had been
stranded on the Aleutian Islands.    In consequence of this
order, lieutenant Laxman sailed from Oehotsk on the 13th
of September    792.
                1
  On the 17th  the vessel having proceeded west about 30O
versts was found to be opposite to the island of St. Jonas,
                                 Z3                         the

330             First Russian Embassy           to Japan.             ,
the circumference of which is estimated at six versts.                   It
 consists for the most part of granite rock, produces neither
trees nor bushes, and seems to be inhabited only by sea
gulls and other aquatic birds.
    On the 26th, after keeping some time on the same
 course, our navigators came in sight of the 19th of the
 Kurile Islands, named Itarop*, along the coast of which
 they proceeded towards the south'-west.
    On the 28th of September they saw a small peak like a
sugar-loaf, the summit of which was covered with snow,
and which formed the northern extremity of the 20th
 island, named Kunaschiri.
    Till the 6th of October they stood off and on along the
series of islands, and passing through the strait between
the 19th and 20th island, keeping in the same direction as
the eastern shore of the latter, came to anchor in a harbour
 at the south end of it. The ground however was so soft,
 that they were soon obliged to heave up again, and to con
tinue their voyage till the next day, when they found good
anchorage at about the distance of seven versts from th«
northern shore of the 22d island f. A boat was here dis
patched with thirteen men, to search out a harbour proper
for wintering in. The natives, as soon as they saw the
 ship, left their summer habitations on the coast, and re
 tired to the interior parts of the island. The boat's crew,
however, at length, found some of them ; and by means of
M. Schebalin, a merchant of Irkutsk, who understood
their language, a friendly intercourse was opened, and some
 fresh fish were procured from them in exchange for to
bacco, on which they seemed to set great value. Satisfied
 with this introduction, the crew towards night returned to
 their ship. On the day following, October 8th, a boat was
 dispatched to another settlement, pointed out by the na
tives the day before, and named Nischpaz, from the name
 of a rivulet, at the mouth of which it is situated, and
 where the crew were received by a great number of Kuri-
 lians and Japanese. The latter resided here only for the
 purpose of collecting the duties on the merchandise sold by
 the Kurilians to the subjects of Japan.                 They informed
 them that at the southern extremity of the island there was
 a spacious and secure harbour named AtkisJ; but as the
 approach to it was dangerous on account of numerous
        * In the best Russian
                                maps it is called Alorfu or Alorku.
        ¦f That is the Island of Matniai.
        X Atkii lies on the north-cast coast of the island.
                                                                    shoals

                  First Russian Embassy  to Japan.          331
 shoals and two reefs of sunken rocks at the eastern end of
 the island, they recommended another bay named Nimuro ;
 which being found convenient, they anchored in it on the
 9th, and made the necessary preparations for passing the
 winter. At this landing-place they found a very neat house
 belonging to a Japanese custom-house officer, together with
 a magazine.      The Japanese not only offered to build a ha
 bitation for the Russians, but promised for their greater se
curity to reside therewith his people during the winter j a
 circumstance which never before took place, as he was ac
 customed to return about that time to Matmai.          Matmai,
 which is the residence of a Japanese governor, is situated,
 according to the Japanese mode of reckoning, at the di
 stance ot 300 rih from Nimuro.
    On the 12th of October M. Laxman dispatched a letter
 by a Japanese messenger to the governor of Matmai, to
 announce his arrival, the object of his voyage, with his in
 tention of wintering there j and to request that he would
 communicate this information to his government, and ob
 tain from it permission for him, in case he should be pre
 vented by contrary winds in spring from reaching the prin
 cipal landing-place, to touch at any other part of the king
 dom.
    On the 13th of December an officer brought to M. Lax-
 man a note from the governor, in which it was stated, that
 his letter had been sent to Jedo to be submitted to the de
 cision of government. The officer, who was a man of great
 politeness, requested some of the charts which he saw in
 the ship, in order that he might copy them, which he did
 with wonderful precision, by means of transparent paper
 placed over them.      He also showed two charts of Matmai,
Jedo, and the island Karop, lying to the north-west, which
 were exceedingly well executed.      The island of Karop is
 subject  to  the  governor  of Matmai.    The tribute paid by
 the inhabitants consists of dried fish, train oil, dried mush
 rooms, and a small quantity of fox skins : they trade
 chiefly with the Coreans, from whom they are separated
 only by a strait of about fourteen versts in breadth. The
 articles they receive from these people are, coral and Chi
 nese stuff's of every kind, for which they give in exchange
 the skins of sables, foxes, and wild goats.
    On the 29th two civil officers arrived from Matmai, in
 duced, as they pretended, by mere curiosity; but it was
 soon discovered thai they were spies.     The Japanese in ge
 neral, and these two in particular, showed a great desire for
 acquiring knowledge : they not only took drawings of all
                                Z 4                         the

332              First Russian Embassy               to   Japan.
the instruments and utensils which the Russians showed
them, but made a great many models, in the construction
of which they displayed much ingenuity : the objects,
however, for which they seemed to have the greatest fond
ness were charts and plans.
   The Japanese divide their common year into twelve, and
every leap year into thirteen months*; the first and fif
teenth days of each month are for the most part holidays f.
On the evening before new-year's day they perform a great
many ceremonies, and decorate their idols and houses
with ribbons, lights, &c. The compliments of the new
year are punctually observed, and in general the first month
of every year is spent in idleness and salutations J. The
age of a child is not reckoned from the day on which it
conies into the world, but from the first day of the year in
which it is borri. To point out the lapse of time, they use,
instead of clocks, matches made of twisted rope-yarn, di
vided by means of knots into a certain number of intervals
accurately measured.     These matches are kindled, and aa
the divisions burn they indicate the hours.         In all the
towns there are watchmen who announce the hours pointed
out in this manner, by striking upon bells.       They admit
twelve celestial signs as we do; and these, as well as the
whole of their kalendar, arc as old a3 Nin-Oo, one of their
first rulers, who lived about 60O years before the birth of
Christ §: the same prince laid the foundation of the pre
sent political constitution of the country, and established!
the greater part of the laws by which it is governed.
   The Japanese ships are ill calculated for enduring storms
at sea, because the stern is entirely open, and for this reason
they always keep close in with the shore; the under-part
of the keel, the joinings, and all the seams of one of these
ships which lay at Nimuro, along with the Russian vessel,
were sheathed with copper.       It had only one mast, and a
verv large sail of double cotton cloth; the breadths of
which, instead of being sewed, were lashed together with
a piece of twine.    The advantage of this method of uniting
the pieces     is,
               that when storms take place, and the sail can
not be soon enough furled, the wind tears asunder the la-
cinsr, and, passing through the seams, does not exercise so
much force on the sail.
    When Japanese of distinction dies at distance from,
             a                                                 a
      • S«e the German         edition of Kcmpfcr, vol.        p.
                                                          i.        182.
                                              <U+2666>
      +   Kcmpfcr, vol.                167.       Kcmpfcr, vol.
                               p. p.
                          i.                                        i.   p. 269.
      §   Kcmpfcr, vol.   i.           ibo.
                                                                                   his

                  First Russian Embassy      to Japan.
 his home, which was the case while the Russians lay at
 Nimuro, he is buried 011 the spot with great ceremony ; but
 the hair oi' his head, his beard, and his favourite pipe are
 sent to his relations, who inter them with the same cere
 monies as they would do the body.
      The neighbourhood of Niinuro produces a great number
 of trees and plants, which belong to a variety or' climates.
 Along with the pine and larch are seen the vines of the
 south, the chestnut tree, plum tree, and other tender vege
 tables, such as wild asparagus, which requires warmth.
 There are also three volcanoes on the, island ; one of them
  has in the middle of its declivity several warm springs, th«
 medicinal quality of which in various diseases is much ex
  tolled by the Japanese.
      Respecting the Kurilians, the proper natives of the island,
  M. Laxman, notwithstanding all the trouble he took, was
  not able to procure any certain information, because they
  were narrowly watched by the Japanese, who endeavour to
  prevent them from having any intercourse with strangers.
  They are entirely slaves to the Japanese, who employ them
  for all laborious and mean occupations ; they even would
  not venture to accept the small presents offered them for
  the service they had rendered to the Russians by order of
  the Japanese.       Besides the maize and the rice which they
  receive from Japan, their food consists of fish, mush
  rooms, wild roots, and the flesh of a kind of antelope
   found in the island.        They feed also dogs, the flesh of
   which they eat, and consider it as delicious nourishment.
       The Kurilians supply the Japanese with dried fish of
   every kind, seal's blubber, walrus and fish oil, beaver,
   otter, sable, fox and bear skins, but particularly bears' tails,
   for which the Japanese pay a very dear price. The princi
   pal trading places are the 16th, 17th, 18th, and l<nh
   islands, to which a flotilla, consisting of more than 500
   laidars or Kurilian boats, proceeds every year about the
   middle of March, and after they have transacted their bu
    siness return again about the end ot May.
      The rest of the Japanese trade, as is well known, is exclusively
    in the hands of the Dutch, who, as one of the principal men
    among the Japanese told the Russian interpreter in confi
    dence, use every possible means to blacken the character of
    all other nations, and particularly of the Russians. The go-
• vernment, however,
                             notwithstanding the continual machi
    nations of the Dutch, begin already to see, that a trade to
    Russia would be much more advantageous than that with
    the Dutch, who bring them from a great distance those ar
                                                                  ticles

 334            First Russian Embassy    to Japan.
 tides which     they could obtain much nearer       and much
 better from the Russians.
     On the 29th of April 1793 a numerous embassy arrived
 at Nimuro, from Jedo and Matmai. The whole suite con
 sisted of sixty Japanese and a hundred and fifty Kurilians ;
 the latter of whom were employed as an escort and porters.
 Next day the Russians were invited to an audience, and re
 ceived in a large hall, which was formed of all the apart
 ments of the house by removing the paper screens or parti
 tions usual in Japan ; and where they were entertained with
tea, cakes, and a kind of wine called sakki, which the Ja
 panese extract from rice.     The senior then read the impe
 rial answer to the letter sent to Jedo, by which, instead of
the requested permission, the Russians were allowed only to
proceed by land under an escort to Matmai, in order to de
liver the Japanese whom they had brought with them. As
 this declaration, however, did not correspond with the ob
ject of the voyage, M. Lax man declined the proposal ; and
 till the end or May the Japanese officers used every means
in their power to prevent the Russians from proceeding fur
ther with their vessel.     But M. Laxman, tired of the long
delay, having at length declared that he would continue his
voyage to Chakodasche, as being the nearest harbour of Mat
mai, they resolved to accompany him ; and on the fourth
of June he sailed from the harbour attended by two Japa
nese vessels.                                 •              i
    On the 1 7th they passed the small island of Yururi, ia
the neighbourhood of Nimuro, at which the two Japanese
ships, which had found a much shorter but a very danger
ous route through two exceedingly narrow and crooked
channels, had already landed in order to wait for their ar
rival.
    On the 23d they sailed along another small island, Ki-
dab, which had a small bay exceedingly convenient for an
choring.
    On the 24th they anchored opposite to Atkis, in ten fa
thoms water. This harbour is deep, and sufficiently con
venient and capacious for large vessels ; it is entirely sur
rounded by hills covered with bushes, and sheltered from
every wind.     Besides   the native Kurilians settled in the
neighbourhood, there resides here a Japanese custom-house
officer.
    On the 4th of July the vessel arrived in the harbour of
Chakodasche, and came to anchor.         The daigvan or com
mander of the town immediately made his appearance, and
with great politeness offered to assist the Russians in what
                                                         ever

                 First Russian Embassy         to  Japan.           335
ever    they might want.        Besides a guard, which was re
quested     to  restrain the curiosity or the populace, who
thronged     around   them, he dispatched thirty boats manned
chiefly   with  Kurilians,  by whose assistance, as it was then
calm, the vessel was towed into the harbour.
     In consequence of an invitation, the officers went on
shore in the afternoon to refresh themselves, after the fa
tigues of their voyage, in the baths of the daigvan.                 M.
Laxman and his suite were received on the shore with great
ceremony by the daigvan and principal persons of the town,
and conducted to a building, over the entrance to which
was affixed a board with the inscription            "  Russian House."
The house was neatly furnished, and lay contiguous to a
garden, in which the wildness of nature was imitated with
great art, by means of moss, shells, and other things. After
enjoying the refreshment of the bath, the Russians were
 entertained with a collation, and then conveyed back to
their vessel with the same ceremonies.
     On the Qth M. Laxman paid a visit to the north side of
the harbour opposite to the town.                On both sides of the
road he observed fields in a high state of cultivation, which
 were sown with wheat, beans, flax, hemp, and tobacco.
 In the gardens he remarked in particular, turnips, carrots,
radishes, beet-root, common and Turkish beans.                 Of cattle
 he saw no trace, which arose, as he conceived, from the Ja
 panese not being accustomed            to eat the flesh of quadru
 peds.     Of fowls, they keep only hens*. M. Laxman re
 quested leave to walk through the town, but this was abso
 lutely refused.
     The 13th of July was at length fixed for their journey to
 the town of Matmai, two days before which M. Laxman
 was again conducted on shore with great ceremony, and
 spent the night in the house already mentioned.                   Next
 morning he received notice that every thing was ready for
 his departure ; two covered chairs, which in their form had
 a great resemblance to those of Europe, were provided for
 him and the second officer. They were carried by four
 men, who every half-hour were relieved by others, and who
  showed a considerable dexterity in changing places, even
  on full speed, without occasioning the least stoppage.             Be
  sides these bearers, each chair was accompanied by tour do
  mestics; the rest of the suite rode on horses, each of which
  was conducted by two men; so that the whole train con
  sisted  of 450   persons f.    The    road passed through the      fol-
                     *
                        Kcmpfer, vol. i. p. 141,  145.
                     t  Kempferi vol. ii. p. 144  to 151.
                                                                 lowing

   336           First Russian Embassy   to Japan.
   Jawing towns and villages : Moiatschi, Nikona, Schir-
   kudschi, i'uguschima, Yuschaga, Refige, and Ossamarussa,
   which was tlie last station before they arrived at Matmai.
   In each of these places a house was prepared for the Rus
   sians, and was furnished with the before-mentioned inscrip
   tion.
      At Ossamarussa the cavalcade was joined by a guard of
   600 men, in the midst of whom the Russians were con
  ducted into the town.      The houses were all thrown open,
  and hung with carpets; they seemed to be full of people,
  but not a single person was to be seen in the streets, except
  the police officers, who were armed with spears, and posted
  at all the corners and crossings.   Before the house destined
  for the residence of the Russians stood a guard of 120
  men, one half of whom were armed with bows and arrows;
 the other with muskets without locks, and lighted matches.
 The house was completely fitted up in the European man
  ner, with tables, chairs, and other furniture; and behind it
  lay a garden, on the wall of which, though of considerable
 height, a kind of railing was erected, hung with blue and
 white striped cotton cloth, to prevent the Russians from
 having any view of the town. Towards evening two masters
 of the ceremonies appeared, in order to make known to
 M. Laxman the manner in which he was to have his first
 audience, and the regulations to be observed on that occa
 sion. They proposed that, agreeably to their manners, he
 should present himself barefooted, creeping on his belly,
 and that he should then speak, lying on his right side, or in
 a kneeling posture ; but as M. Laxman absolutely refused
 to comply with this ceremonial, and proposed the Euro
pean mode as much more convenient, they at length con
sented.
     In  consequence  of this agreement the Russians next day
were      conducted to the house destined for the audience,
which was situated on the summit of an eminence, so steep
that it was necessary to ascend to it by a flight of steps.
The emperor's deputies were sitting in a large hall, in a se
micircle, and had over their dresses of ceFemony mantles
of white satin ; their heads also were covered with large
black lackered caps.     As soon as the Russians were seated
the senior deputy pulled out a letter, and read in substance
                 "
as, follows : — We have received the letter of governor
Piel, together with a Japanese translation, which informs us
of your mission, the delivery of our people, and other
matters, but the translation is so bad that we cannot make
sense of it j and as it is impossible for us, on this account,
                                                            to

                First Russian EiAlassy   to Japan.           337
to come to any decision, we return your letter."           A do
mestic then crawled forwards, half kneeling and half pro
strate, and, having received       the letter in that position,
handed it to M. Laxman.          To make up in some measure
for this disappointment, the senior ordered the screen to
wards the garden to be drawn aside, and showed him a
hundred bags of rice lying in a heap, which were destined
for him as a present; a paper was then delivered to him,
for the receipt and safe delivery of which to the Russian
government he was obliged to give one in return.            After
this he was conducted into an adjoining apartment, where
various refreshments were served up ; and on the collation
being ended he returned to a second conference in the hall
of audience.        M. Laxman was now permitted to make
 known verbally the object of his mission, which he accor
 dingly did ; and in a very long speech stated to the depu
 ties, that by an order from his court he had been commis
 sioned not only to carry home some Japanese subjects who
 had been wrecked on the Russian coast, but to convey them
 to Jedo-Koda the capital, that he might thus have an op
 portunity of expressing to his Japanese majesty the friendly
 sentiments of the empress of Russia, and her desire of en
 tering into a closer and more intimate intercourse with the
 Japanese government.         He concluded with proposing a
journey    to Jedo,  and requested  the advice and assistance of
 the deputies to enable him to carry his design into execu
 tion. The answer to this proposal was exceedingly short;
 the substance of it was : That according to the fundamental
 laws of the empire no strangers could be permitted to visit
 Jedo ; and that M. Laxman had enjoyed the same advan
 tage as if he had seen the emperor, as he had spoken to his
 deputies. They also desired that M. Laxman would make
  preparations for quitting as soon as possible with his ship
  the harbour of Chakcdasche ; and that he would either re
 turn to Russia, or proceed to Yedomo, which was the place
  originally destined for his landing.    The deputies then re
 tired, and the Russians were conducted with the same ce
  remonies back to their habitation, where they found a great
 number of presents provided for them by order of the em
 peror, and of the governor of Matmai.        M. Laxman, desi
  rous of testifying his gratitude to the latter, by giving some
  presents in return, requested that he might have the honour
  of waiting upon him ; but this was refused. He was at the
  same time informed that the governor was a child, an ex
  pression by which the Japanese denote a man of simplicity j
  and that he was not worth seeing : they however added,
                                                              that

338              First Russian Embassy          to   Japan.
that the presents might he sent by Japanese messengers;
which was accordingly done.
    Next day they were waited upon by two Japanese, who
offered to assist the Russian interpreters in translating the
Russian letter which had been returned, and the paper de
livered to M. Laxman by the deputies. But when the trans
lation of the Russian letter was ready the deputies refused
 to receiveit,  because it was not addressed to them      nameby     ;
M. Laxman represented, that was impossible their names
                                      it
could be known in Russia, but his remonstrances produced
no effect; and after much trouble he obtained permission to
have the letter read     by an interpreter.    The answer he re
ceived was, that strangers could be received only at Nan-
gasaki. That the Russians, however, might in future have
free access to that harbour and town, they wrote        permisa
sion on an imperial blank order, which they had               by
                                                          them,
and transmitted    it to M. Laxman.      M. Laxman then en
deavoured to obtain leave to exchange some articles of mer
chandise, which two Russian merchants on board the vessel
had brought with them        but this was refused.
                             ;
    On the 23d of July M. Laxman had an audience of
leave, during which he delivered         the Japanese he had
brought    with  him,  and received   receipt.
                                       a
    On the 25th he was conducted back with the same cere
mony to Chakodasche, and on the road the domestics who
accompanied the suite, requested the Russian interpreters
to give them privately, and without the knowledge of M.
Laxman,    a  copy of the letter which the deputies at Matmai
had refused to receive   :   this request was readily complied
with.
  On   the 11th of August the Russians hove up their               an
chor, and sailed from the road of Chakodasche as far as            the
21st Kurile Isle; being accompanied at some distance               by
two Japanese vessels, who were, no doubt, ordered to               ob
serve whether they attempted to land at any place in               the
neighbourhood.
    On the 19th they discovered the summit of the 19th Kn-
rile Island, and entered the strait between the 18th and
 19th, in which, however, they made little progress, in con
sequence of the weakness of the wind.
    On the 3d of September they were opposite to Mori-
kon, ridge of rocks half covered
      a                                        by
                                        water, which extend
about fifteen versts from Ochotzk, in north-east direction.
                                               a
    On the 8th they arrived    the road of Ochotzk, and on
                                 in
the 9th entered the harbour, after   voyage of 28 days from
                                           a
Mat mii.
                                                              M. Lax-

         On the Affinities         of different Earths for Carlon.            339
   M. Luxman concludes his journal with the following
translation of the paper transmitted to him by the Japanese
government :     •
   " We permit one Russian ship to enter the harbour of
Nangasaki ; but we at the same time renew the prohibition
that no foreign ships can be admitted into any other' part of
our kingdom, and that neither the Christian religion, nor
any signs of     can be allowed. We desire also, that in all
                   it,
transactions nothing may be done contrary to the laws of
our empire, and that the regulations which we have esta
blished shall be strictly observed. For this purpose the pre
sent writing has been delivered to M. Adam Laxman.
         Done in the town of Matmai."
LV.        Experiments           to ascertain        whether there   exists   any
     Affinity letwixt Carlon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
    parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide     Iron              of
    forming   Iron Ores and  Iron Stones. By DAVID MUSHET,
     Esq.    ofthe Calder Iron-Works.
                                [Continued from p. 281.]
HAVING                          the metallic properties of the
               rigidly ascertained
oxide of iron which          to enter into the composition of
                                   was
several artificial mixtures,    next proceeded to reduce
                                         I                  to                it
a very fine powder   and mix     with different earths.
                                           it
                                        First Class
    Consisted of               parts   of well dried Sturbridge clay,
                         4 6
                           of oxide.
    Exp.    I.            of this mixture,
                  500 grains
                12^, or l-40th of carbon,
                                       were fused together.
    A    minute spherule of malleable iron
                                       was obtained which
weighed 14 grains, equal to 2fsths per cent, from the mix
ture.
    The glass was dark and rough, excepting where                         it   ap
proached the neighbourhood of the metallic mass.
     II.500 grains of mixture,
          25             -
                   of carbon, or -20th.          1
   These were intimately mixed and fused.       neat button     A
of metal was obtained which weighed 46 grains, and equal
to Q^ths per cent. The glass in this experiment was mate
rially altered the additional dose of carbon and the revival
                  :
of greater portion of metal left the glass of fine black
     a                                                               a
shining colour, possessed of beautiful lustre where
                                             a          sur               it
                                                    rounded

   340                     On the Affinities of
  rounded the iron.       Its surface, however, was covered with
  a deep   crocus-coloured    film striated with milky blue lines.
      In the former experiment a fraction more than a grain
  of metal was obtained for each grain of charcoal ; in the
  present nearly 2 grains of soft malleable iron were obtained.
      III. 500 grains of mixture,
             33^        of carbon, or l-15th.
      There resulted from the fusion of this mixture a very per
  fect button of malleable iron, which was found to weigh 6s
  grains: produce in metal equal to 12£,ths per cent. The
  glass in this experiment was less black and shining than in
  former, inclining to clear brown somewhat transparent. A
  few globules of metal had evidently deflagrated upon the
  surface of the glass.
     IV. 500 grains of mixture,
            42        , or nearly 1 -t 2th carbon.                 *
     This mixture was exposed to a very high heat. The cru
  cible was shapeless when taken from the furnace, but the
 contents were safe.       The fusion was imperfect. The clay
  and charcoal evidently form with the oxide a mixture very
 infusible, of a rough spongy nature, full of bright globules-
  of metal.
     A mass of malleable iron was found which weighed 77
 grams, equal to 15-^ths per cent.
     y. 500 grains of mixture,
           50     -   of charcoal, or l-ioth.
     This proportion was exposed to a similar heat with
 former, but was found to possess less evident marks of
 fusion.     One small globule of iron only was found sepa
 rated.
     VI.  500 grains   of mixture,
            70       ,  or .nearly l-?th af charcoal.
    This mixture, after a similar exposure, was also found
 un fused.     A number of minute silver-coloured globules
had exuded from the surface of the agglutinated mixture,
 and a few were found carburated upon the surface.
     It would appear therefore to result from these experi
ments, that clay alone, as a mixture, is unfavourable to the
operation of iron, seeing that the largest collected produce
did not exceed 15-^ths per cent, (see Exp. IV.) ; whereas
the proportion of iron contained in the oxide, had it been
entirely revived, would have amounted to at least 28 per
cent.
    To prove that the oxide contained no matter capable of
reviving iron, nor the clay which was mixed along with it*
I took
             3                                         VII. 300

                   different Earths     for   Carbon.            341
     VII.  300 grains of Sturbridge clay,
           200          of oxide.
    This mixture was fused into a rough mass without any
appearance of glass or vitrification.          It was carefully ex
 amined, but not one particle of metal could be found re
 vived.
    VIII.  This was Exp. IV, repeated with the addition of
 80 grains  of raw chalk. The result was a very perfect fu
sion.     The glass was of a dark olive green colour, and co
vered a very neat metallic button, which was found to weigh
 1 14 grains, equal to
                         22-fffths per cent.    This additional pro
duce of 8-j^ths percent, above what was obtained in Exp. IV,
and the perfect fusion of the mixture, may be solely attri
buted to the addition of 80 grains of chalk.             From which
it may be justly inferred, that although calcareous earth
does not appear to absorb carbon itself, yet it acts a part
not less important or interesting, by facilitating the union
of the metallic particles with the carbonaceous matter in the
mixture, and thus enlarging under the same circumstance
the metallic produce.
    IX. This experiment was performed with the same pro
portion and quantity of mixture as Exp. I ; only vitrified
Sturbridge clay was put in place of the same clay in a raw
state.    The result was a very neat metallic spherule of iron
which weighed 1 2 grains ; equal to 2-i^ths per cent. The ex
periment which more immediately corresponds with this is
Exp. I; the result of which gave S-fjfhs per cent. The diffe
rence of Aths per cent, is so small, that nothing certain can
be inferred from the use of clay in two, states so opposite
to each other.
    A very different result, however, takes place when Wedge-
wood's pyrometric clay is used in the mixture.
    X. Wedgewood's clay               - • -        300 grains.
        Oxide           -          -        -      200
        Charcoal            -         - ' -          124
    The result was a neat spherule of malleable iron which
weighed 1 1 grains ; equal to 2-j^ths per cent. This expe
riment was repeated, and a similar shaped spherule of iron
obtained which weighed 14 grains ; equal to 2£,ths per cent.
These results are nearly the same with Experiments I and
                            ...
IX, where Sturbridge clay was used.
    XI. Wedgewood's clay, vitrified in
            a heat  of 1  70°,      -     -      300 grains.
          Oxide           -         -     -      200
          Charcoal                                a2£'
Vol.   19. No.   76. Sept. 1804.          Aa                    The

342                      On the Affinities   of
   The fusion of this mixture afforded a fine metallic button
of malleable iron which weighed 30 grains ; equal to 0 per
cent, from the artificial compound.           The same experiment
repeated yielded a button of iron which weighed 28 grains ;
equal to S^gths per cent.
   The extra quantity of iron revived in this experiment in
Consequence of vitrified Cornwall clay, beyond what took
place in Experiments I, IX, and X, with the same pro
portions of mixture, cannot be satisfactorily accounted
for. It is an important lesson, however, in so far as it
manifests the peculiar action which even the same earth,
differently prepared, has upon the separation of iron from
its ore.
Recapitulation of the foregoing Experiments with Oxide
   and Clay in the Proportion of six of the latter to four of
   the former.
   Exp. I. l-40th of carbon         yielded  2-fVhs per cent.
         II.  l-25th of ditto                9rotns
        III.  l-15th of ditto        .      12-/;rths
        IV.     -
              l 1 2th of ditto              15
                                               ^ths
         V.   Mixture not fusible.
        VI.   Ditto       ditto.
      VIII.   No. IV,     fused by means of 80 grains, chalk:
                  iron separated equal to 22lRsths per cent.
                              Second Class
   Consisted of 6 parts of very pure sand,
                     4 parts of the same oxide formerly used.
   I. 500 gTains of this mixture were exposed to fusion. The
mass of glass was carefully examined afterwards to ascer
tain whether it contained any revived metal. The glass
was dense and uniform in the fracture throughout, without
 any trace or vestige of metallic iron.
    II. 500 grains of mixture,
          12£          of charcoal, or nearly l-40th.
   This mixture was reduced to fusion, and a perfect glass
obtained faintly marked with dull yellow, but possessing
 metallic lustre. A minute irregular mass of malleable iron
 was found separated which weighed 7 grains : equal to l-j^ths
 per cent.
    III. Mixture          -                    500 grains.
          Charcoal l-25th, or            -       20
    The fusion of this was productive of five very perfect
 spherules of malleable iron which weighed 37 grains.         Pro
                                                              duce

                  different Earths    for Carbon.           343
duce \vith this small proportion of carbon Z^ths per cent.
The glass obtained was of a rusty yellow colour mixed with
black veins : the surface covered with brown vitrified oxide.
   IV. 500 grains of mixture,
          25          of charcoal, or l-20th.
   This mixture had fused in a very perfect manner, and a
beautiful metallic spherule obtained which weighed 45
grains ; equal to 9 per cent. The quality was malleable
iron as soft as copper. The glass was a curious heteroge
neous mixture ot yellow and vitrified sand.       In cooling, a
complete separation of the parts had taken place. The iron
was found beneath the yellow glass, but a mixture of sili
ceous particles and oxide had formed a handsome cone over
all about one inch in height.
   V. 500 grains of mixture,
         33         of charcoal, or 1-1 5th nearly.
   The fusion of this mixture yielded a button of smooth-
skinned malleable iron which weighed 65 grains; equal in
point of produce to 13 per cent. The mass of glass was
light shining yellow, surmounted by a thin stratum of oxide
of a purple brownish colour.
   This1 experiment was repeated, and a metallic button ob
tained which weighed 63 grains, or IS^ths per cent.        The
result otherwise was the same.
   VI. 500 grains of mixture,
          50 —— — of charcoal, or l-ioth.
   This mixture was found unfused in a heat of 160° of
Wedgewood.       The particles of quartz remained pure as
when first introduced, but considerably rounded by the ac
tion of the oxide. The latter "had resolved itself into a dark
yellow glass, which had penetrated in small veins the mass
of some vitrified sand.
   Three detached masses of iron were found which weighed
45 grains; or 9 per cent.      This experiment was repeated at
a higher heat, and apparently a greater quantity of iron was
revived; but this was dispersed over the surface of the un
fused matter in thousands of minute silvery globules. What
could be collected weighed 62 grains; equal to 12-*0ths per
cent.
    VII. 500 grains of mixture,
            80          of chalk,
            50          of charcoal, or l-10th the mixture.
   The result of the exposure of this mixture in a tempera
ture similar to the former was a complete fusion, a very per
fect mass of greenish glass, and a neat metallic button which
weighed 101 grains j equal to souths per cent.
                              A   a 2                        By

344             On the Culoptrkal and Dioptrical
    By comparing the effects produced by chalk under the
first class, Experiment VIII, with this it appears evident
that calcareous earth produces the same facility to fusion
when mixed with siliceous matter as with argillaceous, and
the tendency of the iron to revive is nearly the same in both.
                          LETTER IV.
LVI.      On the Caloptrical and Dioptrical Instruments of
    the Antients : with Hints respecting their Revival, Re
    invention, or Improvement, in modern Times.
     ' DEAR SIR,
 1•  AGREEABLY        to what  I promised in my last,  I  proceed
to give     a brief account of two memoirs of father Abat,
which, though not so interesting perhaps as that of which
I   gave, a translation in my last, tend, in a considerable de
gree, to elucidate the present inquiry.       I shall endeavour
to corroborate my author's statements with such proofs a»
happen to be within my reach ; and shall conclude with a
concise recapitulation of what has been advanced.
     2. Aiat's eighth Recreation is   " On a Mirror of Emerald,
 in which the Emperor Nero v'ltwetL the Combats of the Gla
diators."      Having proved, from respectable antient autho
 rities, that Nero, the most detestable monster who had
 tlutn disgraced the name of emperor, was a myope, or short
 sighted, my author, whom the reader, no doubt, has by
 this time discovered to be both learned and ingenious, ob
serves, that in many myopes the organ of vision is so de
 licately sensible to the impression ot light, as to require it
 to be moderated before they can see distinctly ; that for this
 purpose, some myopes view distant objects through small
 holes, in thin plates of metal ; and that Nero, in order to
 moderate the light, used a mirror, which my author argues,
 I think with great appearance of truth, was nothing more
 than an emerald reduced to a plane polished surface.
     3. I fear a detail of his arguments and authorities would
be thought tedious.         But 1 cannot omit a curious fact
which he has taken from our countryman Ellis' s Voyage
to Hudson's Bay; a work which, it would seem, is more
respected by the French than by ourselves ; for I find my
late excellent friend, Dr. Beattie, in his Dissertations, Moral"
and Critical, regretting that so good a book should have been
suffered to go out of print.     Speaking of the Esquimaux, (I
                                 4. .                    translate

                     Instruments of the Antients.                345
translate the French of Abat, having never seen his English
original,) Mr. Ellis says :
                                " Their snow eyes, as they very
properly call them, are a proof of their sagacity.         They are
little pieces of wood or ivory *, properly formed to cover
the organs of vision, and tied on behind the head.             They
have two slits of the exact length of the eyes, but very nar
row ; and they see through them very distinctly, and with
out the least inconvenience. This invention preserves them
fr6m snow-blindness, a very dangerous and painful malady,
caused by the action of the light strongly reflected from the
snow ; especially in the spring, when the sun is considera
bly elevated above the horizon.            The use of these eyes
considerably strengthens the sight ; and the Esquimaux are
so accustomed to them, that when they have a mind to view
distant objects, they* commonly use them instead of spy
glasses." — Surely a more ingenious device never originated
among any untutored tribe. Yet I could mention a modern
system-wright, who is pleased to rank these Esquimaux
among the naturally inferior races of men, which owe their
existence to his own imitative imagination.         But this is not
the proper place.
    4. My author's ninth Amusement, or Memoir, appears to
be more interesting than the eighth ; or at least it is more
analogous to that which I translated in my last com
munication.       It is " On the Antiquity of Glass Mirrors,
such as we use at present ; and on the Perfection of the
metallic Mirrors, which were in Use among the Antients."
In this memoir, Abat endeavours to prove that several an-
tient nations possessed abundance of plane metallic mirrors,
some of them of a large size; and he contends (against
Muratori, in his Antiq. Italicce Medii &vi ; M. Carry, in
a MS. paper which he sent to the Academy of Cortona in
1753; and Mr. Nixon, in the London Phil. Trans, for
1758), that the antients had the art not only of casting'and
polishing glass plates, but of coating them on the back with
metal. It would be tedious to follow him through his rea--
sonings on this subject ; but as his authorities must have
cost him very considerable research, and some of the books
are scarce, I shall here insert them.
    5.  "    I. METALLIC MIRRORS. — In Exodus, ch. xxxviii.
v. 8, we read that Bexaleel " made the laver of brass and
the foot of it of brass, of the looking-glasses, or brazen
glasses, of the women."        (Mirrors are among the furniture
   * No doubt the author   means by ivory,  any kind of solid bone. —
'Translator,
                               A  a 3                               of

346             On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical
of   a  Jewish lady's toilet,  as described      in the third chapter /
 of Isaiah.) — 2. Pliny, lib. xxxiii.       cap. 9. says:
                                                             " Optima
 (specula)    apud majores jiebant      Bmndusina, stanno el cere
 mixtis.     In the time of our forefathers, excellent mirrors
 were made at Brundusium, of a mixture of tin and copper."
 The same writer has these words : " Specula quoque ex eo
 (stanno) laudatissima, Brundusii temperabantur, donee ar-
 genteis uti ca?pere et ancillce.      Highly praised mirrors were
 manufactured at Brundusium, till the very maid-servants
 began to use silver ones." — 3. Seneca, in his Natural Ques
 tions, book i. ch. 17, and also in his 89th epistle, says,
 that there were mirrors as large as the human body *, and
 that they were not thought suitable furniture for apartments
 unless they were adorned with silver, and gold, and precious
 stones ; so that one such mirror would cost a lady more
 than the national dowries formerly given to the daughters
 of great officers who had fallen in battle.— 4. Muratori, in
 his Thesaur. Inscript. class 7. p. 529, has preserved this
 inscription, which proves, that the mirror-makers were so
 numerous as to form a corporate society :             " M. Ogvlino
 Feroci .... ^Editvo JEdis Concordia . . . Collegivm
   .... Speculariorvm .... Patrono Optimo. DD
 Dedicated, by the Company of Mirror-makers, to their ex
  cellent Patron,Marcus Ogulinus. Fcrox, Warden of the Tem
  ple of Concord." — 5. There arc not many mirrors remaining,
 either of the antient Romans, or of other nations.                Yet
  M. Cailus, in his Recueil d'Antiq. t. iii. p. 331, says, that
  "   there were sent him from Aries several antient Roman
  mirrors, one of them four inches in diameter, which still
  fits a case of the same metal, with the greatest exactness."
  (The kind of metal is not mentioned.)
      II. "Glass Mirrors. — 1. The following words are
  cited by Oleaster, from Rabbi Abraham ; — *' Mas erat om
  nium mulierum suam decorare fociem, et nptare tiaram,
  singulo mane, in speculis tends, aut vitreis.             It was the
  custom of all the women, to adorn their face and to adjust
  their head-dress, every morning, in brazen or glass mirrors."
  Here Abed adds, that he might cite many similar passages
  from Andreas Placus, in his Lexicon Biblicon, and from
  other authors. — 2. Anthony of Padua, who died in the year
   1231, in a sermon, on the fifth Sunday after Easter, cites
   St. James, ch. i. v. 23 : — " If any man be a hearer of the
    vord, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his
  natural face in a glass," or mirror ; and he adds, " Speculum
                       * S.e
                              § 83 of the last letter.
                                                                  nihil

                         Instruments       of the Antients.                  347
          est quam subtilissimum vitnim. A mirror is nothing
nihil aliud
else than a very thin, or fine, glass." — 3. Vincent deBau-
vais, who flourished under the emperor Frederic                     II. A.D.
 1240, in his             Naturale, lib. ii. cap. 78, says, that
" Inter omniaSpeculum
                melius est speculum ex vitro et phimbo : The
best mirror of all is of glass and lead." For, says he, in the
same chapter, " Quando superfunditur plumbum vitro calido,
efficitur altera parte terminatum valde radiosum: When
lead is poured on hot glass, a very brilliant surface is pro
duced on the other side." — 4. The celebrated John Peckam*,
archbishop of Canterbury, in his Perspecliva communis,
pars 2. prop. 7, says :
                         " Rejlexio est a denso, quia densum ;
propter quod specula consueta vitrea sunt plumlo obducta :
.Reflection is made from a dense body because of its density ;
on which account common glass mirrors are coated with lead."
He afterwards adds: " Si ut quidam J'abulantur, diapha-
neitas essct essentialis speculo, non Jierent specula de Jerro
et chalybe a diap/wneitate remotissimis, nee etiam de mar-
more polito; etijus tamen contrarium videmus: If, as some
feign, transparency were essential to mirrors, they would
not be made of iron and steel, which are most remote from
transparency, nor even of polished marble ; of which, how
ever, we see the contrary." — 5. My author next quotes from
the Ars Magna of Raymond Lully, who lived from the
year 1225 to 1315, the whole chapter De Speculo, which
is too long and perplexed with school metaphysics to be
here inserted. It may suffice to observe, that the subject
of it is mirrors        coated with lead. — 6.
                                       S. Isidore, of Seville,
who died A.D. 636, in his Etymol. lib. xvi. cap. 15, speak
ing of glass, says,
                    " Neque est alia speculis apt'wr materia :
    *   1 cannot but observe that,    as far as I can find, Ab.it takes no notice
of Roger Ba     on, the countryman     and cotemporary of Peckam, or PtLCam;
though in several parts of his book he had fair opportunities of doing so.
Can this neglect be any way owing to the critique of Dr. S. > Certain it
is,  that in Mr. BonnycaHle's excellent translation of Bossut's ILsl. Gener.
des Valbem. p. 189, we find this passage: — " Roger Ba on's Treatise on
Optics    is particularly remarkable for the ingenious, just, and at the same
time new, ideas    it  offers on the subjects of astronomical refraction, the ap
parent magnitudes of objects, the extraordinary size of the sun aud mocn
near the horizon, the place of spherical foci, &c. Some English writers,
a  tittle too much prejudiced    in  favour of their countryman, have fancied
that they discovered        in this treatise that the author knew the use of
spectacles,    and even of the telescope     :  but Mr. S., an Englishman       of
more impartiality, and an irrefragable judge, has controverted this opi
nion    by  an accurate and critical discussion of the passages that gave rise
to it.''    Does not Roger Bacon's fame gain more       by   the just commenda
tion of the learned Frenchman, than         itlosesby   the hypercriticismof the
learned Englishman      ? — Trar.sfotor.
                                       Aa4                                  Nor

348               On the Catoptrkal and Dioptrical
Nor    is anv other material fitter for mirrors." — Henry S/e-
pkens, in his Thesaurus Ltngiice Greece, article 'TaXivoj,
 (of or belonging to glass) cites a passage from Alexander
of AphrodUtum, the celebrated commentator on Aristotle,
who lived towards the end of the second century.                       Abat,
not having seen the original, docs not give the passage,
but says that Stephens adds,           " Unde 'T aAivac KnhrTpx, apud
Alexandrum Apkrodisium, vitrea sptcula : Hence the Hya-
lina Katoptra of Alexander Aphrodisius, signifies glass
mirrors."
    6. Abat goes on to state, that, in consulting authors
whose only subject was the art of making glass, such as
Antonio Neri, Kunckel, Merret, Handiapicr de Blancour,
and Brumoy in his Latin poem De Arte Kitraria, he has
not found a single hint of the time of the invention of glass
mirrors    ; although all these writers inquire into the antiquity
of glass,    and the purposes to which it has been applied, not
forgetting mirrors.         He says that all the books of travels,
geography, and history, he has met with, which notice the
glass manufactories of Venice, Germany, &c. are silent as
to the time and place of the first establishment of such works.
Abat further observes, that Scarabelli, in his Description of
the Cabinet of Settala or Septala, in Italian, positively says
that no author has mentioned who was the inventor of glass
mirrors.       In short, my author declares, that, as far as he
knows, no writer has given the least intimation of the time
when glass mirrors were invented ; except Pliny, who (in
the words cited above, § 85,) says that they were contrived
at Sidon.
  . 7. My learned       author observes, that, from all antiquity,
the practice of coating copper with lead or tin has been
used * ; and he intimates that the following method of coat
ing glass globes, which is common in Germany, is so an-
tieut, that no author who describes it makes mention of the
inventor : — " Take equal parts of lead and antimony (the
stibium    f  of the antients) and melt them together. Blow
                                                                     a glass
   • AinsiDorlb, under  the word Sltmngm, gives this quotation from     Pliny,
xxxiv.   17.
              " Sfiiiwum illiium tenets vasts lompcscit atuginis virus:   Tin
overlaid on copper vessels allays the poison of the verdigrise."       In one
of the volumes of Dr. Antler s'm's excellent miscellanv,   The   Bee, there
is a very simple recipe observed by the Turks in tinning metallic     vessels j
but  I  cannot get the volume at present.— Translator.
    f I  have somewhere met with the following whimsical, but not im
possible, account of the origin of the nnmc Antimony: — Some monks hav
ing thrown out an antirr.onial preparation, with which they had been
making experiments, it happened to be swallowed by some hogs, along
with, the kitchen offals, and almost worked them to death.           But the
                                                                      animals

                        Instruments  of the Antients.
 a glass globe     of the size you want ; and, while it is red hot,
 pour    into   it the   melted mixture, along with a bit of colo
 phony,     or  black  rosin.   Turn it gently, in all directions, till
 its whole interior surface be coated over.              Take it imme
 diately    off the fire, and  pour off what    is left, and keep it for
 another occasion. Then with a diamond or an agate cut
 the globe into as many mirrors as you think proper. The
 same thing may be done with a mixture of tin and anti
 mony."
     8. I suppose mv readers will agree with my author, that
 the total silence of history respecting the time and place of
 the introduction of glass mirrors, to which we may add the
 inventor's name, is one of the strongest possible presump
 tions that they had their origin in very remote antiquity 5
 like the use of iron and the other common metals, alpha
 betical writing, the arithmetical digits, and other admirable
 and highly useful inventions. Aiat appears to me to prove
 satisfactorily, that leaded glass was early used for mirrors;
 but he has not been able to discover any direct evidence that
 silvered glass mirrors are equally antient. He only quotes
 Isidore of Seville, Etymol. lib. xvi. cap. 18, where that
 father says, " Sine hoc (argento vivo) neque argenlum neque
 (BS inaurari potest : — Servatur autem meiius in vasis vitreis j
 nam cceteras materias perforat.           Without mercury neither
 silver nor copper can be overlaid with gold. — But it is kept
 best in glass vessels, for it perforates other materials."
 Alat observes, that such an opinion would induce people to
 keep their mercury in glass vessels ; that when mercury
 contains lead or tin it adheres, though not very strongly,
 to glass, and thus presents to the eye the exact appearance
'of   a silvered glass mirror; that Pliny's word excogitaverat
 implies, that the Sidonians had bestowed thought and pains
 on their glass mirrors ; and that so simple a process as sil
 vering them, could not long escape such ingenious artists.
  For, when they had once observed that mercury, mixed
  with tin or lead, adheres to glass, it would not be difficult
  for them to conceive, that foils of these metals, well imbued
  with mercury, would have the same property. In short,
  eays Altai, an ingenious man, after some attempts, would
  easily succeed in doing the rest ; or, in other- words, would
  discover the process of silvering glass mirrors, which we
  now practise.
                              [To be continued.]
  animals growing afterwards uncommonly fat and sleek, the monkt tried
  its operation upon themselves, and suffered severely by the experiment.
  Henoe, savs my forgotten author, the name Antimony, winch signifies
  An enemy to monks.— Translator,
                                                              LVII.   On

                             [   350   ]
LVII.     Osteological Description    of   the one-horned   Rhino
                       ceros, by  Cuvier*.
As I     propose to publish a part of the researches         I have
made to discover to what species the fossil bones have be
longed, I must first give the osteology of some quadrupeds,
which, under this point of view have never yet been de
scribed.
    When Pallas first published, in the 13th vol. of the No-
vi Cummcntarii of Pctersburgh, an account of the fossil
bones of the rhinoceros found in different parts of Siberia,
he regretted that he did not find in the work of any natu
ralist an osteological description of the living rhinoceros,
and particularly of the cranium.
    Some time after Camper had an opportunity of procur
ing a part of what he wanted ; he transmitted to the Aca
demy of Petersburgh a description and figures of the head
and cranium of the two-horned rhinoceros of the Cape of
Good Hope. His memoir was inserted in the first volume
of the Transactions for the year 1777, part ii. which was-
not printed till 1780.
    This great anatomist had then no knowledge of the
difference of the teeth, by which the two species of rhino
ceros are characterized ; and as he did not find incisors in
his two-horned species, he accused Parsons, Linnaeus, and
Buffon of error, for having ascribed any to the one-horned
species.
    But before his memoir was printed he paid a visit to Pa
ris, and, having observed the one-horned rhinoceros then in
the menagerie at Versailles, he found its incisors.             He
even procured the head of a young individual of this spe
cies, and had a drawing made of the alveoli.           He immedi
ately sent an account of all these facts to Pallas, that they
might be printed along with his memoir.
    He related the same tacts in his Dutch dissertation on the
one-horned rhinoceros, printed in 1 782, the figures of which
were the same as those transmitted to the Academy of Pe
tersburgh.
   These he confirmed in 17S5, when he procured a draw
ing of the head of a one-horned rhinoceros preserved in
the British lyiuseum ; and having obtained an older than
that which he had first in his possession, he caused it to be
engraved by Vinkeles in 1787, with the old figure of the
one-horned rhinoceros, in a superb folio plate, dedicated to
   * From Anna'.*! du Museum National a" Histoirc Naundk, No. 13.
                                                           I. Van

Osteologkal Description       of tJie   one-horned   Rhinoceros.        35   1
I.  Vandersteege ; this plate, however, was never published,
but distributed among his friends.        For one of them I was
indebted to the kindness of his son.
     This figure of the head of the unicorn is imperfect, as
the real figure of the bones is still covered by some liga
ments : there is one in particular behind the orbit, which
might deceive those little acquainted with the subject,
 and be considered     as an osseous partition separating this
 fossa from that of the temples.
     M. Blumenbach, however, has copied this plate on a
 small scale, in his collection of objects relating to natural
 history, No. 7-
     M. Faujas also caused to be delineated on a small scale,
 by Mareschal, the bones of the head of an adult one-horned
 rhinoceros, which is preserved in the Museum, and had it
 engraved in the 10th plate of his Essals de Geologic, but
 this figure is not accompanied by any description. Besides,
 though very exact on the whole, it is confused by the ru
 gosities being too strongly marked by the engraver, and the
 sutures not being seen.
      If to these be added the excellent figures of the lower
 face of the cranium and of the lower jaw of the one-horned
  rhinoceros given by M. Merck, in his third letter on fossil
  bones, printed at Darmstadt in 1786, we shall have, I be
  lieve, a complete catalogue of the materials hitherto pub
  lished in regard to the osteology of this remarkable species
  of quadrupeds ; and it will be seen that I am not pre
  cluded from resuming the subject, and treating it with an
  extent suited to its importance.
      The pieces which will serve as a basis to my description
   are the beautiful skeleton prepared by M. Mertrud, of the
  rhinoceros which lived twenty-one years in the menagerie
  at Versailles, the same which was examined alive by M.
   Mickel and Peter Camper; and the head of a younger rhi
   noceros, for which our Museum is indebted to the genero
   sity of Adrian Camper, and which served as an original for
   the. plate given by his illustrious father.
                              1st, T/te Head.
       What strikes most in   the form of the head of the rhino
     ceros, (see Plate VII.) is  the pyramidal projection of the
     cranium : the occipital bone forms the posterior face of                it,
     and the temporal   fossae are the faces    of   the sides     :   the ob
 liquely ascending continuation of the front     the anterior is
 •face; and instead of point the summit
                          a                  transverse line.
                                                     is   a
    The occipital ascends obliquely from behind forwards,
                                                       which

  352             Ostcohgical Description     of the
 which is peculiar to the rhinoceros, and renders its pyramid
  almost straight. In the hog even, which has a pyramid al
 most similar, it is inclined backwards.
     The contour of the occipital is a semi-ellipse, which be
 comes broader towards its base, to produce a projecting
 plate behind the foramen of the ear and the posterior base
 of the zygomatic arch.
    The line of the base exhibits at its middle the condyles,
 and at the sides the mastoid apophyses pointed and hooked :
 in the hog they are exactly under the condyles. Before
 each of these apophyses is another very large one, which
 belongs to the temporal bone, and which contributes to form
 the articulation of the jaw ; it prevents it from moving much
 from right to left, and it corresponds with an indentation
 situated at the interior extremity of the condyle.
    Between these two apophyses, but a little more inwards, is
 another short apophysis, the end of which is hollow, and
 receives the os styloides.
    The impressions of the muscles divide the occipital face
 of the four fossae: the anterior face of the pyramid de
 scends, always becoming broader between the eyes, where
 the post-orbitar apophyses of the frontal are the most di
 stant limits.    The point of the nose completes the forma
 tion of the rhomboid, which characterizes the upper face
 of the whole cranium. The region between the eyes is
 concave in the longitudinal direction, and plane in the
 transverse ; that of the bones of the nose becomes convex
in every direction.
    The parietals begin a little before the summit of the
 pyramid ; they terminate towards the middle of the space
between that ridge and the orbitar apophyses ; the sutures
analogous to the coronal, and the lamdoid are perfectly
transverse.
    The scaly suture, or   the limit of the parietal and temporal
in the temporal     fossa, is parallel to the direction of the an
terior  face of  the  pyramid.
    The large ala of the sphenoid ascends only very little in
to the temporal fossa, and this bone is not articulated with
the parietal.
    The posterior half of     the zygomatic arch belongs to the
temporal;    all the rest belongs to the os jugale or the cheek
bone.
    The direction of the arch is like an Italic S, descending
obliquely from behind forwards : its inferior edge is very
thick in my adult individual, and projects considerably ; it
is much less in the young subject given bv M. Camper.
                                                              The.

                     one-horned  Rhinoceros.                35S
    The maxillary bone advances under the orbit, and forma
there a plate : there is no apophysis either of the frontal or
the jugal to join die zygomatic arch to the Irons, and to
close the orbit behind.
     The sub-orbitar foramen is small, longer than broad, and
near to the bottom of the nasal indentation.
     The maxillary bones form before a projecting apophysi*
parallel to the bones of the nose, and situated under them,
which articulates with the incisors.      The alveoli of the in
cisors form together an angle of more than eighty degrees
in the adult, but which is not sixty in the young individual.
The incisor foramen is very large, elliptic, ana not divided
into two parts.
     The incisor bones have at their upper edge a small apo
physis, and a square plate which rises towards the roofj
 formed by the bones of the nose.
     The latter are of a size and thickness of which there is
no example in other quadrupeds : they form an arch which
 inclines to the incisor bones, and which supports the horn.
 In my adult individual their upper face is granulated like
 the head of a cauliflower.
     Between them and the incisor bones and that part of the
 maxillary bones which supports them, is that large nasal inr
 dentation, which on the first view characterises the cranium
 of the rhinoceros. It results from the depth of this inden
 tation that in this animal three pairs of bones, the nasal,
 the incisors, and the maxillary, contribute to form the con
 tour of the external apertures of the nostrils ; while in other
 quadrupeds, the tapir excepted, there are only the .two
  latter. The lacrymal bone is small, and advances a little
 on the cheek. It has a very broad lacrymal canal, before
 which is a small pointed apophysig.
      The vomcr is ossified only in its most remote part, and
  there remains nothing in four-fifths of its length even in
  my rhinoceros full grown, and in which all the sutures
  were effaced.    This remark is of great importance fpf a
  comparison   ,of the living with the fossil rhinoceros.
      The posterior groove of the palate is very deep, for it ad
  vances opposite to the fifth molar tooth ; the suture which
  separates the palatine from the maxillary bones corresponds
  to the interval between the fourth and fifth molar tcoth.
      The pterygoid apophyses are short in the longitudinal di
  rection, but very high in the vertical; single, and only a
  little forked towards the end.
      The middle part of the sphenoid is straight, and proceeds
  much further back than its pterygoid ala; its articulation
                                                             with

354        On the Antiquity   of the Gealic Language.
with  the os basiliare of the occipital forms a very sensible
 projection ; along the middle of this basiliary part is a pro
jecting ridge, which becomes broader and is flattened to
 wards the inferior edge of the occipital foramen.
   The rupes is small and very irregular : the foramen lace-
 rum is large, and extends along the interior edge of the
rupes.
Length of   the head from the edges of the occipital
   foramen to the edges of the incisor bones      -          0'8
Distance between the most projecting part of the
   zygomatic apophysis        -     -     -     -            0-43
Height of the occiput counting from the lower edge
   of the occipital foramen     -                            0*26
Ereadth between the apophyses placed behind the
   holes of the ears     -                                   0-3 1
Breadth between the orbitar apophyses of the frontal         0'23
Depth of the nasal notch      -     -     -     -            0-   15
Its height       -                -                          0-095
                      [To   be continued.]
LVIII.    On the Antiquity    of   the Gealic    Language.        By
                 CUTHBERT GORDON,            M. D.
       Mr. Tillock,
IF   you deem the following observations on the antiquity
of the Gealic language not entirely foreign to the nature of
your publication, and worthy of a place in         you will
                                                     it,
oblige me   byinserting them.
                                    am, &c.
                                    I
                                             CUTHBERT GORDON.
   THE Gealic presents numbers with their names, which
no pther language, the antient Hebrew only excepted, can do.
To know why those names are fixed to numbers we must
take them in their order, beginning at one. Doing so will
naturally show why they contain such excellent names, as
it were, within themselves   ; and why those names, in pre
ference to all others, are given to be our numbers.    Their
order runs thus  :
                                                             THE

                                                                                           THE              GEALIC                  PRECEPT.
       Numeral                                        Roots     and      Expla
                           Pronunciations.                                                                                                            English                 Tr"nsl"tion'.
     Characters.                                                    tions.
               1.        Aon.       Enn.       .     Ah     —   Ann.                         He       is     — The            Presence             —   I       Am.
             9.          Dao.       Duo.       .     Du—        O.        .                 0     —      Out         of.         Du      — The                Black        ;     out     of     the       Thick           Darkness.
             3.          Dr*.       Drui.            Dru—       I.        .                  Dru         —    Penetration                   or       Incubation                  Ij     — The
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Spirit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i.;    e. The          Incuba
                                                                                                    tion       or                                 of      the
                                                                                                                       Operation                                    Spirit.
                         Cheaher.                    Che—           Ah—          Er.         Che         — The          Cream            :       Ah       —       He   is     :   Er    —       of    Man         i.;      e.     the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           phlogiston
                                                                                                    of       man's            intellectual                                         the                      of      the     mind;           the
                                                                                                                                                              powers;                         taper                                                light.
                                                                                                    As        Cheair,
                                                                                                                                 i.    e.    the          fat,        wax,        or                                  of    the         earth,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   is  thel
                                                                                                                                                                                           phlogiston
                                                                                                     symbol
                                                                                                                       of     the      Sun            and          culinary
                                                                                                                                                                                       fire     ;so Cheaer                 is     the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           symbol          ofj
                                                                                                    intellectual
                                                                                                                                Light.
             5.                                      Co—                         ..2         God            alike     —      Deified             alike        —
                         Coighd                                 Ighd.                                                                                               Almighty.
                         Shiah                       Shi—       Ah.        ...              Shi       — The            Peace        :       Ah       —    He        is   i.;      e.       He      is     The        Peace.
            6. 7.        Shiachd                     Shi    —   Achd.             '
                                                                                  .         Shi       — The
                                                                                                                           Peace,     Achd,                    to     Mankind                ;     The      Comforter.
            8.           Euchd.        Iuchd         I—     Uchd                            1   —     The           God      ;   Uchd    —               of    the      Breast         —                        —    Universal             Love.
                                                                                                                                                                                              Charity
            9.                               .
                                             .  .    Na    —                       .   2
                                                                                                     — As                                        —                         The          Innocent;                The                      The
                         Naomgh.                                Omgh.                       |Na                      the;        Omgh                    Lamb;                                                              Pure;                   Holy
           10.          |Dec                        |Dec                                    'Depart.
       "    The        Presence       out      of   the     Thick         Darkness                           the                   of the                                        is    the                   ;      He     is   The                           ;
                                                                                                                      operation                                   Spirit                        Light                                     Almighty
He         is    The     Peace        He     is     The     Comforter;                     He
                                                                                                    by is
                                                                                                                           or Universal                           Love        ;   He         is   the      Lamb—                Innocent,
                                                                                                            Charity                                                                                                                                  Pure,
and                        Now       comes           the             or                             the                             of      our          Globe             the     Earth,             which          of     itself       is
          Holy.                                                O,          Cypher,                             Symbol                                                                                                                         nothing,
.
or      of no                       but                         by                         the                              of   The                                       makes                     or                                            us      to
                                 ; ;
                       power                supported                   Unjty,                        Symbol                                 Presence,                                       10,            Dec,           commanding
1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (J.
    depart."

356        On the Antiquity   of tlw Gealic Language.
     By this order of our numerals    we discover one    of the
most excellent and interesting precepts that ever was deli
vered to man; containing, firsi, an excitement to wonder
with amazement at the procedure of the Presence and the
operation of the Spirit in the production of Light, calling
forth our gratitude to the Great Author for that portion of
this Light or Ray of himself he is pleased to endue us se
verally with : and, secondly, the prevention of hurt towards
our neighbours;       whether by defamation, murder, false
witnessing,    false  weights and measures, unjust accounts,
or otherwise. We are commanded to depart to replenish,
the earth, and not to prostitute in their own symbols those
great and awful attributes ; he must be most hardened, in
deed, who, knowing the significations they bear, can dare
to do it.    Therefore those excellent names, preferable to all
others, are given to be our numbers ; and they are com
prised in those numbers, that in all our transactions they
may be as a lamp before us.
     The commanding number Dec, the others being attri
butes of the Almighty, evinces that those characters, though
commonly called Arabic, are truly the Gcalic's; and m.
fact, neither the Arabians nor any other nation until now
 did ever claim them ; nor could they, indeed, having no
 title to show.      Whatever the Jews may have had, they
 dropped it long since in^igypt.
     The Gealic alphabet, if not providentially preserved as
its numeral characters have been, is long since lost ; and
the' following facts, handed down by tradition, may account
 for their being so.
     The Magi (from the nominative plural Maghi, Maghim,
or Maghin ; singular, Mai ; i. e. Ma-I, the goodness of
 God), or expositors of the goodness of God, became in
 process of time, from being esteemed the best and wisest of
men, to be dreaded as dangerous innovators ; and were ac
cordingly suppressed.      The more ignorant vulgar believed
that, by their great knowledge in the secret operations of
natural powers, they could at pleasure transmute their own
bodies into those of other animals, and in particular into
that of the hare ; and from this opinion conceived so deep
a prejudice at the flesh of that animal as to be scarcely worn
out even at this day.     Many of the more common High
landers will say that they prefer eating of any other flesh to
that of the ghare ; i. e. the cut-lip or hare.  If asked why?
they immediately retort, " Ne Vaghi" (the oblique case of
Maghi), Is it the Magi, or would I eat the Magi ? and with
» serious countenance will add, that ten hares to one are
                                                        witches

           On the Antiquity   of tlie Gealic Language.        357
 witches or warlocks.     No doubt the goodness of the Magi
  made them too communicative to the people, who could
  not well comprehend the principles of things taught them :
  and hence magicians, witches, and warlocks.
     The Druids (from the nom. phi. Druidghi), or explorers
 of the wisdom of God, succeeded the Magi, and were in
 most instances the very contrasts of their predecessors.
They nearly kept a total silence, suppressing all kinds of
 literature except what they themselves were pleased to teach
orally; and even that was but to the flower of the people.
 There was neither book nor writing of any kind but what
 they eagerly sought after; and, if found, as eagerly destroyed.
 In short, the polity of the Gealic Druids was unhappily
 such as to destroy all letters and characters, of whatever de
 nomination, within their power. Thus the Gealic alpha
 bet is irrecoverably lost, if not somehow found in the an-
 tient Hebrew or in its primary dialects ; but it is feared that
those too are gone. The Jews were long captives in ./Egypt ;
and their language as well as their precept gave naturally
way to that of their masters ; nor was Moses, while he led
them in the wilderness, inspired to restore them the former
 though he was the latter, made suitable to man's declining
powers ; for now they must be commanded to do their duty,
whereas formerly they had the Precept to guide them, with
one only command — To withdraw, to replenish the earth.
The Gealic numeral characters must have shared the fate of
its alphabet, had it not been for the extensive communica
tion that, some time or other prior to the administration of
the Druids, its people must have had with other countries
out of their influence ; and their own transactions at home
have kept their names almost pure.
    Notwithstanding the great change that the Hebrew must
have suffered during the long captivity of the Jews in ^Egypt,
yet the following names seem to retain their antient purity.
If   we view them along with the Gealic, comparison will
show the affinity or relation they bear one to another.
Vol.   19, No. 76. Sept. 1804.        B b              Hebrew.

358             On the Antiquity       of the Gealic Language.
    titorcty.        Ucaiic.   I ¦ Mutual Koo.s.       English 1 radiation.
 I                 I            I                    God ; the Spirit.
 Iah.     , . ,    Iah.      .  I —ah                The God or Spirit
                                                        who am ; I Am.
 Iod,              Iod.          I— od               The God that Am ;
                                                        I Am that I Am.
 Iehovah.          Iahavah.      I —a— ha— vah. I— The God ; A— I
                                                        Am; Ha— That is;
                                                        Vah— That was ;
                                                        The God I Am ;
                                                        that is, and was.
  Shiloh.      . .  Shiloh. .. Shi— lo                Peace or good will to
                                1                       mankind.
      If we may form our judgment by the ahove comparison,
 we will readily pronounce the antient Hebrew and the pre
 sent Gealic the same language : let us therefore prosecute
 the affinity a little further, bv taking a comparative view of
 the Gealic Precept and the Hebrew Decalogue ; the com
 parison may still throw more light upon this high and in
 teresting subject.
        The Gealic Precept.                     The Hebrew Decalogue.
      The first four numbers of                 The first four command
 the Precept excite our won                 ments are much to the same
 der and amazement at the                    purpose, requiring the like
 august         Presence       and    the    adoration and gratitude for
 operation of the Spirit, de                 the production of the crea
 manding our utmost adora                    tion.
  tion and gratitude for the
  production of Light.
       The fifth number shows                   The fifth commandment
  that the Light brought forth               requires to honour your fa
  by the Presence and the Spi                ther and your mother.
  rit, is God alike, or to be
  alike deified ; but, proceed
  ing from the Father and the
  Spirit, is ever obedient to
  their will.
       The sixth number is Peace.                The sixth commandment
                                              requires not to kill.
       The seventh number shows                  The seventh command
   that the Light is the Peace                ment requires not to commit
  and Happiness of mankind.                   adultery.
                             3                                              The

          On the Antiquity   of the Gealic Language.          359
      The Gealic Precept.             The Hebrew Decalogue.
   The eighth number shows           The eighth commandment
that the Light is Charity or      requires, not to steal.
universal Love.
   The ninth number shows            The ninth commandment
that the Light is Innocent        requires not to bear false wit
as the Lamb, Pure and with        ness against our neighbour.
out guile.
   The tenth number com              The tenth commandment
mands to withdraw or de           requires    not to covet    thy
part ; but not to prostitute      neighbour's wife, nor        his
those attributes of our Great     servant, nor his maid,     nor
Author in their own sym           his house, nor his ox,      nor
bols to the hurt of our neigh     his ass, nor any thing     that
bour by coveting his goods        is his.
or estate, &c.
   The production of the             The Law was given to
Light was out of the Thick        Moses out of the midst of
Darkness, through the ope         the   Fire, of the Cloud, and
ration of the Spirit, by God.     of   the  Thick Darkness, by
                                  God.
   The  Precept  is comprised        Moses inculcates the Jews
in Gealic   numbers, that we      diligently to instruct their
should be initiated in both       children in the words of the
the one and the other at one      Law ; to bind them as a sign
and the same time, and thus       upon the hands, and that
in all our transactions be as     they be as frontlets between
a lamp before us.                 the eyes.
   Our numbers are ten.              Our commandments          are
                                  ten.
   The above plain and cursory view puts the affinity of the
Gealic Precept and the Hebrew Decalogue in so clear a
light, that we can discover no material difference, or rather,
indeed, none at all ; and therefore must conclude them to
be one and the same : which is the greatest proof that pos
sibly can be given for the authenticity of the Precept, or for
the antiquity of the Gealic language. The word Gealic, de
rived from Geal or Gial — Reason, Light, or Understanding;
and EC or Ic — He has ; i. e. Rationality, is presumed to be
the proper name of the primitive language,           and not the
word Hebrew, from Eber, a man's name. Eber, indeed,
and his successors for a long time after him, may have pre
served the language in its antient purity; and, to distinguish
it from the corrupted dialects of their cotemporaries, may
have also given it the name of their predecessor, Eber, who
                             B b S                           first

360             Fourth Letter from        Dr. Thornton
first had observed,       perhaps, the falling off of the language,
and endeavoured       to provide against it ; and hence called He-
berew: but surely the word is of too selfish or confined a
nature to be the proper name of the primitive or universal
language, the,distinguishing mark between the rational and
brute creation. Gcalic is therefore the antient and real
name, carrying in its basom the idea of Rationality.
 LTX. Fourth Letter from Dr. Thobnton,                      Lecturer     on
    Botany at Guy's Hospital, to         Mr. Arthur Aikin, Edi
    tor of the Annual Review.
                                             September n, 1804.
       SIR,                       No.  I,  Hind-street, Manchester-square.
 XJ aving      skirmished at the out-posts, we come now to the
 body    of  the   work itself, and the same want of solidity
 of criticism -will, I trust, be shown here, as in the other
 parts.
    The reviewer begins by declaring his total unacquaint-
 ance with the author, and very properly hopes, " that our*
 minds are free from ever)' improper bias, and as we shall
 nothing extenuate, so we shall set down nought in malice."
 " The first section, of twelve pages," he observes, •' con
 tains only the plan of the work."
     "The second is devoted to an explanation of the three
 kingdoms of nature ; and ^fanciful comparison of the great
 families of plants, with the different ranks of civilized so
 ciety, translated with little variation from the Systema Na
 turae of Linnaeus.- The whole would scarcely have filled two
 pages; but to swell it to the bulk offour, it is stuffed^ with
 two quotations from Milton, with a long note from Ari
 stotle and Cicero, and a pious address to the Deity from Fe-
 nelpm, which having, likeBayes's prologues, an universal fit
 ness, would do equally for any part of any system of natural
 history, that ever has been, or ever will be published."
    • There is no                             When reviewing Dr. Shaw's
                    egotism in the writer.
 work, he thrre savs, '• Such ive have reason to believe to be the case.
 In the summei of 180!. ire omnlves happened to be at Inverary in the
 height of the hening fishery.'*   Page 844.
    t Appl\ ing the word stuffed to any i .scrtion from the prince of poets,
 recalls to mind the story of a poor author, who, on a Saturday night,
 took, as his last resource, his Milton's Paradise Lost to a pawnbroker,
 who loot ing at the work said, " Pray, sir, where does this Mr. Milton
 hve- I don't know nor nt.ver heard talk of such a man. If you had
 brought me some Milton oysters, I shou d have then known tubal value to
 have put on them."
                                                                         To

                           to  Mr. Arthur 4Mn.                          361
    To those unacquainted with my work it may be necessary
 to declare the whole truth.           I        as follows : — My Title,
 " The Philosophy of Botany,"open          is the finest penman-ship of
Tomkins, engraved by Vincent. Her most gracious Majesty
having condescended lo suffer me, with permission, to de
dicate to her my work; facing the dedication is the por
trait of her majesty, by Sir William Beechy, R. A., en
graved, and surrounded by angels ; the masterly execution of
Bartolozzi, R, A. Then follows the bust of Linnaeus, from
a painting in the possession of Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B.
honoured by ^Esculapius, Flora, and Ceres, with Cupid;
by Opie, R. A. and Russsel, R. A., engraved by Ridley;
with a description of the emblematic design of this pic
ture. Then follows a secondary kind of dedication to the
most eminent living botanists, or but lately deceased ; ^nd
there now open on the " astonished view" the portraits of
the patrons of botany : the late Karl of Bute, first lord of the
treasury ; the right honourable Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K. B.
president of the Royal Society ; next the president and insti-
tutor of the Linnean Society, professor of the Royal Institution,
James Edward Smith, M. D. ; the vice-president of the Lin
nean Society, Aylmer Bourke Lambert, Esq. ; professors
of botany and lecturers in the three principal British Univer
sities, the Rev. Thomas Martyn, George Williams, M.D.,
and Daniel Rutherford,             M. D. president of the Royal
Edinburgh College of Physicians ; professors of lotany and
lecturers of the National Institute at Paris, Jean Baptiste
Lamarck, Antoine de Jussieu, and Des Fontaines; amateur
and promoter of the science of botany, Jean Jacques Rous
seau ; poetic writers oil the subject of botany, Erasmus Dar
win, M. D., George Shaw, M.D.; botanic physiologists,
Sir John Hill, M.D., Rev. Stephen Hales, Jean Ingen-
housz, Charles de Bonnet, Joseph Priestley, LL. D., Ro
bert Hooper, M. D. ; writer on medical botany, William
Woodville, M.D.; historian, Richard Pulteney, M . D. ;
agriculturist, Arthur Young, Esq.; voyager, Rev. Joseph
1 ownsend *; with appropriate vignettes by the most erui1-
                                                                       nent
   * Among     these portraits might; have been expected the head of Dr.
Aikin;   for throughout his excellent work, EVENINGS AT HOME, are
                                                        *" To m.ike a book
interspersed many very excellent lessons on botany.
on the subject of natural history for young people," says the reviewer,
" an union of genius and science is required, which is rarely employed in
providing the first rudiments of knowledge for the young.       We know
ofoNLV ONE LIVING WRITER, whe has all the qualifications neces
sary for the task, and is at the same time accustomed to the consideration
of entering ima the imperfect vie ws^ and supplying the wants of the un-
                                     B b 3                       instructed

362                  Fourth Letter from       Dr. Thornton
nent masters.     Besides these original and fine portraits, we
 are promised by the author those of Grew, Malpighi, Ray,
Toumefort, Vaillant, two of Linnseus : one of these from an
 Original picture in his own possession; and next succeeds
 his own portrait by Russel, R. A. engraved by Bartolozzi;
 the vignette by Loutherbourg, with a plan of the work.
And in the second section              is,
                                   Man at his first creation                    :   a
 subject  which has  called forth  the utmost stretch of genius
of Howard, R. A., who at first doubted how far he had
    a
abilities to represent this figure of Adam        and the back
                                                           :
ground     is  Reinaglc,sen. R. A., to be engraved
                by                                        Sharp,       by
and Landseer, sen. engraver to his majesty. — appeal to            I
every generous heart, whether, after an expense of three thou
sand pounds for an opening to work, which Dr. Darwin was
"
                                       a
    delighted with," and "in which," he said, *' he felt      an            it
honour to have his portrait introduced             ;"
                                            whether, after such
exertions on my part, and such risk of fortune,
                                             a           deserve    I
to be accused of *f stuffing my work with unadapted matter
to swell its bulk from two to four pages."         appeal to the
                                                          I
Barbaulds and the Aikins, themselves poets, whether the
                                "
low vulgar expression stuffed" be applicable to the grand
description of man,         Milton, at hjs first creation, alone
                                by
capable of exalting our conceptions to that most astonish
ing act of the omnipotent Creator.         appeal to the philo
                                                 I
sophic world respecting my quotation from Cicero, who has
from Aristotle also endeavoured to raise our minds to the
conception of that act.      And lastly, shall the pious prayer
 instructed mind.       No one who has read, and ivbo has not read? the
 sketches of natural history scattered throughout the little volumes, en
 titled EvtNINGS AT HOME; Or, The JUVKNILE BUDGET OPENEDt
 can be ata   loss to guess ivbomvie mean. That writer's plain and eUgant
 style, and happy talent for familiar illustration, would be most beneficially
 employed     in  conducting the unpractised naturalist through the lire*
 kingdoms of nature, in explaining the principles on which the classifica
tion of their various parts has been conducted    ;     and in selecting such de
 tails as would render the whole equally interesting and instructive."
 P. 864 of Annual Review, Arthur Aikin editor         1      As this perhaps in
 tended work has x\ot yet appeared, Dr. Aikin will forgive me for not
placing him among those great botanists whose portraits        I   have presented
to the public.  I    again, as have often done, repeat that,
                            I                                  in   truth,  1have
an high sentiment of respect       for Dr. Aikin; and as supposing the name
of Aikin to stamp considerable degree of weight on any Review passed
                        a
under that name, from that cause alone have entered the lists with an
                                        I                                        op
ponent, wliom otherwise     I   should have considered as beneath my notice.
As Dr. Aikin       isgrouped next but one to me in the print of some of the
principal members of the Bolt-court Medical Society, of which his son
Mr. Aikin     is register, (but his portrait Dr. Sims has som-i-ozv omitted),
1   could have wished we had been next to each other, and      I      am sure we
should nut have troubled the world       by   our jarrings.
                                                                                 of

                            to    Mr. Arthur Aikin.                                    363
of Fenelon, the author of Telemachus, who thus concludes
his Survey of the Wonders of Creation, to rouse the sense
less spirits of a giddy world to the contemplation of his
glory who formed           be also included in the mass of dull,
                            it,
stupid,   and   unappropriated matter? To its Jitness, not as
books commonly run,          appeal to every judge of composi
                              I
tion.    Adam       supposed, after the wonder excited
                     is                                         the               by
objects  of  creation,  to  begin  to class these in his mind,  and
he separates the three kingdoms of nature             he then dis    :
criminates the seven vegetable tribes, as represented to us by
Linnaeus. This appeared to me proper, grand, and suitable
                                                  a
opening to        botanic work       and,             if
                                              wrong, might even
from its " magnificence" have disarmed the severity of criti
                 a                           ;
cism. But your reviewer           devoid of all " grandeur
                                        is                     con               of
                   "
ception" and of taste;" and, had he been placed as Adam
was, would have only said, " All this            very pretty, but
                                                            is                         I
want something good to stuff my guts with;" and brute
like, after filling his belly, would have fallen into profound           a
6leep, and snored like hog, not caring about waking*.
                                  a
                               have the honour to be, sir,
                                    T                                                  .
                                                                                       k
                   Your obedient and much injured servant,
                                                  Robert John Thornton.
   P.S. I    would here wish to apologize to the philosophic
reader for making    him     party in this contest but being
                                      a                                  :
openly challenged     in this  magazine to vindicate myself
from what are called                "
                            serious charges," brought against
me   by Mr. Arthur Aikin's reviewer as public lecturer,;         a
successor to the Linnean Smith,         have esteemed I    as                    it     a
duty notto shrink, when the gauntlet      thus publicly thrown
                                                       is
down; or had contented myself with the single letter "on
           I
the satellite of Venus," not willing to obtrude more on the
time and patience of the philosophic world.
  * How    delicately does        Milfoil    handle this subject ! When he repre
sents our first father as   falling into a      sweet slumber, he nevertheless makes
him dream.
          " On   green shady bank, profuse of flowers,
                 a
                                        -------
           Pensive   Isat me down   there gentle sleep
                                          :
           First found me, and with soft oppression seiz'd
           My drowsed sense
           Then suddenly stood at my head      dream, a                      '
           Whose inward apparition gently mov'd
           My fancy to believe jet bad being."
                                      I
                                          B   b   4                          LX. Ac

                                    [    364          ]
LX.     Account of a Journey to tlie Summit of Mont Perdu:
     read in the French National Institute by C. Ramond*.
X several      times attempted to ascend Mont Perdu, but was
always stopped at a little distance from its summit by pre
cipices and an accumulation of ice, which it was impossible
for me to pass.       I was, however, anxious to reach          either               it,
to verify,     by the help of my barometer, the elevation of
this mountain, which appears to be the highest of the                                       Py
renees; or to ascertain the nature and disposition of the
banks of which the summits are formed and thus to place          :
beyond all doubt one of the most singular geological phae-
nomena ever observed.
   Of all the faces of Mont Perdu there was only the eastern
declivity which afforded me any .chance of success.                On
that side there      is   avery high defile, which the intrepid
mountaineers sometimes pass in order to proceed directly
from the valley of Beousse to that of Fanlo           this     what    :         is            is
called the Col deNiscle,        Iwas persuaded that        proceeding       by
from this defile     itwould not be difficult to ascend the peak
itself, if  the interval       by
                              which was separated from
                                                  I                did                 it
not conceal from me some obstacle which                  was impos         it
sible to surmount.        I therefore sent two of my best guides
to explore the way, and followed them myself four days
after.  I   now found that was not deceived in my opinion,
                                I
and that  I   had conjectured the real route to Mont Perdu.
 I    took my first station at the Port de Pinede. In the Py
renees the name of port or gate              given to those defiles
                                                          is
which serve as passages of communication between one
valley and another. The latter              in the Spanish boun
                                                      is
daries, and   is   at a  considerable elevation. According to                                  a
barometrical observation,            2516 metres, or 1291 toises;
                                        it   is
 being 98 metres higher         than  that of the Col du Grand
 Saint Bernard. The Port de Pinede, however,                 far from           is
being   the  most   elevated  passage  of this  part of the Pyrenees.
    Here the Col de Nifcle         seen opposite; but the spectator
                                        is
is  separated from        it   the valley of Beousse.
                               by                          We there
 fore descended, proceeding in an oblique direction towards
 those enormous walls which sustain the lake of Mont Per
 du and its terrace       and we arrived at the point where the
                          j
 torrent, issuing from this lake, falls down in           most awful       a
  *
      From Annates   du Museum Rationale                  cfHisloire   NaturelJe,    No. 13.
                                                                                      cataract

              Journey to the Summit    of Mont Perdu.          365
cataract    to the bottom of the valley.      Here we passed the
night in    the open air, surrounded by the. vapour of the cas
cades above us ; Mont Perdu suspended over our heads, an
abyss below our feet, and the storm growling every where
around us.
   Our first labour in the morning was to ford the torrent
which discharges itself from the lake: its depth, its great
rapidity, and in particular the coldness of the water, ren
dered this operation exceedingly troublesome.           The water
made the thermometer rise to only two degrees above con
gelation.
   From this place to the top of the Col de Niscle we expe
rienced no other difficulty than that which arose from the
great inclination of the declivities.     I ascertained the height
of this defile, and found it to be on a level with the Port de
Pinede, and a little more than that of the lake.
   The last stages of Mont Perdu appear to the west of this
defile, and rise suddenly with an awfulness which an
nounces the avenues to the summit.           Four or five terraces
piled one upon the other form so many stories, the steps of
which are in part covered with eternal snow, and ruins,
which in some measure facilitate the approach to these
walls, otherwise inaccessible. The first of these ruins are
very large blocks of gres containing testacea; among which
I found fragments of calcareous schist, strongly stained
with argil, and interspersed with small polypiers to which
I never saw any analogous, and which seem to constitute a
new genus. Higher up, the ruins become smaller; and the
greater part of them belong to a calcareous kind of stone,
compact, blackish, and singularly fiend. By being crushed
under our feet it infected the air with a nauseous odour,
which had no similarity to any of those called forth by per
cussion from any of the common hepatic and sulphureous
stones.
    We employed more than an hour in traversing these im
mense ruins ; and this part of the journey fatigued us very
much, by the efforts we were obliged to make in climbing
up the steep declivities, and in consequence of the mobility
of the soil, which had a tendency to throw us towards the
precipice..
    At length we    arrived at the upper terrace, and found our
 selves on a band    of solid rocks. This band was at first a
narrow ridge cut out like the roof of a house; but it gra
dually became broader, and conducted us to a kind of valley
or commencement of the glaciers, with which the peak is
surrounded.       Here   I found the last rocks which   I was able
                                                                 to

 366                Account   of  a Journey to the
 to observe, as all the rest were covered by the ice and the
 snow.     I here discovered a repetition of those calcareous
banks interlarded with silex, which I saw at the Port de Pi-
nede. They affect in the like manner a situation nearly ver
tical, and a direction parallel to that of the chain ; they
 are accompanied with laminae of another calcareous stone,
very much charged with sand, and which contain so great
a quantity of lenticular mimismals, that they often seem to
be almost entirely formed of them.
    When we arrived at this terrace we were obliged to
ascend the glaciers, by the lower precipices of which I had
been hitherto stopped; but this time I approached them at
their origin, and consequently at the place where they have
 the least inclination.    The passage, however, was disagree
able and very, dangerous : sometimes the surface was slip
pery, hard, and resisted our cramp irons ; sometimes we
sunk into the fresh snow, which had fallen on the summits
towards the middle of July. Beneath this snow we felt
fissures, where we were every moment in danger of being
lost. Other fissures were open, and opposed our passage ;
and we had very nearly been stopped by the last, at the di
stance of two hundred yards below the summit.              This fis
sure extended transversally      from  the  commencement      of the
glacier   as  far as   the precipices   of  the  valley of Beousse.
We had no other resource than to clear this interval by
leaping down : we did so, and succeeded : this was the last
obstacle we had to encounter.              I measured the visible
depth    of  this fissure, and    found  it  to be 50 feet; and as
the point where we passed corresponded to the convexity
of the mountain, it was evident that it was the place where
the glacier had the least thickness.
    From this place I beheld the summit, which before had
been concealed from me by the disposition of the declivi
ties which I had traversed.        It appeared under the form of
an obtuse cone, covered with the purest snow.              The sun
shone at the time in full splendour, and the sky appeared of
a dark blue colour, so strongly tinged with green that my
guides were struck with its strange appearance. The former
shade has been observed on all high mountains, but there is
no instance of the second ; and I do not know to what
cause this singular optical illusion is to be ascribed.
   At a quarter past eleven I reached the summit, and had
at length the pleasure of seeing the Pyrenees at my feet.          I
immediately prepared my instruments for .making expe
riments.     A violent wind prevailed at east-south-east,
which rendered this operation very difficulty and wTiich occa
                                                             sioned

                     Summit   of Mont Perdu.                  36J
«ioned some    confusion in the results. At noon         I noted
down the heights of the barometer and thermometer. Thfe
corresponding operations were made at Tarbes : at that
place, the barometer, when every correction was made.
Stood at 27 inches 1-47 line; and the thermometer, at 20-50*
of Reaumur. At the summit of the peak the barometer
was 18 inches 11-14 lines; and the thermometer at 5-50*
above the freezing point.      The height given by calculating
these observations is about 72 metres, or 37 toises below
what is given by trigonometrical observations ; but this dif
ference seems to have arisen from the stormy state of the
atmosphere: at least I think myself authorised to infer- so,
from more than 600 operations of the same kind, at diffe
rent heights, with a view to ascertain the nature, extent,
and influence which the different modifications of the at
mosphere have on measures obtained by means of the baro
meter.
   The peak is covered with snow to its summit : this snow
is continued towards the north, and transformed into- an
immense glacier, which descends by stories to the margin"
of the lake; its vertical height being about 800 metres.
   On the south, however, the face of the peak is unco'-
vered ; but this is occasioned not so much by the action of
heat as by its steepness : as the snow cannot adhere, it con
tinually falls down from the top of the mountain on a slope
six or seven hundred metres below, where ft forms a glacier
of such extent as to resist the direct and reverberated heat
to which it is exposed by its situation.
   The uncovered part of the mountain did not exhibit to'
me any strata in their natural place : it is an accumulation
of ruins divided by time, macerated by the snow, buffeted by
the winds, and beaten by the thunder, of which the greater
part bears impressions.      All these ruins belong t6 the cal-'
careous kind of stones, compact and foetid, which are here
in alternation with shell stones.       I examined them with
an attention suited to the importance given them by their
situation. They contain a small quantity of fine sand, coals,
a little iron, and a foetid cadaverous principle, which seems
to arise from a bitumen of an animal origin.
   This last conjecture is certainly well justified by the dread
ful destruction of the marine animals which accompanied
the formation of these mountains.          This foetidity, there
fore, is not exclusively annexed to the strata or marble
found here.     It is observed on breaking gres, of which car
bonate of lime constitutes the smallest part, in the same
manner as sand is found in marble, in which one might
                                                          scarcely

368              Account   of   a Journey to the
scarcely suspect its existence. All these masses form dif
ferent mixtures of similar matters : sand, lime, foetid car
bonate, argil, shells, united in all possible proportions, ac
cording to accidents which modified in every point the in
fluence of general causes.     Such are the elements of all
these strata and veins arranged here in so capricious a man
ner, and which succeed each other with so much irregula
 rity.
    From the top of Mont Perdu the eye beholds, at one
time, all this system of similar mountains: it is a long
series of summits with upright strata arranged in the same
line, and which divide the immense horizon of the spec
tator into two parts, as different in level as distinct by the
 form of the mountains with which they are filled.
    On the north, primitive mountains arise, the sharp and
torn summits of which are closely enchained, and form a
large band, the elevation of which totally intercepts a view
of the plains of France.
    On the south the spectacle is very different ; every thine
is suddenly depressed.   It is a precipice of from a thousand
to eleven hundred metres, the bottom of which is the sum
mit of the highest mountains of that part of Spain. Non'e
of the summits have 2500 metres of absolute elevation, and
they soon degenerate into low round hills, beyond which
opens an immense prospect of the plains of Arragon.
    But what attracted my attention was the aspect of that
southern band of the Pyrenees, on which I looked down as
if from the clouds. It seemed to me to be divided into two
distinct parts.    The nearest to the plains exhibited to my
view those long ridges and those hollow valleys which in
general form the calcareous hills on the borders of the large
chains.    On the other hand, the band which adheres to
Mont Perdu, and which serves it as a base, retained that
strange appearance which distinguishes every thing that be
longs to this singular mountain. It is an immense and long
plateau, the whole surface of which, seen from this height,
appears to be nearly on a level. Some paps only, and a few
small hills, separated by broad but shallow valleys, appear
on it. But in the midst of these superficial inequalities,
traced out by antient currents, there are four enormous
crevices with sides exactly vertical. They proceed diverging
from the bases of the peak, and are continued to the limits
of the plateau, the protuberances and valleys of which
they divide, and they even intersect it itself to its founda
tions. They absorb also the waters of      it,and conceal them
by   thick forests observed in their hollows,    These fissures,
                                                          which

                      Summit   of Mont Perdu.                  369
which might be supposed recently formed, have preserved
so well their salient and re-entering angles, that every thing
perfectly corresponds on both sides — their sinuosities and
undulations — so that one might think their edges, in order to
unite, waited only for a new effort of the power which dis
joined them.
     One might traverse these crevices without any advantage,
 were they not seen from above.          Their extent, their depth,
 and the gigantic size of all their proportions, would not al
 low one to conjecture their origin and nature. To approach
 them, one must seek for the opening in the Val de Broto or
 of Fanlo. They are vast and majestic valleys covered with
 forests as old as the world, and which are known only to
 some shepherds who conduct thither their migratory flocks.
     I spent two days in that called Val d'Ornera. I never
 saw any thing more striking or extraordinary.           The soil is
  a series of terraces, perfectly horizontal, formed by banks
  of gres, between which is observed red gres, considered by
 geologists as one of the oldest on the globe. The torrent
 falls in cascades so regular, that the long ramp down which
 it pours seems to have been formed by the art of man. On
  the other hand rise, as far as the eye can reach, the sides of
  this vast fissure disposed in stories of a prodigious height,
  and of which the steepness, the matter, the colour and join
  ings excite so much the idea ,of human structures, that the
  spectator thinks he sees an immense edifice in ruins. From
  the bottom of this fissure I ascended to the plateau.          Its
  elevation is 2430 metres or 1 200 toises above the level of
  the sea, and the depth of the fissure is 900 metres or 460
  toises towards its middle, and 1257 metres or 645 toises to
  wards its mouth.                                                   •
      Every thing  is secondary  in 'these enormous   masses.  Pud
  ding stones, gres, calcareous and foetid shell-stones, are
  the materials ; and among the marine bodies inclosed in
  them the most predominant genus is that of the numis-
  tnals, which are found every where in such prodigious abun
   dance, that it strikes with awe the mind the best accus
   tomed to the idea of the grand devastations of nature.
      In regard to the plateau itself, it is a frightful desert.
   Being too high to produce trees, it stifles the small vegeta
   tion which exists by the mobility of the ruins with which it
   is covered, and scarcely are there seen here and there a few
   meagre grass-plats.     The heights even of Mont Perdu are
   not so naked : a* far as the last stories I found rare and
   superb plants ; and I collected, at the distance of some
   metres below the summit, the cvrastium alpinum and the
                                                               aretia

f5"0       Journey to the Summit     of Mont Perdu.
aretia alpina in full bloom.        I never saw the latter so
vigorous and so beautiful as I did at an elevation which is
the greatest, perhaps, at which parasitic plants have beer*
observed in the same latitude.
   These organic beings were the last I met with on the sum
mit of Mont Perdu. I remained on it two hours ; and to
whatever distance I turned my eyes I observed no living
creature but an eagle which passed over us, flying directly
against the wind with inconceivable rapidity : in less than
a minute we lost sight of it.
   We struggled against this impetuous wind, over which
an eagle triumphed so easily, and which made us experi
ence a considerable degree of cold.       No wind diminishes
so speedily the sensible heat as the south wind, when one
is exposed to its action in the superior regions of the atmo
sphere : it derives this property from its dryness and rapi
dity, which promote and hasten the evaporation of which
bodies are susceptible. We were penetrated by          it, though
the thermometer indicated       a very low temperature.       This
is the only inconvenience   I  experienced. We could breathe
without difficulty this air so light, and which        not suffi
                                                      is
cient for the respiration of many others.     1  have more than
once seen vigorous persons obliged to stop at less height.
                                                   a
On the Col du Geant, where the air was not so highly ra
refied, Saussure experienced    a  shortness of breath and un
easiness as soon as he made the least exertion. Here nothing
similar occurred the state of the pulse only indicated a
                   ;
change independent of the agitation, of the journey         :  was
                                                                it
Hot calmed   by  rest.  During the whole time that we conti
nued on the summit     it  remained small, tense, and accele
rated in the ratio of  5 to 4.   This fever, which     isnervous,
announced the uneasiness we should have experienced at               a
greater height ;   but, according to what we experienced,            it
was attended with an effect contrary to what      a degree more
would have produced. Far from occasioning dejection,                 it
seemed to support my strength and to rouse my spirits.               I
am persuaded that we were often indebted to            it for that
agility of  the limbs,   delicacy of  sensation,  and  flights of
fancy, which instantly dissipated our fatigue and apprehen
sion of danger and we ought not, perhaps, to seek any
               ;
where els<? For the secret cause of that enthusiasm found in
the accounts of all those who have ascended to extraordinary
heights.
                                                       LXT. Ac-

                           [       371         ]
JJJI.    Account of an Aerostatic Voyage performed ly
    Messrs. GUY-LUSSAC and BIOT.       Read in the Mathe->
    maticat and Physical Class   the French National Insti
                                         of'
    tute, August 37, 1804.
OINCE      the use of aerostatic machines has become easy and
simple, philosophers have been desirous that they might be
employed for making observations which require                 great a
elevation at      a distance from terrestrial objects.     The mi
nister M. Chaptal afforded         afavourable opportunity for re
alizing these projects so useful to the sciences; and Messrs.
Berthollet and Laplace having been pleased to interest them
selves in this affair, the minister complied with their re
quest, and M. Guy-Lussac and myself* offered to under
take the expedition.        We have performed our first voyage,
and    we   now  give  an  account  of to the class.
                                          it
    Our principal object was to examine whether the mag
netic property experiences any appreciable diminution on
removing from the earth. Saussure, according to experi
ments made on the Col du Geant, at the height of 3435
metres, thought he could perceive            very sensible decrease,
                                                   a
which he estimated at one-fifth.           Some philosophers even
have announced that this property vanishes entirely on
ascending from the earth in an aerostatic machine. As this
fact    is naturally connected with the causes of magnetism,
it   was of importance to clear up and ascertain the truth of
 it. At least, such was the opinion of several members of
 the class, and of the illustrious Saussure himself, who
 strongly recommends this observation, to which he several
 times paid attention in his excursions to the Alps.
     To determine this question           very simple apparatus
                                           a                                is
 sufficient.    Nothing  is    necessary but       magnetic needle,
                                                            a
 suspended    by  a  very fine silk thread.    The needle     turned is
a   little from its magnetic meridian, and suffered to oscillate.
 The more rapid the oscillations, the greater the magnetic
  force. This excellent method was invented               M. Borda,
                                                                by
  and Coulomb gave the means of estimating the force ac
  cording to the number of oscillations.          Saussure employed
  this apparatus during      his  excursion   to  the top of the Col'
  du Geant. We carried one of the same kind with us in our
  balloon.     The needle we employed had been carefully con
  structed   by  that excellent artist Fortin and Coulomb was"
                                                            ;
  so kind as to magnetize      it himself              by
                                                the method of^Epi-
                               *
                                   M.    Biot.
                                                                          nus.

   37*            Account  of an Aerostatic Voyage
  nus. We tried its magnetic force several times before we
  quitted the earth. It made twenty oscillations in 141 se
  conds of the sexagesimal division ; and, as we obtained the
  same result a great number of times without the deviation
  of half a second, it may be considered as very exact. We
  used for our observations two excellent watches that beat se
  conds, lent to us by an ingenious watchmaker, M. Lepine.
     Besides this apparatus we carried with us a common va
  riation compass and a dipping needle ; the former to ob
  serve the direction, of the magnetic meridian, and the other
  to determine the variation in the inclination.       These in
  struments, much less sensible than the preceding, were
  destined only to point out to us the differences in case any
  very considerable should take place. That we might obtain
  only comparative results, we placed all these instruments in
 our car when we observed on the earth the oscillations of
  the first needle.  No iron was employed in the construction
 of the car or of the machine. The only articles of iron we
  carried with us, a knife, a pair of scissars, and two pen
  knives, were suspended in a basket below the car at the di
 stance of from 25 to 30 feet ; so that they could have no
 sensible influence on the magnetic virtue.
     Besides the principal object of this voyage, we proposed
 also to observe the electricity of the air, or rather the diffe
 rence in the electricity of the different strata of the atmo
 sphere.     For this purpose we carried with us metallic wires
 of different lengths, from 60 to 300 feet. By suspending
 these wires close to the side of our car from the extremity
 of a glass rod, we were brought i; .to communication with
 the lower strata of the atmospnere, ,.ad enabled to call forth
 their electricity. To determine the nature of this electricity
 we had a small electrophorus weakly charged, the resin of
 which had been rubbed with earth before we ascended.
     We proposed also to bring back air collected at a great
 height.     To accomplish this part of our plan, we had an
 exhausted glass balloon closely shut, so that to fill it with
 air nothing was necessary but to open it. We were pro
vided also, as may be readily conceived, with barometers,
thermometers, electrometers, and hygrometers.          We had
likewise metallic disks to repeat the experiments of Volta
in regard to electricity excited by simple contact ; and we
carried with us different animals, such as frogs, birds, and
insects.
    We ascended from the garden of the Conservatoire des
Arts on the 24th of August, at ten in the morning, in the
presence of a few friends.       The barometer stood at 28 in.
                                                        3 lines j

           performed        ly   Messrs. Guy-Lussac and Blot.       373
3  lines; Reaumur's thermometer at 13'if, and the hygro
meter at 80'8°; consequently very near to the greatest de
gree of humidity.     M. Conte, whom the minister of the
interior entrusted with the preparations, had taken every pos
sible care to render our excursion successful ; which was
in reality the case.
    The first moments after our ascent were not employed,
we confess, in making experiments. We could not help
admiring the beauty of the surrounding spectacle.         Our
slow and gradual ascent produced on us that impression of
confidence which one always experiences when abandoned
to one's self with secure means.      We could still hear the
encouraging shouts of the spectators : but we had no need
of them ; we were perfectly collected, and without the least
uneasiness. We enter into these details only to show that
some reliance may be placed on our observations.
    We soon reached the clouds. They were like light fogs,
which occasioned only a weak sensation of humidity. Our
balloon being entirely distended, we opened the valve to
let out the gas, and at the same time threw out ballast that
we might ascend higher.      We now found ourselves above
the clouds, and we did not enter them again but in de
scending.
    These clouds, when seen from above, appeared to us
blueish, as when viewed from the surface of the earth.
They were all exactly at the same elevation; and their upper
surface, full of small eminences, and undulating, presented
to us the aspect of a plain covered with snow.
    We were then at the height of about two thousand
metres*'. We tried to make our needle oscillate; but we
soon found that the balloon had a very slow rotary motion,
which made the position of the car, in regard to the direc
tion of the needle, continually vary, ar.d prevented us from
observing the point where the oscillations ended. The mag
netic property, however, was not destroyed ; for, on pre-
    * We  calculated the*? heights from observations of the barometer and
thermometer mads in the balloon, and compared with those made by
M. Bouvard at the observatory. We employed the formula of Laplace
with the corrected co-efficients which he adopted, and which M. Ra-
mond deduced from a great number of tiigonometrical measurements
made witii great care.   Our thermometer was tilled with spiiit of wine;
the scale was divided into 100 parts, and it was secured from the actiou
of the SMI by a white handkerchief folded double, which was wrapped
round    it,
          but     such
                     in  manner as not to be
                           a                  incontact with it. We took
every necessary precaution     the calculation, that we might not give to
                                  in
our heights too great values and they were ratbtr too toiall than too
                                   ;
great.
    Vol.       19.   No.   76. Sept. 18Q4.     Cc        .      seating

  3 "4            Account   of a?i Aerostatic Voyage
  seating a bit of iron to the needle, attraction took place:
  This rotary motion became sensible when the ropes of the
  car were brought into a straight line with any terrestrial
  object, or with the sides of the clouds, the contours of
  which exhibited differences very sensible. In this manner
  we soon perceived that we did not always correspond with
  the same point.      We, however, hoped that this rotary mo
  tion, already very slow, would cease in the course of some
  time, and permit us to resume our oscillations.
     In the mean time we made other experiments. We tried
  to excite electricity by the contact of insulated metals : it
  succeeded as on the earth.       We then prepared an electric
  pile with twenty disks of copper, and as many of zinc. We
  obtained, as usual, the pungent taste, a shock, and the
  decomposition of water. All this could be easily foreseen
  from the theory of Volta, and since it is besides known
 that the action of the pile does not cease even in vacuo ; but
 as there was no difficulty to ascertain these facts, we thought
 it our duty to examine them. Besides, the apparatus could
 serve us as ballast in case of need.       We were then, accord
 ing   to oiir estimation,  at the  height of 2724 metres.
     When abbitt this elevation we observed the animals we
 had carried with us. They did not appear to suffer any in
 convenience from the rarity of the air. The barometer,
 however, stood at the height of 20 inches 8 lines. A bee
 (apis violacca) which we set at liberty flew off quickly, and
 quitted us with a humming noise. The thermometer indi
 cated thirteen degrees of the centigrade division, or 10*4° of
 Reaumur.       We were much surprised that we experienced
 no cold : on the contrary, we were very much heated by
 the sun ; and we took off our gloves which we at first put
on, as they were now of no use to us.           Our pulse was ac
celerated : that of Guy-Lussac, which in general gives 62
beats per minute, gave 80 ; and mine, which in general
gives 79, gave 111.        This acceleration, therefore, in both,
took place in marly the same proportion.          Our respiration,
however, was in no manner confined : we experienced no
uneasiness, and our situation seemed exceedingly agreeable.
    We, however, still turned round : which thwarted us
greatly ; becav.se, while that effect continued, we could not
observe the magnetic oscillations.          But by bringing our
selves in a line, as already mentioned, with terrestrial ob
jects, and the sides of the clouds, which were at a great di-
stunce below us, we perceived that we did not always turn
round in the same direction j the. rotary motion gradually
decreased, and took place in a contrary direction.       We then
                                                           found

             performed by Messrs. Guy-Lussac and Biot.                 375
  found that it would be necessary to watch the transition
   from the one motion to the other, because in the interval
  we remained stationary.          We took advantage of this re
  mark to make our experiments ; but, as this stationary state
  continued only some moments, it was not possible to observe
  twenty concentric oscillations, as on the earth : we were
  obliged to be satisfied with five, or at most ten ; taking care
  not to agitate the car ; for the slightest motion, that even
  produced when we let the gas escape, or of our hand when
  we wrote, was sufficient to turn us aside.             With all these
 precautions, which required a great deal of time, we found
 means to make ten experiments in the course of the voyage,
 and at different altitudes. The results in the order in which
 we obtained them were as follow :
         Calculated
          Heights in             Numlier of     the        Time.
           Metres.                Oscillations.           Seconds.
            2897         *               5         -  -      35
            3038         -     -         5        -  -       35
            The   same         -         5        -  -       35
            The   same         -         5        -  -       35
            2862         -     -       10         -  -       70
            3145        -      -         5        -  -       35
            3665        -      -         5                   35-5
            3589         -     -       10         -  -       68
            3742         -     -         5        -  -       35
            3977 or 2040 toises        10         -  -       70
     All these observations, made in a column of more than
a    thousand     metres in height, agree in giving 35 seconds
 for the duration of five oscillations : but experiments made
 on the earth give 351 for this duration. The small difference
of a quarter of a second is of little importance, and at any
rate does not tend to indicate a diminution.
     The same may be said of the experiment which gave at
one time 68 seconds for 10 oscillations, which makes 34
for five : it indicates as little a diminution.           It appears to
us, therefore, that we may with certainty establish the fol
lowing proposition :                         •
     The magnetic property experiences no appreciable dimi
nution from the surface of the earth to the height of 4000
metres.       Its action in these limits is constantly manifested
by    the  same   effects and according to the same laws.
     It remains for us to explain the difference between these
results and those of the philosophers before^mentioned.            And
              * Voyage d»ns  !es Alpes, tome iv. p. 31*, 313.
                                  Cc 2                             first,

376             Account   of  an Aerostatic  Voyage
first, in regard to the experiments of Saussure, it appears td
us, if we dare say so, that some fault must have been com
mitted; This is clearly seen by the numbers he has men
tioned. When he attempted to determine the magnetic
force of his needle at Geneva, he found for the time of 30
oscillations 302, 290, 300, 280 seconds, — results which
cannot well be compared, as their difference amounts to 12.
On the other hand, in the preliminary experiments which
we made before we set out, we never found a difference of
half a second in the time of 20 oscillations.        There is an
error also in the calculation made by Saussure to compare
the magnetic force on the mountain and in the plain ; and
therefore it needs excite no astonishment that his results
should be different from those obtained by us.         But it ap
pears to us that ours are preferable because they seem to
agree better, and because we ascended to a greater height.
     In regard to the other observation, made by some philo
sophers, on the irregularities of the compass when one rises
in the atmosphere, it appears to us that it may be easily
explained from the continual rotation of the machine already
 mentioned.       These observers, indeed, must have turned
 round as we did, since the impulse of the gas alone, as it
 escapes on opening the valve, is sufficient to produce that
 effect. If they did not observe this circumstance, the needle
 which turned along with them must have appeared to them
 uncertain and without any determinate direction.            This
 irregularity  was  therefore  only an illusion produced by their
own motion.
     We have still to remove one doubt which may be ex
 cited in regard to our experiments. It may be apprehended
 that our watches were deranged during the journey, so that
 some variation might take place in the magnetic force with
 out our observing it; but since we perceived no difference,
 the magnetic force in this supposition and the going of our
 ¦watches must have varied in a contrary direction, precisely
 in the same ratio, and in such a manner as to compensate
 exactly: an hypothesis exceedingly improbable and alto
  gether inadmissible.
     We were not able to observe with so much accuracy the
  inclination of the magnetic needle, and we therefore can
 not positively assert that it experiences no variation.      It is
  however vcrv probable it does not, since the horizontal
  force is not altered : but we assured ourselves, at least, that
  its variations, if they exist, are very inconsiderable; for our
  magnetic bars, brought into equilibrium before our depar
  ture, constantly retained during the whole journey their
                                                       horizontal

          performed by Messrs. Guy-Lussac and &iot.          377
 horizontal position  ; which would not have been the case
 had the force which tends     to incline them experienced any
 sensible change.
    The declination also was an object of our researches ; but
 the weather and the disposition of our apparatus did not
 permit us to determine it exactly.      It is, however, equally
            that it does not vary in a sensible mariner ; but
 Erobable,
   e this as it may, we have now the means of measuring it
 exactly during another voyage j we can also ascertain cor
rectly the inclination.     That we might not interrupt this
narrative, we passed over in silence some other experiments
of less importance, to which it is necessary now to recur.
    We observed our animals at various heights, but they
did not seem to be in the least incommoded.         In regard to
ourselves, we experienced no other effect than an accelera
tion of our pulse, which I have already mentioned. At the
height of 3400 metres we set at liberty a small bird called
a greenfinch : it immediately flew away, but iu an instant
returned, and perched on the cordage of the balloon ; it
then took a new flight, darting towards the earth, and de
scribing a serpentine line very little different from the ver
tical. We followed it with our eyes to the clouds, where we
lost sight of it ; but a pigeon which we let go in the same
manner, and at the same height, exhibited a spectacle much
more curious.     When set at liberty on the edge of the car^
it remained there a few moments, as if to measure the ex
tent it had to traverse ; it then darted off, hovering about in
an irregular manner, as if it were trying its wings ; but after
a few strokes it confined itself to extending them, and, aban
doning itself to them entirely, began to descend towards the
clouds, describing large circles like the birds of prey. Its
descent was rapid, but regular ; it soon entered the clouds,
and we could still see it below them.
    We had not yet tried the electricity of the air, because
Our attention had been engrossed almost entirely by observ
ing the compass, which was the most important object, and
which made it necessary for us to embrace the moments
favourable for that purpose.        Besides, we had always had
clouds below us, and it is well known that the clouds are
differently charged with electricity ; we had not then the
means necessary for calculating their distance, according to
the height of the barometer, and we did not know what in
fluence they might have upon us. However, to try our ap
paratus, we extended a wire of 240 feet in length; and hav
ing insulated it from us, as already said, we extracted elec
tricity from its upper extremity, and applied it to the elec-
                               Cc 3                    trometer ;

373       Ginj-Lussac's a?id Blot's Aerostatic  Voyage.
trometer : it was found to be resinous. We performed this
 experiment twice at the same moment: first, by destroying
 the atmospheric electricity by the influence of the vitreous,
 electricity of the electrophorus ; and secondly, by destroy
 ing the vitreous electricity extricated from the electrophorus
 by means of the atmospheric electricity.       In this manner
 we were able to ascertaiu that the latter is resinous.
    This experiment indicates that electricity increases with
 the height; a result agreeable to what had been concluded
 from theory, according to the experiments of Volta and
 Saussure. But since we are now acquainted with the good
 ness of our apparatus,     we hope to be able to verily this
 fact by a greater number of trials during another journey.'
    Our observations of the thermometer indicated on the
 other hand a temperature decreasing from the earth up
 wards, which is agreeable to the results already known. But
 the difference was much less than we should have expected.
 For, on rising to the height of 2000 toises, that is to say,
 far above the lower limit of permanent snow, in that la
 titude we did not experience a temperature lower than 10" 5°
 of the centigrade thermometer (b^0 of Reaumur) ; and at
 the same moment the temperature of the observatory of Pa--
 ris was 17*5° of the centigrade scale, or 11° of Reaumur.
    Another very remarkable fact given by our observations
 js, that the hygrometer always advanced towards dryness
 as we rose in the atmosphere; and that in descending it
 gradually returned to humidity.      When we set out it indi
 cated 80-S° at 16- 5° of the centigrade thermometer; and at
 the elevation of 4000 metres, though the temperature was
 only 10-5°, it indicated no more than 30g. The air then
 was much drier in the high regions than it is near the sur
 face of the' earth.
    To rise to this height we had thrown out almost the
 whole of our ballast : we had scarcely four or five pounds
 left.   We had therefore attained to that heieht to which
 it was possible for the balloon to rise with two persons at
 once. As we were, however, exceedingly anxious to ter
 minate the observation of the compass, M. Guy-Lussac
 proposed to me to ascend alone to the height of 6000
 metres (3000 toises), in order to verify our first results.
 We were to deposit our instruments when we reached
 the earth, and to carry up in the car only the barometer
 and compass.      When we had formed this resolution we
 suffered the balloon to descend, losing as little gas as pos
 sible. We observed the barometer when we entered the
 clouds, and it gave us 1223 metres, or 600 toises of eleva7
                                                           tiou<

               On the fascinating Power    of Snakes.         S79
 tion.    We had already remarked that they seemed all to be
  on a level ; so that this observation indicates their common
 altitude at that moment. When we reached the earth there
 Was no person near us to hold the balloon, and we were
 obliged to suffer all the gas to escape in order to stop it.
 Had we been able to foresee this disappointment, we should
 not have been anxious to descend so soon. About half after
 one we found ourselves in the department of Loiret, near
 the village of Meriville, at the distance of about eighteen
 leagues from Paris.
    We have not abandoned the design of rising to the height
 of 6000 metres, and even higher if possible, that we may
 continue our experiments on the compass at that elevation.
 We shall immediately prepare for this expedition, which
 will take place in the course of a few days, since the bal
 loon has not sustained the smallest damage.           M. Guy-
 Lussac will ascend first; and if he thinks it necessary, I
 will ascend alone in my turn to verify his observations.
 When we have terminated our experiments on the compassj
 we purpose undertaking several voyages together, to make
 exact researches,   if possible, in regard to the nature and
 quantity of the electricity of the air at different heights, on
 the variations of the hygrometer, and on the diminution of
 heat as one removes from the earth, — all objects which
 must be useful in the theory of refraction.
    We do not despair of being able also to observe angles,
in order to determine trigonometrically our position in the
 heavens, which would give us some interesting ideas in re
 gard to the movement of the barometer as one ascends. The
 motion of the balloon is so gentle that the nicest observa
 tions can be made in it ; and the experience of our first
journey, and in the use of our apparatus, will enable us in
 the course of a short lime to collect a great number of facts.
 Such are our present intentions, should we be so fortunate
 as to find that the class consider our researches as of any
 utility.
 LXII.    On t/ie fascinating    Power of    Snakes.  By  John
                        Toplis, A. M.*
      Mr.Tilloch,
 J\.s the fascination attributed to many kinds of animals,
 particularly rattlesnakes, is a subject which has excited
 Juuch inquiry and speculation, I hope the following attempt
                  # Communicated
                                  by the Author.
                               C c 4                           to

380              On the fascinating Power     of Snakes.
 to elucidate what has caused so much astonishment and
 vague conjecture, may not prove unacceptable to the readers
 of your Magazine.
     That various animals do possess the power of rendering
 others motionless and afterwards devouring them, is so well
 attested by individuals of different ages and countries, that
 it is an unreasonable piece of scepticism to deny it. It ap
 pears to have been the belief of mankind at a very cany
 period, as it is mentioned by Homer, one of the oldest
 writers extant.
          Tijv J'sXEAiJaftevoj vlepwyos Xafav
                                                           IL. B. 315.
          While hovering round with miserable moan,
          The drooping mother wail'd her children gone    :
          The mother last, as round the nest she flewj
          Seiz'd by the beating wing, the monster slew.        POPE.
     Toads,    hawks, cats, owls, and various other animals,
  have been observed at times to possess the faculty of draw
  ing towards them such small animals as serve them for
  food, by intently looking at them.           That tigers have this
  power, is attested in the very entertaining account of the
  manner of hunting and sporting in Bengal, written by co
  lonel Ironside, and" inserted in the Philosophical Magazine,
  vol. xiv. p, 319.
      " It is somewhat extraordinary, but nevertheless a fact,'*
  says that writer,
                        " the influence of fascination possessed by
  the tiger and all of his (the feline) species over many other
  creatures.      Spied by deer particularly, they stop at once,,
  as if struck by a spell ; while the tiger lies still, his eyes
  fixed on them, and quietly awaiting their approach, which
•they seldom fail to make gradually within his spring; for
  the large royal tiger cannot run speedily or far.
      " Wherever tigers roam or couch, a number of birds,
  continually hover or couch round about them, screaming
  or crying, as if to create an alarm. But the peacock seems
. to be particularly allured by him ; for the instant a flock of
             perceive him they advance toward him directly, and
    egin strutting round him with wings fluttering, quivering
  feafowl
  feathers, and bristling and expanded tails.
     " Of this enticement the fowlers also make their advan
  tage; for, by painting a brown cloth screen, about six feet
  square, with black spots or streaks, and advancing under
  its cover fronting the sun, the birds either approach Towards
  them, or suffer thtm to steal near enough to be sure of their
 mark by a hole left in the canvass for them to fire through.

               On the fascinating  Power   of Snakes,         381
    <e
        Beyond all other animals, however, serpents possess
most eminently this occult power : frequently are they seen
revolving on the branches of tree* or on the ground medi
tating their prey, — either birds, squirrels, rats, mice, bats,
frogs, hares, or other animals."
    Birds of prey, and particularly hawks, are frequently seen,
flying followed by numbers of those sorts of small birds
upon which they are accustomed to feed. And I have been
several times assured by different persons, whose veracity       I
have no reason to'doubt, that if a man sees a hare sitting,
and instantly fixes his eyes on its eyes, it will remain mo
tionless until it be taken up by the hand.
    M. Vaillant, in his New Travels into the Interior Parts
pf -Africa, says, that the fascinating power of serpents is
believed by the Hottentots as well as Negroes and Moors,
That serpents have this fascinating property is attested by
great numbers of travellers into various parts of the world j
and as it is asserted by the natives of very distant countries
which have no communication with each other, there is
the greatest reason to believe that it takes place. I shall
not therefore trouble your readers with a long list of cita
tions from various authors in confirmation of the fact, but
 content myself with relating the following instances for the
 information of those who may not be acquainted with its
 effects.    They are all, but the last, extracted from the Gen
 tleman's Magazine for the year 1765, page 511 ; and were
 communicated by Mr. Peter Collison from a correspondent
 in Philadelphia.
     *¦' A person of
                     good credit was travelling by the side of a
 creek or small river, where he saw a ground-squirrel moving
 to and fro between the creek and a great tree a few yards
 distant : the squirrel's hair looked very rough, which showed;
 he was scared ; and his returns being shorter and shorter,
 the man stood to observe the cause, and soon spied the head
 and neck of a rattlesnake pointing at the squirrel through
 a hole of the great tree, it being hollow : the squirrel at
 length gave over running, and laid himself quietly down
 with his head close to the snake's: the snake then opened
 his mouth wide and took in the squirrel's head ; upon which
 the man gave the snake a whip across the back, and so the
  squirrel being released he ran into the creek.
      "  When I was about thirteen years old, I lived with
  William Atkinson, an honest man, in Bucks county, who
  returning from a ride in warm weather, told us, that while
  his horse was drinking at a run, he heard the cry of a black
  bird, which he espied on the top of a sapling, fluttering and
                                                         straining

 383             On the fascinating Power     of     Snakes.
Straining the way he seemed unwilling to fly, and holdrng
So fast the sprigs he was perched upon, that the sapling top
bent.    After he had viewed the bird a few minutes, it
quitted the place, and made a circle or two higher in the
air, and then resumed its former standing, fluttering and
crying. Thereupon William rode the way the bird strained,
and soon spied a large black snake in coil, steadily eyeing
the bird.   He gave the snake a lash with his whip ; and
this taking off the snake's eye from his prey, the charm was
broken, and away fled the bird, changing his note to a song
of joy.
  " Mr. Nicholas Scull,             a surveyor, told me, that when
he was a young man he happened once to be leaning upon
 a fence, and looking over         it,  he sawa   lare;e rattlesnake in
 coil looking stedfastlv at him.          He found himself surprised
 and listless immediately, and had no power lor about minute      a
 (as he thinks) but to look at the snake, and then he had the
 resolution to push himself from the fence and turn away                    j
 feeling such horror and confusion as he would not undergo
 again for any consideration.
    " Dr. Chew tells me, man in Maryland was found fault
                               a
with    by  his companion that he did not come along                 the
                                                                       :
companion stepping toward him, observed that hi* eyes
were fixed upon      a     rattlesnake, ""which was gliding slowly
towards him, with his head raised as          if  he was reaching up
at him.      The man was leaning towards the snake, and
saying to himself,
                         '   He will bite me he will bite me
                                              !                             !'
Upon which his companion caught him                      by
                                                          the shoulder,
pulled him about, and cried out,
                                         '  What the devil ails you         ?
He will bite you sure enough             !'  This man found himself
Very sick after     his  enchantment."
   In addition to the above instances,        I    shall relate the fol
lowing, which       was    told  me by  Mr.   Thomson,       gentleman
                                                              a
who resided fourteen years at Burlinton, near Philadelphia,
and in whose house       I    now lodge.      He says, that one day
as  he  was   fishing   in     brook  near  Burlinton,    he turned his
                         a a
head   aside,   and  saw      very large  black snake    steadily eyeing
him from that moment all power of moving was taken
    :
from him be stood motionless and filled with horror, unable
             >
to avqid the snake, which he saw approaching towards him.
From this unpleasant situation he was removed                     bydog
                                                                      a
which was with him, who coming up from short distance,   a
immediately saw the snake and flew at              it.  As soon as the
Snake turned from him to avoid the dog, he felt his powers
return  ;  notwithstanding which he felt himself ill for some
time   after,
                                                                  A   variety

             On tlie fascinating Power    of   Snakes.           383
    A variety of hypotheses have been formed to account for
this remarkable power ; some supposing the animals to have
een previously bitten, and from that cause unable- to avoid
their enemy ; others, that the serpent emits from its body a
stupefying vapour : it has been likewise asserted^ that those
birds that flutter round the mouth of the animal arc in ge
neral those which nestle on the ground, in bushes, or on
low trees, and which, having eggs or young in their nests,
expose their lives through love for their brood at the ap
proach of their enemy.        The most common opinion is that
which is given in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, article Sw-.
pent, viz. That the serpent is endued with an occult pro
 perty of attracting small animals to it by its look, somewhat
 analogous to the attraction of iron by the magnet. The
 generality of philosophers, unable to account satisfac
 torily for this circumstance, and their minds revolting at
 the idea of admitting any occult or fascinating property in
 the animal, have peremptorily denied the fact. In opposi
 tion to the above opinions it has been observed, that the
 effect of the bite of a serpent is entirely different to that
 which attends fascination ; and likewise, that if the serpent
 be disturbed the animal runs away uninjured.          That it can-?
 not arise from a stupefying vapour, is evident from birds
 living and enjoying themselves when put in a box with a
 rattlesnake.     Faseipation has likewise been observed to take
 place where no nest' could be in the neighbourhood, and
 the bird at first at a considerable distance from the snake :
 besides, the same effect takes place with small quadrupeds.
     It appears to me that this wonderful effect, which has
 been a matter of such astonishment, may be accounted for
 by attributing it to extreme fear.       That this passion is suf
  ficient to account for    it,
                              I  shall attempt to prove    and
                                                             ;   ifit
  appears to be so, where will be the necessity of admitting
  any occult or fascinating property in the snake        ? That ex
  treme fear has the effect of rendering  a   person motionless    is
  undoubted  ;   there are few people who do not know in
  stances of it  :I  could relate several, were    itnecessary.  To
  what other cause can we attribute the fluttering of small
  birds in circles round hawks until, they afe seized and de-t
  voured, or the sudden fixed posture of       a  deer on the sight
  of tiger?
   a           The   fluttering of pea-fowls   around     must arise
                                                         it
  from the same cause   :    nor can
                                   it   be attributed to any pecu
  liar property in the tiger, as one painted upon canvas              is
  found to produce the same effect.
   It   is  asserted  by   many (see Philosophical       Magazine,
  Vol. ii. page 253.) that the rattlesnake fascinates small birds
                                                                 and

384            On the fascinating Power   of   Snakes.
and animals by means of its rattle ; and they attribute the
whole charm to the terror produced by the sound of that
organ.    It is said moreover that the young Indians place a
reed in their mouths, and imita'te the noise made by the
rattlesnake; by which means they are enabled to catch
squirrels and small birds. By attributing the whole en
chantment to fear, the above account will not seem im
probable, as it is as easy to conceive that small birds
and squirrels may be stupefied by the terror arising from
the known sound of the rattle, as from the sight of the
serpent.
   Could any doubt remain in the minds of my readers that
fear is sufficient to account for the effect, I think the fol
lowing extract from Drinkwater's Siege of Gibraltar will
remove it.   Speaking of the destruction occasioned by the
falling oNjornb-shelis, he mentions the following remark
able circumstances : " In other cases in which the persons
 themselves have observed the shot or shells coining towards
them, they have been fascinated by its appearance,         and
unable to move from the spot, as small birds are said to be
by the rattlesnake. This sudden arrest of the faculties was
nothing uncommon : several instances occurred to my ob
servation, where men totally free have had their senses so
engaged by a shell in its descent, that though sensible of
their danger, even so far as to cry for assistance, they have
been immoveably fixed to their place.       But what is mere
remarkable, these men have so instantaneously recovered
themselves on its fall to the ground, as to remove to a place
of safety before the shell burst. In this manner lieutenant
Lowe of the 12th regiment was fascinated by a shot which
he saw coming, but had not power to remove from the
place before it tell upon him and took off his leg."
    As the sight of a ball or shell coming towards a man pro
duces the same effect as the sight of a rattlesnake, why not
attribute it to the same cause ? In the case of a ball or shell
the cause must be undoubtedly fear ; therefore we may con
clude that the rattlesnake does not fascinate by any pecu
liar property inherent in    itjbut from the terror which         it
occasions     by
               its approach.
                                    Yours,     Sec.
      Arnold, Notts,                              JOHN TOPLI9;
 September    n,   1804.
                                                      LXIII.   Pro-

                             t   385   3
          LXIII.    Proceedings   of Learned     Societies.
                   BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.
                 Premiums offered bv this Board.
                      [Continued from p. 194.]
/Substitute for litter. — To    the person who shall make,
and report to the board, the most satisfactory experiments
to ascertain the best substitutes for straw, stubble, rushes,
or fern, so as to answer the purpose for littering horses and
cattle, and raising manure — a piece of plate, or ten guineas.
   Accounts, verified by certificates, to be produced on or
before the first Tuesday in March, 1806.
   Manuring grass and arable lands. —To the person who
shall draw up and produce to the board, the most satisfac
tory account, founded on his own experience, or on speci
fied facts, of the comparative advantages of manuring grass
and arable lands — ike gold medal.
   Accounts to be produced on or before the first Tuesday in
March, 1808.
  Manuring with peal. — To the person who shall report to
the board, the best account, verified by satisfactory experi
ments, either on grass or on arable land, of applying peat
moss, mixed or unmixed, as a manure — tlie gold medal.
  Accounts to be produced on or before the first Tuesday in
April,   1806.
  Salt. — To the person who shall report to the board, the
most satisfactory experiments to ascertain the advantages
or disadvantages which have attended the use of salt as a
manure, either simple, or mixed with other substances,
and also for assisting in the food of animals — tlie gold
medal.
   It is required that the accounts of     it,
                                            as    manure, shall
                                                   a
contain  a  description of the soils on which   the experiments
are made  ;   the other manures which may previously liavc
been used on the land    ; the quantities of salt, mixed or un
mixed, applied, and the effect carefully ascertained         and  ;
the quantity given, and in what manner, to any sort of live
stock.
   To be produced to the board on or before the first Tues
day in December, 1805. — The same premium for 1806.
   Plough. — To the person who shall produce to the board,
the plough which shall, with the least force, turn        furrow
                                                              a
not less than six inches deep, and nine broad, in the best
                                                              and

   386"     Imperial Academy of           Sciences at Peterslurghi
   and neatest manner— -from five to fifty guineas,. according
   to merit.
      To be produced on or before the first Tuesday in Fe*
   bruary, 1805.
      The plough which gains the premium to remain the pro
   perty of the board, the price of it being paid.
      IMPERIAL ACADEMY            OF SCIENCES AT PETERSBURGH.
      The following observations on            the remarkable cold which
  took place on the 13th of January last year, were commu
  nicated to the Academy of Sciences by their correspondent
  Dr. Meyer, in a letter dated Saratof, January 11, 1804.
  They were collected partly at Saratof, and partly obtained
  from the southern districts.
     At Pensa, which is 200 versts north from Saratof, M.
 Europeus made the following remarks during the cold
  period.
      From the 3d to the 5th of January the cold increased
  from 26 to 30 degrees.           It then decreased till the 10th, on
 which clay it was only 1 6. On the 1 1 th, the weather being
 serene, with a boisterous north wind, it was in the morn
 ing 23, at noon 22, and in the evening 28 degrees.                   On
 the 12th in the morning 2g, at noon 30, and in the evening
 3 1 degrees, the weather serene and windy : the wind north
west. On the 13th the mercury sunk entirely into the
bulb of the thermometer, the scale of which reached only
to 44 degrees.       In the morning and evening the atmosphere
was thick; at noon clear, with the wind north.                    On the
 14th the cold was 40 degrees, the weather clear, and the
wind north.        On the 15th the cold decreased from 26 to 18
degrees, and then to 21 and to 3 degrees.
     From general Savelief, who has an estate on the Cauca*
sian lines, the following information was obtained : The
Terek had ice above half an arschiu* in thickness: in
common years this rapid river has ice only 2 verschocks in
thickness, and very often no thicker than a straw.                   The
greatest cold, which took place in the beginning of January,
prevailed only in certain places : in sonn-. it was milder j in
others all the pear, plum, apricot, and peach trees were
completely frozen ; the apple trees, however, were not
affected.     On the 26th and 27th of April a strong frost
again    took  place, and did great injury to the vines.
    The ice on the Volga, which in common years is from
12 to 14 verschocks       f  in thickness, was in February, when
              * The  arschin is iS inches English,
              t A verschock    is the  ifith rait of un arschin.
                                                                 broken

                                                           ¦
                  Academy   of Sciences at Berlin.           387
 broken up for the wine-cellars, 19 inches in thickness.
 Hempseed-dil froze in the vessels containing it ; and in
 taverns the common brandy formed a crust of ice on the
 sides of the casks ; two things never before seen in that part
 of the country. Most of the fruit trees in these districts
 were frozen to the roots, and snow fell in an unusuaj
 quantity.
               ACADEMY OF SCIENCES AT BERLIN.
    On   the 9th   of August the academy, in honour of his
 majesty's   birth day, held a public sitting, which M. Me-
 rian, the director, opened with an appropriate speech.
    The director then announced that only two papers had
been received on the question respecting the state of the
 arts, of oratory and design in the middle ages, one of which
was written in German, and the other in Latin ; but as
neither of them fulfilled the expectation of the academy,
 this interesting question is continued, with the prize of 100
 ducats, till the month of May 1806.
    The mathematical class has repeated the question on the
obliquity of the ecliptic, with a prize of 150 ducats. The
answers to be transmitted to the academy before the above
period.
    The physical class has repeated the questions proposed
for the year 1804.
    1st, on Marion's law.
    2d, on the disease of the spleen among horned cattle.
    3d, on the structure of the lungs.
And the philosophical class has repeated the question on the
property of analysis, and the analytical method in philosophy.
    A foreign literary man of rank has proposed a prize of
fifty louis d'or on the following question, to be determined
by the academy :
                      " Whence comes it that the civilisation
of the human race is found only in the East, and that in all
the countries discovered in the West, and in the numerous
groups of islands in the South Seas, scarcely any traces of
civilisation have been observed ?" Answers will be received
till the month of May, 1805. They may be written either
in French, Latin, or German.
    Mr. Bode read a paper on the real and apparent revolu
tions of the two new planets Ceres and Pallas, and their
connection with each other, which he illustrated by draw
ings and a model.      M. Hufeland closed the sitting by read
ing   a  paper  on  the influence which the atmosphere and
situation of a place have on the life, health, and physical
character of the inhabitants.
                                                  LXIV.  Intel.

                              i   383        J
       L.XIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Article**
                         AERIAL NAVIGATION.
W HILE         some persons were making, or endeavouring tq
make,                of noise in regard to the means they had
          a great deal
discovered   for directing air-balloons, M. Pauli, a native of
Swisserland, and an excellent mechanic, was inventing and
improving, in silence, a machine proper for raising or lower
ing a balloon, for carrying it to the right or left, causing
it to turn round at pleasure, and to move several leagues an
hour without the least wind. This discovery is now pub
lished. The first trial, if we can believe the account given
of  it, was crowned with the most complete success.              It
was made at Sceaux, in the small park of M. Lecomptc.
M. Pauli, on the 22d of August, ascended in the presence
of great number of spectators
   a                                  and when he reached the
                                        ;
height of 500 toises, he caused the machine to move round
in a. semi-circle, and seemed to return to the point from
which he set out. He then turned several times from right
to left, and from left to right    ;but being alone in the car,
and having only the half of his calculated force, instead of
going directly against the wind, he proceeded south-west,
while the wind ought to have carried him south-east. By
means of these manoeuvres he advanced to the castle of
Osinville,   near Arpajon, five leagues distant from the
place from which he set out, in less than an hour; and in
that interval descended twice to the earth. (Gazette de
 France, 30th August.)
    According to an account of the ascent of professors
Sacharof and Robertson, read            the last public sitting of
                                        in
the Academy of Sciences at Petersburg!^,         It  appears that
the object of this aerial excursion was to ascertain with
more precision the physical stale of the atmosphere
and its constituent parts at different elevations, as deter
mined by the barometer.           It   certain, that the experi
                                        is
ments    made   by  Deluc,   Saussure, and Humboldt, on high
mountains, must have exhibited modifications arising from
the terrestria] attraction, or from the decomposition of or
ganised bodies.     The above two aerial travellers, therefore,
carried with them twelve reservoirs, in which         a barometric
vacuum    had  been   formed.    These   were  destined   to collect
the atmospheric    air  at every elevation, indicated     bythe de
scent of each inch of mercury in the barometer.                 The
                                                         Academy,

                         Aerial Navigation.
Academy,       desirous of rendering these experiments useful,
had made a trial of the different processes for ascertaining
the direction of an aerostatic machine, when its elevation
does not admit of its being seen from the earth, and when,
there remains no object with which it can be compared.
The process Which these philosophers employed is both in
genious and simple. It consists in attaching to the car, by
a silk thread, a tiuat, or, very light log, which by its posi
tion always indicates the direction, the ascent or descent of
the balloon, even before the barometer has made the least
tnoveinerit. By means of a powerful achromatic telescope,
which traversed in a perpendicular direction the bottom of
the car, the observers were enabled to distinguish the spot
over which the balloon hovered ; and in this manner they
ascertained the rhoment when they entered the Gulph of
Bothnia, and the time when they got out of it. They
made experiments also on the echo of' sound, the reflection
of which is exceedingly sensible and calculable in the upper
Strata of the atmosphere.       It is believed that during their
next ascent they will endeavour to determine the difference
of the ratidS betweeri the ascent of sound and its propaga
tion in a horizontal direction.       The observation made by
Mr. Robertson, when he ascended at Hamburgh on. the
 isth of July 1803, is confirmed by M. Sacharof. The
north pole of the dipping-needle was raised ten degrees, &c.
The existence df a superior current, which twice drove the
 balloon towards the sea, prevented the travellers from
 rising so high as they intended. The mercury in the baro
 meter fell eight inches and a half. The thermometer, which
 indicated thirty degrees at their departure, stood at three
 degrees at the highest elevation. They remained four hours
 in the air, and descended at the distance of twenty-five^
 leagues from the place of departure.
                                                  Vcnice,{Aug. 45.
     Count Zambeccari,        whose unfortunate aerial jourjiey,
  From Bologna across the Adriatic sea to Pola irt Istria, is
  Still fresh in the memory of the public, undertook a new
  Voyage last week, and from the same place.         He was sa
 luted at first with loud acclamations from the many thou
  sand spectators, because he made the balloon rise and fall
  at pleasure.    At the end of four hours, when hovering over
  the village of Cao, some flasks filled with spirit of wine
  caught fire.     He immediately descended ; and M. Andreoli
  his companion, jumped from thebaljoon, in order to secure
  it by fastening the anchor. Count Zambeccari was desirous1
  of getting out also ; but before he could accomplish it j the
     Vol.   19. No.   76. Sept. 1804,      D  d            balloon.

    390                    Aerial Navigation.
    balloon suddenly rose in the air, and carried the unfortu
    nate Count along with it.   No accounts of him have since
    that time been heard.
                                                 Bologna,   August 74.
      The following is      a more particular account of the new
    aerial excursion which was undertaken hero on the 22d by
    Count Zambcccari and M. Andreoli, both known by their
    unfortunate expedition of the same kind Tast year.        They
    ascended in the presence of an immense eoncoursc of spec
    tators ; for besides the 70,000 inhabitants of this city, about
    60,000 strangers were collected from the neighbouring places.
    The spectators took their station chiefly on the surround
    ing hills, and formed a beautiful spectacle.     At six in the
    morning a signal was made by the firing of three cannon,
    and at ten the ascent took place.      About one the balloon
    was entirely out of sight ; and the inhabitants and strangers
    who   had viewed   the scene, were agitated between hope and
    fear for the fate of the intrepid aeronauts, when Dr. An
    dreoli arrived unexpectedly in a post-chaise, at four in th«
    afternoon, with his arm bound up. The people imme
    diately flocked round him, all anxious to know what had
    become of Count Zambcccari.          The account which Dr.
    Andreoli gave was as follows : In order to prevent their
'
    being carried too near to the Adriatic sea, they had suffered
    the Galloon to descend at Capo d'Argine, the first post-sta
    tion on the road to Ferrara, and had made their anchor fast
    to an elm. At the moment when it caught one of the
    branches, the car received a violent shock, by means of the
    rope, which threw down a few spark3 from the Montgolfier
    fire pan contained in the car, and kindled some spirit of
    wine in the vessel below. Alarmed at this apparent dan
    ger, Dr. Andreoli let himself down to the tree by the anchor-
    rope, and laid hold of a branch ; but the branch breaking,
    he fell to the earth, and received a contusion on his arm.
    The balloon being rendered much lighter by the doctor's
    quitting    it,
                  and more inflated    by
                                        the (ire which took place
    in the car, could no longer be kept down, though tuo
    peasants, who had hold of the rope, exerted all their
    strength for that purpose.    It rose again into the air with
    the velocity of lightning, and disappeared in the clouds.
    Not without reason, therefore, did people apprehend that
    Count Zambtccari would be exposed to the horrid fate of
    being burnt alive in the upper region.'. But this intrepid
    aeronaut, though exposed to the greatest danger, did not
    lose his presence of mind.     He found means to extinguish
    the fire in the car;  and, as the rudder was in flames, to
    throw  it down to the earth, where     was found
                                            it         :but   was
                                                               it
    not considered as proof of the Count's safety. He now en
                       a
                                                            deavoured

                             Pectination.                      30 i
  deavoured to descend as speedily as possible; because he was
  already in sight of the Adriatic. The same good fortune which
  rescued him from death during his former voyage, attended
  him on the present occasion.       Some fishermen, who were
  Out at sea between Comachio and Rimini, hastened to his
  relief, and took him into their boat ; but the balloon
 escaped,   because thev did not immediately make some in
  cisions in it as the Count had desired.      This dav, at one'
  in the afternoon, he made his entry into Bologna : above a
 hundred coaches accompanied the Open chaise in which he
 rode, and which was drawn by a crowd of young men,
 amidst the thunder of cannon, while the French and Ita
 lian troops lying here marched along to the sound of mi
 litary music.     Count Zambeccari will soon publish a par
 ticular account of this new adventure.      The car remains at
 Comachio ; but the balloon, it is probable, has been car
 ried to a considerable distance, perhaps to the Turks in.
 Bosnia, who fired at the first as a strange monster, and then
 took it prisoner. Whether Count Zambeccari will under
 take a third aerial journey is uncertain ; but at any rate he
 will not employ a balloon filled according to Montgolfier's
 method, which is always attended with the danger of fire.
 The present French method of filling Balloons is certainly
 Far preferable.    Before Count Zambeccari made his trium
 phal entry,  2000   people at least had gone to meet him. The
 day was considered as a festival, on which no one did any
 work. Dr. Andreoli was not seated in the triumphal can
                           VACCINATION.
                                                 Vienna, Aug. n.
    According    to the latest information received by Dr. dc
 Carro from different physicians, and the governor of Bom
 bay, it appears that vaccination has become general in all
the, British possessions in India; that the neighbouring
Asiatic princes    vie with each other in obtaining from them
Vaccine    matter, in order to propagate it in their states ; and
that hopes are entertained of soon hearing that it has been
introduced into Tartary and Japau.
    A passage translated from an Indian manuscript, written
by a native prince, and published in the Bombay Gazette,
proves that some of the Bramins, many centuries ago,
Were not only acquainted with the cow-pock,            but with
Vaccine inoculation ; that the operation . was performed by
means of an impregnated threaa ; but that it was not com
mon, as the Bramins inoculated only those children whose
parents worshipped the Bhowany, a female deity, the pro
tectress of those who have the small-pox.        The goddess is
                               DJi                     generally

3g5                       jistrowmy.
generally represented riding on an ass ; and the father of the
child to be inoculated brings her an offering, consisting of
corn, which he takes from riis bosom, and gives to the as*
to feed upon. The ceremony is repeated as soon as the cow-
pock appears. GovernorDuncan,of Bombay, has transmitted
this information to Dr. de Carro, with a handsome letter,
and a present of two valuable shawls1 and three pieces of
most beautiful muslin for his lady.
                          ASTROKOMT.
                                                         Bremen. Sept. 8.
     Mr. Harding, about    10 o'clock   in    the evening of the 1st,
 discovered from the observatory here, in the sign of Pisces,
 a new planet perfectly similar to Ceres in light and apparent
 magnitude, and moving retrograde towards the west with
 increasing southern declination.           The following are the
 observations which have been made          :
                            R. A.               Peclinaf'on.
          Sept. 1.    -    r,o
                                 2V     -       o° 37' N.
                4.    -    2      1       -      0 I S.
                .5.   -    1     52     -       0 11 S.
                6.    -     1    44             0 24 S.
                7.    -    ]     37             0 36 S.
     Nothing nebulous can be distinguished around this star"
.by the best telescopes, and in all probability it is a sister of
  the new discovered planets Ceres and Pallas.
     A correspondent has favoured us with the following par
  ticulars of this discovery: — " M. Harding, of the observa
  tory at Lilienthal, near Bremen, who has been making an
  atlas of all the stars down to the eighth magnitude which
  lie within and near the orbits of the two new planets Ceres
  and Pallas, as announced in baron Von Zach's journal, has
  discovered a third new planet.       While examining the stars
  in the constellation of Pisces on the 1st of September, he
  observed a smalLstar, about the eighth magnitude, of which
  he could find no account in Lalande's Hist aire Celeste ; and
  therefore, not knowing its true place, he put it down in his
  charts as near as he could estimate by the eye : blit two
  days after, looking for it again, he found it was gone, and
  observed another star exactly like it a little to the south-'
  west of its place, which he had not seen in that place be
  fore. This raised' his suspicion that the star lie had ob
  served was a planet ; and, looking at it again on the fifth,
  he was satisfied it was so.      Since then several observations
  have been taken of it.      Its place, as settled by Dr. Olbers,
  on Sept. -8, was at M. T. 8h l lm 20", A. R. 1' 29' 39",
           6                                                     declin.

                   List of Patents for Inventions.            343
  -declin. south 0° 47' 19": its motion in A. R. is about
   7' 56'', or 31-7" in time retrograde, and in declin. about
   12' 34" south per diem."
               LIST  OF PATENTS FOR INVENTIONS,
  IVTuch have paused the Signet Office between August          24
                     and September 24, 1804.
     To Robert Frith, of Broughton, in the county of Lan
  caster, dyer, for an improved method of dyeing cotton wool,
  cotton twist, cotton weft, and cotton cloth, of a nankceii
  colour, and of a buff colour.
     To Michael Scarth, of Gastle Eden, in the county of
  Durham, sail-cloth manufacturer, for a new method of
  manufacturing sail-cloth with double or single thread warp,
  without starch or any substitute for stiffening, and without
  the double threads being twisted together.
     To John Bywater, ot the town and county of the town
 of Nottingham, for a new and improved method of clothing
 and unclothing the sails of windmills while in motion, pro
 vided that they are made after the Dutch manner, as the
 generality of windmill sails are constructed, by which the
 mill may be clothed, cither in whole or in part, in an easy
 and expeditious manner, by a few revolutions of the sails,
 whether they arc going fast or slow, leaving the surface
 smooth, even, and regular in breadth, from top to bottom ;
 and in like manner the cloth, or any part thereof, may be
 rolled or folded up to the whip at pleasure, by machinery
 simple and durable, that may be fixed up in a few days, at
 comparatively easy Expense, requiring verv little alteration
 of any part of the mill, and is equally applicable to any old
sails on the common construction, however warped or
bosomed, without the necessity of having new cloths.
    To Charles Frederic Mollersten, of Hackney Wick, in
the county of Middlesex, gentleman, for a chemical com
position, and method of applying the same, in the prepa
ration of hides. skins, and leather, silks, taffetas, and linen,
and to all articles already made of skins and leather, thereby
colouring and giving a beautiful gloss to the same, rendering
them water-proof and impenetrable to hot or corroding
liquids, and at the same time preserving them from decay,
and keeping them soft and pliable.
    To Thomas Porthouse, of Hall Garth, in the parish of
Haughton le Skern, in the county of Durham, flax-spinner,
for a machine for hackling flax and hemp, and pt the same
time carding the tow,
                            Dd 3            '        IIIKTEOBO-

894                                          Meteorology.
                                 METEOROLOGICAL              TABLE*
                                       For   September       1804.
                         Thermometer.
                                                                DegreesofDiy-
                       j£~ tio          >i£
                                                                                  Hygrometer.
                                               Height of
Days of the
                       Jfl               o   *5
                                              the Barotn.                                             Weather.
                                                                nessby Leslie's
 Mouth.                                 O "w>
                                 K1                Inches.
           II                           "oJS
 Aug.   27              58°       70°    61°      30-22             71°                         Fair
        28              63        70     62          •20           40                           Fair
        29              64        75     65          •13            53                          Fair
        30              65        78     64       29-90             36                          Fair   :   a   storm
                                                                                                in   the morning
        31              65        72     58       30-10             37                          Cloudy
   Sept.   1            60        68     55          •04            75                          Fair
                        57        66     54          •20            57                          Fair
           6 5 4 3 2
                        55        65     60          •34            24                          Cloudy
                        61        71     62          •31            37                          Fair
                        62        72     61          •30            45                          Fair
                        63        70     54          •05            53                          Fair
                        56        71     57        29-98            53                          Fair
           8 7          54               60                         41                          Fair
                                  69              .30-19
           9            53        71     57          •20            35                          Fair
        10               57       7?     66          •01            45                          Fair
          11             56       68     57          •15            57                          Fair
          12             57       76     66          •10            49                          Fair
          13             67       78     66          •01            65                          Fair
           14            64       76     68          •01            49                          Fair
           15            66       76     65       29-98             57                          Fair
           16            66       82     67       30-05             53                          Fair
           17            61       66     60          •18            21                          Cloudy-
           18            59       62     60          •18            20                          Cloudy
           19            62       68     61          •08            40                          Fair
          20             63       71     55          •08           47                           Fair
          21             56       66     50          •06           59                           Fair
        22               51       62     60          •01           47                           Cloudy
        S3               50       56     47       29-92            56                           Fair
        24              46        54     50       30-00            40                           Cloudy
        85               51       61     46          •26.          43                           Cloudy
                                 1   By Mr. Carey, of the Strand.

                                  C   39$     3
                     INDEX to VOL. XIX.
 Adulteration                of provi       counties     of England and
    sions.   A   prize question, 208        Wales,                          197
 Aerial voyage, for scientific ob        Arsenic.      To free cobalt and
    jects,                         290       nickel from,                    51
 Agriculture.        Board of, 203 j     Arts. Society of,             97, 1 15
     premiums in, 97,203,292,305         Assay Office at the Royal In
 Ailiiu A letter to Dr.Thoruton             stitution,                      287
    from, 39,360 ; analysis of car       Asthma.       A   cafe of,         247
    bonate of copper by, 89 ; let        Astronomy.      Hist, of, for 1803,
    ters from Thornton to, 141,              10 ;  a  prize question, 20 5,
                            248, 360        prize   awarded     in, Z07 ; new
 Aihn (C).       ¦  Analysis of sul         planet discovered,              392.
    phate of barytes,               86   Athenian travellers,               204
 Aliens analysis of Herland-mine        Atmospheric air. Dalton on com
     silver ore,                    87      position of,                     79
'Amber.       Furnace for melting,      Aurora     borealis.     On,          16
 Analyst! of Shetland iron ore,         Bacon's (Friar) knowledge in
    sulphate of barytes, iron py            optics,                   68, 177
    rites, silver ore, 86 ; carbo       Balloon.      Ascent of, from Pe-
    nate of copper, copper and              tersburgh,                290, 388
    iron pyrites, African pyrites,       Banks, Sir     J.    on the king's
    87 ; lead ore, micaceous iron           flock of Spanish sheep,         190
    ore,     Barbadoes limestone,       Barbadoes minerals analysed,         88
    aluminous sites, 88 ; Barba         Basaltes. On,             38, 90, 121
    does minerals, a siliceous me       Bell metal. To separate tin and
    tallic ore, carbonate of cop            copper from,                     26
    per, lead ore, 89 ; satin fpnr,     Bergman on basaltes,                 60
    wolfram, schiefer spar, car         Berlin    Society    of  Searchers into
    bonate of lime, 90 ; doldmite,          Nature,                          go
    211; primitive lime,          211   Berlin Academy,             290, 387
Anfrye's process for separating         B.ng/ey's analysis of Barbadoes
    tin and copper,                 26     earth, &C.                        89
Animal cotton. On,                ISO   Biography,                     18, 302
Animals.       Action of caloric on     Bios' s aerial voyage,             371
    vitality of,                     3  Bismuth. To separate from co
Annual Review. Letter from                  balt and nickel,                 ci
    a writer in, 39 ; answer to,        Blood.       Exper. on freezing, 4
                            141, 248    Board of Agriculture, 203, 39a,
 An!;.      Experiments on,          6
 Area      and population     of the    B.ais new, 200, 207, 282, 288,
                                                                           289
                                                                       Bowler's,

 39&                         INDEX.
 Bowler's improved chum,           56   Copal.       Furnace for melting-,
 British colonies. Premiums for             155; varnish, to prepare, 158
     improving,                   112   Copernicus.      Some    particulars
 British    Mineralogkal     Societ
                                   e
                                            concerning,                   302
     Labours of the,               8{  Copper, to separate, from tin, 26
 BrugnatellPsnew method       of pre-   Cotton, animal. On,               ' Q
     paiing nitrous ether,       274    Cox's analysis of copper and iron
 Buee on crystallography,       160,        pyrites, 87 : of lead ores, 88
                                 222   Crucibles.      On making,          42
 By-water's patent,              393   Crystallography.        Parallel     of
                                           De l'lsk's and Hatty's theo
 Calorie.    Action of, on vitality        ries of,               1 ,-9, 222
    of animals,                     3  Cuthbertson       on galvanic and
 Calorific rays from the sun.     On       electric fluids,                83
    velocity of,                 309   Cwu'ur's osteological description
 Carl/on, affinity of, for clay, &c.       of the rhinoceros,             350
    41, 137; for iron, 273,339
 ¦1        A  prize question, 206      Dal/on on composition of at
 Carbonate   of copper analysed, 87        mospheric air, 79; Henry's
 Carro,   (Dr. de), on vaccination,        illustration of his theory, 193
                                       Dashk»/f, princess,                 95
 Cassada worm, produces animal         Daubuisson on basaltes,             59
    cotton                      121    Davy' s decomposition of nitrous
                                                            •
Caterpillars.    Exper. on, 5 ; a          oxide,                          8|
    prize question,             291    Deaths,                        18, 95
 Catoptrical instruments of the an-    De risk's theory of crystallogra*
    thnts. On, 66, 176, 232,344          ply. On,                 159, 222
Chemistry.    Premiums in,       105   Deoxidizing principle        emanate
 Chifneys patent,               307       ing from the sun,               310
Chinese soy. To prepare,        260    Desmarcts on basaltes,              58
Cblirosis.    Cure of, 55; obser      Dioptrical instruments of the an
    vations on,                   56      tients. On, 66, 176, 232,344
Churchman's magnetic atlas, 283       Diseases.     Cure of, by yeast, 50 ;
                                •
Churn, improved,                  56      by gases,                 55, 247
Civilization, a prize question,       Dolomieu      on basaltes,           58
                                387   Dyeing.        Premiums    for, 105 ;
Clay. Affinity of, for carbon,           patent for,                     393
   lime and iron,    41, 1 37, 339
Clifford, on Hatty's theory, 159      Earth,     a new one,                9;
Clouds. Stones from the, 16,          Earthquakes.        Pythagoras's me
                                296      thod of predicting,             294
Cobalt. To purify                 Jl  Elliptic , A prize question, 291
Cold. On,                       386   Sisleben.      Longitude of,         14
Commerce.      Premiums    for ad     Electric and Galvanic fluids,        A
   vancing                      m        distinct property between, 83
Concave    mirrors known to the       Electricity.     A   prize question,
   antients, 74, 312; experi             291 » exper.                    377
  ments with, 182; supposed           Emerald of Nero,                   344
  plane mirrors are often con         Ether, nitrous.        New way of
  cave,    244; advantage may            preparing,                      274
   be taken of this,           245    Excitants.      On removal of,       4
                                                                       Farcy

                                  I tf D E X.                                     39?
 Pafey       on mensuration   of timter,     Hume on the new metal found
                                     213          in platina,                       29
  Fascination.       On,             379      Hunter on privation of heat, 4
 fine Arts. On the,                  . 20
'Fife-balls.        One fell at 1'Aigle,      Insects.      Experiments with cold
      1 6 ; on origin     of, 17 ; one             on,                                J
      fell near    Apt,  18;    one men       Iron. To free cobalt and nickel
      tioned by the poetCowper, 2 96               from, 5 1 ; Mushet on, 41,
  Fish, fossil.       On,             263                             '37. *7S> 339
   Flaxmans letter to the Royal Iron ores analysed,                            86, 88
                                        20     Italian     National  Institute,    29 1
      Academy,
  Fly-carrier.        An insect which
       produces animal cotton,        1 20     Japan. Russian embassy to, 327
   Fossils.       On some  rare,      263       "Jtawat the aftronomer, death
   Fourcroy, on a new metal found                   of,                         .    18
       in platina,                     1 >7
   French National Institute,         204 KnuUl the astronomer, death
   Frith1 s patent,                   393           of,                              19
   .Frogs live in ice, 4; exper. Klaprotb elected a member of
        on,                                8        the French National Insti
    Furnace for melting Copal and                   tute,                           208
        amber,                         15$      Klaprotb's     analytical  essays,  201
                                                Knight's analysis of a sulphate
    Galvanic and electric fluids. A                 of barytes* 86 ; of micaceous
        distinguishing      property    be           iron ore, 88} of lead ore, 89
        tween,                           83
    Galvanism, a prize queftion, 291            Lalande's Hist, of Astron. for
 , Geography,                  10, 12, 14             1803,                            10
    Glass mirrers.        To coat with Laxmans voyage to Japan, 329
         lead and antimony,             348 Leaden conduit pipes.             To save
     Goldbacb, astron. labours of, 14                from injury in frosty weather,
     Grtavts's patent,                  307                                          '47
     Griibtetii on preparing soy, 2 bo Lead ore analysed,                         88,89
                                                 Learned Sfdeties.         Proceedings
     Hancock's patent,                  307           of,         85, 202, 283, 385
     Harding'* discovery of a new Lectures,                                          305
          planet,                       392      Lenses.       Curious     experiments
     Hatty on basaltes,                   53           with,                  182, 186
     Jfauy's theory of crystallography.          Lime. Affinity of for carbon,
          On,                     159, 222             clay, &c. 41, I37.Z79.339
     Heaty on cutting screws,1 172               Lazier es on animal cotton, 120
      Heath on use of yeaft in typhus             Lungs, a prize question,            387
           fever,                          50 Lussac's aerial voyage,                 371
      Henry on Dalton's theory, 193
      history, a prize question, _ 208 Magnetic pole,                                   16
      tiuddarfs patent,                  307       Magnetism, exper. .on,             371
      Humboldt tbe traveller.            Ac        Manufactures. Premiums in, 109
           counts from, 1 1 ; reported Martiih Economical Satiety, 291
           death of, 95 ; safe arrival in Mathematics, .a prize question,
            N. America and return to                                                   JOJ
          -Europe,                        305

  39S                                I N D E X.
  Medicine. Yeast employed suc                Pepys's analysis of Shetland irort
      cessfully cs, 50 j oxymuriatic               ore, 86 ; of iron pyrites, 86
      acid, 55 ; hydro-azoticgas,24 7          Perdu, Mont,        journey    to sum
  Mensuration of timber. On, 2 13                  mit of,                         364
  Mlrseburg.        Longitude of, 14          Peiersburgb Imperial Academy,
  Meteorology,      ij,  96, 212,29;,                                                S*
                         296, 308; 394        Pettrsburgh        Academy      of Sci
  Michaux the botanist. Death                      ences,                    2S8, 386
      of,                                9;   Phillips's    analysis  of pyrites,   87';
  Micbs'otti on action of caloric                  of  antimonial lead ore, 89 ;
      on vitality,                        3        of a micaceous substance, 89
  Minerahgical       collection   at    the   Platind.         Fourcroy and Vau-
      Royal Institution,               283        quelin on, 117. Anew metal
  Mineralogy.       Premiums in, 105              discovered in,              29, 1 18
  Mirror of Ptolomy Eucrgetes.               Polite Arts. Premiums in, 108
     On the,                    179.232      Populnionoi England andWales,
 Mirrors of large size made by                     197 r of Scotland and Ireland,
     the antients,              242, 345                                           200
 MolLrsten's pafenty                  393    Porta's knowledge in optics,
 Mountains. Vegetation on, 2fc8                                                    >«s
 Muibct on affinity of carbon,               Porl/owe's patent,                   3913
     earths and iron, 41, 1 37» 275,         Prague Royal Society       of   Sciences,
                                      339                                          208
 New Holland.          Extent of,       to   Pr.ss for forcing,        cutting,    &v.
 Nickel.     To purify,                 ;t        Patent   for,                   307
 Nitrous     ether. New preparation          Prize    questions,     291, 385, 387
                                                                                         •
    of,                               2fo    Proserin the ai stonomer. Death
                                                 of,'                               18
 Ochroit,    a new earth,              95   Ptolomy       Euergetts. On the mir
 Opera glasses.        Patent for, 307           ror of,                   179, 232
 Optical invention of the Esqui             Publications, Netu, joo, 30^,
    maux,                             34j                            282, 288, »8g
 Optics.     Knowledge of the an-           Pyrites. Analysis of,             86, 87
    tientff in, 06, 1 76, 344 ; Ptolo-      Pythagoras'      s method   of   predict
    my's mirror, 1 79, 232 ; exper.              ing earthquakes,                 294
   with concave mirrors, 182;
    with lenses, 1 82; a lens an            Paimnd on basaltes,                    58
    swers the purpose of a tele             Ramond's journey to summit ftf
    scope,     183 ; object glassc",             Mont Perdu,                     364
    184 ; reflecting telescope,- 188        Rattlesnales.         O.i fascinating
Omitboltes. On,                      263        power of,                        379
Osteology,                           350    Rays from the sun.            On kinds
Oxygen gas.       Experiments with,             and velocity of,                 309
   on minerals,                        90   Razors.        Patent for,           367
                                            Reflecting telescope.        Discovery
Pallas      (Professor),       reported         of the,                          188
   dead, but alive and well, 305            Reviewer's letter to Dr.Thorn-
Paper.      On bleaching,              55       ton,                              3cf
                                                                          ^
Parkinson's work on extraneous              Rbino:er»s.         Osteological      de
                                                scription of,                    3 co
   fossils,                          282
Patents*     List  of,        307, 393        ;                            . Bitard,

                              INDEX.                                   399
R'icard, the astronomical poet.        Telescope.    On the antiquity of
   Death of,                        19    the, 66 ; a lens made to an
Robertson's aerial voyage       from      swer the purpose of,         185
   Petersburgh,                   290  Thermometer.      Lalande's,      ic
Royal Institution,                283  Thomson,     (Dr.),   opposed     by
Royal Society,             200, 202        Hilton,                       79
Russian voyage of discovery,           Tbornt-M. A. Aikin's letter to,
   321 ; embassy to Japan, 327            39 j Reviewsr's letter con
                                          cerning, 39 ; on pneumatic
Sacbaroff's aerial voyage,        290     medicine, 54, 347. Letters
Sailcloth, patent for,            393     from, to A. Aikin, 141, 248,
Saint-Fond on fossils,            26}     360 ; answer by, to the Re
Sandman's      analysis of minerals       viewer,                      144
   from Barbadoes,                  83 Tide*.    On the,                 15
Saxony. On the basaltes of, 58,        Tin. To separate, from copper,
                                  123                                    36
Scartb't patent,                  393  Tingtys furnace for melting
Schemer's object glass,           184     copal and amber,              155
Screws, to cut with a turning          Timber. Mensuration of, 2 13
   lathe,                         172  Toplis on fascination           379
StptaL's mirror and lenses, 184        Torpidity.    Exper. on, 5, 8 ; a
Sc)ffert. Astron. labours of, 14          prize question,              206
S'gnals made        by  gunpowder,     Trade.     The Japanese,        3 53
    seen at the distance   of thirty-  Travels. Humboldt's, 11; Ba-
   three leagues,                   13    dia's, in Africa,              12
Silex.     On affinity of, for iron,   Tscbirnbau sen's object glass, 183
   &c.                       41, 137   Tungsten.     Resemblance    of, to
Silver ore analysed,                86    supposed new metal,            30
Smith, (Dr.) refuted, respecting       Turin Academy of Sciences, 29 1
    Friar Bacon,                    6S Turning lathe, to cut screws
Snakes.      On fascination of, 579       with,                         173
Societies.     Learned,    85, 202,    Typhus    fever cured by the use
                                  283     of yeast,                       50
Soy.   To    prepare,             260
Spanish     Sheep.     The    King's   Vaccination.      Progress of in
   flock    of fine-woolled,     190,      Asia, 92, 391 ; in Russia,
                                  296      211 ; notice respecting,      94
Siiders. Exper. on,                  5 Varnish, copaL         To prepare,
 Sprains.     To cure,            295                                   158
 Statistics,               197, 491    Pauquelin on the yolk, and on
Steam.      Table of the relative          washing of wool,              33
    pressures,    temperatures    and   — — — — on a new metal found
    expansibility of,             134      in platina,                  1 17
 Steam    engine.      Woolf's     im  VegeUt'on.      State of, on high
    provement of,                 133      mountains,                  268
Suberic acid produced from pa          VitiiTity vf animals. Action of
    per,                          2 11     caloric on,                     3
 Sulphate of baryta analysed, 86       Von Zach, astron.        labours of,
 Sun.    On velocity of luminous,                                         13
    calorific and deoxidizing rays     Voyage round the world.       Rus
   emitted by,                    309                                 sian,  .

4<*                             INDEX.
  sian, it, 321  ; issue'  of a, 209;    and    bleaching of, 33 ; safe
  to Japan,                      3*9     of   that from the King's flock
                                         of Spanish sheep,            190
Wdrris's patent,                  307  Woolf's improvement of fleam
Wailing, composition
               '          for.    Pa     engines,                      133
  tent,                          307   Wright on the freezing of wa
Water.   To prevent from burst           ter in leaden pipes, &c. 147
  ing pipes in the time of frost,
                                  »47  Tarit.     Patent    for spinning;
Water-proof leather, &c.       Patent                                 307
  for.                            393  Zamltccnr? s second ascent with
Windmills.   Patent for,          393     a balloon,
                                                                      389
Wilzklen. Death of,                19  Zinh     and tungsten.     Exper.
Wolf us s object glass,           183
                                          with,                         3 1
Wonl.    Exper. on     the volk of,    Zucchi.       Reflecting telescope
  and observations      on washing       of,                           iSS
                !ND OF Tin. NINETEtNTH            VOttlME.
                                    *»—
              X. Taylor and-Co. Printora, Bltck-tiorte CowL

?

1/Vol.X/X



  f
  I
I


             PlV.Vel HZ
Fy .6
  7 • '-.A.-
                Zmrry jadf.


   'Pi.
IJBI
i


      '
  t
  .:
  ---
L




PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
                                COMPREHENDING
         THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                 THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
              AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                                         AND
                                COMMERCE.
                BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
HONORARY MEMBER OF TUB ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY,                            &C. &X. &C.
   "  Nec at.jpearum   aane textus ideo  meiior quia ex se fila gignunt, nec notta
vilior quia cx alicnit libamua ut apes."   Just. Lips. Memit, Falil. lib. i. cap. I.
                                   VOL. XX.
                                   LONDON:
           Printed  ti R. Taylor and Co., Blank- Horse-Court, Fleet-street:
    And raid by Messrs. Richardson ; Cadell and Daviks ; Lonomam,
        Hvrst, Rees, and Orme; Stmonds; Murrav; Highlit, ;
             V i» nor and Hood; Harding; London: Bell and
                  Bradfutx, Edinburgh; B«ash and Reid,          and
                         D. Nivin, Glasgow ; and Gilbert
                                and Hodgei,    Dublin.
                                         1805.


                         CONTENTS
                                OF THE
           TWENTIETH VOLUME.
I. ACCOUNT of the            Voyage undertaken ly tlte Spaniards
   to the North-West Coast of America z« 1 792       ....  Page 3
II.    On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical Instruments oj the
   Antients; tvith Hints respecting their Revival, or Re
    invention and Improvement in modern Times                    1-t
III.    On the Decline of Matliemutical Studies, and the Sci
    ences dependent upon them.       By the Rev. JOHN TOPLIS,
    A.M.                                            '.           25
IV. Experiments to ascertain whether there exists any
    Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
   parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
  forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By DAVID MUSHET,
    Esq. of the Colder Iron-Works                                31
V. Letter from Dr. THORNTON to Mr. TILLOCH on the
     Cow- Pock; with an Account of I he Cases in Fulwood's
    Rents                                                        36
VI. Comparison of the Small-Pox and Cow-Pock Inocula
    tion.    By CHARLES BRANDON TRYE, Esq. Senior Sur
   geon to the County Hospital, Gloucester                      60
VII.     Memoir on Nickel. By C. THENARD                        453
VIII.      On the Orbit of the new Planet discovered ly Mr.
    HARDING at the Observatory of Lilientlial, near Bremen,
    Oft the 1st
                  of September ] 804                            70
IX. Description of improved Malt Kilni for drying Malt
    by heated Air                                                71
X. Cursory Sketch of a Specimen of a Dictionary of the
    Gealic Language. By CUTHBERT GORDON, M.D. 72
XI.      New Method of rendering Platina malleable.            By
    Count APOLLOS MOUSSIN POUSHKIN.                  Made pub
   lic, at his Request, by CHARLES HATCHETT, Esq.
    F. R. S                                                     76
XII.     Notices respecting New Books                           78
XIII.     Proceedings of Learned Societies                      79
XIV.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles               81
   Vol.    20.  No.  60.  Jan. 1805,    a              XV.  Letter

                          CONTENTS.
XV.  Letter from Dr. Mitchill, of New-York, Represen
  tative in Congress, &c. to Benjamin Mosely, M. D.
  &c. containing some interesting Particulars in the History
  of Muriate of Soda                                               97
XVI.    Biographical Memoirs of Peter Francis Bernier,
  who accompanied Capt. Bali din, as Astronomer, on his
   Voyage of Discovery. By Lalande                                103
XVII. Account ofljie Fbyage undertaken by the Spaniards
  to the North-West Coast of America in the Year 1792
                                                                  106
XVIII.     Osteological Description   of  the one-homed     Rhino
  ceros, by Cuvier              ,                                 Ill
XIX.   Observations on the   Electricity of Metallic  Substances.
                                                        '
  By   M. Hauy                                                    120
XX.    Observations  on Tea.    By Desfontaines           ....    123
XXI.    On a Liquid Sulphur.      By Professor Lampadius
                                                                  131
XXII.     Experiments to ascertain whether tliere exists any
  Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Si/ex, se
  parately or as Compounds united ivith the Oxide of Iron
 forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
  Esq. of the Colder Iron-Works                                   134
XXII I. On Prussinte of Copper                                   142
XXIV. Second Letter to Mr. Tilloch on the Cow-Pock,
 from Dr. Thornton, being a Comparison of the Cow-
  Pock with the Small-Pox                                        143
XXV. Seventeenth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
  relative to Pneumatic Medicine                                 153
XXVI. On Cerium, a new Metal found in a Mineral Sub
  stance of Baslnas in Sweden, called Tungsten, described
  by W. D'Hisisger and J. B. Berzelius                       , . 154
XXVII. Method of giving the Grain and Hardness of Steel
  to Copper.     By B. G. Sagk                      ;            159
XXVIII. On Phosphoric        Acid  and   Phosphorus.      By Jos.
  Hume,      Esq                                                 160
XXIX.    On two Metals, found in the Ikick Poivder remaining
  after  the Solution of Plalina. By Smithson Tennant,
  Esq.    F.R.S                                                  162
XXX.      On a new     Metal, found in      crude  Platina.       By
  William Hyde Wollaston, M. D.                  F. R. S.    . . 168
XXXI.     Notices respecting  New Books                          1 76
XXXII. Proceedings of Learned Societies                          177
XXXIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles .... 179
XXXIV. Concerning the Analytical and Synthetical Modes
  of  Reasoning    made use of in Mathematics          and     otlwr
  Sciences.    By the Rev. John Toplis,       A.M.               1 93
                                                    XXXV. An

                             CONTENTS.
  XXXT. An         Attempt,   by a comparative Analysis, to dis
   cover the    Affinity, if  there be any, between the Gealic and
    Greek Languages, or the Relation they bear to one another.
   By Cuthbert Gordon,              M.D                          203
• XXXVI.       On Blasting     with  Gunpowder.     By   J.  Farey,
    Esq                                                          208
  XXXVII.       On preventing the Freezing      of Water in Pipes.
    By   J. T.  Barber, Esq                                      209
  XXXVIII.        Experiments and Observations on Feathers, and
    the Down of domestic Fowls.          By M. Parmentier 211
  XXXIX. Observations on some Dutch Processes in regard
    to the Arts and Sciences.        By M. Parmentier ... 217
  XL. On the Principles of Pump-Work, illustrated and ap
   plied in the Construction of a new Pump, without Fric
    tion, or Loss of Time, or Water, in Working; humbly
   proposed for the Service of the British Marine, with the
    Privilege of His Majesty's Royal Letters Patent.              By
    Benjamin Martin                                              223
  XLI.    Experiments to ascertain whether t/iere exists any
    Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Si/ex, se
   parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
   forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
     Esq. qf'llie Calder Iron-Works                              230
  XLII. Comparison of tlie Cow-Pock with the Small-Pox.
     By Dr.    Thornton                                          236
  XLI II.    Eighteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
    relative to Pneumatic Medicine                            ,. 256
  XLIV. Nineteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton re
     lative to Pneumatic Medicine                                258
  XLV. Memoir on the Devitrification of Glass, and the Phce-
    nomena which take place during its Crystallization.           By
    Dartigues : Read in the Physical Class of the Insti
     tute, May 20th, 1604                                        259
  XLVI. On the beautiful Green Colour for Painting, which
    may     be   obtained from     Chrome.    By Godon-Saint-
     Memin                                                       266
  XLVI I.     Reflections  on the particular   Properties of Roman
     Alum.      By M. Curaudeau,         Member of the Society of
      Pharmacy at Paris, He                                      269
  XLVIII. List of Patents for new Inventions which have
    passed the Signet Office from November 24 to Decem
     ber 24,   1 804                                             271
  XLIX.      Description    of a Woulfs Apparatus,      invented by
     Mr. J. Knight, of Foster-lane, London                       279
  L. Proceedings of Learned Societies                            273
  LI.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles                  279
                                                            LII. De-

                                 CONTENTS.
LI I. Description of an Instrument for equalizwg the Pres
   sure and  Efflux of non-elastic Fluids. By Mr. JOSEPH
  STEEVENS                                               289
LIII. On the Principles of Pump-Work, illustrated and ap
  plied in the Construction of a new Pump, without friction,
  or Loss of Time, or Water, in working ; humbly proposed
 for the Service of the British Marine, with the Privilege
  of His Majesty's Royal Letters Patent. By BENJAMIN
   MARTIN                                                       391
LIV.    Notice respecting the Expedition to New Holland,
   undertaken for the Purpose of making Researches into
   Geography and Natural History. By A. L. JUSSIEU
                                                                30O
LV.   Chemical Researches on Vegetation.          By THEODORE
  DE SAUSSURE. An Extract read in tfie French National
  Institute    L. BERTHOLLET
                 l>y                                          307
LVI. Memoir on the Natural History             the Coco-nut Tree
                                                 of
  and the Areca-nut Tree       the Cultivation
                                  ;                   of
                                                     them accord
  ing to the Methods         tlte Hindoos
                                 of            their Productions,
                                                 ;
  and their Utility in the Arts and for the Purposes           do
                                                               of
  mestic Economy. By M. LE Goux DE FLAIX, an Officer
   of Engineers, and Member          lie Asiatic Society at Cal
                                       of  t
  cutta                                                       316
LVII. An Account Borneo contained in a Letter from
                            of        ;
  Mr. JOHN JESSE, to the Court Directors, from Borneo
                                            of
  Proper                                                      33S
LVI II. On the Population          Bengal.
                                      of        By     Gentleman
                                                       a
  now residing     that Country
                       in                                     339
LIX. Twentieth Communication from Dr. THORNTON, re
  lative to Pneumatic Medicine                                347
LX. On Fumigation. By Dr. THORNTON                            349
LXI. Analytical Experiments and Observations on Lac.
  By CHARLES HATCHETT, Esq. F.R.S                             350
LX II. Experiments and Observations on Feathers, and the
  Down       domestic Fowls.
           of'                   By M. PARMENTIER          .
                                                           . 358
LXI   1
      1.  On rendering Assistance to Persons in Danger              of
  Drowning.     By H. LAWSON, Esq                            363
LXIV. Letter from WILLIAM REID, Merchant, in Peter-
  head, in Scotland, respecting     Mode
                                       a         of
                                                curing malignant
  and epidemical Fevers                                      354
LXV. Notices respecting New Books                            365
LXVI. Proceedings       Learned and Economical Societies
                            of
                                                             368
LXVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles               370
                                                           THE

                                    THE
 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
I.   Account of the Voyage undertaken               fa/
                                          the Spaniards to
     tlie North-west Const America in the Year 1792*.
                                    of
As   the Spaniards had only very imperfect information in
regard to the channel deFuea, situated in about lat. 48° 30',
two frigat s, La Sutil and La Mexicana, were fitted out, in
the ye?r 73-, for the purpose of exploring it. They sailed
          1
from Acapulco, and arrived at Nootka Sound on the 13th
of May.      Macuina, the tais or chief of the Indians of that
district, immediately went to meet them in         canoe  aand,
                                                              ;
having found ihree officers whom he had seen the preceding
year, he received them with great cordiality.       This prince
is much praised         the Spaniards for his justice, benefi
                           by
cence, and humanity.        The crew of an American vessel,
commanded bv capia n Gray, had             violent contest with
                                              a
these poor Indians respecting the price of some ¦beaver skins,
exchanged     for    certain quantity of copper.
                       a                            As seven of
them were killed and several wounded during the affray,
Macuina came to the Spaniards to complain, protesting to
them, w;th tears in his eyes, that his people had not me
 rited that act of violence. At another time he came to seek
 consolation for his grief: — "     have condemned to death,"
said he, " one of mv subjects for offerins; violence to
                                         I
                                                            girl
                                                              a
of nine years of age and    ;   have absente3 myself from the
                                    1
 place of punishment, that      may not hear the groans of the
                                    I
criminal."      He had, however, his moments of energy.
 One day captain Quadra, who commanded at Nootka for
the king of Spain, saw one of these Indians running to
wards him. He was         criminal, who came to beg he would
                                a
intercede in his favour. Quadra interceded, and Macuina
pardoned him       but he added with firmness
                   ;
                                                    " Hear me,
                                                          :
Quadra  ;   this man shall never be again admitted among us.
                       • From the Attnalcs Litter turn.
Vol.   20.   No.   77- Oct. 1804.            A9                   Let

4              Voyage undertaken       by the Spaniards
 Let him remain with you         : cause his hair to be cut off; let
 him be dressed as a Spaniard ; and remember my clemency
 on the day when I shall come in my turn to demand pardon
 for one of thy people."
     On another occasion he was less laconic, hut equalry in
 genuous, in expressing his sentiments. The commandant,
 Quadra, suspected two Indians, Frijoles and Augustin, of
 having assassinated a young Spaniard.            Macuina undertook
 to be their advocate; and, having waited on Quadra, he
 addressed him as follows, after a short preamble, in which
 he stated the circumstances of the case :
     "  I do not believe that you can impute to me this bad,
 action.     You have given me copper; I have received from
 you a great many shells for the fete of my daughter.           It is
 from you I received the cloth, jewels, coat of mail, iron
 instruments, glass, and many other things with which I
 am provided.       Our mutual confidence has been carried so
 far, that we have both slept in the same chamber, where,
while you remained without arms and without soldiers to
 defend you, I might have taken your life, had a friend been
 capable of treachery.       You entertain a mean idea of me and
 of my dignity, if you imagine that I would cause to be as
 sassinated a child, less capable of defending itself than a
 woman.       You would be the first whose life would be ex
 posed   to  great danger were we enemies.            You know well
that Wicananish * has a great maqy fusees, with plenty of
               ball ; that captain Hana has not a few ; and that
   oth these as- well as the Nuchimases are my relations and
Eowderand
 allies; and that, united, we would form a number far supe
 rior to that of the Spaniards, the English, and Americans,
all together. Could we then be afraid of engaging in combat ?
Have not you often been badly attended, and have you even
observed any thin,g else than that rav subjects flocked round
you to give you every testimony of friendship ? Why then
do you allow your people to speak so disrespectfully of me ?
Make known to them all, that Macuina is thy real friend ;
and that, far from doing hurt to the Spaniards, I am ready
to avenge the injury done to you, as \ conjecture, by the
perfidious people of Iticoac.           You know the strength and
intrepidity   of  my   brother   Quat-Laza-1'e, and of my rela
tion Nutzape.         Lend me five or six pedereroes ; I will
dispatch them both, with the most valiant of ruy Mischimis,
to destroy these banditti, and to scour the neighbouring
coasts.     You may embark such of your people as you think
               * One of  the neighbouring tail, or prince*.
                                                             proper,

                to the  Nvrtk-West     Coast  of America.              &
proper, in order that they and mine,          as well as our enemies,
may know that Macuina is the same             as Quadra, and Quadra
the same as      Macuina."
  _
    Some of the customs of these people must appear very
Singular to the Europeans. The father of a new-born child,
it a tais, shuts himself up in his hut, without looking either
at the sun or the waves;          To be wanting in this respect
would be a serious offence towards the Quautz, — such is the
name given to the supreme Being;— who would destroy
both the father and the child.            The child at the end of a
month receives from the grandees assembled a first name*
which is changed when it ijuits the period of infancy; a
third name is given to it at the epoch of puberty, and a
fourth at that ot youth j a new name is also given when it
attains to maturity.
    Girls, when they become marriageable, change their
name also.         This is a period of rejoicing for the whole
family.      The Spaniards of Nootka were present at a fete
given by Macuina on a similar occasion. He caused his
aaughter, dressed with a profusion of ornaments, to appear
in an alcove, from \vhich he cried out to the assistants,
"    My daughter Apenas is no longer a child, but a woman :
henceforth she shall be called klicoti-Clemoe ;" that is to
Say, the grand Taysa of Yucuatl * ; to which all the spectators
answered by loud and repeated shouts. Figure-dances were
then performed by the tais and nobles.               There were also
different sorts of games, among which was wrestling.               The
Spaniards entered the lists, and obtained prizes of greater
value than the wrestlers of the country. The good Macuina
was highly gratified by their taking a share in the fete.
When it was ended he carried to his daughter the imple
ments necessary for female labour, and said to her : " Let
us goj my daughter ; you are now a woman, you must now
think only of the duties of your sex."            Paternal-advice was
never more exactly followed.            She attended to nothing but
her domestic concerns. Apenas was simple and playful,
and had often paid a visit to the Spaniards.               The grand
Taysa of Yucuatl, however, became grave and circumspect*
She hardly returned the salutations of her old friends : she
durst scarcely smile ; and if she gave any answer when
spoken lo> it was only in a few words, and as if by stealth.
The chief of the Spanish establishment, for whom her fa-
    * This  is the real name of that island to which the Europeans, for
what reason is not known, have given that of Nootka, which Ixars n6
telation to any word in the language of the country except to Nutcbi,
which signifies a mountain.
                                  A 3                              ther

6             Voyage undertaken       ly llie Spaniards
 ther had a real affection, could never prevail on him to
 bring her along with him.            " No, no,"            Macuina :
 " my daughter is now a woman ; she canreplied         no longer leave
 her house."
    The* manners of the tais himself displayed great singu
 larity. When public calamities required fasting and prayer,
 he would repair to the place of worship, stretch himself out
 on his back with his arms folded over his hrcast, and remain
 in that posture several hours.            He implored the divine
 mercy    with   loud    cries,   invoked    the deceased tais", and
 begged   them   to  attest  that he  was  worthy of them. Some
 times he spent two or three days without taking any other
 nourishment than a few herbs and water.               At other times
 he prayed in his own house, to conjure (he bad weather which
 impeded hunting and fishing. He shut himself up in a kind
 of cupboard, having coarsely painted in it a hideous figure,
 the signification of which the Spaniards were not able to
 learn.    He beat against the walls, and thundered forth his
 orisons with a loud voice. These noisy supplications were
 succeeded by a profound silence.
    Such scenes could not fail to appear ludicrous to those
who had never before seen any thing of the same kind. The
Spanish navigators, being desirous to put to sea from Nootka.
 in order to continue their observations, were prevented by
 contrary winds : Macuina immediately addressed his prayers
to his god in order to obtain a favourable breeze ; but he
accompanied them with Such strange grimaces that the
Spaniards could not help laughing.              Macuina observed   it,
and was much offended.            This was the only time, perhaps,
 that they ever saw him in    a     passion.    They endeavoured to
           him    and,   as he was incapable of rancour,       recon
appease       ;                                            a
ciliation was soon effected.
    These Indians believe that the soul        is   incorporeal, and
passes from this life to another.             The tais and their rela
tions go to meet their ancestors in the abode of the Quautz.
The Mischimis are transported to another place, to prince  a
whom they call Izmite,            If tais has been wicked, he
                                  a                                is
confounded     after  death    with  the plebeians.
    The dignity of tais  is    hereditary. There were three reigii-
ing   at Nootka   in  1792.      Macuina was the principal.       'Ihe
tais may have several wives       ;     but they generally    confine
themselves to three.        The wives bring with them jpp. dowry   ;
but, on the contrary, must be purchased: and for want of
property the Mischimis are condemned to celibacy, as the
greater part of what arises from their labour does not belong
to them. Those who are married have only one wife, whom
                  1                                               they

             to tlie    North- West   Coast   of America.        "}
   they receive from the hands of their prince as the reward
   of their services.
      The inhabitants of Nootka do not amount to more than
   BOOO.    Of late, the venereal disease has been introduced
   among   them   ; so that they are threatened   with the fate of
   the ofd inhabitants of California, who have been almost
   entirely destroyed by this destructive scourge.     But this is
  not the only inconvenience which attends their intercourse
  with Europeans.       Luxury begins to make considerable pro
  gress among them, and gives birth to passions with which
  they were before unacquainted, — avarice and its shameful
  train; and Macuina, humane as he             is,
                                                has already been
  obliged to establish the punishment of death in order to
  suppress theft.
     But there are also indigenous vices in this quarter of the
  globe. The Indians of Nootka are anthropophagi.           They
  uo not deny it:     and after all we have said of Macuina, will
it   be believed that he still adheres to this horrible custom ?
  Captain Meares learned from two of his officers, that al
  every new moon       a slave was killed to regale their master,
  and that this atrocious act was accompanied with mirth and
  amusements. The Spaniards, however, flatter themselves
  that since they have been settled at Nootka the manners of
  these people have become softened; whether the horror they
  expressed at this practice made an impression on their sim
 ple minds, the depravation of which cannot be incurable,
 or that the victims they sacrificed, being taken from among
 the prisoners of war, the source of them has been dried up
 by the peace which the inhabitants of Nootka have enjoyed
 since 1789.
     We shall pass over what the editor of this voyage says in
 regard to the dress, ornaments, masquerades, arms, build
 ings, canoes, food, and occupations of these people. Par
 ticulars are given in regard to all these points, which are
 not to be found in the voyage of captain Vancouver.         We
Shall only observe that the Indians of Nootka differ in no
thing from the other American tribes but in the pyramidal
 form of their heads, which must be ascribed only to the
 strong ligatures   by  which they are compressed in the cradle.
We shall add, that they are much less copper-coloured thaa
the Mexicans, and that M. Pauw, had he seea them, would
have ceased to maintain that all the inhabitants of America
are beardless.      The young Indians of Nootka appear, in
deed, to have no beards, because they employ great care to
pull the hair up       bythe roots
                                 ;   but adult males have beards
like the European*, and the Spaniards have seen among
                              A  4                         them

8             Voyage undertaken    ly the Spaniards
 them old men with beards     as long and   as bushy  as those  of
 the  Turks.
    Their principal occupation,   and the chief source of their
-riches, deserve some details. The natives inhabit only the
coast, and abandon the interior of the country to bears,
 stags, lynxes, wolves, martins, &c.        Of the marine ani
 mals which abound on their coasts the most valuable are
 no doubt whales, which supply them with abundance of
 food. They have also sea otters, the skins of which are
 the only money with which they traffic.
    The sea otters are amphibious, but live for the most part
 in the water.    They are found at a great distance from the
 coast, swimming on their backs, and carrying their young
 on their breast until they are in a state to swim themselves.
 In this manner they perform long voyages, .for the purpose
 of finding the small fish on which they feed. They never
 abandon their young, even amidst the greatest dangers ; and
 they can be torn from them only witlT their •life.      But this
 race of animals are daily decreasing, since mercantile avarice
 has caused war to be declared against them along the whole
 north-west coast, from lat. 36° to lat. 60°.      There is not a
 single point of that immense coast where the Indians are
 not employed in hunting sea otters.       It is with their skins
 that they have hitherto procured all their articles of luxury —
 copper, shells, &c. The lungs of these animals are so con
 structed that they cannot keep their heads below water for
 more than two or three minutes ; which gives a great ad
 vantage to those who are in pursuit of them : but the velo
 city with which they swim often enables them to escape
 the dexterity of the most expert hunters.
    The quality of their skins varies with age. When only
 a few months old they are covered with whitish hair of an
 ugly appearance, which soon drops off, and gives place to a
 shorter and darker kind.    When they have attained to their
 full growth this hair becomes thicker und entirely black,
 and the skin acquires its full beauty ; but it turns gray as
 the animal grows old. At all seasons the skins of the males
 are more valuable than those of the females.
    It is seen by this short description, that the otters of the
 north-east coast of America differ in many respects from
 the land otter described by the naturalists of Europe ; and
 even from the saricovian, a kind of sea otter found on the
 coast of Brazil, and which abounds in particular on the
 eastern coasts of Kamtschatka. The sea otters of the north
 west coast of America, though they live nearly in the same
 seas, seem to be far superior in regard to their black, thick,
                                                              and

              to the North-JVest    Coast of America.            9
And silky furs, which are much sought after in China.          On
this account they have lately been an object of speculation
to all those who carry on trade with that country.            This
competition could not tail of raising the price.         It taught
the Indians on the north-west coast the value of these ani
mals.      At first they disposed of the skins for a trifle. But
for some years past they have endeavoured to give the law
instead of submitting to it.       An English captain, therefore,
 complained to the Spaniards in 1 792, that the trade in otters'
 skins, which at first was so productive, appeared to him to
 have become much less so.
     But it is lime that we should follow the two Spanish fri
 gates in their expedition, of which Nootka was the central
 point, and the results of which, combined with the ac
 counts of captain Vancouver, leave nothing to be wished
 for in regard to that portion, hitherto so little known, of
 the north-west coast of America.
      It has been already said that Macuina had offered up
 prayers to obtain a favourable wind to the Spaniards, who
 were tired of their long and useless stay at Nootka.          The
 wished-for breeze at length took place, and Macuina had at
 least the merit of informing them that it was propitious to
  their designs, with which they had made him acquainted.
      Having sailed from Nootka on the 4th of June, 1/92,
 they landed at the port of Nunez Ganoa, situated at the
  entrance and on the southern edge of the straight of Fuca.
  Fidalgo, captain of the Spanish frigate La Princessa, had
  begun to form there an establishment like that of Nootka.
  The tais of the district, named Tetacus, received the Spa
  niards with the sinccrest cordiality.       Under his auspices
  they explored in the creeks several interior channels of the
  Strait de Fuca.       He even attended them as a guide, and
  when their course was opposed by calms or contrary winds
  he offered up prayers for them.         He seemed to be held in
  great consideration along the \\ hole coast, and to deserve
   it by his character, which exhibited a mixture of dignity
   and goodness ; but, like his subjects, he participated in that
  superstition 'He which all uncivilized nations are so much
  attached.      file really believed in the strangest prodigies,
   and endeavoured to make the Spaniards believe them also.
   He one day wished to persuade them that he had seen, not
  in a dream, he said, an eagle dart from the clouds, seize a
   whale, and carry it up into the air.
       From the eastern shore of the Strait de Fuca they pro
   ceeded to the northern, followed it from west to east, ex
   plored several small islands, and entered into various small
                                                          channels.

    to              Voyage undertaken    by the Spaniards
   channels.       Then doubling the south-east point of this great
   island, to which captain Vancouver, out of compliment to
    his friend the Spanish commander, gave a name composed
   of both their names united, Quadra y Vancouver, they pro
   ceeded to several islands of different sizes.       They entered a
   ¦winding channel which extends into the continent, and to
   which they gave the name of the famous minister Florida
   Blanca, with whose disgrace, however, they were no doubt
   unacquainted *. Approaching then to the western coast of
   the great island, they were exposed to some danger at the
   entrance of a bay which they named Porlier^ from the name
   of one of the governors of the Spanish Indies. Having
   escaped this danger, they arrived, after much fatigue, at a
   creek in long. lla° and lat. 49° 15', which they named
   Cala del Descanso ; that is to say, the Bay of Rest, where
  they experienced, indeed, a transient cessation of their anx
  iety.     They then found themselves entangled in this long
  channel of unequal breadth, which separates the island of
  Quadra y Vancouver from the continent.
       On their approach to the channel of Florida Blanca they
 fell in with the English brig Chatham, commanded by cap
  tain Broughton, which formed part of the expedition under
  captain Vancouver, and which was employed in making a
 survey of the coast.          Captain Broughton offered them his
 services, and, in return, the Spaniards informed him that
 in their preceding navigation they had explored the interior
 of the long strait as far as the point where they then were.
 Reciprocal testimonies of good will passed between both
 parties.      National rivality is forgotten at such a distance
 from die mother country.             They are no longer Spanish
 and English who meet ; they are men united by dangers, by
 their wants, and by the common interest which they have
 in the progress of the sciences.
     The Indians whom the Spaniards found at Cala del Des
 canso were little different from those of Nootka in regard
to their conformation, but they had no resemblance to them
in their manners and language.            They appeared to be more
suspicious and less hospitable than those ofPorlier's Bay,
which is at the distance of only eight or teaBfeagues.              On
this, occasion the Spanish editor recommends to navigators
not to judge of other tribes from what they have seen of
one, though at a small distance from each other. The
opposite coast soon justified this salutary advice.              From
    ** It took place in the month of February TTgz, and the Spanish na-1
vigitora wenconthis coast in the month of June following,
                                                                   the

             Yo the  North- West Coast  of America.          l !
Ihe Cala   del Descanso the Spaniards proceeded to Point de
Langara, which is on the other side of the strait, where
they found Indians of a very different character. They had
other countenances and other manners. The latter were a
brave people.     They were proud of their armour, and be
lieved themselves invincible ; but they were open, affable,
 and disinterested.    They inhabit. a peninsula of which Cape
 Langara forms the most northern point, and that of Cepeda
the most southern. The Spaniards here rectified an error
 which had been confirmed by the observations of the pre
ceding year, and which had made them believe that the two
eapes belonged to two different islands.
    Near Point Langara they fell in with captain Vancouver
 himself, who went on board of their vessel and communi
 cated to them his discoveries to the north-east of the great
 strait.  The Spaniards were equally candid, and allowed
 that he had made several observations which had escaped
 them. Captain Vancouver proposed to them to sail in
 company, in the hope that some advantage might be gained
 by this union.     The Spaniards consented, but were sepa
 rated by contrary winds.      The Spaniards dispatched two
 boats to examine the channel of Florida Blanca, and made
 some addition to the knowledge of it acquired by the Eng
 lish navigators. They explored the interior windings of
 this channel, which they were induced to consider as the
 long sought for passage ; but they suddenly found it shut
 on all sides by mountains covered with firs, and having
 their summits inwrapt in snbw. The Indians of this in
 hospitable region, who had never received visits of this kind,
 showed more of fear than curiosity. When they saw vessels
 of a new construction, some of them only had the courage
 to examine them ; after which they fled into the woods.
    Ascending then in a north-cast direction, they did not
 think it necessary to explore the coasts adjacent to the
 mouth of the channel of Florida Blanca and that of Car-
 melo : trusting, savs the Spanish editor, to the observa^
 tions of the English, they were unwilling to lose time and
 consume provisions in useless researches.
    Proceeding further, the English and Spaniards again met,
 and combined their operations     in this strait, which some
 times expands and sometimes becomes narrow, presenting
 a multitude of isles, small channels, creeks, and bays,
 which extend more or less into the land. The Spaniards,
 in particular, discovered several anchoring-places^   to which
 they gave names, and indicated their position in the maps
 which accompany their relation. It appears that they exa
                                                         mined,

   12           ffyage undertaken    hy the Spaniards
  mined, with great care, the indentations of the Americafl
  continent opposite to the large island of Quadra y Van
  couver. At certain intervals they met with Indians, some
  of whom came to give them advice respecting the course
  they ought to pursue, while others fled on their approach ;
  and some, conceiving their intentions to be hostile, began
  to put on their armour.       The last approached them with
  otter skins in their hands, giving them to understand that
  they might take their choice, friendly commerce or battle.
  The first-mentioned, who were less suspicious, brought
  them fresh or smoked salmon, for which they took in ex
  change iron, shells, and other trifles.
     On the 30th of July a violent quarrel had almost pro
  duced bloodshed.      A group of Indians having attempted
  to wrest a fusee from one of the Spanish hunters, it was
  found necessary, before they could be dispersed, to lire a
  cannon and some musketry from the boats.              The ball^
  however, did no execution j and the boats fired only with
  powder.
     A serious subject of solicitude occurred soon after to the
  Spanish commandant.         He had detached a boat with cap
  tain Vernaci, giving him orders to explore those parts of
  the coast which were inaccessible to large vessls.      Vernaci
  entered one of the winding channels which penetrate a great
  way into the land between the lat. of 50° and 51°, and
  long. 120° and lai°. This navigation was in every respect
  dangerous. The boat had on board but a few articles for
. carrying on trade by barter, and Vernaci found it difficult
  to resist the importunities of the Indians, who were anxious1
  to traffic with him.      They were much surprised to see
  strangers approach    their  coast in this manner, and often
  manifested a desire of taking by force what the Spaniards
  were unwilling to give to them with good will.          Vernaci
  was obliged to have recourse to mildness and persuasion.
  Though his crew had carried arms with them, it would have
  been imprudent to enter into a contest in which the neigh
  bouring tribes would no doubt have taken a part. At length,
  having penetrated to the bottom of the channel or strait
  which extends beyond the 51st degree of latitude, and
  which has its own name in the Spanish maps and that of
  Knight's Channel in those of the English; and having as
  certained that it had no outlet, he prepared to join his com
  panions by another route.      An Indian who appeared de
  sirous of serving him, and who was actuated only by an
  evil design, offered to point it out to him.     He, however,
  conducted him into a labyrinth of small islands, and then
                                                     disappeared.

             to the   North-JVest   Coast   of America.              13
disappeared. Vernaci was Then glad to return the same
way he had come, and to proceed into the great channel.
He had been absent ten days, and great apprehensions for
his safety began to be entertained.
     The Spanish navigators, being now joined, thought only
of getting out towards the north-east from this long chan
nel, into which they had entered about two months before:
but they were not yet at the end of their labours.              On the
Oth    of  August they     fell in with    the   English brig Venus,
captain Henry Shepherd, which was returning from Ben-
        and had touched at Nootka and the Strait de Fuca.
  fal,
    rom captain Shepherd the Spaniards learned that m this
strait the Indians had killed the pilot of the Spanish frigate
La Princessa. They sailed some time in company with the
English captain and the three vessels anchored w ithin reach
                  ;
of two tribes, the Quacos and the Majoia, on the western
coast of the great island, in about lat. 50° 40', and           a  little
to the east of long. 121°. They soon saw canoes approach
ing them in every direction, in one of which was the tais
of the Majoia, who announced himself                    bypresenting an
otter's skin to each of the three commanders. These In
dians brought    a    great many more, some of which were pur
chased rather through politeness than with                 view to spe
                                                            a
culation ;     for they were much dearer than they had found
them on the coasts of California.            These Indians are well
made,      and  have  an  easy gait,   but  a fierce and savage look.
They      seem  to be  exceedingly   irritable.    One of them who
was unarmed, having quarrelled with             a Spanish sailor, im
mediately disappeared        to  borrow  a    knife   from one of his
 comrades  ;    but he found on his return that the sailor was
waiting for him with his drawn hanger.                  great murmur
                                                        A
 ing now took place among the Indians               : they called with
 loud shouts for their tais, who was on board one of the
 Spanish ships and
                ;        it  was not without great difficulty that
 tranquillity was restored and preserved until the moment of
 their departure, which took place soon after.
      Next day they resumed their voyage, and, proceed1
  ing some leagues north-east,              found good anchorage
 after they had passed    a    number of small isles.        This place
 they named Port Guemes, from the name of the family of
  the viceroy of Mexico. As the wind was contrary, they re
  mained here twelve days.          They found here abundance of
  fish of different sorts; such as salmon, rays, soles, and
   small cod like those of Falkland's Islands.           The Indians of
   Port de Guemes appeared to be very unsociable, and almost
  •tupid.
                                                               Pursuing

14              On the Catoptricat and Dioptrical
   Pursuing the same course along the coast they entered &
very narrow channel, on coming out from which they found
another port, which they called Gorostiza. They were now
near the mouth of the great channel towards the north.
Proceeding then south-east they arrived at Cape Scott,
which is without the channel, and which is the most west
ern point of the. great island Quadra y Vancouver.      Some
leagues  to the cast of this cape, and in the open sea,  there
are two very large islands called those of Lanz.   But when
they arrived at that space of sea which separates them Iron*
Cape Scott, they were obliged to return to search for an
chorage, which is at the mouth of the strait. Next day
they steered for Nootka, where they arrived on the 30th.
of August, after employing four months in sailing round
the large island.
                          [To   be continued.]
                           LETTER IV.
IT.    On the     Caloptrical and Dioptrical Instruments                  of"
     the Antients  :  with Hints respecting their Revival,                or
     Rainvention , and Improvement in modern Times.
                [Continued fium our   last volume, p. 341^ J,
9. JLh us, with the help of Abat, I have in some degree
followed, without intending           it,   plan
                                            a    I   have somewhere
»een recommended, namely, to prosecute historical inqui~
lies backwards; that is, to begin with our osvn times, or
lather with times not much anterior to our own, and pro
ceed,    by retrograde steps, to more anticnt periods, till at
last we approach the wilds of uncertainty and fable. — shall          I
now add few miscellaneous remarks and quotations some
            a                                                         ;
of which did not before occur to me, and others could not
well be introduced in uiv former communications.
    10. And first,   I  thinkit   nuht to lay before the reader the
following; passage from Bi/Jfon, which            1  have just found,
and   which,   it must    be owned,       not
                                         is      very consonant with
the  account     of  the   destruction   of  the   mirror of Ptolemy
Euergctes, given       bv   Abat,   from    Crtisius.   (See Lett. iii.
§  52.)   1  have   not  the  means   of reconciling    theni   and,
                                                                  ;       if
I  had, I  am not sure that     I should make the attempt.          For
the question    is  not, How, or when, or          by whom, this op
tical instrument was destroyed        ?  but Whether        really pro
                                                             it
duced the effects recorded of       it?  And that did, Abat,
                                                        it                al
                                                                      lowing

                        Instruments    of the Antients.                         \5
lowing for   the mistakes of historians ignorant of optics,
bas made extremely probable, not to say absolutely certain,
to those at least, who have the opportunity of repeating his
very interesting experiments. Abulfeda, says M. de Bvf-
fon, in his Description of Egypt, has these words : — In                    "
Plia.ro Alexandrite, erat speculum, e ferro Sinico, per quod
a longe videlantur naves Grcecorum advenientes ; sed paulo
postquam       islamismui        invaluit,   scilicet tempore           calij'atus
Walid-fit Abdilmelech, Christiani, fraude adhibita, illud
dclevenint ; that is, In the Pharos of Alexandria was a mir
ror of Chinese iron, by means of which the Grecian fleet,
 when at a great distance, was seen approaching; but, soon
 after Mahometanism prevailed, the Christians destroyed                         it,
 by      stratagem *."    In Buffon's opinion, the words ferro Si
 nico ought to be rendered acier poll, or polished steel. But
 this interpretation applies only to ferro, the abl. sing, of
J'errum iron, and improperly excludes Sinico.              say improI
 perly; for, of whatever kind the metal was, the historian
 certainly meant that           was Chinese.
                                it               But why Ptolemy's
  opticians      should have  sent to China for iron or steel, which,
  the Sacred Writers assure us, were common in Egypt, docs
  not appear.        Being thus uncertain as to the precise kind of
  metal of which this famous telescopic mirror was composed,
  may we not ask, Whether Alulfeda,                 historian who,
                                                           a                     it
  seems, was not over accurate,            might not have written
  ferro for what        known to us by the name of Tutanag,
                       is                                                        a
   Chinese metallic compound, which might be valued then,
  as
      it       now, for the high polish     receives
                                             it
         11. The Rev. Mr. Nixon's " Dissertation on the Anti
      is                                                        ?
  quity of Glass Windows," in the Philosophical Transac
   tions for 1758, mentioned above,              sequel of
                                                  is   a    " An Ac
   count of some Antiquities discovered at Herculaneum," in
   the volume for 757. In the 3th article of this last paper,
                       1                 1
   one of those subterraneous antiquities           described as " A
                                                           is
  ,flat piece of white glass, taken off from towards the extre
   mity of the sheet        as appears from the curvature and pro
                            ;
   tuberant thickness of one of its sides above the other parts."
     , i/-ii/.
               perhaps, views Nixon loo much in the light of an
   opponent; for       I do not find that the latter advances any
   thing inconsistent with the arguments and proofs of the
    former, except this observation: — " Before the application
      * In          Chronology we find that Walid I., calif of the Saracens,
           Plaffah's
  reigned from A.D. 705 to 715, and Walidll. from A.D. 74.3 to 744;
  also that Isbmafl Abulfetia, prince of Hamah,  "an indifleient geogra
  pher and historian," was born A. D. 1273, and died in 1343.
                                                                                     of

   16            On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical
  of quicksilver in the constructing of specula, or looking-
  glasses (which I presume is of no great antiquity), the re
  flection of images by such specula must have been effected
  by being besmeared behind, or tinged through, with some
  dark colour, especially black, which would obstruct the
  refraction of the rays of light."     But I presume that those
  who duly attend to Abat's quotations and reasonings, will
  be of opinion that Mr. Nixon's language is abundantly too
  strong, when he says that the antients must have so be
  smeared or tinged their looking-glasses;         since Abat has
  clearly proved   that they knew  how   to coat them   with metal.
  Among     other  uses  to which  glass   was  applied  by the an
  tients, Mr. Nixon quotes from Pliny these passages : —
 "     Cum additd aqua, vitrece pilce, sole adverso, in tanlum
 excandescunt , tit vestes exurant .- Glass globes, with the ad
 dition of water, when exposed to the sun, grow so hot as
 to burn clothes j" lib. xxxvi. c. 22. § 45. (The reader will
 observe Pliny's mistake in saying that the globes grow thus
 hot.)     Again u " Invenio medicos, qu<e sunt urendu corpor
 rum, non aliter utilius id fieri put are, quant cryslallind pila
 adversis positd solis radiis : I find that medical men are of
 opinion, that there is not a more useful way to Cauterize
 parts of the body, than by a crystal globe placed opposite to
 the rays of the sun ;" lib. xxxvii. c. 6. § 10. Mr. Nixen adds,
 on the authority of M. Renaudot, in Mem. de t'Jead. des
 Inscript. torn. i. that glass was not wrought into lenses for
 optical uses, till the beginning of the thirteenth century; so
 that we may add his suffrage to those of the other learned
 fautors of Roger Bacon's pretensions. He also endeavours
 to make it probable, " that the original of glass windows
 may have fair pretensions to a place some years before the
 destruction of Herculaneum {anno Christi 80), in whose
 ruins the glass plate under consideration was buried."        But
 he confesses, he " has not been able to trace up the use of
glass in windows, by any positive authority, higher than
about 200 years short of the epocha last mentioned, viz. to
the latter end of the third century, when it is expressly
mentioned by Lactantius (De Opificio Dei, cap. v.) in these
words : " Manifestius est mentem esse, qiice per ocuhs ea,
quee sunt opposita, transpiciat, quasi per fenestras, lucente
vitro aut speculari Uipide obductas : It is more manifest that
there is a mind, which sees things presented to it through
the eyes, as through windows composed of clear glass, or
transparent stone."
     1 2. On this subject, it may not be amiss to add, that
in the reign of Tiberius, according to Pliny, a Roman artist
                                                               had

                        Instruments     of the Antients.                   }J
had, his house         demolished, or, as Petronius Arbiter and
others affirm, lost his head, for making malleable glass.'
In modern times, it is said, that in the year 1610, the
sophy of Persia sent the king of Spain six glass vessels
which bore the operation of hammering*.
     13. Abat and Nixon do not appear to have extended
their researches to the antiquity of glass in (his part of the
world ; which is a point of some importance.                      I do not
know any better proof that the antient inhabitants of this
island, in particular, possessed the art of making glass, than
the spepimens of their work which still exist in the gla.<s
rings, with a round hole in the centre, and a very thick
rim, in shape like the whirl of a distaff-spindle, but much
smaller, which are found in many parts of the country.
By the genuine descendants of the antient Britons, they are
called gleineu naidreedh, or glass-adders.              I have seen se
veral of them, among the country people, in the south of
Scotland, where their present name is adder-stones, to di
stinguish them, no doubt, from certain concretions there
said to be formed in the heads of old toads, and called toad-
stones.      I remember a countryman picking up a greenish
adder-stone, about 35 years ago, in a peat-moss, or turf*
bog, in Dumfries-shire.              He showed it to the late Rev.
Dr. Walker, professor of natural history in the university
of Edinburgh, then minister of Moffat, whose learning and
ability are well known to proficients in that study. But
the doctor, who was not very fond of giving his opinion in
doubtful subjects, barely told the man that it was an amur
It H ; a word as mysterious to him as the modus operandi of
the thing signified.          On consulting a dictionary, however,
he found that the word amulet meant a charm ; for those
glass rings are thought to have been used as charms by the
Druids; with whom, perhaps, originated the wild but wide-
          notion, that they were formed by adders or vipers.
Sread
    :rtain it is, that their supposed virtues are still as much
venerated by some of the Scottish peasantry, as was, among
the Gauls, the ovum anguinum described by Pliny f.                      The
good     old   women       use   them    to  rub  the gums    of  children
Juring dentition, and parts affected with pain in persons
of all ages; and, perhaps, it would not be easy to prove
them to be less efficacious than the modern tractors.
     14. All the adder-stones I have seen, though evidently
»f glass, were opake, and some of them beautifully varie-
    * Harris's Lex. Tech.    Supp. and Bailey's Fol. Diet, id ed. art. Glass.
    \  Nat. Hist. lib. xxix. c . 3. as quoted in the Minstrelsy of the Scot
tish Border, vol. ii. p. 404.-
    Vol.   20.  No.    77. Oct. 1804.          B                      gated.

18                   On the Catopirical and Dioptrical
gated.  But I would by no means insinuate that all adder-
stones whatever are opake ; and much less that the antient
Brilons did not possess the art of making transparent glass.
Such a conclusion would scarcely appear more rational than
it would be in our present antiquaries, if no antient vessels
of transparent glass had been found, to deny that the artists
of those days could make such glass ; or that thev could
make window-glass, if the curious specimen, described by
Mr. Nixon,           had not been disinterred at Herculaneum.
     15. Hence,   on reflection, I cannot help wondering that
some antiquaries, as observed in my last letter (§ 96), should
believe that the antient Egyptians made opake glass, but not
transparent glass. For, waving the well known logical prin
ciple, That negative propositions, such as this       admit not                is,
of proof,       itallowed that those anticnts were acquainted
                     is
with the reduction of metallic ores, and consequently with
fluxes or verifiable substances, which, though opake when
in thick masses, would transmit more or less light when,
as would often take place, they happened to be sufficiently
thin. A rude kind of transparent glass, thus obtained from
crucibles or smelting furnaces, (not to mention potteries
and brick-kilns,) would furnish       hint, which, a     natural               it    is
to suppose, would not pass unimproved among so ingenious
a  people.   Besides,       very improbable that the manufac
                            it   is
ture of glass could flourish, as we have seen        did among             it
the Sidonians, without becoming known to their enlight
ened neighbours the Egyptians; some of whose monarchs
have immortalized themselves            their encouragement of
                                                    by
the arts and sciences.
    16. According to the venerable Bede, glass windows were
first introduced into this country about the year 674, when
Benedict Biscop, the cotemporary of the famous IViifrid,
bishop of York, founded the monastery of Weremouth.
"  After the work was far advanced, he sent agents into
France to procure,         if
                          possible, some glass-makers,     kind                           a
of artificers quite unknown                  in
                                   England, and to brine; them
over to glaze the windows of his church and monastery.
These agents were successful, and brought several glass-
makers with {hem who not only performed the work re
                          ;
quired      by
            Benedict, but instructed the English in the art
of making glass for windows, lamps, drinking vessels, and
other      uses*."
     17.   I   have introduced           these passages, to save the reader
     • Bedce Hist. Ab'>at- Weremuibcn.            as quoted   in               Hist, of Great
                                                                   Henry   s
Britain, vol. iv. p. 116.     ed.
                                         '
                                    3.
                                                                                              . the)

                   Instruments     of llie Antients.                1 §
the trouble of referring to other works, to satisfy himself
that the art of making and variously moulding transparent
glass, was practised in England above 500 years before the
time of Roger Bacon ; aucl consequently that he could be
at no loss to procure that material tor his experiments. But
these remote historical facts must here give place to others,
more immediately connected with the present inquiry.               In
"John Dee his Mathematicall Praeface to Euclid, Writ
ten," to use his own words, " at my poor house at Mart-
lake, anno 1570, Febr. 9," I find the following curious,
but long neglected, passages ; which, had I known of them,
should have been inserted before I arrived at this miscella
neous conclusion of my communications.               I must observe,
that the copy of Dee's       "  very  curious   and  elaborate" pre
face,  in 95  small  4to   pages,    now    before   me, is prefixed,
not to his own edition of the Elements, which " was pub
lished by Henry B'Mingsley in 1570*, but to " Euclid's Ele
ments of Geometry, the first VI books, in a compendious
form contracted and demonstrated, by Capt. Thomas Rudd,
Chiefe Engineer to His late Majesty ; whereunto is added
the Mathematicall Prefaee of Mr. John Dee : London :
Printed by R. and W. Leybourn, R. Tomlins and R. Boy-
dell, 1651." This date will account for the orthography
and punctuation, which I copy, being more modern than
that which was fashionable, in 1570, when this interesting
preface was first printed.
    18. Dee defines "Perspective" to be " an Art Mathe
maticall, which demonstrateth the nature and properties of
all Radiations, Direct, Broken, and Reflected."                  And
*' Glasse," according to him, " is a generall name, in
 Catoptrike, for any thing from which a Beam reboundeth."
— " Is it not greatly," he asks, " against the Soveraignty
of Man's nature, to be so overshot and abused with things
 (at hand) before his eyes ? as with a Peacock's tail, and a
Dove's neck : or a whole ore, in water holdcn, to seem
 broken.    Things far off to seem neer, and ncer, to seem
 far off. Small things to seem great, and great to seem
 small. One man to seem an Army. Or a man to be curstly
 afraid of his own shadow.        Yea, so much, to fear, that if
 you being a lone, neer a certain glasse, and proffer with
 dagger or sword, to foyne at the glasse, you shall suddenly
 be moved to givp back (in manner) by reason of an Image
 appearing in the air, between you and the glasse, with like
 hand, sword or dagger, and with like quicknesse foyning
              • See Dr. Uultons
                                 Dictionary, article Dei.
                                 B  2                                at

  SO                 On the Catoptrical and Dioptrical*
  at your eye, likewise as yon do at the Glasse.                 Strange,
   this is to hear off, but more mervailous to behold, than
   these my words can signifie.             And neverthelesse, by de
   monstration Opticall, the order, and cause thereof, is cer
   tified : even so as the effect is consequent.               Yea, thus
   much more, dare I take upon mc, toward the satisfying of
   the noble courage, that longeth ardently for the wisedome
   of Causes Naturall : as to let him understand, that, in Lon
   don, he may with his own eyes, have proof of that, which
   I have said herein. A Gentleman *, (which, for his good
   service, done to his coun trey, is famous and honourable:
,  and for skill in the Mathematical! Sciences, and Languages,
   is the Odde man of this land, &c.) even he is able: and
    (F am sure) will, very willingly, let the Glasse, and proof
   b seen : and so I (here) request him ; for the encrease of
   w sedome, in the honourable: and for the stopping of the
   imuths malicious: and repressing the arrogancy of the ig
   norant: ye may easily guesse, what I mean." —These last
   words will be best explained by the first sentence of the
   author's long and querulous " Digression Apologeticall :"
   — " And for these, and such like marvellous Acts and
   Feits, Naturally, Mathematically,                 and Mechanically,
   wrought       and   contrived   :  ought any    honest   Student, and
   modest Christian Philosopher, be counted and called a
   Coniurer ?" — It appears that the foolish and superstitious
   multitude, not content with verbal abuse, destroyed the
   large collection of instruments, manuscripts, and printed
  books, which he had painfully amassed at Mortlake, in
   Surry, " as belonging to one who dealt with the devil f." —r
   In    another place, Dee has these words : " Of the strange
   self-moving, which, at Saint Denis, by Paris, Anno 1551,
   J   saw ence or twice {Oronlius% being then with me, in
  company) it were too strange to tell.             But some have writ
  ten it : and ye,t, I hope it is there, of other to be seen. And
  by Perspective also strange things are done : as, to sec in
  the air aloft, the lively image of another man, either walkr
  ingtoandfro: or standing stil. Likewise, to come into
  an house, and there to see the lively shew of Gold, Silver,
  cr precious stones: and comming to take them in your
      • S.  W. P.   on the margin.
      + See   Dr. Hulion's Diet/, art. Dee, compared with this " Digression
  .Apologeticall."
      J  Probably the great French geome'er and mechanician Oror/iiis Fi-
  raks (or Oionce Fine) who died A. D. 1555, af er buffering much for
  ah astrological prediction, which had offended the court of France.    See
  Dr. Hilton's Dictionary, article Fm.em,
                                                                    hand,

                   Instruments   of the Antients.                   41
 hand, to finde nought but ayr. Hereby have some men
 (in all other matters counted wise) fouly over-shot them
selves : misdeeming of the means." — Here it is observable
that Dee does not, as in the former quotation, affirm that
he actually saw these effects of perspective produced.            The
lord chancellor Bacon relates, that his great precursor and
namesake, Roger Bacon, apparently walked in the air be
tween two steeples, which he supposed was the effect of
reflection from glasses, while he really walked on the
ground *. And what Dee says of the " sliew of Gold, &c." i J
apparently taken from the 5th chapter of Roger Bacon's tract
De Nullitate Magics ; though I do not find that the great
author is mentioned, or alluchd to, in this whole preface.
    19. But the most extraordinary passage in this perform
ance of Dee, is the following: — " No small skill ought he
to have, that should make trae report, or neer the truth of
the numbers and summes, of footmen or horsemen, in the
Enemies ordering. Afarre o f, to make an estimate between
neer terms of More and J^esse. is not a thing very rife,
among those that gladly would do it."
                                                   "
                                                — The Herald,
Pursuivant, Serjeant Ro\ all, Captain, or whosoever is care-
full to come neer the truih herein, besides the Judgment
of his expert eye, his skill of Ordering Tacticall, the help
of his Geometricall instrument : Ring or Staffe Astrono-
micall : commodiously framed for carriage and use.)                He
may wonderfully help himself by perspective Glasses. In
which, (I trust) our posterity will prove more skilfull and
expert, and to greater purpose--, than in these dayes, can
(almost) be credited to be poss ble."
   20. I apprehend that tl is last passage must be admitted
as a decisive proof, that " perspective glasses," and some of
their most useful effects, were known in England, in 1570;
or more than 40 years earlier than 1609, or 16 10, when
they are commonly believed to have been invented in Hol
land.     I sav more than 40 years ; for Dee here talks of them
as we should do of instruments familiarly known, but in the
use of which we were not so         " skilful and expert" as, we
" trusted, our posterity would one day prove ;" probably be
cause they had not yet been reduced to a very commodious
form.      Thus much the words of Dee clearly warrant us to
affirm ; but how much more than 40 years, they do not au
thorize us to say. Nor will Dee's words enable us to ascertain
whether his " perspective glasses" were dioptrical or catop-
trical ; for his definitions above inserted, of " perspective"
      *  See Dr. Hui:m'i Mathematical Dictionary, article Optics.
                                B   3                             and

42                On the Cafoptrical and Dioptrical
and    **
          glasse," contain nothing to prevent U3 from apply-*
ing them to either       kind of    "  glasse ; and our extracts from
Abat show that distant objects maybe viewed advantageously
with both.
     21. From the whole of what has been stated, in my four
letters, I may now venture to draw a few of the many in
ferences, which cannot fail to force themselves on the mind
of the intelligent reader ; but which, in order to avoid all
dogmatism, I shall express in the form of queries.
     22, Preparatory, however, to my first query, I must ob-
servey that the celebrated Dr. Zach, of Saxe*Gotha, in exa
mining, as he did in 1784, the imprinted papers of our
great Harriot, found that his observations on Jupiter's sa
tellites extended from Januasy I6th, 1610, to February 26th,
 J 61 2. The renowned Galileo discovered those secondary
planets on the 7th of January 1610; '* so that," says Dr.
Zach, H it is not improbable that Harriot was likewise a
first discoverer of these attendants of Jupiter." — It ap          "
pears that Harriot had telescopes with magnifying powers-
of 10, 20, and 30 times." — " And it is very likely that
Harriot, who lived with so generous a patron as The Earl
of' Northumberland, had got the new invention of telescope*
in Holland much sooner in England than they could reach
 Galileo, who, at that time, lived at Venice." —Now, Har
riot was born in 15Go, and died in 1621.                    The Pantome-
tria appears to have been first printed in 1571 *, and a se
cond lime in 15<}1 ; and the Stratioticos first in f&79> and
again in 1390.        These two interesting books were the joint
works of Leonard Digges and his son Thomas Digges,
the former of whom died about 1574, and the latter in
1595, when Harriot was 35 years of age.                       Dee's Preface
to Euclid was first printed in 1570, and its author lived till
 1608, when Harriot was in his -48th vear.                     These three
performances, therefore, which, as we have seen, (Lett. ii.
    • Here a friend
                    obligingly sent me t!i* first edition of the tantometria,
™
   imprinted at Loudon anno- 1571," when TAo. Digges, esq-, the editor,
and partly the author, says he was 2; years of age.        Thus both editions
of that work are before ms; the riF3t a small 410. (1571), and the se
cond a small fol. (1591) apparently much augmented.              But I cannot
compare them now. — The note at § 3. of my scio-.d letter should be read"
thus: The Tantometria was begun by Leonard Digges, and finished by
his son Thomas Diggrs.      The first of the three books of the Stratioticos,
was begun and almost finished by the father, and the two others wholly
wcitien by the son.    See the title of the first edition of the PaMometria,
and the Dedication of both editions;      also the Preface to the Stratioticos-,
and the'List of fto. Digges' s works, at the end of it's Contents.
                                                                            §3

                      instruments    of the Antienls.                 S3
 §  3 and 9, and      § 18, 19, above) contain undeniable proofs
 of   an acquaintance with some contrivance answerable to
the telescope, could not but be known to Harriot, as well
 as, in all probability, the authors of at least two of them.
Twenty years have scarcely elapsed since Harriot's astro
 nomical writings were brought to light, or since that cele
brated analyst, the instructor of Descartes, was at all known
 as an astronomer (a notable instance of our ignorance even
 of modern characters and events); and it seems by no means
 extravagant       to suppose that future incidents or researches
may furnish grounds for a decidedly affirmative answer              to*
     Query 1st. Whether it be not, at least, as probable that
 Harriot's     telescopes were made in England as in Holland ?
     Query    id.   Whether it be not undeniable, that the Diggeses
 and Dee actually possessed some such instrument as a
 telescope; and whether Thomas Digges do not expressly
 ascribe his father Leonard's knowledge of optics partly to
a written book of Roger Bacon? (See Lett. ii. § 3, 4, 9j
 and §    1 9 of this.)
     Query 3d. Whether this express testimony of Thomas
 Digges do not strongly co-operate with Roger Bacon's own
 writings, in producing a conviction that he was acquainted
with some instrument equivalent to a telescope ; and whe
ther, when he says, " It is thought \ha\. Julius Ccesar dis
cerned through very large glasses," &c. he do not forego
all personal claim to the invention of those glasses, and
plainly imply, that it was believed by the learned of his
time, that that invention was to be referred to a much more
antient period, even to a period of indefinitely remote anti
quity ?       For Bacon doe3 not say that Caesar invented
those glasses, but only, that " it was thought" he used
them.
    Query 4th. Whether from the silence, as far as appears,
of Dee, the Diggeses, Recorde, and Roger Bacon, respecting
the invention of the optical devices they mention, we may
not conclude (as Abut has done with regard to glass mirrors)
that those optical devices are so antient that their inventor*
were forgotten ; and whether this conclusion wonld not be
strengthened by T. Digges' referring the knowledge of them
 (partly) to Roger Bacon, and Roger Bacon attributing the
   * For the dates and facts mentioned in this paragraph, in addition to
the authorities already cited, see Dr. Hutton's Mathematical Dictionary,
articles Dee, Digges, and Harriot.
                                   £  4                              ust

 24          On Caloptrical and Dioptrical Instruments.
 use  of them to Julius Ccesar, while he says nothing as to
 the time and circumstances of their invention ?
     Query 5th. Whether the antient maxim of concealing
 from the people at large truths of which, it was supposed,
 they could make no good use ; a maxim which, as we have
 seen, was applied to this very subject even by so modern
 an author as Dr. Recorde, did not peculiarly expose such
 truths, thus floating, so to speak, on the breath of a few
 adepts, to the danger of being lost in the revolutions which
 too frequently disturb or subvert society ; especially before
 copies of what might have been thought Jit to be committed
 to touting* could oe multiplied by the press? (See Lett. ii.
 §  16. 19.)
     Query 6th. Whether, notwithstanding these disadvan
 tages,    considerable remnants of optical knowledge have
not escaped the reserve of philosophers and the fury of re
 volutionists ', and whether, if Abal and others have proved,
 or rather, if experiments prove, that simple lenses and con
 cave mirrors have the same effects as telescopes j and if
 Abat has, moreover, made it probable that Ptolemy Euer-
getes applied a concave mirror to the same use; it would be
 absurd to conclude, that instruments equivalent to telescopes
 arc, in fact, extreuielv antient? (See Lett. iii. § 12. 23,
'&.C.)
     Query 1th. Whether this conclusion be not additionally
justilied by the proofs, which the same author has adduced,
 of the dexterity of the antient manufacturers of glass; proofs
 which reach from verv distant times down to the days of
  Fitellio, Peccam, aud Roger Bacon ? (See the former part
 of this letter.)
     Query 8th. Whether, after the evidence staled {and much
 more mis,ht no doubt be discovered) it would be rash, or ab
 surd, or inconsistent with tlie undoubted pretensions of mo
 dern inventors, to suppose that the knowledge of some such
 instrument as the tet-escope, has been concealed among the
 learned from very remote ages ; and that, strictly speaking,
 such knowledge has only been published, and with other parts
 of optics, greatly augmented and improved, in modern times                f
    * Dr. Hat/on, in his article Galileo, after
                                                enumerating the writings of
 that great man, adds: " Besides all these, he wrote many other pieces,
 which were unfortunately lost through his wife's devotion,!', (say bigotry)
 •' who, solicited
                     by her confessor, gave him leave to peruse her hus-
.hand's manuscripts ; of which he tore and took away as many as be said
 •were not fit to be published?
                                                                    These

             On tlie Decline   of Mathematical Studies.          85
     These queries, together with the facts and reasonings ori
 which they      are founded, I humbly submit to the candid
 examination and criticism of men of more learning, ability,
-and leisure, than,
                            Dear sir, yours respectfully,
                                                               *D.
                    [Postscript in our next Number.]
 III.    On the Decline   of Mathematical Studies, and      the Sci*
     ences dependent   upon them.       By   the Rev. John Toplis,
     A.M.*
 At    is a subject of wonder artd regret to many, that this
 island, after having astonished Europe by the most glorious
 display of talents in mathematics and the sciences depen
 dent upon them, should suddenly suffer its ardour to cool,
 and almost entirely to neglect those studies in which it in
 finitely excelled all other nations.         After having made the
 most wonderful and unhoped-for discoveries, and pointed
 out the road to more ; suddenly to desist, and leave these to
 be cultivated, and the road to more to be explored, by other
 nations, is very remarkable. It seems as strange as the con
 duct of a conqueror would be, was he to conquer all the
 countries around him, and then tamely to suffer his own
 and the subjugated ones to be possessed, governed, and cul
 tivated, by those whom he had conquered.
     It is a very great disgrace for a nation like this, which
 can proudly boast of a superiority over all others in arts,
 arms, and commerce, to suffer the sublimest sciences, which
 once were its greatest pride and glory, to be neglected.
 Surely a much more solid fame accrues to a people from
 their superiority in talents than in arms. Athens is as ce
 lebrated for its learning as its commerce or its victories.      It
 cannot be owing to any want of importance in the sciences
 themselves that they are neglected ; the discoveries made
 in them are of the most astonishing nature, and such as
 seemed absolutely beyond the reach of human intellect.
 By the marvellous assistance of the mathematics from the
 simple law of gravity are deduced the orbits of the planets
 and satellites, their distances, the times of their revolu
  tions, their densities, quantities of matter, and many other
  remarkable properties too well known to be enumerated.
 Were it not for them, mechanics, optics, hydrostatics, geo-
                     * Communicated    by the Author.
                                                            granhy,

 fft            Ort the Decline      of Mathematical Studies,
  graphy, and other branches of natural philosophy, would
  hardly have been known as sciences.           It is possible that
 discoveries more wonderful and of greater utility than those
 already made by the help of mathematics, may some time
 or other be effected, should some great genius once point
 out the way.       It is the opinion of many philosophers *,
 that  the various forms and diversified properties of bodies
 are owing to the various laws of attraction and repulsion
 which their constituent particles exercise upon each other.
 Should these laws ever be discovered, we shall become as
 well acquainted with the structure, affinities, and mutual
 operations of bodies, as we are with the revolutions and ac
 tions of the planets upon each other.
     The mathematics, and the sciences dependent upon them,
 cannot be neglected from their want of importance and uti
 lity : they are a much nobler study than the present fa
 vourite one of natural history, the various branches of
 which seem to require more the efforts of memory than
judgment j in the pursuit of which, the highest object to
be attained is the discovery of some nondescript insect
 or plant, in which chance more than judgment is con
 cerned.    Chemistry, from its very great importance as well
 as the utility arising from         it,
                                   deservedly ranks next to ma
 thematics and natural philosophy.           But in chemistry, as
 well as natural history,    we  are left at so great    distance
                                                             a                 by
the philosophers      of the  continent,   that there  are  no hopes
of coming      in  for  but    comparatively very
                                a                     small  share of
praise.
    We seem, as       anation, for this last half century, to be
sunk into       great degree of supineuess with respect to the
                a
sciences, regardless of our former fame. The generality of
the papers in the Philosophical Transactions are no longer
of that importance they were formerly.             We have long
ceased to study those sciences in which we took the leaa
and excelled, and are content to follow, at            very humble
                                                           a
distance, the steps of the philosophers of the continent, in
those which they have in          manner discovered and made
                                     a
plain by their glorious exertions. We, after having disco
vered and conquered regions in science, suddenly quit them
to be possessed and cultivated             by
                                       other nations, that we may
pick up     few gleanings in the countries found out and cul
tivated  by atheir exertions.
    To what strange infatuation can            be owing that we
                                                  it
tamely give up what was once our greatest boast                 Is       ?    it,
          *     Pidf Philosophical   Magazine,   vol. xiv. p. 19   ;..
                 v
                                                                         because

             and the Sciences dependent upon them.            if
because a century back our philosophers made such ad
vances in science that all other nations were left at an im
measurable distance, that we ate contented with their glory,
and think our country sufficiently immortalized ? Can we
tamely sit down with what they have done, and see other
nations gaining fame where our ancestors immortalized
themselves ? By such conduct, the fame they have acquired
reflects double disgrace upon ourselves ; we show that we
are degenerate, and unworthy of such fathers.
     There are some remarks upon the importance and decline
of mathematical learning in the Encyclopedia Britannica,
article Physics, which I shall take the liberty of inserting,
as the remarks of professor Kobison will carry with them s
deference not to be expected from those of one unknown to
fame.
     " A notion has of late gained ground, that a man may
become a natural philosopher without mathematical know
 ledge ; but this is entertained    by none who have any ma
 thematics themselves ; and surely those who are ignorant
 of mathematics should not be sustained as judges in this
 matter.     We need only appeal to fact. It is only in those
 parts of natural philosophy which have been mathemati
 cally treated, that the investigations have been carried on
 with certainty, success, and utility*. Without this guide
 we must expect nothing but a schoolboy's knowledge, re
  sembling that of the man who takes up his religious creed
  on the authority of his priest, and can neither give a reason
  for what he imagines that he believes, nor apply it with
  confidence to any valuable purpose in life.     We may read
  and be amused with the trifling or vague writings of a Nol-
  let, a Ferguson, or a Priestley ; but we shall not understand
  nor profit by the truths communicated by a Newton, a
  D'Alembert, Or De la Grange." —
      " It is to be lamented that the tas^e for mathematical
  sciences has so prodigiously declined in this country of late
  years ; and that Britain, which formerly took the lead in
  natural philosophy, should now be the country where they
   are least cultivated.   Few among us know more than a
  few elementary doctrines of equilibrium : while on the
  continent we find many authors who cultivate the Newto
  nian philosophy with great assiduity and success, and whose
   writings are consultedas the fountains of knowledge by all
   our countrymen who have occasion to employ the discove
   ries of natural philosophy in the arts of life.   It is to the
   foreign writers that we have recourse in our seminaries even
   for elementary treatises ; and while tire continent has sup
                                                             plied

9i          On the Decline        of Mathematical Studies,
 plied us with most elaborate and useful treatises on various
 articles in phvsical astronomy, practical mechanics, hydrau
 lics, and optics, there have not appeared in Britain half a
 dozen treatises worth consulting for these last forty years*
 It is therefore devoutly to be wished that the taste for the
 mathematical sciences may again turn the eyes of Europe
 to this country for instruction and improvement.                   The
 present   seems    a  most   favourable   sera,  while  the  amazing
 advances in manufactures of every kind seem to call aloud
 for the assistance of the philosopher. What pleasure would
 it have given to Newton or Halley to have seconded the
 ingenious efforts of a Watt, a fioulton, a Smeaton, an
Arkwright, a Dollond ! And how mortifying is it to see
 them indebted to the services of a Belidor, a Bossuet, a
 Clairaut, a Boscovich !"
    Perhaps one reason to be assigned for the deficiency of
mathematicians and natural philosophers is the want of pa
 tronage. These sciences are so abstruse, .that, to excel m
 them, a student must give up his whole time, and that
without any prospect of recompense ; and should his talents
and application enable him to compose a work of the high
 est merit, he must never expect, by publishing            it,  to clear
one-half of the expense of printing. All those men, there
fore, who have not fortune sufficient to enable them to give
up their time in the study, and part of their property to the
publication, of works in these sciences, are in       a   manner ex
cluded from advancing them.               In France and most other
nations of Europe       it   isdifferent in them the student may
                                        :
look forward to     a    place    iu the National Institute or Aca
demy    of Sciences,     where   he  will have an allowance suffi
cient to enable him to comfortably pursue his studies            ;  and
should he produce works worthy of publishing, they will be
printed at the expense of the nation.
  It   is remarkable, that amongst the very few men who
still pursue mathematical studies           in this country, a   consi
derable part, instead of being dazzled and delighted             by  the
wonderful and matchless powers of modern analysis, still
obstinately attach themselves to geometry.           It   is
                                                          a    science,
perhaps,    of  all   others,  from   the  clearness  and  accuracy   of
its proofs, the most proper to be taught young men, that
from the study of     it   their reasoning faculties may be im
           but  at   the same   time, as science,             confined
                                                      it
proved ;                                    a         is
m its application, feeble, tedious, and almost impractica
ble in its powers of discovery in natural philosophy.               But
what   is called analysis possesses boundless and almost su
pernatural powers in its application to science; and the dis
                                                               coveries

              and the Sciences dependent upon them.              39
coveries made by it in natural philosophy are of so surprising
a nature, that to pretend to despise            it,
                                           anil obstinately to
grovel amongst few properties of surfaces and solid bodies,
                  a
part of which were discovered       means of analysis, denotes
                                      by
a very narrow and prejudiced mind.
   It much to be wished that the few men who study
     is
analysis in this country, would cease to lose their time and
mis-spend their talents in the discussion of vain subtilties,
and cavilling with its first principles, (amongst whom the
opposers    of negative quantities cut' conspicuous figure,)
                                                a
but combine in exerting themselves to increase its power
and riches, and endeavouring, in some degree, to keep pace
with the analysts upon the continent in their discoveries.
 I   cannot here forbear making            a few remarks upon the
method of study made use of m the university of Oxford
and the principal seminaries of this kingdom, as           I     look
upon    itas  avery great interruption to the progress of sci
ence.     Regardless of the wonderful advances made in the
sciences and arts, they treat their learners with contempt,
and, obstinately shutting their eyes against their present
most enlightened state, seem determined that nothing but
the study of words and ridiculous attempts at elegant com
position in the Greek and Latin languages shall employ
their scholars.      Are the sciences which " weigh the sun
and   his  revolving stars       measure the velocity of light and
                                 ;"
the  distance  of  the  fixed  orbs;  draw the lightning from hea
ven weigh
    ;          the  air ;  enable  us  to traverse the clouds
                                                            ;   guide
the  mariner    through     the  trackless   deep   separate the rays
                                                      ;
of light class the animated and decompose the inanimate
          ;
bodies of the earth,     measure and describe its surface, and
bless its inhabitants        by
                            increasing the number of their en-,
joyments    from  their discoveries — to be utterly neglected, for
barren unceasing attempts at imitating the style of Xeno-
 phon, Cicero, or Horace? Such course of education, which
                                       a
 insults reason and sets common sense at defiance^              is
                                                                so
 amazing an instance of folly and infatuation, that, although
 we have the strongest evidence of its truth, we can scarcely
 bring ourselves to believe it; and      almost inclines person
                                           it              a
 to suppose that   it   is system formed with the intention of
                             a
 debasing and rendering ignorant, instead of improving the
 faculties of the mind.      Had the same mode of education
 been pursued throughout Europe, science would have been
 checked, and the world could never have advanced beyond
  the knowledge of the Greeks and Romans.
    It    not my wish totally to condemn classical learning,
         is
  but the abuse of it. The Latin language, from the many
                                                            valuable

    30         On the Decline of Matliematical   Studies,
   valuable works of the Romans, from its having been for a,
   long time the universal language of the learned in Europe,
    and the most important scientific wotks of the moderns
   being written in it, becomes a necessary study for the scho
   lar.    But to know the language well enough to read the
   works in it is sufficient, without mis-spending our time in
   a useless and vain endeavour to imitate the styles of its au
   thors.     I think die years consumed in learning Greek for
   the sake of reading half a dozen poets, historians, and ora-
   tors>
          — for there are not more in that language whose merits
   render the originals superior to their translations, — as very
   ill spent, considering the present state of literature and phi
   losophy.
       Mathematics, and the sciences dependent upon them,
   ought lo make the principal part of a good education. The
   strictness and accuracy of their reasonings would contribute
   in the highest degree to improve the mind of the student.
   By them he would learn to become patient in investigation,'
   and severe in judgment.       It would serve to check in him
   all conceited and arrogant pretensions to knowledge, and
   render him more diffident, by showing how careful and la
  borious it is necessary to be to acquire a few truths.     They
   tend likewise to improve the morals, and give a steady se
   renity to the mind.       In studying them, we seem to leave
   the jarring world, convulsed and rendered turbulent by the
   prejudices and frantic passions of men, to lead a life of
   pure enjoyment,       in the pursuit of them we proceed by
  nicontestable truths ; every thing is certain, and the laws
  which take place throughout nature invariable.        No preju
   dices, passions, or wrong bias of education, can involve us
   in errors and perplexities ; any defect in the chain of rea
   soning can always be detected, and the mind may rest sa-r
   tisfied with the assured discovery of truth.     How different
  is the case in other branches of learning ! There, system,
. after system bewilder and perplex the mind ; every age pro
  duces different ones, which, after having flourished a short
  time, give way to others which fall in their turn. It seems,
  either from some radical defect in our modes of reasoning,
  or from our mental faculties having been vitiated and nar
  rowed some way in our education, that we cannot proceed
  in our investigations in other sciences by clear and incon
  testable steps ; or why should those truths which are ma
  thematically demonstrated be the only ones received with
  out opposition ? . The mathematical sciences are not only of
  the greatest importance to as from the beneficial effects at
  tending their study, but at the same time most sublime in
                                                             their

          On the Affinities    of different Earths fur Carlon.        31
their application.         Through their assistance we become ac
quainted      with    some    of the laws by which the omniscient
and eternal Creator governs the universe, and are enabled
to predict their effects in distant ages.            Our condition be
comes superior to the common lot of humanity, and we
may be held out to the world as an example of the perfec
tion to which it is possible for the human species to arrive.
Arnold,     Nottinghamshire,
       October 13, 1804.
 IV.      Experiments       to  ascertain whether there      exists any
      Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
      parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
     forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David MusheTj
      Esq. of the Calder Iron-Works.
                   [Continued from our last volume, p. 344.]
  U nder       the same class       of mixture the following experi
 ments      w ere  performed :
      VIII. Pure silex six parts, or                 -       120 grs.
               Oxide of iron four parts, or           -        80
               Charcoal 1 -40th of the compound, or 5
      This mixture was very perfectly reduced, and a glass ob
  tained whose surface possessed a clouded coppery green co
  lour.     The fracture showed a much less perfect, though
  dense glass, the colour of which was a rusty yellowish
              Beneath was found a very neat spherule of mallea»
  frecn.
     le iron which weighed 1 2 grains, and equal to 6 per cent.
       IX. Pure silex             -         -         120 grs.
             Oxide   of  iron       -                   80
        .    Charcoal l-20th, or            -           10
       The result of the fusion of this mixture was a glass si
  milar, though more perfect throughout, to the former.                 A«
   fine metallic button was found below the glass which
   weighed 22 grains, and equal to 1 1 per cent.
       X. Pure siiex             -         -        120 grs.
           Oxide of iron            -      -         80
            Charcoal, l-10th, or           -         20
       This mixture approached somewhat to infusibility. A
   Irough half vitrified green mass, very cellular, was found in
   the crucible. Two pieces of iron were found which weighed
   26 grains, equal to 13 per cent. The colour of the earthy
    parts was a rich green mixed aud spotted with rusty yellow.
                                                                XI. Pun?
             \

 38                       On the Affinities   of
    XI.  Pure silex            -        -          -  •
                                                          ISOgrs.
         Oxide of iron                                     80
         Charcoal 1- 20th of the compound, or              20
         Pure chalk             -                          30
    The fusion of this mixture afforded a very beautiful glass
of a rich brown blackish colour, possessed of great smooth
ness and lustre.      Beneath was found an elegant crystallized
metallic button which weighed 50 grains ; equal to 25 pet-
cent, from the mixture.
    In this experiment again, as in others formerly recorded,
we have a direct proof of the useful agency of calcareous
earth in the reduction and separation of iron from its earthy
combinations.
Recapitulation of experiments with siliceous matter and
    oxide of iron in the proportion of six of the former to
    four of the latter.
    Exp. II.    1 -40th  of charcoal yielded      \-fa per cent.
         III.  l-25th        ditto               7^j
          IV.   l-20th       ditto               9
           V.   1-1 5(h      ditto              13
          VI. l-ioth         ditto not fused    12-fV
         VII. Being No. VI.         repeated,   with the addition oi'
                   80 grains of chalk,    20T-5
        VIII. With     pure silex,
                l-40th of charcoal yielded          6 per cent,
          IX. l-20th          ditto              11
           X. 1-jOth          ditto not fused 13
          XI. Being No. X. repeated, with the addition of
                   30 grains of pure lime, 25 per cent.
    One very obvious fact marks this table, namely, a great
difference betwixt the quantity of iron revived when sand
and pure silex were used. It may be proper here to remark,
that Exp. VIII, IX, X, XI, where pure silex was used,
were performed in crucibles made of Cornwall clay.                 If,
therefore, there exists any tendency in clay under high
temperatures to absorb the oxygen of the oxide, which I
have suspected sometimes to have been the case; and if
this affinity is exerted in proportion to the purity of the
elay ; a partial deoxidation of the oxide in these experi
ments may account for a larger portion of metal being re-
yjved with the same proportion of charcoal.
   Third class of compounded ores consisted of
      Well prepared chalk, six parts,
      Oxide, four parts.
                                                           I. Mixture

                         ...
                   different Earths  for   Carbon.                  S3
                          ...
   I. Mixture                                        500 grs.
       Charcoal l-40th, or                  »
                                                      12|
   A black rough earthy glass was obtained by the fusion
of this mixture, not unlike a furnace cinder. It was care
fully examined, but without finding any trace of revived
metal.
   II.  Mixture                                       500 grs.
        Charcoal l-30th, or          -        -
                                                        16^
   The glass obtained at this time was more perfect, glassy,
                           ...
and shining upon the surface. The interior very like finery
cinder. There appeared no vestige of revived iron.
   III. The same as before, performed with l-20th, or 25
grains of charcoal.      The glass had assumed a considerable
portion of lustre and a few pearly shades upon the surface,
but still there appeared no metallic produce.
   IV. Mixture                                        500 grs.
      Charcoal I- 15th, or                     -        33
   A very perfect mass of glass was obtained by the fusion
of this mixture.        The surface was black/ smooth, and
shining  :  the fracture   dense and opake.        A neat metallic
spherule was found which weighed 1 7 grains ; equal to 3£
per cent. The corrresponding experiment as to carbon with
                            ...
clay yielded 63 grains, and with silex 63 and 65 of iron,
   V. Mixture             -                          500 grs.
        Charcoal l-10th, or                            50
   A perfect fusion and fine black glass were obtained, ac
companied by a flattish metallic button of iron which
weighed 58 grains; equal to 11^ per cent.
   VI. Mixture                                         500 grs.
         Charcoal l-7th, or nearly             -        72
   A dark rich green glass was obtained in this fusion, and
a bright silvery-coloured       metallic button which weighed
 124 grains; equal to 24-^ per cent.
   VII. Mixture             -       -            -      500 grs.
           Charcoal l-5th, or                           100
   This mixture fused, and yielded a fine crystallized button
of steel. It was found to weigh             -      -       120 grs.
Globules thrown up against the top and sides
   of the crucible during ebullition        -                10
                                            Total          ISO
            Equal to 26 per cent.
   The   colour of the glass was       light blueish green, very
transparent in thin fragments.
   VIII. Mixture            -       -                  500 grs.
            Charcoal   l-4th, or        -        -     125
Vol. 20. No.     77. Oct. 1804.        C                         The

34                        On the Affinities         of
    The greatest part of this compound was reduced to per
fect fusion.       A small portion was found intimately con
nected, but in the state of a powder, upon the surface of
the glass.      The metallic button           was similar to the last, and
weighed
                      -                                   120 grs.
Globules collected               -            -     ,        5
                                       Total              ] 25
       Equal to 23 per cent.
    The glass was still more transparent than in the former
 experiment. The green tinge had entirely disappeared, and
 was succeeded by a lead blue colour, which always manifests
itself when the separation of the metallic particles has been
complete.
 Recapitulation of experiments with chalk and oxide of iron
  in the proportion of six of the former to four of the latter.
        Exp'.  I. l-40th of charcoal, no iron revived.
              II.   l-30th        ditto                ditto
            III.    l-20th         ditto                ditto
            IV. l-15th            ditto yielded             3} per cent.
              V. l-10th           ditto                    11-r'V
            VJ. l-7th             ditto                    24 ft
           VII. l-5th              ditto                   26
           VIII. l-4th             ditto                   25
    The following table of comparison will, at one view, ex
 hibit the very various results that take place in the process
 of separation, effected entirely by the nature of the earths,
 which in all cases must inevitably form a chief component
 part of our iron ores and iron stones.
 General Table of the Results of the Fusion of Clay, Silex,
    and Lime, and Oxide, of Iron, with various Proportions
    of Charcoal.
                       Clay.         1       Sn, - x.                 1 .(Mb.
   Pi opinions    Grains  Producel      Uiaius   1'ioJuce      C.i,).)-.   Product
      of Char    of iron      per       of iron       per      of iron        per
     coal.       revived.    cent.     revived.     cent.     revived.       cent.
     l-40th         14        2 tV          7         1 '
     l-25th         46                    37          7 *
                                                      'To
     1-1 5th        63                    65       13            17
     l-10th     not fu- sible          not fu- sible             58         »-rtr
     l-7th        ditto    ditto        ditto      ditto       124          24-fr
     l-5th        ditto    ditto        ditto      ditto       130          26
                                                                               Were

                 different Eartlis   for   Carbon.             35
    Were we to proceed to reason on what this variety of
result depends, and referring to the experiments formerly
communicated, we should have expected that clay and
silex, each absorbing a considerable portion of carbon,*
would have required a greater dose in the experiments with
oxide to have let fall the first portion of iron ; and that, as
calcareous earth betokened no affinity manifested in a si
milar manner to carbon, ores thus compounded would have
let fall their metallic contents with the most minute com
parative quantity of carbon.
   The reverse of all this turns out to be the fact : for the
argillaceous and siliceous compounds separate iron with
the smallest portion of carbon ; the calcareous compound
requiring three times as much.
    Hitherto we have discovered no direct active principle in
calcareous earth, acting as a stimulant to the existing affi
nities betwixt carbon and iron, beyond facilitating, almost
under every circumstance, the perfect fusion of the com
pound.      If we suppose it to remain neutral in this respect,
then, to explain the phenomenon of the argillaceous and si
liceous compounds, we must suppose an active principle
exerted by each of these earths, nearly in the same ratio,
upon the oxide of iron, decompounding the oxide, and
either liberating the oxygen or uniting with it. The re
moval of this immediately constitutes an affinity betwixt
the particles of iron and the entire portion of carbon, the
consequence of which is the revival of the iron.
   That these conjectures are well founded, may be gathered
from experiments similar to the following :
     Calcareous earth six parts, or         -    - 120 grs.
     Oxide four parts, or          -                    80
     Charcoal l-15th of the whole           -    -      13$
     To this were added of Cornwall clay         -    1 20
    From the fusion of this mixture a neat metallic spherule
was obtained which weighed 10 grains, and was equal to
 5 per cent.    This is the same, with regard to proportion, as
Experiment IV, third class, with the addition of 120
grains clay; and it appears a fair consequence that ]^ per
cent, of more iron was revived.
    There appears still another way by which we may in part
 account for the early separation of iron from the argilla
 ceous and siliceous compounds.
    In a former part of this inquiry it was shown that the combi
 nation of carbon with clay and silex did not produce full effect
 unless the latter entered into fusion ; and it     evident from
                                                     is.
 the foregoing experiments, that the compounds formed with
                             C   2                           oxide

36*       Letter from   Dr. Thornton      en the  Cow-Pox.
oxide and clay are more infusible than those formed by
lime.     The particles of clay and silex, therefore, being the
last to enter into fusion, must be the last to exert their affi
nities upon the carbon.       This being unacted upon, except
by the oxide, readily unites first to carry off the oxygen,
 and next to impregnate the iron with carbonaceous matter.
    If this takes place at an early stage of the operation, it is
evident that the metallic result may be formed in conse
quence of the entire combination of the carbon before the
earths have entered into fusion.
    The quantity of carbon which the oxide of the calcareou*
 compound takes up before any metal is allowed to fall, re
mains still unexplained, and appears a curious and very im
portant fact, which cannot be solved by the last hypothesis,
 f he presence of lime seems to prevent the immediate action
 of the metallic particles upon the carbon, but directs the
 whole force of the latter to the removal of the oxygen. By
 this means, however, it secures in the end a richer and
 more plentiful harvest of metal from ores similarly com
 pounded.
    The progressive stages of metallization are marked, in
many instances, with a greater proportion of produce than,
 in experiments with argillaceous and siiiceous ores.
 In the 1st class, the increase of the produce in iron, see
                     Exps. II and III, was 1 7 grs. for SX carbon
 In the 2d class,          IV and V, — 21                    b\
 In  the 3d class,
    or calcareous,          V and    VI, —     6G          22
                          [To be continued.]
 V. Letter from Dr. Thornton- to Mr. Tilloch on the
    Cow- Pox ; with an Account of the Cases in Fulwood's
    Rents.
                               No. i, Hind-street,  Manchester-square,
       DEAR SIR,                            October 15, 1804..
  JL he subject of    the  cow-nock     is of such general interest,
 that  I shall delay my fifth    letter to Mr. Arthur Aikin, to
 say a few words on the late   cases of supposed small-pox after
 the cow-pock inoculation         so generally known in this me*
 tropolis.
    Dr. Lettsom, in a letter    to me on the receipt of my work
entitled " Facts decisive in   favour of the Cow-pock," which
 I presented to him, says, " that after what has been written
 by me and others on vaccination, the practitioner who now
                                                            inoculates

            Letter from Dr. Thornton            on the   Cow-Pox.          37
  inoculates with the small-pox, is guilty, if not in a criminal
  court, yet in foro comcient'ice, should that child die, of
  murder*." Whether he should die or not, I believe the
  same serious charge would apply; for, as the inoculated
  small-pox produces the natural small-pox, and pestilence
  spreads by an hundred avenues, and each contagion be
  comes a fresh focus of other infections, the seeming kind
  ness granted to one human being is made the destruction
  of many ; and this fact staring the practitioner in the lace,
  he must be callous to all the feelings of humanity should
  he attempt, after knowing the mildness and cert'ainty of
  the cow-pock, (except for experiment,) variolous inocula
  tion : and as Fpurcroy strongly expresses himself with re
 gard to pneumatic mt-dicine, so it may be said here, " It
 is now no longer permitted tha practitioner to be ignorant
 of the circumstances attending such an important revolu
 tion in physic. The cold stat'ue-like insensibility of some ;
 the affected indifference of others ; the irritated self-love of
 this man ; the attachment of the world for the practice of
  their forefathers; the hatred of novelty; all the low and
 vulgar prejudices have at different times assailed this disco
 very : but it will stand as a rock against the impotent bil
 lows of human passions," and the superior sense of the
 philosophic world will overcome the sophistry of prejudices,
 and truth finally reign triumphant.
     It is now evident that the small- pox has greatly decreased,
 and in a few years, most probably, will be annihilated ;
 for although it assumes an hydra shape, yet, wanting fuel
 for support, this tremendous fiand must finally perish from
 the earth, and the cow-pox, like St. George and the Dra
gon, be the proudest emblazonment in the British heraldry.
     In proof, in part, of this position, I shall beg leave to ex
 tract for you my experience in the North of England.
    * The facts arc so decisive in favour of the cow-pock, that the practi
tioner should listen to these ; nor hearken to the evidence of a contrary
nature without suspicion of some mistakes having occurred.       At the onset
 my learned friend Dr. Moseley did right to arrest the hurry of belief, and
impress caution : but that time is passed, and each fair practitioner is
bound in dutv to determine now respecting this discovery. As to myself,
1 have inoculated many thousands without ever caking any remuneration
whatever for my trouble, and still continue the practice to tliis day on
others and in my own family; and no inducement under the heavens could
at this time make me so swerve from the principles of rectitude as to in
oculate with the small-pax.      If the word committing murder does sound
tarsb, it is still such in fact, notwithstanding  the licence which the me
dical man receives, and should, I think, be thundered into the ear of some
few of the faculty.    I  kjiow ataxy ef the tame way of thinking in this
respect  with myself.
                                      C  3                     Inoculation

33        Letter from     Dr. Thornton     on the  Cow-Pox.
            Inoculation   of   the Village of Lowtlier *.
    Lowther is a most pleasant picturesque village, situated
 two hundred and eighty miles from London, seven miles
 from Penrith, and a mile from the antient famous mansion
of Lowther, and was built by the late earl of Lonsdale, in
the Italian taste, is regularly sashed, contiguous, from two
to three stories high, each house being of stone, and, with
out doubt, is the most tasty village in the kingdom.                   It
contains about four hundred inhabitants.
    His lordship, observing, with great acumen, the cause
of the prosperity of the north of Ireland, after havingbuilt
in this delightful spot a villace, unique of its kind, sufficient
to contain five hundred inhabitants, sent over to Ireland for
manufacturers of cloth, to set the example of the true welfare
of a nation. Here it is all his lordship's linen, as table
cloths of damask, napkins of the same, towels, sheeting,
and long-cloth ; in short, every article of linen in use have
been fabricated, and no other is at present employed either
at his lordship's establishment in London or at Lowther.
Besides these manufacturers, all his lordship's labourers re
side here, rent'free, and are allowed a regular stipend both
summer and winter, and, however old, are' paid equally
as when they could exert their youthful strength.                It was
with pleasure that I witnessed, in the winter, potatoes given
as usual, meat, and bread ; and when any of the wives are
near their time to be brought-to-bed, they send to Lowther
for linen, and are allowed beer-caudle during the month.
The villagers, indeed, generally lament that there is no
public-house throughout the whole place; but his lordship
no less regards their temporal than their eternal welfare.
              ——    ——                       Agricolae,
              O fortunati nimium,    sua si bona norint!       Vino.
    Hence it is that the,village of Lowther exhibits what should
be the pride of English nobility, a fine healthy industrious
peasantry, supported by, and contiguous to, a rich domain.
    Let the reader of sensibility contemplate the difference
between that pride of nobility which desolates a country to
extend a park, and that patriotic spirit which, at a consi
derable expense,      establishes  towns and villages for the pur
poses  of manufacture.
    Every thing seemed to conspire to render our experiment
the most decisive imaginable. His lordship observing with
a true patriotic eye, which looks beyond the narrow circle
   * From facts decisive in favour of the               This inoculation
                                            cow-pox.
was in the year 1800.
                                                                      Of

           Letter from        Dr. Thornton       on ttie   Cow-Pox.        39
of private   advantage, considering only the public welfare,
had shown himself adverse to partial inoculation * : hence
the younger part of the whole village for upwards of twenty
years were exempt from the small-pox, and therefore liable
to this disease.
   As fortune would have             it,
                                during the period ROSE was
under vaccine inoculation from matter obtained        me from   by
Mr. Ring, who has been most zealous advocate for vaccine
                                 a
inoculation, one of the industrious little villagers, lad aged  a
nine or ten years, had picked up mushrooms, which at that
time were uncommonly abundant, and carried them for sale to
Penrith, unknown to his parents, where the small-pox then
raged, and had swept off number of persons.
                                  a                  This child
took, in consequence, the natural small-pox,. and exhibited
signs of       it,
              when Rose, ast.     the child of his lordship's
                                         9,
porter, was in right state for propagating the vaccine ino
                     a
culation.
     Itwas now harvest-time in the north both for hay and
corn, and there was not to be an idle hand throughout the
whole village. No language can express the dismay that
was spread from this event.     Amidst this universal conster
nation and dread of the small-pox, seen by groups of old
people anxiously conversing of the impending calamity, his
lordship ordered the glad tidings of      general inoculation
                                                   a
with the cow-pock to be proclaimed, the advantages of
which were stated, and had been seen in the case of Rose, who
had ailed little or nothing, and had but one local pustule,
with slight constitutional affection; and the whole assembly
were ordered to appear in review at Lowther before his lord
 ship.
   Upon, going to see the child labouring under the natural
small-pox,      found his face greatly tumefied, not
                I                                       feature   a
to be discerned    blind, covered with pustules from head to
                     ;
foot; the whole face was one smear of blood and gore        and       ;
the parlour he lay in being small, the stench was so into
lerable, that was obliged soon to quit the room to hinder
                     I
mvsclf from being sick.        proposed inoculating the other
                                  I
two children with the small-pox; but the mother was much
prejudiced against inoculation, and had rather " trust them
to God's will i" hence     foresaw that
                              I           should obtain
                                                  I         full      a
completion of my views          f.
                                                                          The
     * There   is
               a section inthis work,        "
                                          Whether society at large has be
nefited    the introduction of the small-pox inoculation ?" The answer
          by
isin the negative,
      Maturation appears to be the season when the variolous. miasms are
     •f
                                     C   4                         emitted

40         Letter from    Dr. Thornton      on the   Cow-Pox.
     The happy villagers now thronged to his lordship's do
 main;     and it was a most pleasing sight for me to see as
 sembled at Lowther in the steward's room, in the presence
 of his lordship, so many persons to whom I was about to
 render the most essential service : at the same time I was
 enabled to make the most decisive experiments respecting a
 practice, which promised to be an epoch in the annals of
 medicine ; and I flatter myself that the importance of the
 subject, and the present period of ungrounded alarm, will
 be a sufficient apology for my publishing here the scattered
 observations I at that time made, and without the smallest
 view to their publication.
                             MEMORANDUMS.
     1. Mar)' Bryham, aet. 20, is a good-looking well-grown
 girl, of a very florid complexion, the daughter of a groom
 of his lordship's, William Bryham, who has superintended
 his lordship's stables upwards of forty-eight years.                 The
 arm rose finely, pustuled and then scabbed, but there was
 not the slightest constitutional affection.
     Observations on this case.— Having passed through the
vaccine disease (as far as regards the essential circumstance,
 a proper pustule forming itself, and going through its re
 spective stages, which occupies a space of from fifteen to-
twenty days,) I introduced her to where lay the wretched
 family in the natural small-pox ; one child was hardly re
 covered, and a second was in a deplorable condition, blind,
and at that time dreadfully moaning.               I shall never forget
the expression of alarm manifested by the girl's counte
nance, she having never seen this disease Before.                     The
blackness had not quite worn off the face of one, a second
was at its height, and a third sickening ; and if fear in
creases the pre-disposition to take infection, there was no
want of this here*, and with the utmost difficulty I could
 emitted most copiously, the poisonous pus being exposed at that period
 naked to the air, according to the accurate description of the fakhful
 Sydenham.
                " U^que ad hunc diem" octavum a primo insultu " pustulz,
 qua: faciem  obsederant, lives ad tactum fucroatque rubrs, jam veroas-
pcriores evadunt (quod quidem primum est incipicntis m iturationis indi
 cium) et subalbidx, paulatim insuper succurn quendam luttum, colorc ,.
 favo non abludentem, evomuiit."
    • Besides the horror of the scene, another cayst mi-ght have confpited.
 There lives in the same village along with her, Ann Roper,' the daughter
 of her mother's sister, and this girl was so dreadfully fcarrcd by the
 SMALL-POX, that she was rendered, to use the vulgar phrase, a perfect
 fright; she was sjid before to have been a bonny l.m, and I might add,
"that she has from the same cause a speck over her right eye, of which she
 is blind.

           Letterfrom Dr. Thornton    on the Cow-Pox.          41
get her to come near these children : but having, after much
persuasion, the first surprise being over, consented to let me
inoculate her plentifully with the variolous matter in both
arms, she afterwards was induced to touch the children
labouring under the small-pox with her hands, and catch
their breath, but to no purpose; for, having had the cow-
pock, she was unsusceptible of the small-pox, in whatever
 way attempted to he given.
    2 & 3.- Thomas Nicholson, ast. 6, and John, act. 1, his
 brother, a child at the breast, passed through this disease,
 as is common.       On the eighth day the accession of fever
 came on, rather stronger marked than usual, the symptoms
 of which were heaviness, a want of appetite, disinclination
 for food, an increase of heat, the sleep at night restless.
 Sometimes these symptoms, especially with infants, are ac
 companied with nausea, and actual sickness ; but these
 symptoms in a day or two passed off", and the patient was left
 in perfect health. There was no eruption in either of the
 two cases.
     Observations. — The first reflection that must naturally
 strike the reader is, that the child who was in arms, labour
 ing under the cow-pock, did not communicate this disease
  to the mother, who never had had the cow-pock ; hence
  this disease is not contagious : secondly, being next door
  neighbours to the Smiths, and after the,cow-pock had scab
  bed, being permitted to visit their former playmates, that
 they resisted the small-pox.        Besides this chance, they
  were each inoculated by me plentifully with the small-pox
  matter ; and not satisfied with this, I had them put naked
  into bed with their neighbour's child, covered with maturated
             ; but it was all to no purpose, they were rendered
  Eustules
    y  the cow-pock unsusceptible of the small-pox in whatever
  way attempted to be given.
      4, 5, & 6. John Hutchinson, aet. 9, William, set. 7, and
  Thomas, ast. 2, went properly through the several stages of
  the cow-pock pustule.       John and Thomas had an accession
   of fever on the seventh or eighth day. William ailed
  nothing.
      Observations. —These were next door neighbours to the
   Smiths, on the right, and being suffered to enter the house
   of their old playmates after the cow-pock had soabbed, they
   were exposed to the contagion of the small-pox for hours
   together ; they were also plentifully inoculated by me for
   the small-pox, but were all three unsusceptible of that disease.
       7. Thomas Johnson, at. 13, was inoculated like the rest
   iuthe arm. The occupation of this lad was to drive a cart,
                                                           usually

   42          Letter from Dr. Thornton           on the  Cow-Pox.
   usually in company with his father, for the earl of LonsdalY;
   and going to Penrith on the fifth day after inoculation, he
   drank a pint of strong-beer given him by one Pellet, at Mr.
   Hutchinson's brewery, and came back that same day with
   his team, having walked upwards of fifteen miles. In con
   sequence there was an attempt towards forming a kind of
   eruption, one pustule appearing on the breast, and another
  on the cheek, which actually scabbed over, and he passed a
  restless and feverish night, and continued feverish the next
  day and night ; after which he was able Jo drive bis team
  and three horses as usual ; and being inoculated by me with
  the small-pox matter, and frequently exposed to the influ
  ence of the small-pox in the house of the Smiths, he wa*
  found unsusceptible of that disease.
      Observation. —What would have been the consequence
  of such imprudence under variolous inoculation as was ex
  hibited in this case, I leave to the conjecture of the sensible
  reader ! The appearance of a couple of pustules, and these
  maturating, is a very rare occurrence ; for this disease is
  almost invariably confined to the inoculated pustule, and
 most probably arose from his blood being over-heated by
  the beer andexercise.
      8. Maria Johnson, set. 16, his sister, had the cow-pock
 without any accompanying fever.
      Observation. — She was inoculated twice for the small
 pox, and rubbed her hand over Smith's children, and was
 frequently in the infected house, but was found- unsuscepti
 ble of that disease.
      9. William Hodging, aet. 13, was inoculated in both
 arms ; the pustule took, however, only in one.                 He is car
 penter to the earl of Lonsdale, and works with his father
 in the raft-yard.           On the ninth day he had an accession of
 fever, but not so much as to make him leave oft' work.
      Observations. —This youth lives but two doors from the
infected house, was taken by me into this house, and
brought so near to the .children as to receive their breath,
and at seven different times was inoculated both for the
small-pox, and as many times for the cow-pock.^ but hav
ing had the latter disease, no proper pustule rose, perform
ing its regular stages, or exciting the least constitutional
affection ; and hence he may be safely declared unsuscepti
ble of either disease.
     10. Mary Henley*, set. 14, was inoculated also in both
    *  This   case   with others has led me to condemn the common practice
of inoculating     in both arms, or in more than one place, and will at last
have   ifi effect.    One point of inoculation is enough.
                                                                     arms.

              Letter from Dr. Thornton       on the   Cow-Pox.   .       43
arms.       It took effect in both places, and the pustule on
the left arm rose finely, and did extremely well ; but that
on the right arm got rubbed by some means, formed itself
into an ugly scabby sore, producing real pus under it ; and
as fast as the scab came away, it formed a larger sore,
very deep, and was a very troublesome wound for more
than six weeks, the scab filling up the place, extending to
nearly the size of half-a-crown ; and this would have been
set down as an untoward case of vaccine inoculation, de
pending upon some peculiarity in the constitution, unless
fortunately we had inoculated both arms, and the one arm
had done so kindly. She had no fever, or any constitu
tional affection; was taken into the house where the natural
small-pox was, and inoculated then, and several times after,
but to no purpose; she was unsusceptible of the small-pox.
    1 1 . Maria Fry, set. 7, had one pock, the fever was of
one day and night's continuance, and her father described
her, " as burning like a coal, sick, but not to vomit, and
as rambling in her sleep."
   Observations. —When she had gone through the cow-
pock I made a double experiment ; I inoculated her with the
small-pox, and at the same time her sister Charlotte, set.
15, who had had the small-pox when seven years old, and
was terribly disfigured by         it,
                                 with the cow-pock    and, con
                                                          ;
trary to my expectations, there was          pustule formed in
                                                a
Maria Fry's arm, and           general consternation took place
                               a
among       the villagers but
                           ;   upon examination, there was no
bur       inflammation round
         of                         it,
                                  no regular pustular rising          ;   it
scabbed on the fourth day        and produced no constitutional
                                   *,
disease, or any pustules     the cow-pox in Charlotte Fry died
                               :
away like       common scratch.
                   a
    It   may not be irrelevant to mention here, that Jane
Mattinson and Mary Dunn both presented themselves
to be inoculated; but from their own account                 was it
more than probable they had had the small-pox.               The
former had nursed          child who died of that disease;
                           a                                              it
was the child of his lordship's park-keeper.       At the same
time inoculated these with the cow-pock, also inoculated
     I                                                I
   * In few instances where
          a                    pustule has been formed of either kind,
                               a
the progress was found to be very different from the true pustule   and
                                                                     ;
tins kind, like  seed sown on ground, or in
                       a                        aclimate, not congenial,
came forward, and soon passed off; whereas the other has its regular
stages of rising, falling and scabbing. Those who have the spurious
pustules,     if
               Imay so call them, have complained of much iubing, which
I have not observed in the other sort and at the end of ten days the
                                         ;
pustule was gone, without leaving behind the usual large and deep scar.
                                                                         the

44             Letter from Dr. Thornton      on the   Cow-Pox.
the brother of Mattinson, a young man who was dreadfuliy
scarred and marked with the small-pox, and James Broom,
who had also the marks of that disease ; and these were done
with both sorts, but in each instance there was only pro
duced a slight temporary local irritation, and both places
 before the fourth day died away.
    Observation. — It appears, therefore, from these facts, that
 those who have had the cow-pock are unsusceptible of the
small-pox, and vice versa.
    12. Richard Walker, aet. 24, carpenter, on the ninth day
was attacked with a fever, was light-headed, wanted to get
out of bed ; the next day, the tenth, was enabled to do some
work, could not work much, had t>j fever return at night,
after which he ailed nothing, continuing his labour as usual
all the while, except on the one day mentioned.         Inocu
lated with both the cow-pock and small-pox, but neither
took effect.
   13. Harriet Fletcher, aet. 18, had only one pustule, and
says she was able to follow all her domestic concerns as
usual, never being laid up a single day. Inoculated with the
small -pox, but was found, like the rest, unsusceptible of thai
disease.
   14. John Saunderson, set. 10, had one pustule and ailed
nothing.    His brother,
   15. Joseph Saunderson, set. 7, had a fever for two days
and nights, was hot and restless, the fever came on on the
seventh day. Both were inoculated with the small-pox, but
without effect.
   16. William Patterson, aet. 9, had one pock, also a small
one underneath, which came out a few days after the other;
feverish two days and nights, the fever commenced on the
ninth day. Inoculated with the small-pox, but it took no
effect.
   1 8.    Hannah Mandle,      aet.   3, had one poek, nevtr ailed
any thing.
   19. Mary Falofield, aet. 11, one pock, feverish on the
8th and ninth nights, but played in the interval.
  20. John Henley, set. 16, one pock, never ailed any
thing.
   21. Hannah        M'Cran,    set. 9, one pock,         never ailed any
thing.
  22. Sarah M'Cran, aet. 7, one pock, and another came
out an inch below      which was much smaller, and which
                        it,
went     stages, and scabbed like the other
          in                                   ailed nothing.
                                                      ;
  23. Thomas Richardson, aet.        one pock, no fever.
                                        4,
  A particular observation.~—H<z       terribly scarred in tbc
                                          is
                 2                                         face

             teller from Dr. Tfiornton         on Uie   Cow-Pox.             45
face and body, a year before his clothes catching fire, when
the child was nearly burnt to death.
      General observation. — These six having had no percep
tible constitutional affection, they were inoculated again
with      the   cow-pox, but this took           no effect ; also     with   the
small-pox,        but they were likewise proof' against both.
                  THE CONCLUSION            OR INFERENCE.
      Fearful that continuing the same account* would only
 fatigue my readers, I shall therefore just sum up, thatforty-
                                                                          eight
     »  The examples of this sort, furnished by my practice as physician to
 the Mary-lc-bone dispensary, for four years, are extremely numerous.           I
 shall mention, however, only a very few strong cases, thinking that
 more would be needless, and tiresome to the reader.
     Three years back I inoculated John King, set. 3, and Thomas, xt.         i\,
 children of the publican, who lives in Margaret-street,        at the corner of
 Great Portland-street,     with the cow-pock, and they scarcely ailed any
 thing. Mr. King's niece not long after came out of the country, and on
 her arrival in town fell ill of the natural small-pox,      and had them very
 full. John King slrpt with her the whole time; they both were with her
  in the day ; and the mother relates, that frequently since they have been
 in company with children labouring under the small-pox, never wishing
  them to avoid it.     And to complete the decisiveness of this fact, I had
  them both, at two separate times, inoculated for the small-pox; but
  having had the cow- pock, they were rendered thereby unsusceptible of
 the small-pox.
      I inoculated John, Thomas, and William Plant, who live in Edward-
  yard, Edward-street, and they had the ccw-pock the usual mild Way; a
  fourth child was inoculated with the small-pox,       and a plentiful crop of
  pustules were produced.       The children being in the same house, ate,
   drank, and were constantly together, but no infection took place.       1 then
  inoculated these three repeatedly with the small-pox ; but they were
  found each time to be proof against that disease.
      Elizabeth Restieaux, living at 38, Castle-street, Oxford-market, was
  inoculated by me three years ago, and had the cow-pock in the usual mild
   w ay.    A year after this she was in the same house where there were
  three children who were seized with the natural small-pox in a very bad
   manner, and she was constantly with them, and has since been taken re
   peatedly to houses at my instigation in which the small-pox was; and she
   has also been inoculated by me twice with the small-pox and once with
   the cow-pock, at different intervals, but without these producing the
   smallest effect more than a slight scratch from a lancet.
      Margaret Pitchet was inoculated by me four years ago.         Some months
   after the had had the cow-pock, a child in the same house, No. 8, Duke's-
   court, Bow-street, took the natural small-pox, and was covered with pus
   tules from head to foot.    These children were together as usual ; but no
   small-pox was communicated ; and having inoculated her at least a dozen
   times since, at different periods, I found her in every instance proof against
   the small-pox.
      Mary, Robert, Thomas, and Alexander Routledge, living in St. Ann's*
   court, were inoculated by me for the cow-pock. Mary via pwpose/y sent
                                                                                to

46         Letter from           Dr. Tlwrnton   on the   Coic-Pox.
eight inhabitants of the village of Lowther, of different
ages, who had never had the small-pox, were inoculated by
me for the cow-pock 5 and having; passed through this dis
ease without risk or danger of life, or person, that they
were nearly all, at least the majority, inoculated afterwards
at two remote periods for the small-pox, and exposed to its
infection ly Icing brought into the room where the small-pox
was, but in not a solitary instance did any receive this dis
ease.    Such an escape in such a number cannot possibly be
attributed to any peculiarity of constitution ; but it must
be allowed to the true cause, the preventive influence of the
cow-pock. This law amounts therefore to an absolute cer
tainty, or demonstration; for whence do we form the no
tion that fire burns the flesh ? My personal experience of this
circumstance, and traditional report does not approach to
half the number of instances as respecting the preservative
power of the cow-pock, nor has indeed any one a more
ample or better ground- for believing that cork swims. To
disbelieve now the efficacy of the cow-pox, must therefore
arise either from IGNORANCE or ^PREJUDICE; and indeed
there are reported to be even at this time -a few doctors,
who do not credit the tiling: but I flatter myself, this report
is unfounded ; for an ignorant doctor is a misnomer ; and re
specting vulgar prejudices, these mental mists will, it is
hoped, soon vanish before the clear sunshine of truth,
      PROGRESS OF THE VACCINE INOCULATION IN THE
                              KOHTH.
   From      such    demonstrative evidence of the superior ad-
Tantages     of     the cow-pock, the countess   of Darlington,
to a relation's, whose child had just taken the natural small-pox, and con
tinued there three weeks, but never caught the small-pox, having pre
viously had ihe cow-peek.       A lodger in the same house refusing to have
lier two children inoculated with the cow-pock at this time, a few weeks
after lost both   l>y
                    the natural small-pox.
    Mrs. Hutchings, housekeeper of the Rev. Mr. Townsend, author of
the " Guide to Health,'' having cmne to live in town with her husband,
had her child inoculated     • by
                              me with the cow-pock   ; with this child in her
arms she nursed     a friend  child labouring under the natural small-pox,
who with difficulty recovered from       it
                                          ; nevertheless her infant did not
take the small-pox, having previously had the cow-pock.
    The same was the case with Mrs. Biitnin, No. 3, Pit-street, who«e
child escaped the small-pox from having had the cow-pock, although
two children died of the natural small-pox, at the next house, to which
her child was often taken.
    Two of my o\\n children, who were inoculated         by
                                                          Dr. Jenner for the
cow-pock, and aik-d nothing but the pustule on the arm, were both after
wards inoculated        by
                         me for the small-pox, and often exposed to   it, but
toithoutita producing that disease.
                                                                 daughter
                             '
         3

            Letter from Dr. Thornton          on the   Cow-Pox.          47
daughter to the duchess of Bolton, who is sister to the earl
of Lonsdale, had her last child inoculated with the cow-
pock, although lord Barnard and four other children of the
carl of Darlington had had a mild disease from the small
pox inoculation.          Colonel Lowther, member for the county
¦of Westmoreland,          who was with his lordship, had a child
of his inoculated with the same, although he had seven
before inoculated with the small-pox ; and colonel Sat-
terthwaite, member for Cockermouth, a borough of his
lordship's, being at Lowther, having lately lost a grand
child by small-pox inoculation, was rejoiced to embrace this
opportunity, and had vaccine matter from me sent to his
.son-in-law,        Dr. Head. Captain Preston, of Warcop,
coming        to  Lowther,     followed the example, mentioning
"    that the reason why he had not had his child before ino
culated with the small-pox, was the fear of bringing this
disease into his village."          And such indeed was the general
conviction of the country-people of the efficacy of the cow-
 pock, (namely, its power of rendering the constitution un
 susceptible of the small-pox, and that it was a disease in
 finitely milder than the small-pox, never killing, not infec
 tious, and giving little or no trouble,) that the whole coun
 try around Lowther came to solicit a participation of the
 benefits resulting from the cow-pock ; and on several days                 I
 was engaged in inoculating often to the amount of a hundred
 and ten* persons, — Mr. Storey, of Penrith, his lordship's
 apothecary, kindly assisting me in this work of humanity.
      It was a most charming sight to behold the finest pea
  santry in the world assembled at Lowther for the purpose of
  having themselves, or of giving the cow-pock to their chil
  dren, to secure them ever after from the horrid ravages of
  the small-pox ; and such was the courage displayed, that
  out of one 'hundred and ten persons                   mentioned above
  as inoculated in one morning, I do not recollect seeing
  more than one frightened at the sight of the lancet, nor
  were the fears of this child communicated to the rest.                   So
     * The number of inoculated persons on one morning only was one
  hundred and ten, fr»m six weeks old to forty-two years of age j and when
  the question was aksed. whether they would have come in such numbers
  to hive the small-pox? there were very few who did net declare, that
  they disliked the small-pox, each assigning different reasons ; but the
  principal objection was,
                             " they had known such and such die ftom the
  inoculated small-pox,'' and " that they could(not spare tbe time to attend
  upon a sick family ;" and several smilingly said,
                                                       " they could not afford
  to pay for it j nor did a single individual express the smallest distrust of
  the virtue of the cow-pock, but all received the inoculation both cheer
  fully and thankfully !
                                                                   thronged

   43        Letter ftom  Dr. Thornton    on the Cow-Pox.
   thronged were the carts and waggons and horses loaded with
   the rich    treasures of the country, that, as at fairs, - there
  were women who came to Lowther with cakes and fruit,,
  and the turnpike-man desired I would go through his gate
   toll-free, saying, " he had never had so many people pass his
   gate before."      The number inoculated by me at Lowther
  amounted in all to above a thousand ; and calculating what
  others have done from my example, I should suppose that
  the number must have risen since to near twenty thousand.
      Sir James Graham, of Netherby, near Long-Town, on
  the borders of Scotland, being much indisposed, came to
  the earl of Lonsdale's at his lordship's desire, on purpose
   for my advice ; and having witnessed the good effects of the
  eow-pock, he took matterback with him to have his nephew
.
   (the child of the Rev. Mr. Graham, the rector of Arthuret)
  inoculated, and that he might extend this blessing to his
  tenantry.       Of the pleasing result of this case I have the
  satisfaction of laying the following letter before my readers :
          " DEAR SIR,
      " I have had the      pleasure to receive your kind letter.
  My little boy     has had the cow-pock so very favourably, that
  little or no fever has attended the complaint, if any ; it
  was very trifling on the eleventh night : seven children were
  inoculated from him yesterday. lam happy to hear lord
  Lonsdale is better, and hope you will soon restore him to
  perfect health ; I beg my respects to his lordship.           My
  hrother and his lady are considerably better from your skil
  ful advice.
                            "   I am, dear sir, &c.
         Arthuret,                           « FERGUS GRAHAM.
     Nov. 24, 1800.
      P. S. The inflammation on       the arm was about the size of
  a  shilling."
      I was equally anxious to establish the cow-pock at Car
  lisle, which is situate but nine miles from Long-Town ; and
  Dr. Heysham, an eminent physician of that city, proposed
  setting the example by having his own child, only six weeks
  old, inoculated.
      As a more certain means of imparting the cow-pock, I
  agreed with the parents of one of the villagers, who had
  the pustule in a proper state, to set out on horseback, for
  Carlisle, with his child, Mary Brown, a girl only live years
  old; which was consented to : and immediately upon reach
  ing Carlisle, after a journey of twenty-sis mifes, nine per
                                                               sons

             Letter from     Dr. Thornton      on the  Caw-Pox.          .49
sons were inoculated from her by Dr. Heysham,                     of which
event the following letter is a document :
       "   DEAR SIR,                                Carlisle, Nov. i?, 1800.
    " I return     you my best thanks for your very obliging let
ter, and am certain that the inhabitants of this city are
under great obligations to you for your kind attention in
bending- a healthy subject under the action of the cow-pock.
Nine children have been already inoculated from her under
my inspection, and several more will follow their example
to-morrow.          "As soon as the infection takes place, I shall
advertise a general inoculation at our dispensary ; by which
means I doubt not but the practice will become universal in
this part of the country.          My little girl was inocuUr.ed with
your second lancet the moment it arrived, but without ef
fect, and a third time yesterday with one received per
favour of Sir James Graham.               I shall attend to your P. S.
And will recommend to all the surgeons to make use of very
clean lancets, and matter taken early, in fhe disease*.
                                       " I am, dear sir,. &c.
                                                  " JPHN      HEYSHAM."
    The pleasing result of the first trials at Carlisle will be
seen from the following letter :
       "   DEAR SIR,                                 Carlisle, Dec. 6, 1806.
    ce
        Mr. Alderman Richardson left your favour yesterday
evening, when I was out of town ; and as I understand he
means to return to Lowther, either this day or early to-mor
row morning, I embrace this opportunity of informing you
that all who have been inoculated here where infection took
place, since you sent the little girl, have done extremely
well.      Not one of them was affected with any considerable
fever,    or  any kind of sickness to -excite the smallest un
easiness.
    "  With     respect to my own child we have been rather un
lucky,   as she has     not received the infection though inoculated
three times with the dry matter you were so kind as to send.
And since we received the recent matter we have been under
the disagreeable necessity of changing her nurse no IPSS than
twice, and at present, on account of an indisposition com
mon to children, must postpone the inoculation.
                                 "  I have the honour to be, &c.
                                                  "  JOHN HEYSHAM."
   * This P. S. alludes to the power of rust in destroying tl e specific
virtue of the cow-pock matter, and producing, inconsequence, the spu
rious instead of the true pustule ; aKjio the cow-pock pustule s'jmeinnes
losing its specific virtue ehcr the ninth or tenth day.
    Vol.   20.  No.     77. Oct. 1804.         D                     Upon

SO           Letter from   Dr. Thornton        on the    Cow-Pox.
   Upon the return of the little child, after this expedition,
I was careful in observing the effects of so long a journey,
at this season of the year; and I remarked with pleasure
that the fever had been slight, but two pustules came out on
the face, which completely maturated, and scabbed.         Dr.
Heysham generously discharged all the father's expenses at
Carlisle; Mrs. Graham at Low-House, in the neighbour
hood, who had her child vaccinated, gave him ten and six
pence; and Dr. Blamire, who took some vaccine matter
from the child, gave the father a crown ; and he also re
ceived many other presents, which he very honestly men
tioned, refusing what I had agreed to pay him ; but I in
sisted upon fulfilling the terms of our original agreement.
   The two following letters will show my endeavour to
establish the cow-pock at Whitehaven :
         "   SIR,                              Whitehaven,   Oct. »5th, iSoo.
     " Idelivered your observations, relating to the cow-pox,
to Dr. Dixon, who desires me to say that he thinks him
self highly obliged to you, and requests you will send him
a little of the matter for inoculation,     with proper direc
tions how to use        it,
                       thinking      would be the means of
                                       it
saving great number of lives here *.
                                            "
             a
                                         am, sir, &c.
                                                     "
                                               I
Dr. Thornton,                                            JOHN BowNESS."
  Lowther.
         "   SIR,                              Whitehaven, Nov.   list,   1800.
     "Receiving    letter from my father last night, stating
                    a
that you wished to hear how my brother came on after his
inoculation, enables me to embrace the opportunity of re
turning my grateful thanks for introducing the cow-pock to
my brother and myself, who have both got through the
same exceedingly well.       have inoculated several children
                              I
at Whitehaven    and  Workington likewise have furnished
                                           ;
several doctors with matter to do the same.      On the 22d
instant  Ishall have to inoculate near twenty of his lord
ship's work-people's children.
                                  "
                                 remain, &c.
                                  I
Dr. Thornton,                              « WlLLIAM
                                                     BRYHAMf.''
  Lowther.
   * Dr. D'izon, Dr. Crostwaite, and Mr. Hamilton, have since intro
duced. the vaccine inoculation into the Whitehaven dispensary, and have
inoculated   great many.
              a
f    William Bryham superintends lord Lonsdale's collieries, and since
this period has inoculated above five hundred    ;his sister's case i>
                                                                    record
ed, being among the first inoculated  inthe village of Lowther.
                                                                  Lancaster

            Letter from Dr. TJiornton       on the Cow-Vox.              51
    Lancaster     was   not forgot,   as   the following letter will
evince :
       "    DEAR SIR,                        Lancaster, Dec.   ioth, 1800;
    **  I  have this evening received from Mrs. Dilworth (Mr.
Yarker's     daughter) a little vaccine matter, for which I find
I   am indebted to you, and for which accept my sincere
thanks.       I have found great difficulty in introducing the
new inoculation here; and had it not been for a sensible
and intelligent lady, Lancaster would not ycl have witnessed
its introduction.      Since then I have inoculated several, per
fectly    to my  satisfaction ; and the other day I made pro
posals to my friend Mr. Baxendale, who is surgeon to the
Lancaster dispensary along with myself, to inoculate the
poor in this town and its vicinity, gratis.           With pleasure I
inform you it met with his approbation, and with that of
Dr. Campbell, and in afew days we begin the business.
                                 "   I am, dear sir, 8cc.             .    •
                                          " J. A. Brathwatte."
    Nor     was  Appleby forgot,    as   the   following     letter   will
show:
       "    DEAR SIR,                         ApDlebv,  Dec. 17th, 1800.
    "   This day week I inoculated fifteen with fluid cow-pox
matter, all of whom, excepting one or two (which are du
bious), have taken the infection, and the pustule looks
charmingly. The prejudices of the common people against
the operation are sinking to nothing; and I am fully per
suaded, that in a very little time the inoculation will be
come general.        I will not fail to transmit to you a regular
account of those under ray care.
                              " I remain, dear sir, &c.
                                                 "  John Bushby."
    Nor was     even Ulverstone omitted by me.
       "    DEAR SIR,
     "  With the lancet you last sent me I inoculated Rigge,
but am much afraid, from the appearance of the incisions,
 or rather punctures, not with the success which has attend
ed my other operations in this new and excellent practice.                I
have here matter taken from the arms of some of my
patients ; but, from a.prejudice which you will easily allow
tor, his friends here will not allow the disease to be produced
 in him by any other means than such as originates from
                    I must, therefore, trouble you to send me a
I
   ou directly.
  ittle fresh matter for him as soon as convenient.              In send-
                                 D 2                                   ing

52           Letter from   Dr. Thornton   on the Cow-Pox.
mg small-pox matter to a distance, I have found it very cer
tainly sent by having two small square pieces of glass, one
surface of each being besmeared with the matter, applied
together, and tied by a piece of thread.
     "   I have already inoculated between twenty and thirty of
different ages, from matter you fast sent, ana they have had
little or, no fever or any observable complaint, save the local
inflammation of the punctured parts; except in one in
stance, a daughter of Mr. Sandy's of Grathwaite.-Hall, who
became feverish the fifth day after being inoculated, and had
three pustules upon her face, which were filled with a much
more transparent fluid than small-pox generally contains,
and these literally scabbed like the inoculated pustule on the
arm.
     " You will accept my best thanks for your kind atten
 tion, and believe me, I am, dear sir, &c.
     Ulverstone,                         " WlLLIAM      HARRISON."
    Dec.  I,  iSoo.
     I could also mention Penrith, Kendal, Temple-Sow-
 therby, and many other towns about Lowtber, in which I
 introduced the vaccine inoculation : but am fearful it would
 toamuch trespass on the patience of my readers.               I shall,
 therefore, hasten to the pleasing, contemplation of having,
 I think, been instrumental by this means in extirpating,
 for the present, the small-pox from this distant part of
 England : for, having requested, a year after my inoculation
 of the village of Lowther, that Air. Storey would re-inocu
 late these villagers with smallrpox matter, I received from
 him the follosvmg letter:
        " DEAR SIR,                            Penrith, Nov. 7th, 1801.
     " I received your      favour, and would with pleasure com
  ply with your request, if I could get any matter for inocu
 lation.       I have sent to Carlisle, Keswick, Appleby, &c. and
  I am well informed that there is no small-pox in this country
  at present, owing to your inoculation with the cow-pox.             I
  first went, as you wished, to Lowther, to acquaint lord
  Lonsdale with the contents of your letter; and his lordship
  Kays, he has not the least objection to the children in the
 village being inoculated with the smallwpox matter-; which
  would be directly done, provided I could get the matter,
 •which at present I cannot ; but whenever I am able to pro
  cure any, you may rest assured that I will with much plea
  sure comply with your request ; and
                       "  I have the honour to remain, &c.
                                             "  RICHARD STOREY."
                                                                Hence

            Letter from Dr. Thornton         on the Coiv-Pox.            53
     Hence I had occasion to send down to Penrith the small
 pox matter between two pieces of glass for Mr. Storey, to
re-inoculate the inhabitants of Lowther village, and his re
 port was as follows :
         "  DEAR SIR,                            Penrith, Nov. 10th, jjoi.
     " The glasses      with the small-pox matter arrived safe, and
with      considerable    pleasure I set about re-inoculating those
 persons who the last year had been inoculated by you with
the cow-pock in the village of Lowther ; and I remarked,
 with much satisfaction, that I found none whom I inocu
lated to take the small-pox, the places of insertion of the
 matter in a few days dying away. This makes the experi
 ment at Lowther decisive . It afforded much pleasure to
 his lordship, who desires to be kindly remembered to you j
 and wishing you, sir, all the rewards your great exertions
 for the good of mankind, and advancement of science, so
justly merit,
                     "  I have the honour to be, &c.
                                            •  « Richard      Storey."
      After such conclusive evidence in favour of the cow-pock,
 little more appears necessary to be urged, had not some
 seemingly contrary facts occurred about Portsmouth and in
 Tendon, tending to raise a suspicion that the cow-pock
 was not in every instance a preservative against the small
 pox.       Of these cases in London, some have fallen to my
 lot to notice j and they arose from mistakes respecting the
 nature of varicella, or the swine- or chicken-pox.                 Lately
 two cases have appeared in Fulwood's Rents, where there
 prevailed a very general belief among the faculty that these
 were genuine cases of small-pox alter vaccination.                   That
 this was the fact, Dr. Pearson put the matter to the test of
 experiment, and produced thereby the true small-pox; and
 two of his patients were afterwards tried by him with vari
 olous matter, and with cow-pock matter by me ; both of
 which were resisted. I am not, however, without suspicion j
 but I declare my opinion, with extreme diffidence, that
  these two cases were, nevertheless, cases of varicellaf, whose
  pustules were many oFthem contaminated with variolous
     * I  propose (ending down matter this year, 1894, and will inform the
  philosophic world of the result.
              I
     t This ofllr only as a enjrciure.     I  propose, if permitted, inocu
  lating Ann and Mary Hodges with the swine-pox ; and this will asccr*
 tain this point.    Mr. Pearson, surgeon, had his children so inoculated,
  and with success.
                                    D  3                            matter,

54         Letter from      Dr. Thornton         on the    Cow-Pox.
 matter. My reasons are as follow : — Ann Hodges, aet. 5,
 when a year old was vaccinated at the Small-Pox Hospital.
 She went, it may be supposed *, properly through this dis
ease.    That she was rendered thereby secure from any ai-
tack of the small-pox, we have the following proofs : As
soon as the disease was passed, she was purposely taken
throughout every ward in the Small-Pox Hospital, and tq
the bed-side of a patient in an advanced stage of that horri
ble disease, but without effect.            Two years after that, a
lodger in the house, of the name of Sewell,had two children
inoculated for the small-pox ; and they had a full crop of
pustules, and she was constantly with them, yet was proof
against the small-pox.         At the period of two years and a
half, Mrs. Walker, another lodger, had her child inoculated,
with the small-pox, who had a plentiful eruption j and, as
before, she wa's constantly with this child, beingat that period,
secure : and six weeks back, a child over the way, named,
Butler, took it naturally, and was shockingly bad. Ann
Hodges used to hang over this child, rock                    it,
                                                            and remain
for hours in the room with              but all this while was secure;
                                        it  ;
as was her sister Mary, also vaccinated, who had the cow-
pock only two years back. So frequent exposure, and in that
degree, in two instances, not to mention casual rencounters,
seemed to augur future security. All at once, however, the
charm     f,ifvaccination can be called such, ceased with both
children, and on the 29th of Aug. 1804, Ann became feverish,
and although but        avery few pustules appeared, they were
   * Dr.
         Jenner has insisted, that although matter may give the vaccine
disease even until the 171!) day, yet, that as the pustule after the loth
day sometimes degenerates,        and common inefficacious pus     isthen only to
be found   in    the pustule, producing                       ,—LrnLc his golden
                                                         ••:•',-
                                            spurious /••••
                                             a         i
rule — " never to take matter after the tenth day." This rule has been
     is
neglected   by    inqculatois, and matter taken  in  all stages of the pustule.
Whether this was the case here,            uncertain
                                            is     ;    but the escar shows that
the inoculation took proper effect; and the parent mentions that the arm
was so bad that   a     poultice was talked of, and
                                                  it   remained to for  a month.
 t      Posterity will be surprised that the doctrine should ever have been,
(maintained    and published, and      bymedical gentlemen, that the cow-pock
only secured for a lime.      It    was limited at first to two, afterwards to
three, and then to four years. Three children of Mr. Henry Jenner,
inoculated frue years ago, hive since been repeatedly inoculated with va-
liolous matter, and exposed to the infection of the natural small-pox, in
iti worst form, every year up to the present time, without catching the
disease. Fead, vaccinated    by    Or. Jenner more than six years, and Phipps,
his first patient, vaccinated     by him more than eight years ago, have been
frequently put to the same tests with impunity.              In the spring of the
present year they were inoculated for the small-pox with matter in the
;.i-j.i active state but they resisted infection,.
                 ,
                                                                        ushered

                Letter from Dr. Thornton               on the   Cow-Por.        55
 uthered in by much fever : these contained but little matter,
 were all distinct, scabbed on the seventh or eighth day, wholly
 disappeared in four days after, without leaving any pitting :
 and the mother says             "
                            not one was flat on the top, or had
jagged edges    ; but  were  all round at lite base, and pointed
 above*."
   Four out of this little court had diedf of the natural
confluent small-pox ; and one of these, but the day before
Ann was taken ill, was in the room playing with this child.
I ventuie      with much diffidence, as an opinion, that Ann
                 it,
Hodges had the swine-pox, and on an abraded cuticle mat
ter was ingrafted taken              by
                             the hands from the small-pox pa
tient, and local small-pox produced, w'\\hihz constitutional
                 a
fever of varicella probably increased. In her sister Mary, with
whom the charm was broken two years sooner than the other,
   *   The pustule of the chicken-pox or swine-pox, which are one and
 the same disease, d'ffers from the small-pox to the observant eye, as one
  seed differs from another, yet resembling.     In botany     should say the
                                                                 I
 one was acuminate and wrinkled, and the other coropresso-plane, and
 smooth.      In other words, the swine- pox pustule   elevated, and puckered,
                                                          is
 and therefore rough; and the small-pox flat, and usually indented in the
 middle.      The hardened and jagged base also discovers the small-pox
 pustule.
   +   Mrs. Hodges mentions observing herself/wr funerals from this court       j
 perh aps many more were the victims of disease that might with great facility
                                               a
 be banished the earth.     The disappearance of the smal 1-pox from so many
 towns      the north of England, from the cow-pock inoculation, must give
           in
 the most heart-felt satisfaction to every mind endowed with sensibility,
 and, as being an epitome of the greater conquest, namely, the extirpation
throughout the globe of the small-pox, in our humble opinion, merits to
 be recorded as the harbinger of that effulgent day when the benign radi
 ance of the cow-pnek,      like the sun, will extend its glorious influence
 throughout every clime.       Already has been partially received
                                           it                           all the
                                                                           in
civilized countries of the habitable globe, and promises ere long to realize
the just expectations of its wannest advocates,          by
                                                      being generally adopted
from the judicious and proper interference of the legislative powers.—
When the small-pox was first introduced into Otaheite, and the destruc
 tion was so great as to threaten the entire subversion of the state, these
ignorant savages formed laws          which they stopped the progress of the
                                      by
calamity       How much more reason have we then to expect the sub
jugation of this formidable enemy of the human race, in              more en.
                                                                      a
lightened period and from more enlightened statesmen, an easier mean
being now in our power, than restrictive laws to prevent infection, namely,
the cow-pock inoculation, which, perhaps, might be enacted in each
state  ; for no one    born for bimielf alone, cacli being placed with re
                       is
ference to the community         I And thus there being no longer left any
fewel for the small-pox to blaze up into       great national calamity, hence
                                                   a
the delightful     prospect of the annihilation of the smalUpox through
out the whole habitable globe.        The Nabobs in India having com
manded general vaccination, millions have obeyed, and the small-fax has
already disaffeattd       the East.
                            in
                                           D   4                     I   observed

56"          Letter from      Dr. Thornton      on the    Cow-Vox.
I    observed three distinct kinds of scabs*, and her history
deserves also consideration.               On the 13th of Sept. Mary
 Hodges fell ill. Before that she had been with her sister,
and was daily playing with the children in the court. The
fever and delirium was great ; and Mr. Wachsel, apothecary
to the Small-Pox Hospital, saw the patient, as the eruption
was appearing, oh the Tuesday and Wednesday ; and when
he came on the Tuesday following he said " he never was so
amazed as to find the child alive, and to observe such a
mild progress of the disease." He then told Mr. Morgan,
"    that he now somewhat altered hisopinion about this being
certainly small-pox." Every one will call, with me, to mind
    • The occasion of my seeing these children        in Fulwood's Rents arose
from the following letter :
                            " Centra/ House, Salisbury Square ; 24., ix, 1804.
    "  John    Walker,   resident inoculator, feels it incumbent upon him to
make the following communication to all the medical gentlemen of the
 Royal Jenncridn Society :
     " In Fulwood's Rents. Holborn, there have lately fallen some victims
 to the small-pox; others have recovered.        On two children, in the same
 family, who had been inoculated for the cow-pox above two years ago,
eruptions, supposed to be the small-pox, have appeared.          These, in the
 elder, have passed away two weeks ago, and scarcely left a shade or a
mark behind; on the younger a general eruption appeared on the 15th,
instant, and is now pretty generally pronounced to be small-pox by a very
great number who have visited it.           Two children have been inoculated
 from this subject; one on the 21st, in the evening; the other on the 23d,
 in the morning.
     " Wigham and Morgan, 63, Holborn, inform me that they expect
 these two children at their house, together with the two other children,
 on Wednesday, tl e 26th instant, at 12 o'clock, where they will be glad
 of the company of all medical gentlemen who may think it sufficiently
                                                                               '
 interesting to attend.                                                 J. W.
     In consequence    I went to see the last child, and it was in the state of
 icab.    These struck me upon examination to be of three sorts ; the one
 the chicken-pox scab ; scab of the eruption from heat, common in the
 West Indies, and known by the name enema solare, the product of heat ;
 and a third sort, from the contamination of the small-pox virus.         (Vide
 plates to my work entitled
                                   •• Facts
                                             decisive.*')  These differences   I
 showed to Mr. Wright, surgeon, and others. When the scabs wore
 off, the skin was not discoloured as in tie genuine small-pox.    All the pit?
 tings nearly were circular, not jagged-edged, or the skin underneath fair
 »mi glossy. The scabs mostly were a light brown colour. Dr. John Walker,
 vaccine inoculator of the Central Station ; Dr. Hooper, resident physician
 to the Marylcbone Infirmary and lecturer on the practiceof physic, equally
 distinguished for accurate knowledge as experience 3 Mr. Hurlock, apo-
 tlie.-^ry,---nll declared "that they would not allow the present to be am
 instance of the genuine small-pox," and all agreed " it was a very small
 sort." By way of argument presently, I have even granted these to be
genuine cases of small-pox ; and we shall see how far these, even then,
 are objections to vaccination.
                                                                            the

              Letter from          Dr. Tfiornlon   on the   Cow-Pox.            57
the extraordinary hot weather of this month. On the Sunday*
the parents confess .that the leg of mutton at the fire was so
putrid as to be obliged to be thrown away : and this also
happened with my meat, and was common throughout Lon
don.          I
          say then,' that it is almost incredible under these
 circumstances, labouring under an aggravated fever, that
 20,000 pustules should be all coherent, and none con
fluent ; or that this child, worn down by hooping-cough,
should, under such circumstances, have surmounted this
disease if it were the genuine small-pox.      As the small-pox
effluvia render the cow-pock eruptive, and not a single local
pustule ;and as the cow-pock with the itch becomes pustular
and general, so may the small-pox matter modify the swine-
or chicken-pox      and eczema ; and the same might have
happened     whether the patient had previously received the
vaccine or variolous inoculation.      That a local small-pox
niay be produced, almost every day's experience might de
termine; and that a disease from this cause resembling
small-pox should create, even if there were no varicella,
sometimes a constitutional affection, is also known. But m
all such cases certainly there is a something that marks the
distinction of the local and genuine small-pox ; and, as
 Dr. Woodville informed me, Mr. Goldson's cases " were
 not small-pox :" but it must be allowed he describes a dis
 ease somewhat similar to the genuine small-pox.
    Mr. Fewster, of Thornbury, communicated to Dr. Jenner
 the following case :— " A child, who was inoculated for the
 small-pox, had a plentiful eruption on the face. His nurse
 maid, who had the disorder many years before, and was
 much pitted with              it,
                        used to let him sleep on her left arm                    j
 eo that his face was in contact with her left cheek.
         "
       The consequence was, that        little more than week
                                                   in                       a
        * was led more particularly to notice the weather at this time, being
         I
     summoned to attend       coroner's inquest, respecting     child supposed to
                                                                 a
    .have been poisoned     by a
                              its mother on the Friday, from the quick putridity
     of the body on the Sunday, and employed qn the Monday the knife, to
     clear up the fact, with no small danger to myself.         The charge was
     groundless.    It died   bydrinking boiling tea out of tea-pot. Thursday,
                                                             a
     Sept.   iith, th« thermometer in north aspect stood as high as Si°. On,
                                             a
     Friday and Saturday      itwas the same.    Ou Sunday, from one till two,
    it  stood as high as 83°, and       by
                                        ten minutes after two     most remarkable
                                                                 (a
     phenomenon) was decidedly at 84- 7° (eighty-fqur degrees seren tenths).
     Here    itbecame stationary, till 10 minutes after two, when      it began to
     fall, and gradually descended to So9. Now the usual summer's heat,
     *:ven of JD    and
                   ly   A  ugust, seldom exceeds !o° of Fahrenheit's thermometer     ;
     and this will readily account for the contaminated varicella and eczema
     eruption      this child being »o general and abundant.
                  in                                               At this periodI
,     ponced several very bad cases of both varicella and ccitma solare.
                                                                            a   con-

    58      Letter from  Dr. Thornton  on llie Cow-Pox.
   a considerable eruption appeared on this cheek, which went
   on to maturation. Three days before the appearance of the
   eruption she had slight chilly tils, pain in her head and
   limbs, and some degree of fever.
       " On the second day of the eruption she complained of*
   slight sore throat. Mr. Fewster seems doubtful whether
   these symptoms were occasioned by this occurrence of local
   small-pox ; but, I apprehend, without reason.      I have re
   lated, says the indefatigable Mr. Ring, in my Treatise on
  the Cow -Pox, a case of Mrs. Fraise, now living at South
   ampton, who had several small-pocks on her face and her
  breast from the same cause, accompanied with more violent
  fever and pain in the head than what sometimes attend the
  disorder when it occurs the first time.
      " With matter from the nurse-maid, Mr. Fewster inocu
  lated two other children, and produced the perfect small
  pox. The late Mr. Kite, of Gravesend, excited a variolous
  pustule on his own arm, and sent some of the matter to
  Chatham barracks, which proved effective.         A late pro
  fessor at Edinburgh used to mention, " that an itinerant
  inoculator practised this method on himself, for the sake
  of preserving a constant supply of variolous matter."
      *' A gentleman of my acquaintance," says Dr. Buchan,
  "   who practised inoculation very extensively, had taken as
 much matter from a patient in the small-pox as was suffi
 cient to inoculate forty or fifty others.      For this he had
 been obliged to open a good many pustules ; and while his
 hands were daubed with the matter, happening to cut one
 of his fingers, he immediately put his thumb on it to keep
 in the blood, and held it there for some time till a rag was
 {jot, with which he bound up the wound, and took no
 further notice of it.
      " About eight days after, he began to feel an unusual
 weariness upon the least motion, and complained of a dull
 pain of the head and loins ; with a listlessness, and want of
appetite.     On the ninth or tenth, in the evening, he com
 plained of sickness ; and was actually seized with a syncope,
or fainting fit.
     " On the next morning an eruption appeared, which was
pretty universal, but thickest upon the limbs.        This had,
indeed, more the appearance of a rash than of small-pox ;
but as it appeared about the same time after receiving the
wound, that the small-pox generally do after inoculation ;
as the symptoms, previous to the eruption, were the same
with those which usually precede the eruption of the small
pox ; and as the eruption continued upon the skin about
                                                            thq

         Letter from  Dr. Thornton   on the  Cow-Vox.       sg
the same number of days that the small-pox generally do,
there seemed to be a good deal of reason to conclude that
the disease had proceeded from a quantity of the variolous
matter which had been introduced into the blood by the
wound.
   "  This patient, indeed, recovered by the help of medi
cine, and a good constitution.      This gentleman had bad
both the small-pox and measles, in the natural way, many
years before,
   "Several other cases have occurred in my practice, where
the constitution seemed to suffer from variolous matter in
troduced into the blood, without creating what could pro
perly he called the small-pox."
    Hence we learn, that even the producing the genuine
small-pox from the cases in Fulwood's Rents, is no certain
criterion of these children having had the true, genuine
small-pox.      And should my hypothesis be allowed, the
same might have occurred even after variolous inoculation.
    But, to bring over our adversaries, it may be prudent to
allow, that in this instance, and in a very few others, the
genuine small-pox has actually occurred after vaccination.
But such, it must be allowed, are rare events.      Persons are
qlso said to have received the small-pox twice. Yet this is
held as no argument against inoculation.       Such is, indeed,
accounted only a very extraordinary circumstance.        When
I  was lecturing at Guy's Hospital, happening to take with
me some ipecacuanha root, the attendant, only from carry
ing this into the lecture-room, instantly perceived what was
in the paper, and was seized with the disagreeable effects of
shortness of breath and sense of suffocation, —an idiosyn
crasy, which I have seen from cheese, or the sight of a
 cat : but upon the birth of a child, I should no more fear
its being convulsed with the effluvia of ipecacuanha, or
 ready to faint from the smell of cheese, or become furious
at the sight of a cat, than I should fear its having the small
pox after proper vaccination. The facts in the opposite scale
 are so numerous, that such an event is next to a miracle j
 and if vaccination goes on as it has begun, and merits,
 there would be no Longer small-pox to make the experi
 ment ; and such an event actually happening, is only an
 argument for the advocates of cow-pox to insist the more,
 and urge on general vaccination.
    I have troubled you, sir, with these observations, hoping
 that such events as the above will not retard the great cause
 of vaccination j for " as one swallow makes no summer,"
                                                             so

 60              'Comparison   of the Small-Pax
so two, or twenty such instances, scarce form the shadow
 of a just objection against this grand improvement in the
 »rt of preservation.
                 I have the honour to remain, dear sir,
                         Your obliged and faithful friend,
                                    ROBERT JOHN THORNTON.
VI.    Comparison  of the Small-Pox and Cow-Pock Inecula^
    lion.   By CHARLES BRANDON TRYE, Esq. Senior Sur-
    gemi to the County Hospital,    Gloucester.
         SIR,
 W     HEN Dr. Jenner first introduced vaccine inoculation,  I
declined adopting it. Inoculation with the small -pox I had
long practised without a single loss ; I had also fixed opi
nions in physiology which militated against what was ad
vanced by himself and his friends.        In process of time,
however, such a mass of clear, undisputed, decisive evi
dence came forward in support of the newly discovered pre
servative, as to be irresistible to a mind not hardened be
yond the susceptibility of conviction; and, consequently,
whatever might have been my previous notions, or my ha
bits of thinking, I could no longer persist in the use of
variolous matter.
    I will not say that my own practice in inoculating with
cow-pox matter has been so considerable as that of many
others, or that I have made a variety of experiments with
a view to understand or explain any of the phenomena of
the disease ; but I will say that in the small-pox, both na
tural and inoculated, my experience has been ample; and
from that experience alone, I was enabled to compare the
merits of small-pox inoculation with those ascribed to the
tfennerian practice. From my own experience, then, I can
assert, first, that whatever has been said against the sulK -
cienoy of cow-pock matter as a security against variolous
infection, may be also said with truth against small-pox
matter, as a similar security.      From my own experience I
can, secondly, assert, that the subsequent ill effects which
have been said to follow cow-pox, have, in a ten-fold greater
degree, followed small-pox.        And lastly, from my own
knowledge, I can assert (and who of long standing in the
profession cannot do the same?) that many instances of
mortality have happened in small-pox inoculation, whilst
                                                     amongst

                    and Cotv-Pock Inoculation,             -     61
amongst all which has been said not a single example ap
pears of death from cow-pock-.
    In behalf of my first assertion, I can recollect numerous
facts ; but as I write for the public, and on a most import
ant subject, I will state nothing in support of that asser
tion, which shall rest solely upon my own credibility or
memory ; I will therefore confine myself to the three fol
lowing     cases :
    Mr. John PhiHpotts, of this city, well known      and esteemed
in his profession of      the law, was inoculated with the small
pox in his infancy, together with an elder sister, by totoeir
 father, with the same matter, at the same time, and both
were nursed by their mother, and two persons accustomed
to small-pox, of good judgment, and now living.                 The
young lady had the disease to an alarming virulence ; the
boy's arm inflamed, he was indisposed, ana had four or five
 eruptions on different parts of his body; and Mrs. PhiU
 potts says, they appeared to her to go on after the manner
 of other small-pox pustules. In his twenty-first year wai    I
desired to visit him, as being ill with some eruptive •fever.
 He had spots just appearing in different parts of his body;
 the next time I saw him, nothing but the positive assertion
 of himself and his friends, that he had had the small-pox,
 could have made me doubt that they were variolous.              0m
 the following day that doubt was entirely removed.              H«
 had a plentiful crop of pustules of the distinct kind, which
 went regularly through their stages of suppuration and scab*
 bing.
     In  September    1 794, 1 inoculated a daughter of Mr. John
  Rudhall,    of this city, with   matter which   I had taken my
 self   from   a  variolous subject.    The child's  arm inflamod,
 she was indisposed, and had a few eruptions which did not
 suppurate. About twelve months after, I inoculated her
 again, and she had then the distinct small-pox, with all its
  usual circumstances.
     Mr. Cooke, an eminent apothecary of this city, desired
  me to see a patient who had some years befo»e been inocu
  lated by a practitioner of respectability and experience for
  the small-pox, together with ten others, in the gentleman's
  own small-pox house.         The patient supposed that he then
  received and went through the disease, and the inoculator
  assured him of it. When we visited him he was then blind
  with small-pox, which went through its usual stages.
      In support of my second assertion, I' need not stake my
  own credibility at all. My experience can only coincide
  with the testimonies already before the public, of the small
                                                                 pox

   02    Comparison   of Small- Pox and Cow-Pock Inoculation.
   pox rousing up scrophula in all its malignant varieties, and
   being followed by phlegmons, ophthalmias, &c; while nor
   thing beyond cutaneous eruptions has, to the best of my
   recollection, been imputed to the cow-pox.
      But as to my third assertion, its truth is so universally
   known, that all proof is unnecessary.
      I shall go then to the inferences to be drawn from what
   has been premised, from the cases supporting the first as
   sertion, it appears, first, either that some individuals may re
   ceive the small-pox infection twice ; or else, that the patient
  may be infected to a certain degree with variolous matter,
  but not so as to make an indelible impression on the con
  stitution.    In either case, their inoculation with the small
  pox    has  no  advantage, as a protecting security, over the
  cow-pox. Let it be said that the practitioner who inocu
  lated the patient supposed to be infected a second time,
  was, in the first instance, either inattentive or deceived by
 doubtful appearances ) or that the first time his patient was
 not inoculated with real small-pox matter, or with small
 pox matter in a proper state.           To the first supposition it
 must be answered, that in the general practice of cow-pox
 inoculation, it is not to be believed that operators will be
 more sagacious, more discriminating, or more attentive
 than their predecessors have been in small- pox inoculation ;
 and to the second, that similar errors are just as likely to
 prevail in vaccine inoculation : so that the conclusion must
 be, either that there are individuals in whom the suscepti
 bility of the small-pox is not destroyed by a well conducted
 process either of the cow-pox or small-pox inoculation ; or
 that, in the instances when either the one or the other failed
 to secure the individual against future small-pox, the pro*
 cess did not go so far as to make the proper impression on
 the constitution : or lastly, that in the inoculation improper
matter must have been used ; which, however, could not
have been the case in the two first examples given above, it
proving my first assertion.
     Three instances have been brought forward amidst the
voluminous writings for and against the cow-pox inocula
tion, where it failed of securing the patient against small
pox ; two by Mr. Goldson, of Portsmouth, and one in the
London papers of the beginning of this month. Whether
the patients were inoculated with genuine cow-pox matter
or not, I will not inquire ; I will admit their weakening our
confidence in vaccination to a certain degree.           But these
three failures, amid the collected experience of the profes
sion in general, are here met by the experience of a single
                                                         individual

                            Memoir   on  Nickel.                     63
individual in a provincial town, with an equal number of
cases, equally weakening our confidence in small-pox ino
culation.         In this respect, then, let the two inoculations
be supposed to stand upon equal grounds.               But let the con
sequences of the one be weighed against those of the other,
and the scale of vaccination must incalculably preponde
rate.      In immediate danger to the individual, in remote
mischief to his constitution, the cow-pox has infinitely the
advantage.          To this let us add, that while with the cow-pox
the practitioner, at the worst, injures no one except his pa
tient, with the small-pox he may deal misery and destruc
 tion amongst his neighbours far beyond the limits of his
 operating ; that in the one he is continually risking the dis
 semination of a loathsome and mortal disease, while in the
other he is conducing to the extermination of that pestilence
 from among mankind.              Let us then turn to common sense,
 and ask her which she would prefer.
      Gloucester,                        CHARLES BrANDON TrTE.
 October 6, 1804..
          VII.      Memoir on Nickel.       By C. Thenard *.
   X hough         nickel was scarcely known fifty years ago, it has
 already been the object of a great many researches; and yet,
 by a striking contrast, there is no substance, perhaps, which
 has given rise to so many discussions, and respecting which
 chemists have so much differed. Some, at the nead of
 whom we ought to place Cronstedt, to whom the discovery
 of it is due ; and Bergman, who first began to study it with
 care, considered it as a metal of a peculiar nature.            Others,
  who did not attend enough to experiment, and who were
  seduced by its magnetic properties,          did not hesitate to be
  lieve it to be iron more or less pure, or more or less altered.
 The former, suffering themselves to be deceived, in particu
  lar, by the blue solution of its oxides in ammonia, have
  confounded it with copper. The latter, too confident in
  slight or superficial researches, have seen in its ore only
  the arsenic and the cobalt, with which it is almost always
  accompanied, and have taken it for an alloy of these two
  metals. Opinions so different and so singular could not
  but disappear with time. The interest of the science re-
            it ; and it was a necessary consequence of the pro-
  3uiredof mineral analysis, formerly uncertain in its progress,
     ucts
                     * From the Annate* dc
                                           Cbimic, No. 149.
                                                                     and

64                      Memoir          on   Nickvl.
 and consequently in its results, but at present carried (o it«
 utmost degree of perfection, and leading into error those
                  '
 only who are unacquainted with its resources.                But all
 doubts are removed in regard to the existence of nickel, if it
 be incontestably proved by numerous exact and authentic
 •xperimerits. The case is not the same with its magnetic
 property, in which it participates, or seems to participate,
 with iron. If several chemists, along with Bergman, ascribe
 to it this property, others contest it.      It is still therefore a
question, of which we have not a definitive solution, to
 know whether nickel is really susceptible of attraction ;
 especially as it is not yet certain whether it was ever ob-1
 tamed in the state of its greatest purity.      The chemical art,
indeed, does not possess the means of separating it from
cobalt. Those, even, employed for separating it From ar-»
 sciiic are liable to objection, and a rigorous analysis might
 perhaps excite doubts in regard to those used for separating
 it from iron. The problem to be solved, and which forms
 the subject of this memoir, consequently               — to separate
                                                             is,
 nickel exactly   from    all the matters which   alter            it,
                                                             and par
ticularly from arsenic, iron, and cobalt.             mention these
                                                         I
 three metals, because they are those which may take from
or communicate to     it    the magnetic properties.
    The nickel ore which       I  treated had been already fused
several times    ;  all the earthy matters, and          part of the
                                                             a
arsenic and sulphur, had therefore been separated from it.
Different trials, which     it    needless here to repeat, proved
                                 is
to me that  it  was composed of nickel, iron, cobalt, bismuth,
arsenic, and sulphur. The following            the method of ana
                                                    is
lysis which I    followed  :
                           Experiment          I.
    Having reduced the ore to powder, roasted     I    in roast-   it    a
ing-pat  until  no   more  arsenical vapours  were   disengaged.
When the odour of garlic was no longer sensible, notwith
standing the violence of fire long maintained,
                               a
                                                      put the ore
                                                              I
thus roasted and cold into     matrass with
                                   a            sufficient quan-
                                                         a
tity of nitric acid.  The action of the acid favoured        heat        by
became so strong, that        most violent effervescence took
                               a
place; the vessel was filled with thick red vapours; the
solution was almost instantaneous        but incomplete, and
there remained about    a sixth part of the matter employed.
This residuum, when separated                by
                                       the filter, was washed
and carefully examined.           was of
                                   It      white and slightly
                                                    a
greenish colour, without savour, insoluble in water and ni
tric acid, but soluble in muriatic acid, and was precipitated
                                                                             black

                       Memoir   on  Nickel.                   . 65
black from this solution by sulphurated hydrogen and by
water in white flakes, which the nitric acid could then dis
solve, and with which they gave by evaporation crystals that
could readily be distinguished to be nitrate of bismuth. This
substance, therefore, was oxide of bismuth, united to an
acid which rendered it proof against the common sol-
vents.    I presumed that it might be arsenic acid ; and in
deed my conjectures were confirmed by ulterior trials.       Ar-»
seniate of bismuth, made in a direct manner, exhibits ex
actly the same phasnomena.
                         Experiment     II.
    The liquor of the first experiment, arising from the ac
tion of the nitric acid on the roasted ore, and which was
of a beautiful green colour, was evaporated, and then diluted
with water to precipitate the bismuth which might be found
in it. There was no appearance of its being turbid. The
whole bismuth, therefore, had been separated by the arsenic
acid. It contained copper.        Iron immersed in it imme
diately detected its presence. Having added sulphurated hy
drogen, this metal alone was precipitated in the state of hy-
drogenated sulphuret, under the form of flakes, of a chest
nut-brown colour.       It was but little in quantity in the ore,
and made at most the l-50th part of it.
                         Experiment    III.
    The copper having by these means been totally precipi
tated from the nitric solution, since it no longer coloured
iron, I supersaturated it with caustic potash in order to
 obtain the oxides pure, and to take from them the arsenic
 acid which they might retain ; but as this method was not
 attended with complete success, f was obliged to have re
 course to another.    The one I preferred was as follows :—
 J again effected a solution of the oxides in nitric acid, and
 poured into them an excess of hydro-sulphuret of potash.
 The decomposition was complete : the arsenic acid remained
 in the liquor combined with the potash, while the oxides
 were deposited in combination with sulphur and sulphurated
 hydrogen in the state of hydrogenated sulphuret, and under
 the form of black flakes.      This method of separating the
 arsenic is so sure, that it induced me to propose it for de
 termining the quantity of that metal in any ore whatever.
 I employed it with much .success in the treatment of arseni
 cal ore of cobalt.   I separated from it all the cobalt and ar
 senic : by treating only with nitric acid and alkalies, the
 greater part of these two metals remain united together in
     Vol. 20. No. 77. Oct. 1804.          E                     the

€(]                     Memoir on Nickel.
the state  of arseniate. This process to be practicable requires
 only  a rigorous  analysis of the arsenic acid, and of an inso
 luble arseniate, such for example as that of lead.        I made
 the first by burning 100 parts of arsenic by nitric acid.        I
found that the arsenic acid contained in 100 parts, 64 of
arsenic and 36 of oxygen; so that it contains only 10' 24
more of oxygen than the arsenious acid, since 100 parts of
the latter require only 16 of oxygen to become arsenic acid.
 One thing singular is, that these 100 parts of arsenious acid
require at least triple the time as 100 parts of arsenic to be
 completely acidified.      I analysed the arseniate of lead by
saturating with ammonia 100 parts of very dry arsenic acid,
 and precipitating it by acetite of lead.    I obtained 380 parts
of arseniate of lead, which, dissolved in nitric acid and pre
cipitated by sulphate of soda, gave me 256 parts of sulphate
of lead. The liquor remained uncoloured by the sulphu
rated hydrogen ; it contained no more lead ; whence it fol
lows, almost rigorously, that in arseniate of lead the ratio
of the arsenic acid to the oxide of lead is as 5 to 9.
                          Experimetit  IV.
    The oxides of the last experiment, being precipitated by
the hydro-sulphuret of potash, were introduced into a ma
trass with the nitric acid.        The solution was rapid, and
accompanied with a great disengagement           of nitrous acid,
which caused the matter to swell up considerably : it was
of a still more beautiful green colour, especially as in the
liquor of the first experiment there were remarked flakes of
sulphur which were separated by the filter, and it was then
decomposed      by potash. The oxides, to the number of three,
nickel, cobalt, and iron, were precipitated. Being washed
in a large quantity of water, the principal object was to se
parate them exactly.       I knew by my own experiments that
black oxide of cobalt was not sensibly soluble in ammonia;
but I did not know how to reduce the blue oxide to that
state of oxidation.     I tried for this purpose several means.
Desiccation in the air, by the help of a gentle heat and a
renewal of the surfaces to favour the absorption of oxygen,
gave me a result not very satisfactory.       I did not obtain the
whole of the black oxide, some part of it having dissolved
in the ammonia. The use of oxygenated muriatic acid
was not more successful : it made the oxide, indeed, pass
immediately to the maximum of oxidation, but it retained
a part in solution.     Knowing vith what facility oxygenated
muriatic acid saturated with lime gives up its oxygen, I
conceived an idea that it might succeed ; and, indeed,
                                                          scarcely

                       Memoir    on   Nickei.                        (37
 scarcely is it united with the blue oxide of cobalt, especially
 if recently precipitated, when it becomes deoxygenatcd,
 while the latter turns black, and is then insoluble in ammc -
 nia. Before I employed this method of analysis, I was de
 sirous to ascertain whether it would be attended with tl e
 success I expected : I took ten decigrammes of oxide of cc-
 balt, and ten of the oxide of nickel; and, having dissolved
 them in nitric acid precipitated by potash, added to it hyper-
 oxygenated muriate of lime, and attempted their separation.
 by ammonia; which took place completely.           A similar trial
 which I made on a given mixture of green oxide of iron,
 oxide of cobalt and nickel, showed me more and more that
 this method would infallibly succeed.       But in the second,
as in the first trial, the solution of oxide of nickel having
been attended, from the beginning to the end of the process,
 with a disengagement of bubbles, which I ascribed with
justice to the decomposition of the ammonia, and which I
 supposed to be azotic gas, I was desirous to ascertain the
 cause of it.   The ammonia could not be decomposed either
 by the red oxide of iron, or by the black oxide of cobalt ;
 neither of them was attacked.         On the other hand, T was
certain that the green oxide of nickel dissolved in ammonia
without being deoxidated.         This reasoning led me to admit
a hyperoxygenated oxide of nickel, and experience soon
 proved the existence of this oxide, which had been indicated
 to me by theory.       Its distinguishing characters are, that it
dissolves without effervescence        in sulphuric, nitric, and
muriatic acids ; in the first two, with a disengagement          of
oxygen ; in the third, with a disengagement of oxygenated
muriatic acid, like hyperoxygenated oxide of cobalt. This
hyperoxygenated      oxide of nickel is black; like      it,
                                                           formed
                                                               is
under several different circumstances     ;   itmay  be  obtained
 by  bringing to cherry-red heat green oxide of nickel, or by
                a
treating this green oxide   by    oxygenated muriatic acid, or       by
oxygenated muriatic acid saturated with lime; and the latter
method    ispreferable.
                         Experiment     V.
     As
      these trials left me no doubt in regard to the certainty
of separating nickel exactly from cobalt and iron,    agitated
                                                          I
the oxides of them recently precipitated with oxygenated
muriatic acid, saturate^ with lime.     In little time they all
                                              a
three passed to the maximiivi of oxygenation.        Being then
brought   into  contact   with  ammonia,    the oxide of nickel
was the <mly one dissolved.      Idecanted the liquor     heat  by   :
having  then  volatilized the  ammonia   from      it,
                                                  the oxide  de-
                              E   2                      posited

68' '**                   Memoir   on   Nickel.
posited itself under the form of flakes, which gradually as
sumed consistence.     It was of a beautiful green colour, and
a solution of it in acids did not change colour by gall-nuts.
The precipitate formed in it by ammonia immediately dis
solved in an excess of alkali. I was convinced of its purity;
but that there might not be room for the least suspicion,      I
subjected it a second time to the same course of operations
already described ; and even after having combined it with
nitric acid,    I
               caused that salt to crystallize, and took care to
employ that only which was in the form of well-defined
rhomboidal crystals.          I
                           found means to unite thirty-three
grammes of that oxide thus prepared, respecting the purity
of which chemical analysis could excite no doubt, and
 formed it into a paste with oil, lamp-black, and twice its
 weight of very pure borax, matters which could not bring to
 it any iron. I enclosed this paste in a double Hessian cru
  cible, and subjected it for half an hour to the action of a
 violent forge heat ; the nickel was reduced, but it did not
 fuse. I observed only in the mass, which was slightly ag
 glutinated, some metallic globules, which were brittle in
  consequence of the charcoalor borax they contained.        I re
  peated the experiment without better success,         though I
  urged the fire so strongly, that the Hessian crucibles began
  tio fuse.   I then resolved to try the fusion a third time,
  making use of Russinger's crucibles, which are still more
  refractory than the Hessian.    I had at my disposal the forge
  of the School of Mines, in which are fused without any ad
  dition two kilogrammes of soft iron ; I took every possible
  precaution to ensure success ; I added borax, and- urged the
  lire in such a manner, that the crucibles were softened,
  sunk down, and formed only an orbicular mass : and yet I
  obtained only -globules, which were indeed ductile, but very
  little larger than those of the first experiments.       I even
  could obtain but a very small quantity ; several of them
  were volatilized, and adhered to the cover of the crucible ;
. most of them were disseminated       in the glass, and scarcely
  perceptible by a magnifying-glass ; a portion perhaps had
  flowed with the flux into the ashes.      I think I should have
  succeeded,    if,having collected all these globules in an ex
  cellent crucible, had exposed them to strong heat without
                      I                           a
  any kind of flux.       intend to try this method, which
                          I                                  I
  consider as good, as soon as     Ican obtain oxide sufficiently
  pure.   It   ishowever certain that this metal       one of the
                                                      is
  most difficult to be fused      and this property of being in
                                  ;
  some measure fire-proof,      of which no chemist has yet
  spoken, inclines   -me more and more to believe that hitherto
                      4                                       it

                                          Memoir on Nickel.                                             6Q
it  has been obtained always allayed, either with arsenic, or
 sometimes, no doubt, with cobalt.
  . Though I had lost a great deal of nickel in these different
attempts to fuse                    it,
                             however extracted
                                      I                  quantity more         a
than sufficient' to establish that property of                respecting           it
which there appeared to be any doubt.                 here allude to its  I
magnetism.            can assert, therefore, that the magnetic
                          I
virtue in         so striking, that
                 it
                 is                           almost equal to that of
                                                           it   is
iron and yet           certain that contains none of that metal
                          it   is                     it                                                ;
for,     if ;
            were indebted for
            it                       to iron,    it    so strong that    it   is                        it
ought to contain at least one half of its weight of that
metal     in this case chemistry would furnish
           :                                                  variety of            a
means for detecting it: but           all those which
                                                  by        possesses,             it                   it
cannot discover in nickel the least trace of that metal; and
if  only l-50th or even l-100th part of that metal be added,
it  immediately becomes sensible              re-agents.       byappears,           if
therefore, to be mathematically demonstrated,                    may use            I It
the expression, that nickel         really susceptible of attraction
                                                 is                                                     ;
and those who still doubt this truth ought, in admitting
these experiments, to be perfectly convinced of it. Several
chemists, indeed, have obtained some of which had no ac                   it
tion on the magnetic needle           but    was not pure
                                                 :          it  they had                ;
not separated         from all those matters which alter
                          it                                           ia                          it
                                                                                                    ;
 particular, they had not separated           from the arsenic which
                                                                it
mav mask its magnetism           as      proved
                                             ;       the experiments
                                                      is                  by                            I
haa made on that subject, and with which                 shall terminate       I
this memoir. M. Chcnevix has himself acknowledged, that
the nickel not susceptible of attraction, which he obtained,
had in         mixture of arsenic. This error could not long
                it
                 a
escape so distinguished        chemist.    a
    Having fused together equal parts of nickel and arsenic,
I  obtained     brittle allay, granulated, easy to be fused, and
                     a
which was not susceptible of attraction             half    part of ar   :         a
senic      sufficient to mask the property of iron
           is                                                     quarter
                                                                                            by a
                                                                                        ;
only weakens it.         made the first of these allays
                                I                                 heating
in crucible equal parts of iron and arsenic, and the second
     a
with one part of iron and half               part of arsenic.
                                                            a        was                       I
desirous to ascertain whether other metals, and particularly
copper, would also have the property of rendering iron un
susceptible of attraction.           made four of these allays: in
                                               I
the first    put fourth of iron, in the second an eighth, in
                I         a
the third     twelfth, and in the fourth sixteenth all of them
                 a                                                   a              :
were magnetic, and were the more so, as they contained
more iron, and the more ductile, as they contained less. By
dissolving them in acids the presence of iron was easily
detected             by
               gall-nuts.    Such        the series of experiments of
                                                      is
which this memoir           composed  is      not numerous, they are
                                                           :   if
                                                 E    3             more

70                On the    Orlit of        tlie new Planet.
more than sufficient to solve the question I proposed ; they
indeed establish, in an incontestable manner, that pure
nickel really possesses the magnetic virtue which Bergman
and several chemists with him did not hesitate to ascribe to
it: they prove that this property, which it participates with
iron, and no doubt with cobalt, may be masked or destroyed
in these metals by their union with different bodies, and par
ticularly by arsenic. Hence we necessarily deduce this con
 sequence, that a magnetic bar is an incorrect instrument for
 detecting them, and cannot with certainty indicate the pre
 sence of them; but where they are in a state of mixture
 only, and not in that of combination, they confirm the pro
 perty of semi-ductility, which has been some time observed
 in      and its relation in this point of view to zinc and mer
        it,
 cury. They show that        it much more difficult to fuse than
                                  is                                       it
 has been hitherto supposed, and give reason to presume
                                                                                        "
 that     has never yet been obtained but allayed either with
         it
 arsenic or cobalt. They show that           susceptible of hyper-
                                                 it   is
 oxygenation, and of forming new black oxide, soluble in sul
                                           a                      -
 phuric and nitric acid, with disengagement of oxygen, and in
                                       a
 muriatic acid with     a disengagement of oxygenated muriatic
 acid. They confirm the presence of bismuth in ore of nickel,
  and the transition of the latter to the state of insoluble arse-
  niate when treated       by
                          nitric acid. They give sure method for
                                                           a
  extracting arsenic from any ore whatever, and of determin
 ing the quantity.      In the last, place, they furnish    process    a
  free from every suspicion, which was wanting to analysis,
  and which was long desired, for separating nickel from co
  balt and iron, and consequently for obtaining the first two
  metals in their greatest state of purity.
 VIII.        On the Orlit      the new Planet discovered
                                of                            Mr,          by
        HARDING    at the Observatory    Lillenthal, near Bremen^
                                                of
        on the 1st of Sepleinler 1804.
 .HAVING     been favoured                 by
                               an eminent astronomer with                        a
 chart (see Plate III.) representing the apparent path of the
 new planet, accompanied with the following observations
 in     regard to the use    of      it,   we flatter ourselves   it   will   prove
 gratifying to our astronomical readers.
        " The
            apparent path of the new planet was laid down in
 this chart from observations    made from September 29 to
 October 12, 1804.     The remaining part of the orbit, which
    carried on to the middle of November, was laid down on
 a is
   supposition that the planet's mean distance       about the    is
 same as that of Pallas, as the retrograde motion seems nearly
                                                                                  tfl

             Improved Mcut Kilns      for drying Mult.                71
to correspond with that of the same planet when near its
opposition.     It cannot therefore be expected that the orbit
laid down in the chart will be very correct : but, as great
care has been taken to lay down all the stars as far as those
of the ninth magnitude with as much accuracy as possible,
it is hoped this small map will be found particularly useful
to those who may not be provided with instruments for
taking right ascensions and declinations, but who, being
provided with a good telescope, may wish to find it ; which
by help of this chart and a good general atlas or pair of
globes they may easily do, by first finding some of the prin
cipal stars and then those of a smaller magnitude, by which
they will be enabled to find those laid down in this map ;
and, by comparing their positions with their apparent places
in the heavens, will be soon led to discover the planet by
its motion among them.            The planet is a little brighter
than those marked in the map of the eighth magnitude ;
and, if the places of these stars be carefully observed, can
hardly be mistaken."
 IX.   Description  of  improved Malt Kilns          for dryivg Malt
                           by lieated Air*.
JTio.    1. (Plate II.) front view of the malt kiln aa, the
furnace door. I, the fire, through which the air rises, the
grate being of the common kind, c a cast iron tube, which
passing through the fire, and having one end open to the ex
ternal air, and the other open into the kiln, conveys heated
air to the grain,     d, a flue around the fire, in which air is
also heated and conveyed to the grain,             e, the ash pit.    f,
 the chimney.
    Fig. 2. a side view of a malt kiln, in which the grain is
 dried by heated air, as in fig. l,but in which the air neces
 sary for combustion of the fuel descends through the grate.
 a, the fire. I, the grate, c, the door of the furnace, a, the
 door of the ash pit. e, the air tube,      f,    the ash pit. g, the
 end of the air tube entering the space below h, the kiln
 head, which is composed of tiles perforated with small
 holes, lying on the joists i, and supporting the malt k. II,
 the windows, through which a current of air may freely en
 ter or escape, m, the air outlets above.           If a distiller finds
 his buildings so relatively situated that he can lead the air
 cylinder of his malt kiln through the flue of his still or
 mash boiler furnace, the expeuse of fuel for drying malt
 may be saved.
       * From Parliamentary  Report on the Distilleries in Scotland.
                                 E  4                       X.   Cursory

                   y"Si                                "rt   U                                U   U                                         j        a              z   a        X    —i                           O 2
                    ^c        f                    0                                                        I                                                                  an
           O-a
             o            5
                        C/J                                                                       1    O                                     rt          0                                            0                         _O            (ft
                              0.    «j   %     i        •        •              hC        §                     ^   <5 ffi                                          W            ^              ffi         "e       K   1>
                                                                         •**<
                                                                                                                        only          He.;        z. e.       One        or                           the        first     Person            i:
                                                                                                                                                                                 Unity:
                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                                                                    Bypostasis.
            G                             *^j                                                                       <
           <1  tn       M B    '•   •      bO          •         |       3      ho        a       W*   43                —
                                                                                                                                Attendant;                    EH —                                                Oh —         Out       of
                                                                                                                                                                            Flaming              Fire;
                                                                                                                        gi.   ff.    made          out        of                       Fire,          to    execute             and     mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Specimen
                                                                                                                                                                    Flaming
                                                                                                                        nister         the        will       of    Him    who          made               him.
               ^                         fa
                                          .2                                -2   i                                  E   a— The                                                      Flame                                         a    con    i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of
           U    S       <uc                    1       en            4                    3           6     en                               Resplendence                   of                    or                      not
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Light,
                                                                                                                                             or                                             but        a                              com     i
                                                                                                                        suming                   devouring                  Flame,                          multiplied
                                                                                                                        bining           Brightness                 ;    its     consuming
                                                                                                                                                                                                             and       devourin:              hn
                                                                                                                        Force          transmuted                   into                  to               add                        unut    i
                                                                                                                                                                                 itself,                              Light
                                                                     •
                                                                                                                        terable         ;     Tnd — Mind                    ;  Oss    —     Elevated                 or   lifted
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         up   •" i
                                                                                                                        L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     a Dictionary
                                                                                                                              e.     Mind          illuminated                 by                                                      -ele
                                                                                                                                                                                      inexpressible                      Light,
                                                                                                                        vated         with         ineffable
                                         ^5
                                                                                                                                                                        joy.
           w
           9       "—                                                           "3        o                         E    —                                     without                      either            Life        or
                                         E™*  1                                      I-                                            Blind,          Opaque,                                                                        Spirit
                                                                                                                     il O    — An                    or Matrice                      j.         a                                       an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ""O
                                                                                                                                                                                 ;         e.          Matrix            barren
                                                                                                                                             Egg
                                                                                                                         unprofitable,                   but        as        occasionally                   impregnated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         b    >,
                                                                                                                        the    Spirit.
English,

                                «/" t lie Gealic Language.                                                                                                 73
                                                                      .and
                                                                                                  ul of
                                                                                       Ph err —
                                                                                                                              abo      ani
                                                        Gealic
                                                                                                                                                      tJ
                                                                                       f
                                                                       10,                                                 El                    w
              rt^'j
                     --"                                               ,
                                                                                                     ts, mi indf
                                                                                                                                                :sg
                           *'                           th
                                                                                                                           I'd —
                                     W                  the
                                                                              Decec.
                                          >->
                                                                                                                              ;*
                                                                                       of
                                                                             f
                     3     ho                                                                                                         Ma
                                                                       hus,
                                          •
                                i                       in
                                                                                                                   like.
                      ~" " Ly M r     3
              CQ 3                        M                                             ase                                              .
              £yti*«
              "|-BS.~°S                                                                                                                         I-H
TRANSLATION                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                      b       im                               b                    P
                                                                                                  in
                                                        comm mandin
                                                                                          Err,'the                                   logiston
                                                                       Unity
                                                                                                                     ighty,
                           •-                                                                                                                   •g-S
                O
                                                                        the     ,                    who
ENG                                                                                     ;..
                                                                          plac cing                                Al      P   nceieivable
                                                                                                                              Phl
                                                                                            lmighty
                                                                                       ty                          Almi
AI.                                                     e
                                                                       ic, De epart
                                                        the
                                                                                                     a                                inco
                                                  .     e             y                    e..       an
                                                                                                   man
                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                           — The
                                                                      b                                            o
                                                ther.    &            t, /->,<!e i..••i*JJd:*c
                                                                                       Al
                                           "l-llMg-t^l^jid
Ln                                              •*5
                                                        ewis                  Dei
                                           !fTslifI?fil7n
                                                *n •—' O
                                           i7?IBIIflWn
                                                                              ^        I-M £3"^
                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                              „ "S3 W            <)   >^3
                                                OO                                      Ah
                                a,
.y
O
  U                  H
                                                                                       <!
                                                                                                                     a
o
                     S g        &'S
                                                                               |
                                                                                A                                                               i
                                                                                                                                                ^
                                                                                                                                                ,c
                      o          •
                     to         E
                      u          «              <u                                                                         •c
                     ^3         -o                                                                                         'S.
                     H          ^_              W                                                                          CQ
                                                                                                                                                English.

74                        Specimen              of        a Dictionary
                                                                        -a
                                                                                       s
                     O   C         -a                                                  o                 o
      S g--a             id         o                                    o
      S3 S o                                                             o
                <->d
      bO
                     o
                     2   £ o                                             to
                                                                         a         jo
                                                                                       bO
                                   3                                    X!         X!
                     5S            O         ¦g:                                   Cm
      a a a o a                    o                                                a
      Q
                                                                   CI              jq
                                                                  X!
     t^ "Sb'Eb       _    -
                                   ,3                 :to
                                              4>
                                              "      3
                                                     '>            S3
       -   >    >    «<U+25BA>*                              E            u
      e                            -a.                                  E
                                                                        ¦a                               to
     "Go i
                "OS-
                2 5-
                                                                         o
                                                                         o    ./
                                                                                       o    —
                                                                                                         c
                                                                                                        jj
     >                                        c 2<?                           ->w-r
                                   s
                                                fan i-i.*J
                                                                              «x",5
     i
                         2         E                                            3 O.
                                   o         c
                                                                        I
                         3                       o — a. o
           «    -                                                        MO
     O^         q                                                                  I       s            1"°bn
                                                                                                        J.
                                   o         o Be"                                 Sea
                     Sg
                                   "3                         9-fj
                                                              3»J                   ,„M
                                                                                            ok r.E
                                                                                                £
                                                                                                              be
                               .
                                                                   5S                  e       _ ,
                                   Ix o
                                             pq
     i--
     X C X!                                                                        2        C bO u            j-
                         -    2                                         X     x:   '            '        °
                     "I!
       2 o £                                                                           Pn"CJ        e         <"
     13
           •-        s ¦»          •-    w
                                                   '57S1''                     igSE^-S
                                                              sis
     i«S        Qj     a                     O
                     o        -s
           "3   2
                     SS       g
                                                     2                             7-2                        a
                                                                        cI    c
                                             f            I                                     i       i
     O                             O         O            U       O     O          in           wo
                                             B
o                                        I                        J2    <*
                                                                                                -I
                                             Q                                     O
                                                      J           .1    -.I
     "i-
     o                                                    U             O          CQ
                                             B                          JS
     O
                                             -X3
                                                          «
                                                          U
                                                                  -C
                                                                  Q
                                                                        -c
                                                                        U
                                                                                   .2
                                                                                   pq
                                                                                                do
                                                                                                HO
     S                                                                                                  -a
     o                                                                                                   o
W
                                             3a                                                         5
                                                                        >
                                                                  XI
                                                                        A.         13           X<
                                                                                                    English

                             of    the Geahc Language.                        75
              -c
              G
               -
                   IU
                   u
              -J
TRANSLATION
                   x
                   .
                   <u
               >   o                             -       l
              o
ENGL
ERAL
              "    x    —
                        ,
              B-
              -o
 o
&
.52                                         N
 u
                                            JO
o
                                           1
                                            "3   -
              i         1    1
                                            Sj
                                           1
                                                               ..9 -a
o
                                                     I
                                                     J
              ;s                            IS       ^   ."§
                        6
                         o    -a  rt
              "3        JB        M    I    "3
              £                                                en
                                            u
                                            •8
W
                        o
                        N              Q
                                                     I
                                                                        XI.

                               [   76   ]
                                 ,
 XI.      New Method of rendering Plalina mallealle.              By
     Count APOLLOS MOUSSIN POUSHKIN.                     Made pub
     lic, at his Request, ly CHARLES HATCHETT, £50.
     F.R.S.*
 1.   i  RECIPITATE
 of ammonia,
                      the platina from its solution by muriate
                  and wash the precipitate with a little cold
 water.
     2. Reduce it in a convenient crucible to the well-known
 spungy metallic texture j which wash two or three times
 with boiling water, to carry off any portion of saline matter
which may have escaped the action of the fire.
    3. Boil it for about half an hour in as much water mixed
with one tenth part of muriatic acid as will cover the mass
to the depth of about half an inch in a convenient glass
vessel.     This will carry off any quantity of iron that might
 still exist in the metal. . .
    4. Decant the acid water, and edulcorate or strongly
ignite the platina.
    5. To one part of this metal take two parts of mercury,
and amalgamate in a glass or porphyry mortar.             This amal
gamation takes place very readily. The proper method of
conducting it is to take about two drams of mercury to
three drams of platina, and amalgamate them together; and
to this amalgam may be added alternate small quantities of
platina and mercury till the whole of the two metals are
combined.       Several pounds may be thus amalgamated in a
few hours, and in the large way a proper mill might shorten
the operation.
    6. After the amalgam is completely produced, it must be
quickly moulded in oars or plates, or any other forms that
may be preferred; taking care that these moulded pieces
should at least be half an inch in thickness, and of a pro
per length to manage them- afterwards in the fire; it is also
requisite that ,the moulds; should be perfectly even and
smooth.       Half an hour after the pieces are formed they
begin to harden by the oxidation of the mercury, and change
their brilliant metallic colour for a dull leaden one.
    7- As soon as the pieces have acquired a proper degree
of hardness to be handled, without danger of breaking,
which commonly takes place in a little more than an hour,
place them in a proper furnace, and keep them ignited un
der a muffle or in a small reverberatory.         No other precau-«
            * From Nicholson's Journal, vol. ix. Oct. 1804.
                                                                tion

         Neiv Method        of rendering Plat'ma malleable.                77
ti&n is necessary, in this operation but that of not breaking
the pieces during their transport. The mercury flies off
during the heat, and the platina remains perfectly solid; so
that, after being strongly ignited two or three times before
the bellows, it may be forged or laminated in the same
manner as gold or silver ; care being taken, at the com
mencement of the forging, or of passing it between
rollers, not to apply too great a force till the metal has ac
quired all its density. It is almost superfluous to add, that
in evaporating the mercury from large quantities of amal
gam, a proper apparatus, such as in the silver amalgama
tion, must be employed to receive the volatilized mercury;
but for small quantities, where the loss of this metal is of
no consequence, the furnace must have a proper chimney to
carry off the metallic vapours. When the platina comes
out of the first fire its dimensions are about two thirteenth
 parts smaller every way than the original amalgam from the
mould.       The whole of this aperation seems to be governed
 by the pressure of the atmosphere and the. laws of cohesive
 attraction ; for the air is driven out from between the mole
 cules of the platina, which by their solution in mercury
 are most probably in their primitive and consequently uni-^
 form figure. It is very visible, and at the same time a very
 amusing phenomenon to observe, (during the process of
 ignition, which is, performed in four or five minutes) how
 the platina contracts every way into itself, as if pressed by
 some external force *.
     I have  also lately obtained triple salts of muriate of platina
 with muriate of ponderous            earth ; and also with muriate of
 magnesia     ;  and I   strongly suspect that every other earth ex
 cept   the  siliceous,    and even the metals, are susceptible of
 suchtriplecombinations. I havelikewise obtained a very beau
 tiful salt of platina by the combination of soda and platina
 with the muriatic acid ; a combination which Bergmin and
 several other chemists deny.             The best manner of obtain-
  . * In the Count's letter to Mr. Hatchett, requesting him to publish the
  method in the text (communicated to Mr. H. some years ago), the fol
 lowing addition is given : (in French.)
     " As soon as my amalgam of mercury is made, compress the same in
                                                      I
  tubes of wood, by the pressure of an iron screw upon a cylinder of wood,
  adapted to the bore of the tube.       This forces out the superabundant
  mercury from the amalgam, and renders it solid.         After two or three
  hours 1 burn upon the coals, or in a crucible 1'ned with charcoal, the
  sheath in which the amalgam is contained, and urge the fire to a white
  heat; after which    I  take out the platiiu in a very solid state, fit to be
  forged."
                                                                           ing

   78             Notices respecting New Books.
 ing it  is by dissolving the platina'in nitrous acid, to which,
  for that purpose, two parts of muriate of soda and one of
  platina are added.     The platina must be made in a retort
  with its receiver ; and after about four fifths of the fluid
  have come over, the process must be interrupted, and the
 whole left to cool in the sand bath. The salt crystallizes
 in fine prisms, which are sometimes four or five inches
  long, and either red brown, like titanium, yellow, like
  amber, or of a beautiful coquelicot colour, according to the
  purity of the platina.     I enclose here my address during
 my absence,     and  hope you will receive with indulgence the
  contents of this letter.
                        I am with great regard, sir,
                Your most humble and obedient servant,
                       Count APOLLOS MOUSSIN POUSHKIN.
              XII.   Notices respecting New Books.
   J- HE physicians of the original Vaccine Pock Institution,
 established   in 1799, have lately published " A Statement
 of Evidence from Trials ly Inoculation of Variolous and
  Vaccine Matter ; to judge of the Question, Whether or not
 a Person can undergo the Small- Pox after being affected by
 the Cow-Pock," which is well deserving the attention of
 medical men. The chief object of the authors seems to
 have been to answer, by decisive experiments, the objec
 tions of Mr. Goldson, in a recent publication, questioning
the efficacy of vaccine inoculation; and they have taken
 the best means to ascertain the question, namely, re-in
 oculating, with variolous matter/a number of patients who
 had some years ago been inoculated for the cow-pock. The
 experiments related show, that above fifty persons who
 had been vaccinated from three to five years ago, and ten
 who had been vaccinated at a later period, were incapable of
 taking the small-pox by inoculation in circumstances chosen
as most favourable for infection.        For many of the sub
jects were exposed to the effluvia from small-pox patients;
.they were all inoculated in three times the usual number of
 places ; they were all inoculated with efficacious and recent
matter; and with many of them unusual pains were bestowed
 to introduce the matter quite fluid immediately from the
variolous patient.      In these it seems fair to calculate that
not more than one, or at most two, of these sixty persons
would have escaped the small-pox, if they had not already
                                                            gone

                      Board   of Agriculture.                 79
gone through      that disease, or its vicarious affection, the
cow-pock. They likewise strikingly manifest, that' the
same person is equally incapable of taking the cow-pock a
second time, as of the small-pox, as hath been proved five
years ago, and been subsequently confirmed ; and it has
been elsewhere shown by many trials, that a person cannot
take the cow-pock subsequently to the small-pox.
    We regret that our limits prevent our giving a large ex
tract from the work.
            XIII.   Proceedings    of Learned     Societies.
                   BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.
                Premiums     offered  by this Board.         x
                 [Continued from our lasc vol. p. 386.]
 Laying      down to Grass. —To the person who shall, in
 the most satisfactory manner,- make the following experi
 ment in laying down land to grass, on a scale of not less
 than three acres to each division, and report the result to
 the board — the gold medal.                «
     The land to be divided into three parts— one sown with
 grass-seeds, among barley or oats, in the spring, on land
 that was fallowed, or yielded turnips the preceding year;
 one sown with grass-seeds alone, in July or August, or, at
 the option of the candidate, with buck-wheat, having been
 fallowed from the Michaelmas preceding; and the third
 sown with grass-seeds and wheat, early in September, having
 been fallowed, or cropped with tares or turnips; the soil to
 be of the same quality; the grass-seeds the same in each
 division.    The grass to be fed with sheep the first year.
 Accounts, stating the comparative expenses and success of
 the three methods, verified by certificates, to be produced
 to the board, on or before the first Tuesday in December,
  1805. — The same premium for 1806.
     Seed Wheat. —To the person who shall, by the most
 satisfactory comparative experiments, ascertain the proper
 quantity of seed-wheat to be used per acre, in the common
 or broad-cast husbandry; not less than one acre to be ap
  plied to each quantity of seed — the gold medal.
     Accounts, containing a particular description of the soil,
  and the preparation      thereof, including the manuring, if
  any; also the time of sowing; the various quantities of
  seed employed ; with the respective products, verified by
  certificates, to be produced to the board, on or before the
                                                             first

so                 French National Institute.
first Tuesday in December, 1804. — The same premium for
1805.
  Seed Barley.     — Tothe person who shall, by the most
satisfactory comparative experiments, ascertain the proper
quantity of seed-barley to be used per acre, in the common
or broad-cast husbandry ; not less than one acre to be ap
plied to each quantity of seed — the gold medal.
. . Accounts, containing a particular description of the soil,
and the preparation thereof, including the manuring,        it"
any; also the time of sowing; the various quantities of
seed employed; with the respective products, verified by
certificates, to be produced to the board, on or before the
first Tuesday in December, 1804. — The same premium for
1805.
   Seed Oats. — The same premium, and on the same con
ditions, to be given, for ascertaining the proper quantity of
seed-oats.
   Preparations for IVkeat. — To the person who shall make
•
,
and report to the board, the most satisfactory experiments^
comparing various preparations for wheat, on the same soil
— the gold medal.
     The  preparations to include beans or pease, drilled and
horse-    and  hand-hoed; red clover; buck-wheat; tankard
turnips,    eaten  on the land winter tares, mown for soil
                             ;
ing;   and  buck  -wheat, ploughed inforamanure. — Accounts,
containing   a   description of the soil, previous culture and
manure,    if  any, and the produce and value of the prepa
ratory crops j     with the produce of the wheat verified
                                                   ;        by
certificates, to be produced on or before the first Tuesday in
March,     1807.
   Culture  ofIVlieat, — To the person who shall send to the
board, the beet essay on the culture of wheat, which shall
include the useful facts hitherto published, with such addi
tions as the writer may be able to make, either from his
own experiments, or those of others within his knowledge
—fifty guinea^. — For the next best essay — thirty guinea*.
— For the next best — twenty guineas.— -Accounts to be pro
duced on or before the first Tuesday in February, 1806.
                                                            i
                 FRENCH NATIOKAL      INSTITUTE.            '
     M. de Humboldt, correspondent of the institute, readj
in  the last sitting of the physical and mathematical class,
a  third memoir on his travels with M. Bonpland in the in
terior of South-America    and Mexico.   In the first he
traced out the observations made   the Atlantic Ocean at
                                      in
                                                      the

                         Serial Navigation,                       81
the summit of the Peak of Teneriffe and in the province of
New Andalusia.         In the second he gave an account of the
operations performed in the province of Venezuela, and in-
the plains of Calobozo, where he made curious experiments
on thegymnolux electricus.        In the third memoir he gave a
short view of his dangerous navigation on the Oronoquo,
the Rio Negro, and the Carsequiare, undertaken for the
purpose of determining astronomically the communication
of the Orinaro with the river Amazon. These memoirs,
which embrace every thing interesting in regard to the
geography, botany, and mineralogy of these countries, and
of the moral history of man, will soon be printed, to give
to the public a short view of this expedition, until the ob
servations themselves are published.             Several drawings
made by M. Humboldt are now engraving.
       SOCIETY OF ARTS AND SCIENCES AT MENTZ.
   This society, in its first public sitting in the month of
March last, proposed, as the subject of a prize for 1 805,
an eulogy on John Gaensfleisch de Sorgenloch, named Gut
temberg, a native of Mentz, one of the inventors of print
ing. The prize will be a gold medal of the weight of 24Q
francs, with the image of Guttemberg.              The eulogy may
be written in French or in German.          The competitors must
transmit their productions, post-paid, to the president be
fore the middle of May 1805.
   The same society has resolved to raise a monument to
the memory of Guttemberg.           Tt is to consist of a public
fountain, and a premium will be given for the execution of
it. For this purpose a subscription has been opened, and
all the members of the republic of letters are invited to
contribute towards it.
        XIV.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                       AERIAL NAVIGATION.
                    By Professor      Robertson.
                                                    Rig.i, August »4.
 J. HE  following are some further particulars respecting the
aerial excursion of M. Robertson, which took place at six
o'clock in the evening of the 18th.         At the end of fifteen
 minutes    he lost  himself,  at the  height of 300 fathoms, in
 hick  clouds   strongly agitated by the wind. When he set
   Vol. 20. No, 77. Oct. 1804.            F                 .    out

 62                      Serial Navigation.
                                     s
  out the barometer stood at 28 in. 3 tin. ; and, at the height
  to which he had attained, it fell to 23 in. Between the
  mass of clouds which rolled over him in an awful manner,
  like mountains, the thermometer fell suddenly to 5 degrees
  above zero.     The balloon was whirled round and carried
  forward with a most violent motion.       No scientific experi
  ments could here be made, except a few observations in
  regard to the management of a balloon ; such as the
  simplest method of fixing the balloon at a determinate
  height, and of securing it ; also to calculate the velocity
  of its fall in a diagonal line on descending, and thereby to
  ascertain the moment of its arrival at the earth, which is
  always the roost dangerous part in an aerial excursion.
  M. Robertson will publish an account of these and of other
 experiments.       While hovering in the clouds, the aerial
  traveller discovered below him a fir wood of great extent ;
 he proceeded over its mile in order to take advantage of the
  first interval between the trees, and suffered himself to
 descend in an open place, which was scarcely so large as
 twice the diameter of the machine.          That he might be
 able to dispense with the dubious ami dangerous assistance
 of men in fastening the car, M. Robertson employed a kind
 of hooked anchors. In the middle of a thick wood, 20
 versts distant from Riga, he alighted alone ; and the bal
 loon was nearly emptied and folded up, when he saw a
 shepherd and his two boys, whom he called to give him
 their assistance, and who showed him the way. The ex
 cursion continued three quarters of an hour.      Messrs. Von
 Berg, Blankenhagen, Meyer and Schwarz, had followed
 the aeronaut speedily, to draw up the account.          M. Ro
 bertson is justly entitled to the praise of having applied all
 his aerial excursions to the purposeof scientific experiments,
 and of throwing light, if possible, on experiments which all
 his predecessors have rather involved in darkness.
                           By   the same.
                                              Vienna, October 10.
     On   the 8th, Professor Robertson undertook an aerial ex
cursion here, with the best success, in the presence of their
imperial highnesses the archdukes and a numerous crowd of
spectators. He ascended from the Prater about a quarter
        five in the afternoon.      He rose to a considerable
Cst  ight, and sent down a parachute, which carried unhurt to
the earth a living animal.     This aerial excursion is remark
able, on account of an experiment made by Professor Ro-
                                                         bertaon

                          Aerial Navigation.                        133
bcrtson with a large sail, which served to guide his way ;
but as this sail would have shaken his balloon too much, he
fastened it to a smaller one, the motion of which was inde
pendent of that of the other. By these means he was
enabled to direct his balloon in an oblique line, fifteen
degrees different from that in which he would have been
conducted by the wind. Professor Robertson observed, that
the atmospheric electricity suddenly disappeared as often as
he moved over a forest, though the sky was serene, and
though at other times it always gave strong and abundant
signs of its existence. About three quarters past five he
had attained to his greatest height, namely 700 fathoms ;
the thermometer then stood at six degrees above zero.
About six o'clock the Professor descended in a plain, near
the forest of Tresdorf, to the north of Kronenburg, at the
distance of four leagues and a half from Vienna.              The bal
loon hovered a long time over the plain, because the anchor
which was thrown out did not find a sufficient hold in the
new-tilled land ; and as the Professor observed that he was
about to be driven against two large trees which stood in
his way, he threw the extremity of his sail against the
earth, and, in consequence of the shock it produced, rose
over the trees, which then caught the anchor and stopped
the balloon.       M. Robertson here obtained every assistance
from the surveyor M. Oettl and M.Bartsch,who were here
hunting.       Yesterday morning he returned hither about
eight o'clock in a carriage attended by the populace, and
entered the city amidst loud acclamations.
                        By M. Gay-Lussac,
   M. Gay-Lussac has given the following account of his
last* aerostatic ascent, to the first class of the National In
stitute.
   He ascended on the 6th of September at ten in the morn-
insr, from the Jardin du Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers,
which is about 20 toises higher than the level of the sc-a.
His barometer then stood at 28 in. 3'33 lines, and the mer
curial centigrade thermometer indicated in the shade 27' 75
degrees.    These two instruments varied very little at the
earth, or during the course of the ascension, and their changes
were observed every hour by M. Bouvard at the Obser
vatory.    M. Gay-Lussac in ascending made a great many
observations on the barometer, the thermometer, the hy
grometer and the magnetic needle.
       * For -an account of his former ascent tee our last Number.
                                     F  2                           At

8-t                    Aerial Navigation.
     At the height of 3Q02 metres, or 2002 toises, he found the
inclination of the needle the same as at the surface of the
earth. The duration of the oscillations of a horizontal
needle, made with great care by that able artist Fortin,
magnetised by Coulomb and suspended by a silk thread,
were also the same. M. Gay-Lussac never found any sen
sible difference in their duration.       When he reached the
height    of  6675   metres,   or 3425   toises,  he opened two
glass balloons which had been exhausted at the earth, and
which had preserved a complete vacuum. The air entered
into them with a hissing noise; and when they were filled
he closed them.        He continued to rise to the height of
7017 metres, or 3600 toises; his barometer was then 12 in.
 1'7G lin. and his thermometer in the shade marked
9iV    degrees below the temperature           of melting ice.—
This height, the greatest to which any person ever as
cended, surpasses by 600 metres the summit of Chim-
lx>rac,o in Peru, the highest mountain known on the earth.
M. Gay-Lussac still however saw clouds above him, but
which appeared to he at a great elevation.          His pulse was
accelerated ; and the number of pulsations, which at the
earth was only 62, increased to 95.         His respiration was a
 little confined ; but he thinks he could have risen to the
height of 8000 metres, without experiencing much incon
venience, had he not been so imprudent as to throw out
before, the ballast which would have been necessary to
moderate his ascent.        I!e therefore descended slowly, and
 with those precautions which his first ascent had shown to
be necessary.      At 45 minutes past three he reached the
 earth, without the slightest accident, six leagues to the
 north of Rouen, at the small village of Saint-Gourgon ;
 the inhabitants of which assembled on seeing his balloon,
 gave him every assistance, and treated him with the utmost
 hospitality.
     On his return to Paris, his first care was to analyse the
 air he had collected in his ascent. One of his balloons being
 opened under water became half filled with it ; which proves
 that no foreign air bad entered it.        On comparing the air
 of this balloon with that collected at the siurface of the
 earth, he ascertained by several very exact cudiometric pro
 cesses, that the proportions of oxygen and azot in the two
 airs were perfectly equal.
     This interesting aerial voyage has therefore confirmed
two important points in natural philosophy; namely, 1st,
That the magnetic force experiences no sensible variation,
 t iiher in its inclination or its intensity, from the surface
                                                                of

                      Aerial Navigation.                      85
of  the earth to the greatest heights to which it is possible
to ascend : ed. That in this interval the constitution of the
atmosphere is entirely the same. M. Gay-Lussac observed,
that the heat decreased nearly in arithmetical progression in
proportion as he rose into the atmosphere, and that each
degree of the depression of his centigrade        thermometer
corresponded to an elevation of about 85 toises 5 feet.
                   By  Count Zambeccari.
                                            Venice, October ».
    Count Zambeccari has published a long account of
his last aerial voyage, the principal particulars of which
are contained in the following extuact:
    Near Rouanzo the two aeronauts, he and Dr. Andreoli,
descended to about within five hundred feet of the earth,
after which they re-ascended.       The machine traversed a
cloud, but without experiencing the effects of electricity.
About one .o'clock they found themselves above Capo
d'Argine, six Italian miles from Bologna. The Count here
wished to descend ; and having got within a short distance
of the earth, he made his anchor fast to a tree. The bal
loon having by this movement acquired an oblique direc
tion, the lamp was overturned, and the spirit of wine it
contained fell to the bottom of the car and took fire. The
flames soon reached a vessel containing thirty pounds of
spirit of wine.' The vessel burst, and the flames spread
more and more. At length they extended to the clothes
of the aeronauts, and even threatened the netting and the
ropes by which the car was suspended.         Zambeccari laid
hold of a bottle of water and extinguished the fire in his
clothes. Andreoli, who only thought of escaping, glided
down by the anqhor-rope to the tree, and fell thence to the
ground without sustaining much hurt.       The balloon being
Freed from the weight of about a quintal and a half, rose
rapidly with Count Zambeccari, and in a moment disap
peared above the clouds.       The Count, however, did not
lose his presence of mind, but continued to extinguish the
fire both in his clothes and in the car.
    The balloon was then carried by a strong current of air
towards the Adriatic, and at three o'clock the Count per
ceived thecoast of Camachio, but from such an elevation that
he could hardly distinguish it.     Soon after he fell into the
 sea at about the distance of 25 Italiau miles from the coast.
The car, which was half burnt, sunk, and Count Zambec
cari, who held fast by the ropes of the balloon, had the
water often up to his neck. Apprehensivethat lassitude would
                          ¦
                              V 3                        .oblige

 86                        Face i nation.
 oblige him to let go his hold, or that he should he overcome
 by sleep, he endeavoured to fasten himself to a rope. By
 means of a hit of glass he detached one from the balloon,
 and fastened it round his body, the other end of it being
 fixed to the machine.      In this situation he floated on the
 water for some hours, the balloon being still inflated.
     At length, about six in the evening, he observed seven
 fishing-boats, the people in four of which, being struck
 with terror, betook themselves to flight, imagining that they
 saw some strange kind of sea monster.            The other three
 approached,    ana   took   from   the   water  the  unfortunate
 aeronaut half burnt, after having spent four hours at sea,
 amidst the most dreadful anguish.           The fishermen at
 tempted also to seize the balloon ; but as soon as they had cut
 the ropes it rose and took its course towards the Turkish
 coast. During some days great apprehensions were enter
 tained for the right hand of the aeronaut, which had been
 severely burntj but happily amputation has not been found
necessary.
                         VACCINATION.
    \Vehave devoted a larger portion of our present Number
to the  Cow-Pock than we usually allow to one subject, and
its importance at the present moment demands it.
    Two cases of an eruptive disorder, supposed to be the
small-pox,    subsequent    to vaccination at the Inoculation
Hospital,   and of course under the management of profes
sional men of the greatest experience, have lately occurred
in one family, that of Mr. Hodges,              Fulwood's-Uents,
llolborn. These cases have excited more alarm, attention,
and   examination, than any that have taken place since the
commencement of the new practice. A considerable, part
of the medical practitioners of London have visited this
family, and the accounts given have been one of the most
popular themes of medical conversation during the last
month.     Different opinions are entertained on the subject
by medical men, the greater part of whom may be con
sidered as having divided themselves          into two parties :
one representing these disorders to have been nothing
more than the chicken -pock,            and their account has
even been published in the last number of the Medical
and Physical Journal, in which the other party is charged
   ith shunning     the inquiry by breaking their engage
ments to continue their visits to the patients, in con
sequence of the contrary opinion which they had given.
The other, however, have uniformly declared the cases to be
              2                                             those

                           Vaccination.   .                   8?
those of the small-pox ; and maintain that the result of the
cases has removed all doubt ; for persons have been inocu
lated with the matter from these patients, by whieh the
most distinct small-pox have been produced, and exhibited at
 the Vaccine Institution in Broad-street.   By this institution
the investigation has been carried to a great extent. The
gentlemen of that establishment have found, on what they
consider clear evidence, that the two patients had, within
from two to four years, undergone the cow-pock in such a
manner as has been usually considered by the best judges
sufficient to afford security against the small-pox.   It is not
 therefore surprising that the opponents of vaccination, as
well as many well-disposed but not well-informed persons,
should speak unfavourably of the new practice, and endea
vour to set it aside. On the other hand, the friends of vac
cination represent these cases as on the same footing with
 those of persons taking the small-pox the second time, and
maintain that the instances of taking the small-pox after
cow-pock, are not greater at present than those of taking
the small-pox the second time.          We understand that a
somewhat different conclusion from any of the above, is
likely to be drawn by the medical establishment of the
Broad-street Institution ; namely, that it does now appear
that the best authenticated instances of small-pox after the
cow-pock, occur much more frequently than even the sup
posed instances of small-pox asecond time ; yet they are of
opinion that, provided the constitution be duly affected by
the vaccine infection, it is as certain a preventive of the
•mall-pox as variolous inoculation, and hence that it will be
necessary in future to take precautions which have hitherto
not been known or commonly employed. This will give
some additional trouble, and render it necessary for prac
titioners to pay more attention to the study of the cow-
pock than they have hitherto done ; and it will show the
danger of the practice in the hands of persons not of the
medical profession. We understand, also, that notice has
been given by one of the medical gentlemen of the above
institution, that he will present a memoir at the next quar
terly meeting, to communicate the measures to be taken to
obtain security for the future, and to satisfy the minds of
families who may be in doubt respecting their children al
ready inoculated.     From this account it would seem as if
the statement of evidence lately published by the vaccine
Institution, before the occurrence of the above cases, was
given more strongly in favour of the practice than that
body would now be. inclined to give it] though we confess
                               F4
                                                              W*

68                                  Vaccination.
we can see no grounds for hesitation on that point ; for, as
they were merely stating facts, they had every- right to draw
from them any conclusions whatever that were warranted
by the premises.       It may be proper, however, to observe
here, that that body seems to ha*e anticipated the possibi
lity of such an occurrence as has taken place; for in their
Report, published in 1803, p. 65, we find the following
passage, which indeed ihey have quoted on the title-page of
their last Report : — " That many persons inoculated for the
cow-pock in the years 1799, 1800, and even 1601 and
 18O2, have already, and may hereafter, take the small-pox,
is a reasonable expectation, from the characteristic proper-
lies of the vaccina not being known to the inoculators by
their own experience, nor from the description of authors."
    We cannot dismiss this subject without observing, that
even if it were proved that the two cases in Fulwood's-Kents
were cases of real small-pox after real vaccination, they fur
nish no sound argument against the vaccine inoculation ; for
all that can fairly be drawn from them                     is,
                                                     that one at most in
twenty    thousand    may     take   the   small -pox after the cow-
pock  :  and   this surely      sufficiently
                                  is          in  its favour, with all its
ether advantages, to deter parents and medical men from
the propagation of disease  a          thousand fold more afflicting
                                              a
to the human race than the pestilence — disease that has         a
swept from the face of the earth               greater number of vic
                                                    a
 tims than all the wars that have occurred since the death of
Abel — disease that may and will be banished from the
 world    by a
             the best gift of heaven, the Cow-pock                     !
    We freely confess that we are astonished medical men
 should have given so much weight to these, or to fifty such
cases,    ifas many could be adduced            and we maintain, that
                                                       ;
before they can be considered as being fairly proved, some
 experiments that do not seem to have occurred to them are
 called for. Dr. Thornton has shown                  that the small-pox
                                                           *
 which sometimes           present      themselves      on nurses that
 have before had the disease, will,                        by
                                                      inoculation,   give
 the small-pox.      Has the effect of rubbing variolous matter
 into open pustules of chicken-pox or swine-pox, been
 tried on patients that have before gone through the small
 pox or the cow-pock? Since                  is possible, that nurses
                                                  it
 may   have   small-pox    after  going through that disease, and
 that matter from such pustules can e;ive the real small
 pox, as stated bv Dr. Thornton, — would                      be strange
                                                                     it
 that some         small -pox     pustules,      capable     of    giving
                 *   See   p.   57 and   58   of our present Number.
                                                                           that

                      Death                 —
                               of Meckain. Earthquake.                     89
    that disease,         might rise on a child among swine
    pox,    if  that   child   was much exposed to infection, even
    though     that   child  had  the cow-pock or the small-pox be
    fore r
                               DEATH OF MECHAIN.
        The death of M. Mechain is one of the greatest losses that
    astronomy could sustain ; it adds a very remarkable instance
*   to the martvrology of that science, since he died a sacrifice
  - to his zeal for one of the most important and difficult ope
    rations.
         Peter Francis Andrew Mechain was born at Laon on the
     16th of August 1744.           His letters made known to me his
    turn for astronomy, and I had the happiness of being able
    to fix him at Paris in 1772.          On the 13th of August 1771,
     the academy approved of his first memoir on an eclipse he
     had observed at Versailles on the 11th of April.                 He was
    then attached to the depot of the marine, where he made
    immense calculations tor the improvement of geographical
    charts.       He discovered and calculated several comets. He
    gained the prize of the academy in 1782, respecting the
     comet of 1661, the return of which was expected in 1 790,
     and the same year was admitted a member. He was charged
    with the Connoissance des Terns, and after 1788 that work
    was much improved ; it was enriched every year with the
     labours of M. Mechain.             In 1792 he was charged with
     the grand labour of the meridian from Dunkirk to Barce
     lona, in conjunction with M. Delambre.                  He returned in
      1798.     But   to  complete   this work   he was    desirous  of con
     tinuing    it as  far  as  the Balearean   Isles,  and   he  set out for
     that purpose in 1803.          He had already examined with in
     credible labour all the stations, and had terminated three,
     when he was attacked by that fever which prevails every year
     on the coast of Valentia, occasioned by the marshes and
     rivers, and died on the 20th of September 1 804. A fuller
     account of his labours, with a portrait of him, engraved in
      1 800, will be found in Von Zach's Journal, and I propose
     to enlarge it in my history of astronomy for 1 804.
         It is the melancholy fruit of my old age, that I have always
     to write the eulogy of my pupils to console myself for their
      loss.                                                 DE LALANDE.
                                  EARTHQUAKE.
                                                      Saint Servan, Sept. 24th.
         Yesterday at five or six minutes after four in the afternoon,
      a shock of an earthquake, accompanied with a hollow noise
      like the discharge of a great number of pieces of artillery,
                                                                             or

  00                         Earthquake.
  or the explosion of a powder magazine blown up at some
  distance, was felt here ; its direction seemed to be from east
  to west f the duration of it was about forty-three seconds.
 The wind was then north-west, and it had blown a pretty
 fresh gale the preceding night, as well as during a part of
 the day. It was at that time low water. The oscillations
 of the earth were so strong that they were observed not only
 in the houses, where the floors, partitions, windows, and
 furniture were strongly agitated, but also in the open air
 and on the sea shore.      The people were then assembled at
 Vespers, and many of them were so frightened, that they
 ran out of the churches.
     An hour and twenty minutes after, that is to say, about
 twenty-six minutes after five, another shock was felt ; it was
 accompanied also with a strong detonation, but the agitation
 was less than during the former.       This earthquake was ex
 perienced at the same time at Dinan, and in the interior of
 the country, but it is not supposed to have done any damage.
 The wind continues to blow with violence from north-
 north-cast, the atmosphere is filled with clouds, and it rains
 abundantly.
     I was in the country at the time of the earthquake, and
 it was   on the rocks bordering the beautiful bay of Concalle
 that I felt it.   From the place where I was walking I could
 see at once Granville,     Avranches, Dol, and Mount Saint
 Michel. The noise, at the moment of the first shock, re
 sounded along that immense shore as if all the guns at St.
Malo had been Hred at the same time.
    Several officers of the navy, who have been in the East and
West Indies, assured me that they have experienced shocks
much more violent, but that they never heard stronger de
 tonations.
     Letters from Italy state that earthquakes occur almost
daily at Spolctto, which is nearly deserted by its inhabi
tants. The lava of Vesuvius constantly overflows and alarms
 the neighbouring country.        Most of the towns and villages
in its vicinity arc abandoned, the people having carried with
them their most valuable effects, concluding, from several
circumstances, that some new and terrible explosion is not
distant.
    Letters from Sicily state, that on the 10th of August
Mount JEtna. ceased, for twenty-four hours, even to emit
srrtoke; but this calm was succeeded on the 12th, early in
the morning, with a terrible explosion, and a noise as if
ttilliorrsof cannons had been fired at once. When the last
letters wf the 18th ld't that island, a shower of fire conti
                                                           nued

                           Natural History.                     g\
nued    still for three leagues round /Etna, from     the burning
materials thrown up by this mountain.            No   earthquakes
had been experienced ; but a subterraneous             sound, like
thunder, was heard all over Sicily, particularly       at and near
Messina.
                         NATURAL    HISTORY.
   The accounts given of the subtility of the venom of the
viper have lately been confirmed in the forest of Fontaiu-
bleau. The dog of a hunter, which was bitten in the nose,
died in less than ten .minutes.      A woman who had returned
•with a bundle of sticks which she had picked up in the
forest, having thrown it on the ground, a viper concealed
in it creptout and bit the woman's child, which died in the
course of the day.         A robust peasant was also bitten ; and
though     those   remedies  which are esteemed most efficacious
in such cases were speedily employed, he died two days
after. This species, it is said, is no where described, and
several naturalists are now employed in examining it.          The
magistrates of the place have taken proper measures to ex
terminate this race; a. premium of sixty franks is given to
every person who kills one of them.
    Brugnatelli, in his Annals of Chemistry and Natural
 History, mentions the two following facts communicated
                                                           *
 by Dr. Corradori, of Prato, in Tuscany :
    A nest of mice being found on a farm belonging to signor
Martini, at a little distance from Prato ; the young ones
were carried to a domestic cat which had just brought
 forth, and was still suckling her young. The cat devoured
 them all except one, which she placed near her kittens, and
 which she suckled along with them. Corradori does not as
 sert that he himself saw this extraordinary instance of at
 tachment, because the mouse had died some hours before he
 arrived at the spot ; but the truth of it was attested by the
 owners of the. cat, and by eye-witnesses. They added that
 the mouse, faithful to its iastinct, removed from the cat,
 and endeavoured       to avoid be- caresses : the cat, however,
 went after it and carried it back to her young.        One night,
 the cat having gone out of the house, the mouse, in conse
 quence of its being deprived of aliment for several hours,
 was found dead.        This fact seems to give a great degree of
 probability    to  what  the antients so confidently relate in re
 gard  to  children   suckled  by wild animals.
    The other fact is that of a serpent with two heads, which
 Corradori saw alive and examined. It was young and in
                                                               good

 02               Hydraulics.   — Water-proof Cloth.
good condition ; it is now dead (adds he), and preserved in
spirit of wine.        It had two heads and two necks, conse
quently four eyes, two mouths, two tongues, and two
 throats; it ate with both its mouths, but as the will was
double, the ideas of the one head were independent of
those of the other, and often even they were in contra
diction.
    It is not improbable that the fable of the hydra had its
origin from £ serpent of this kind.            The fondness of the
vulgar    for whatever     is marvellous,  induces them to exagge
rate every thing rare or extraordinary, and hence so many
fables and prodigies.
                              HYDRAULICS.
    The hydraulic       ram of M. Mongolfier has been con
structed     at Schaffhausen by counsellor Fischer in a very
ingenious manner. The 'machine has the form of a beau
tiful antique altar, nearly in the style of that of Esculapius,
 as represented in different engravings.         A bason about six
inches in depth and from eighteen to twenty in diameter
receives the water, which enters into pipes three inches
in diameter, that descend in a spiral form into the base of
the altar.     The water by its weight puts in motion a valve j
a third nearly of the water escapes, but the rest by the
pressure      of the valve is forced into the receiver, and
thence Vises in very narrow pipes.             As it ascends slowly
the resistance of the air makes no sensible impression, so
that by means of this machine, which continually acts by
itself, water may be conveyed from a lake or a river to
houses situated on a mountain.            M. Fischer has conveyed
water by it to a castle which stands at the height of several
hundred feet above the level of the Rhine.
                       WATER-PllOOF       CLOTH.
    It is well known that for some years past several methods
have been tried to render cloth impermeable to water, and
the inventors of this process have kept the discovery a mys
tery. There was, however, reason to suppose that some
fat oil made the basis, of their recipes.              A   bottle of
this liquor, the efficacy of which was known, havine; fallen
by chance into the hands of M. Vauquelin, he was desirous
to discover the composition of it. The following is the
manner in which this chemist thinks it is composed, bating
the proportions.        Soap and strong glue, or any other ge
latin,   are  dissolved   in water. With this solution is mixed
a solution     of  alum, which, being decomposed, forms in it
                                                             a flaky

                        Miscellaneous.                        93
                   composed of oil, alumine, and .animal
a flaky precipitate,
matter.   Weak sulphuric acid is then added, to re-dissolve a
part of the alumine, and to render the precipitate lighter,
and to prevent it from falling to the bottom.        But the
alumine, when once combined with the oil and animal
matter, does not re-dissolve entirely in the sulphuric acid ;
for this reason the oil always remains very opake, and
neither rises nor is precipitated.  It may readily be con
ceived, that too large a quantity of sulphuric acid must not
be added.    M. Vauquehn does not know whether this be
exactly the process, but by following it he has been able
to obtain a similar liquid, which possesses the same pro
perties.
                        MISCELLANEOUS.
    A knowledge of one of the most fertile countries of
Europe has long been prevented by the inaccuracy of the
charts and topographical descriptions:          A society of en
gineers, at the head of which is don Salvador de Ximenes,
is about to remove this defect. They are now employed,
under the auspices of the government, to draw up plans
of the principal towns of Spain, and to prepare a general
 chart of the whole kingdom.
    The learned will recollect the notice taken of the Ignis
 Greecus,    in a letter from friar Bacon to the celebrated
Matthew     of  Paris.   M. le Baron d'Archin, the librarian of
 the elector of Bavaria, has discovered an old Latin manu
 script of the 13th century, which not only imparts the
 secret, which was supposed to be lost for ever, but speaks
 of a composition similar to the gunpowder now prepared.
 An account of it will be soon published ; but if we might
 hazard a conjecture on the subject, it would appear, that this
 manuscript was a part of the correspondence between the
 two extraordinary ecclesiastics we have named, of Oxford
 and Paris.
     A person at Petersburgh is in possession of a manuscript
 in the Russian language, written as early as A. D. 1066.
 It is adorned with some beautiful miniatures, executed by
 Grecian artists.      The proprietor has refused 20,000 rubles
 for this valuable relic ; and it will be a curious fact,      if,
 from such source of information,
            a                            it  should be discovered
  that Russia, the history of which seems to have been in
 volved in impenetrable darkness, should, at the period ad
 verted to, have been the most accomplished and enlightened
 nation of Europe.       Some additional light on that country
is   expected to be derived from the cabinet of M. Bausse, at
 the university of Moscow.        The first division of that col
                                                           lection

  94                              Statistics*
  lection consists of medals struck in honour of the czars, with
  the legends either in the Russian or Tartarian tongues. Most
  of them are in silver, and of an oval form.
                                 STATISTICS.
      In the course      of the year 1 803 the births at Petersburgh
 were 3636 males and 3289 females, in all 6925 children, of
 whom 339 were born out of wedlock, and 10 were stillborn.
 The deaths were 4578 males and 5044 females, in all 9622.
 Among tills number were 15)5 boys, and 1294 girls, of
 whom 1809 died before their third year, 204 had attained
 to the age of eighty, 36 to ninety, and I to a hundred.                  It
 was observed that the greatest number of deaths took place
 in the months of August and December, and that there
 were very few in April and September. The number of
 marriages was 1360; of these 1042 were between young
 persons who had never before entered into the state of ma
 trimony; 117 between young men and widows; 116 be
 tween widowers and young women ; 77 between widowers
 and widows, and 8 after divorces.               It has been remarked
 also, that in this city the two first years of life are more
 dangerous to boys than to girls, so that in the course of
 that period the proportion has been five males for one fe
 male. The births this year were 763 fewer than in 1802}
 those of illegitimate children were greater by 93, and the
 number of the marriages was less by 70.
      The following comparative statement of the present po
 pulation of some of the principal cities of Europe, is ex
 tracted from a paper lately read before the academy of
 sciences at Berlin, by M. Langhans, director of buildings
 to his Prussian majesty.
     According to the author's researches, Berlin occupies a
 surface of 751832 square perches, and contains 173652 in
habitants, and 6184 houses;                 London 1176872 Square
perches, 1035000 inhabitants,                25000 houses*;           Paris
 1601644 square perches, 7O0O00 inhabitants, 24000 houses;
 Petersburgh 2112668 square perches, 223000 inhabitants,
 5000 houses ; Vienna 894448 square perches, 250000 in
habitants, 5000 houses ; Amsterdam 460832 square perches,
 250000 inhabitants,            7000 houses ; Stockholm 46388®
   ."* According to the population abstract prepared in 1 801 by act of par
liament, the inhabitants of London and Westminster amount to 864X45,
the inhabited houses to 121129, and the uninhabited houses to 5185.
Of the houses, 14657 inhabited, and 1088 uninhabited, are not within
the bills of mortality..    Edit.
                                                                   square

          Toads in Stones.  — List of Patents for Inventions.     93
  square      perches, 70600 inhabitants, 50OO houses j Rome
  515862 square perches, 163000 inhabitants.
       It results from this calculation, if correct, that of all the
  above cities Petersburgh occupies the largest surface; but
  in proportion to its extent has the fewest houses and inha
  bitants.       Each individual occupies at Berlin nearly four
  square perches, at Paris two, at London one and a half, at
  Petersburgh nine, at Vienna three, at Amsterdam two, at
  Stockholm five, and at Rome three.
                           TOADS IN STO5TES.
       A   foreign journal states that, at Hellonges, in the canton
  of Thullen, department of Jemappe, a living toad was lately
   found inclosed in a vein of pit coal between two masses of
   rock 600 feet below the surface.         It was eighteen inches
  long, and was found alive, but died as soon as exposed to
   the air.
                  LIST OF PATENTS FOR INVENTIONS,
   Which       have passed tlie Signet Office, from September 24,
                          to October 24, 1804.
        To Samuel Caldwell, of Hathern, in the county of Lei
   cester, frame-smith, and John Heathcote, late of the town
'
   and county of Nottingham, frame-setter-up, for their inven
   tion of some new machinery and apparatus to be attached or
   annexed to certain frames or machines called or known by
   the name of warp frames, whereby these frames will work,
   make, or manufacture, all kinds of thread lace.
        To Thomas Noon, of Burton-upon-Trent, in the county
   of Stafford, watchmaker, for .a new thrashing machine with
    loose beaters.
        To Samuel Bennet, of Sheffield, in the county of York,
    cutler, for a mode of making or casting razors in a new and
    improved form.
        To Robert Barber, of Bilborough, in the county of Not
    tingham, gentleman, for some new and improved modes of
    making and shaping stockings and pieces, and also some
    new and improved kinds of stocking-stitch and warp-work
    applicable to various purposes.
        To James Barret, of Saffron-Walden, in the county of
    Essex, smith and ironmonger, for an improvement in the
    construction of malt-kilns, so as to prevent damage from
     fire, and to save fuel in the drying of malt.
        To Jacob Buffington, of the city of Bristol, gentleman,
     for a new method of straining or stretching (technically
     called habiting) all kinds of woollen cloth for cropping or
     shearing, and for straining all other kinds of piece goods.
                                                          METEOKO-

yo                                        Meteorology.
                              METEOROLOGICAL                  TABLE*
                                     For       October      1804.
                        Thermometer.
                                                 Height of      DegrcesofDiv-
                                                                                  Hygrometer.
                                      y    •
Days of the                    c
                               o                the Caiora.                                        Weather.
                                                                nessby Leslie's
 Mouth.            jJ    o                        Inches.
 Sept. 27               50°    61°    52°        30-35              26°                         Cloudy
        38 52                  58     51            •35             25                          Cloudy
        29 50                  58     50            •20              16                         Small rain
        30 49                  59     57         29-99               10                         Cloudy
     Oct.   1           57     64     58            •88              15                         Rain
                        55    64      CO            •92              15                         Cloudy
            6 5 4 3 2
                        62    66      56            •95             25                          Fair     •    -   •
                        52    63      60            •95             30                          Fair
                        56    62      47            •72             41                          Fair
                        47    61      57         30- 14             45                          Fair
                        57    60      55         2995                18                         Showery
            8 1
           48                 58      46            •78              26                         Fair
           46
            9                 55      43            •94             50                          Fair
        10 40                 55      53         30-11               15                         Rain
        11              56    58      46         29'52                  5                       Rain
        12              48    54      42            •32              15                         Showery
        13              37    51      46            ¦50             19                          Fair
        14              47    57      51            •30             33                          Fair
        15              48    55      42            •29             48                          Fair
        16              40    54      43            •67             40                          Fair
        17              47    58      47            •68             25                          Showery with
                                                                                                  thunder
        18              48    58      52            •95             21                          Rain
        19              53    60      55            •98             30                       Fair
        20              56    63      54            •90             25                       Fair
        21              54    59      54            •71             10                     . Cloudy
        22              55    56      47            •41             14                       Rain
        23              46    56      47            •60             30                       Fair
        24              45    52      49            •78             21                       Fair
        25 49                 51      49            •80              17                      Cloudy
        26 49                 57      48            •77             14                          Showery
                                By   Mr.       Carey, of the Strand,

                             t        97    J
XV.  Letter from Dr. Mitchill, of New-York, Represen
  tative in Congress, &c. to Benjamin Mosely, M. D.
  &c. containing some interesting Particulars in the History
   of Muriate of Soda *.
                                                      New-York, ist July,   1804.
 J. here has been an opinion propagated of late, that sea-
salt taken with food is injurious to animal life.         It is pre
tended that when used as an article of diet it acts merely as a
stimulus, without affording any nourishment.           A fossil and
unnatural substance received into the stomach must, it is as
serted, be productive of debility and disease.        The employ
ment of it has been ascribed to caprice, and scurvy and
scrophula are alleged to be the consequences of an habitual
indulgence in it.
   There is strong reason to doubt the correctness of this
doctrine.    The universal and instinctive appetite of man for
salt seems rather to arise from a constitutional want ; and
the supplying of this want, in a moderate degree, appears to
be conducive to his well-being.         Instead of receiving salt
into the stomach through mere whim, mankind are go
verned, in mingling it with their food, by a steady and
wholesome principle. But lest some ambiguity should beset
this inquiry if the human species were alone attended to, it
will be easy to adduce arguments from the history of brute
animals in favour of the friendly operation of salt upon
their living bodies.      And if these creatures, who eat it
 through instinct, and not by caprice, are benefited by                        it,
there will be thence derived          close analogy to evince its
                                       a
wholesome operation upon man.
   Among nations who live near the ocean, where common
saltis  plentiful, and where the atmosphere           charged with
                                                                is
its briny particles, much       indeed known of
                                 is                    as an article
                                                                 it
of manufacture. By them its history, as subject of com     a
merce,       well understood.       So likewise the method of
         it, is
taxing      for the purpose  of  raising revenue, has been pur
sued to   agreat length  ;  and   chemists have laboured to de
compose       economically
              it                 by variety of torturing processes.
                                      a
    But there are some facts concerning the muriate of soda
which are afforded only          by
                                 countries that are situated far
from the ocean, and containing very few springs, mines, or
mountains of salt. Where this material does not abound                         in
the earth or the waters, and where, of course, the neigh-
                   * Communicated          by   the   Author.
Vol.     20. No. 78. Nov. 1804.                   G                   bouring

08                     On Muriate ofSdtla.
bouring atmosphere is in no degree impregnated with              it,   3
number of facts occur concerning the eagerness with which
•wild and domesticated        animals devour This refreshing ma
terial.
     Wherever, by an indulgent provision of nature, the mu
riate of soda     is  found in the soil of the interior parts of
North America, thither the wild beasts of the forests are
invited,     by  its diffusive and savoury qualities, to regale
themselves. The volatility and odour of salt in the atmo
sphere  is   such, that   man travelling from the interior country
                           a
toward the sea-coast, can very distinctly smell the saline
 impregnation at considerable distance. It
                       a                          is believed upon
 the strongest grounds that brute animals are affected            by
 similar sensation. But such of them as pass their lives in            a a
 maritime air, become soon insensible of the salt which sur-                 -
 rounds them, although they are apparently imbibing               in
                                                                 it
 considerable      quantity.    In islands and regions along the
 ocean, this process of absorption, whereby salt as well as
 water  is    taken into the constitution, seems to be conti
 nually going on. They, therefore, who make observations
  and experiments in         maritime atmosphere, would do well
                               a
  in their publications to make too some allowance for the
  muriatic tincture of it.
      The spots of the inland country where salt exists, either
  in the soil or the springs, are frequented, as was observed,
  by the beasts of the forests.       They apply their tongues to
  the earth so impregnated, and gather as much as will supply
  their wants. The spots thus resorted to are called licks or
   licking- places. Some of these licks are dry   ;  but the greater
   number    is  moist, the water either slowly oozing out, or
   bursting forth in springs.      Both the earth and the %vaters
   are charged with different quantities of salt, from the most
   trifling portion that the acute taste of   a   wild creature can
   distinguish, to an impregnation of greater strength, and
   even toa    tolerably strong brine.
       The animals which frequent these licks, for the purpose
    of salting themselves, are deer, elk, and bison (miscalled
    the buffalo).      Their bones are frequently found in the
    muddy    and   wet  places around or near them.      It       not
                                                                 is
    known that carnivorous beasts, such as wolves, panthers,
    or wild cats, ever vis-it the licks for the purpose of regaling
    themselves with salt their only object
                               ;             is to seek prey among
    the creatures who go there for that purpose: and to the de
    struction of the weaker graminivorous brutes        by  the more
    ferocious ones who devour flesh, Is to be ascribed       apart of
    the collection or stratum of broken skeletons which abound
                                                          thereabout

                        On Muriate    of Soda.                   99.
thereabout on the surface of the ground and below.        And
the reason why the beasts of prey have so little appetite for
the muriate of soda seems to be, that they obtain a substitute
for it in the phosphate of lime, which constitutes a principal
part of the hones of the animals they feed upon. For it is
remarkable, that flesh-eating quadrupeds cranch and swal
low much of the bony as well as of the soft parts of their
prey. The alkaline quality of the lime thus appears to pro
duce a salutary effect in their stomachs and intestines, equi
valent to the operation of the soda in such creatures as are
nourished by vegetable food. A wolf does not content him
self with devouring the flesh, blood, and entrails of the
sheep; his repast is not complete unless he gorges himself
with the principal part of the bones too : but the narder and
larger bones of deer, elk, and bison, are often left uncon-
sumed by the wolf; and therefore remain to undergo disor
ganization in the common way.
   The appetite of these creatures for the muriate of soda is
so strong, that when they are obliged to lick a great quan
tity of earth to obtain a trifling proportion of salt, they re
ceive more injury from the former than benefit from tha
latter; their health suffers; and the infirmity under which
they labour is to be ascribed to dirt-eating.         It is believed
that wild animals have often been killed by finding a plenty
of salt water at the licks, and swilling it down too greedily ;
as domestic animals have been often known to die in con
sequence of taking suddenly an over-dose of salt.           Rushing
from the pasturing- and browsing-places to the saline waters,
and feeling an ungovernable relish far them, the deer, elk
and bison are supposed frequently to have drunk themselves
to death.     To this cause is another portion of these bony
 relics at the licks to be ascribed.
   The facts are well remembered, that at the Blue-Licks in
Kentucky, where the water had a more than common por
tion of salt dissolved in   it,  the resort of wild creatures was
so great when that region was first visited        by   white men,
that the immediate vicinity of the lick was trodden to mud,
and resembled   a    vast clay- pit where mortar   is   prepared for
the brick-makers    ;  such was the innumerable crowd pressing
and circling round and round to get an opportunity of
tasting. Some of the weaker of these have been trampled
 under the feet of the stouter, and killed on the spot. Many
more have been arrested in the mire of their own making;
and, with their legs surrounded        by  the deep and stiff mud,
they   have  strained  and wallowed   until  they died.    These are
 other causes of the abundance of bones, especially of
                              G   2                          bisoh3,

  l6o                  On Muriate of Soda,
 bisons, which are discovered under ground thereabout. The
  resort was so numerous, that for a space of nearly two miles
  across there was not a single herb or plant to be seen. Like
  other yards or places much frequented by cattle, every green
  thing, even the forest trees, had been destroyed.     Beyond
  this spacious area the roots of many trees had been laid
  bare and bruised by the stampings of their feet, as happen*
  at the posts and sheds where horses are tied and tormented
 by flies.   So long continued and incessant had been the
  treading, scraping, and stamping, that many of these
  trees, undermined at their roots, had been blown down ;
  and for several miles around this great place of rendezvous,
 all the herbage and shrubbery had been cropped off ana
 eaten away.
     The bones of the unknown, and probably' extinct, species
 of elephant, called the mammoth, have been found plen
  tifully at the licks. The death of so many of those huge
 creatures in the neighbourhood of the Salines is a subject
 of various conjecture: — they might have travelled to those
 spots for the purpose of salting themselves, like other herbi
 vorous animals ; and when there, they might have been de
 stroyed by means similar to those which proved fatal to the
smaller beasts ; such as drinking excessively of the salt
water, dirt-eating, destruction by their natural enemies, or
 getting bemired and cast in the mud-holes and sloughs. It is
 probably owing to a conjunction of all these causes that
 this extraordinary race of quadrupeds has disappeared from
 the land of the living. The occurrence of so many elephan
 tine bones near Newburgh in New-York, at the bottom of
marie-pits, gives countenance to the supposition that the
"mammoths expired in the mire of the places to which they
Vvcntfordfink.
     But the muriate of   soda is sought and devoured with
 equal   eagerness by tame animals as by wild ones.       Neat
cattle, sheep, and horses, are remarkably fond of it ; and
 it is even relished, though in an inferior degree, by swine.
Those creatures, however, it must be remembered, when
 they live near the sea-coasts and in insular situations, im-
 merged in a saline maritime atmosphere,       do not acquire a
 very keen relish for salt.    It seems, as was before hinted,
 that their bodies inhaled it from the air, which is known
 frequently to contain so much of it as to bedew the leaves
 of trees, and the blades of grass, with a briny sprinkling.
They may thus take it in with their food as they graze on the
uplands, and more particularly when they are ted with salt
Judder.
                                                             In

                      On Muriate    of Soda.                   101
    la the interior parts of the American continent where
 salt is scarce, or does not exist naturally at all, and where
 no saline quality is imparted to the atmosphere by the lakes
 of fresh water, the condition of domestic animals is very
 different; they pine for want of this stimulus, and their
 suffering and leanness are not confined to such kine, sheep
 and horses as may have been carried thither from the neigh
 bourhood of the ocean, but obtain in those which have
 been raised in inland situations, and have never been ac
 customed to the influence of a maritime atmosphere.
    Thus this appetite for salt would appear to be instinctive;
 and from the following facts it can scarcely be denied to be
 highly nourishing and wholesome, whatever speculative
 men who live and write near the ocean may allege to ths
 contrary.
    Experience has proved that cows do not give so much
 milk when they are denied an allowance of salt as when
they are supplied with a due proportion of it. This is so
notorious, that the wives of farmers who keep dairies can
discover, by the lessening of the quantity of milk, that the
cows are in want of salt ; and this shrinking takes place
merely from the withholding of the salt, although the water-
 pasture and other circumstances should remain the same.
    Not only does the milk of cows vary in quantity, but
undergoes a change in quality, by the operation of salt on
their constitutions.    The milk is thereby rendered more apt
to curdle; less cream rises on its surface; and it is better
adapted to the making of cheese.         The cheese-makers of
the interior country find that the salting their cows is an
important matter in the dairy process; and it has been sup
posed that insular situations, such as Block-Island, Great
Britain, &c. &c. were indebted for the excellence of their
cheese, partly to the saline quality of their atmosphere.
   The calves of cows treated with muriate of soda are better
nourished and more thrifty on that account.          It is suffi
ciently understood that they make a more vigorous and hand
some stock.
   So much for salt as respects the dairy. — Its effects are
scarcely less considerable in fattening oxen and other neat
cattle, and preparing them for the butcher.       Without salt,
give them as much hay, pasture, and grain, as you please,
and they remain meagre and unthrifty. To make the fat ac
cumulate in them, and to give them plumpness and rotun
dity, it is necessary to treat them with muriate of soda. Its
operation is so beneficial, as well to reward the owner for his
                               G 3                      expense

102                    On Muriate    of Soda.
expense and trouble.        Stall-fed oxen require salt once at
least in two or three days in the state of Vermont.
    The usefulness, yea even the necessity of salt for domes
tic animals is so great and so universally acknowledged,
that every farmer living remote from the saline effluvia of
the ocean finds it to hfs interest to purchase a quota of salt
for each head of stock that he possesses, and to incur con
siderable annual expense for that purpose.       And this article
is found to be almost as much wanted by the brute ani-
of the plantation as by the human beings of the house-
hold.
    The   greediness of these domesticated    creatures for salt is
such, that when it has been withheld from them a longer
time than usual, they can smell it from the hand or pocket
of a person who enters a field, to a considerable distance:
they crowd round him with such earnestness as sometimes
 to put him in danger of being pushed and trampled down,
or of having his clothes torn off his back. They lick the
dust that is tincturecl with the most trifling particles of salt,
and gnaw and devour clothes, leather,            and every thing
whatever that contains the minutest portion of it. And in
 case there should be no sea-salt, they will greedily regale
 themselves with the saline remnant of potash and soda ad
 hering to goods that have been soaked in ley, or washed
 •with soap; in this respect manifesting an appetite similar
 to that of the human species, who, both in America and
 Asia, employ vegetable ashes as a condiment for their food,
 when they are unable toget a supply of common salt. —See
 Medical Repository, vol. vi. p. 330, and Philosophical
 Magazine, number Ixv. p. 18.
     If it should be demanded what is the final cause of this
 unconquerable desire for salt, it might be replied that, be
 sides stimulating the mouth and alimentary canal, salt evi
 dently acts as a corrector of putrefaction upon the food and
 faeces therein contained, and by furnishing a supply of soda to
  preserve the bile in an alkaline and antiseptic condition.     In
 my theory of the operation of comnfon salt in preserving
  animal flesh (Med. Repos. vol. ii. p. 210), I have sup
  posed that both the meat and the salt may undergo a de
  composition.       When this happens, the corrupting meat
  sometimes forms septic acid. This product of putrefac
  tion decomposes the salt, in consequence of a strong attrac
  tion for its alkaline basis, soda, and forms a septite of soda ;
  while the disengaged muriatic acid combines with the beef,
  mutton, or whatever it may be, and forms a muriate of
                                                             meat,

        Biographical Memoirs      of Peter Francis Bernier.     1O3
 meat.     Thus the septic acid, which is a nauseous and un
 healthy thing, is neutralized, and the muriatic acid, which
 is savoury and wholesome, is substituted in its place.
     So likewise, as experiments have shown that the gall of
 even herbivorous and graminivorous animals contains soda,
 there is an easy method of explaining whence that peculiar
 fluid gets its alkali.   Either the liver must be a manufactory
 of soda, from its constituent atoms or ingredients, or it must
 be an organ separating and collecting that alkali from the
 blood.     The latter is the easier conjecture; and probably, as
 the appetite for salt supplies the blood with a sufficiency of
 that material, one of the functions of the great biliary gland
 may be, to decompound as much of it as is necessary to
 constitute an alkalescent, antiputrescent and healthy bile.
 The learned and ingenious works you sent me have afforded
 me much instruction ; and I am highly pleased with the
 free and liberal remarks on pestilential distempers which
"your letter contained. As the origin of those calamitous oc
 currences can only be well understood by attending to the
 history and effects of alkalies, you will instantly perceive
  the reason why I have written you so long an epistle on that
  neutral compound, which is formed by the union of one of
  them with the muriatic acid.
                                              Yours truly, &c.
 XVI.     Biographical   Memoirs   of PETER FRANCIS BERNIEK,
     who accompanied Capt. BAUDIN, as Astronomer, on his
      Voyage of Discouery. By LALANDE.
  _T .  F. BERNIER was born at Rochelle, on the igth of No
  vember 1779. His father, who had lost his place, — that of
  an intendant, — did every thing in his po\ver to prevent the
  education of his son from being neglected.          During seven
  years he kept him under the care of a master, who dis
  charged his task so well that his pupil, when he attained to
  his fourteenth year, had made considerable progress in Latin
  and other branches of study.        He procured for him also
  private  instructors   in  the  mathematics     and music.    His
  friend Ingres, who was afterwards a distinguished pupil of
  David, taught him drawing.           In his literary pursuits and
  recreations he soon displayed a manly character, and asso
  ciated only with young men fond of knowledge, with whom
  he conversed on subjects of science.         In his fifteenth year
  he delivered an oration, in a public assembly, on filial piety,,
  which was written with so much interest and feeling that it
                                 G  4                            was

  104    Biographical  Memoirs   of Peter Francis Bernier.
   was received with universal approbation.      To avoid being-
   2 burthen to his parents, he engaged himself with an attor
   ney; but a decided attachment to the mathematics induced
   him to employ the whole of his leisure on the study of them,
   and to expend all the money he earned in the purchase of
  mathematical books.      He learned also the Italian, and the
   art of stenography.    Fortunately he found in Due la Cha-
   pelle of Montauban a distinguished patron, who was able to
   assist him both by his talents and property.     The Abridg
   ment of Lalande's Astronomy, which he obtained from this
   friend, caused in his mind such a taste for astronomy that
  Due la Chapelle gave him admission to his library and
  observatory.     Nothing more was wanting to make him
   devote himself entirely to that science.   In a short time he
  made himself acquainted with astronomical calculations j
  and, after a little practice at the observatory, Due la Cha
  pelle found his observations so accurate that he intrust
  ed him with the use of his best instruments.       On the °6th
  of April 1797 he transmitted to Lalande the result of his
  first observations and calculations, some of which were
  published in the Connoissance des Terns for the year 1 1 .
  As the confined state of his finances, however, did not per
  mit him to bestow his whole time on astronomy, and as his
  parents founded all the hopes of their declining years on his
  talents and affection, he resolved to offer himself as a can
  didate for the polytechnic school.        For this purpose he
  repaired,  at the appointed  time, to Toulouse,   and was exa
  mined by Mongeon the 16th of October 1797-           Soon after
  Lalande invited him to Paris, where he arrived on the 31st
  of January 1800, and now became a complete votary of
  astronomy, so that Lalande hoped to obtain him as anew
 assistant. The preparations then making, however, for a
 voyage of discovery presented to his desire of distinguishing
 and making himself known so captivating a field, that, with
 the concurrence of his parents, he resolved to take advantage
 of it. On the 22d of September he proceeded to Havre,
 and on the 19th of October the expedition sailed.       During
 the first davs after being at sea, M. Bernier was exceedingly
 sick; but in a letter, dated from Tenc rifle on the 2d of
 November, he announced that he no longer felt any incon
 venience from the motion of the ship. When he arrived at
Timor, he sent home a second letter, dated October 14th,
 1801.     He had already accustomed himself so much to
observing on board ship, that he was certain of the longitude
to ten minutes; and after a stay of three weeks on that
island, he was able to determine it within nearly a minute.
                                                             He

      Biographical Memoirs   of Peter Francis Bernier.    105
He examined the nature of refraction, and hoped to be able
one day, in the north, to solve all those doubts which are
still entertained respecting it. He endeavoured to improve
all those instruments used at sea; made observations oa
magnetism, the northern lights, the flux and reflux of the
sea ; and, that he might observe with more convenience, he
caused a tent to be erected on the shore.    He wrote also a
vocabulary of the language of Timor, from which it appears
that the inhabitants styled Bonaparte the Great Son of the
 Crocodile. Berthoud's marine time-keepers were of great
use to him : in a letter which he wrote to Lalande, at Port
Jackson, he said — " These time-keepers are wonderfully
accurate and regular ; assure that admirable artist of my
esteem and respect."
    The expedition sailed from the Isle of France on the 25th
of April 1801.     On the 29th of May they got sight of the
coast of New Holland, opposite to Cape Lewin in the
south-west.      They ran down the coast for four hun
dred leagues, landing at the most important points, and
determined the Bays of the Geographer and of Seals; but,
in consequence of the scarcity of water and fresh ptovisions,
were obliged to return to Timor, where they arrived on the
 fi3d of August, 1801.      On the 14th of November they
proceeded again for New Holland.
                                        " Here I saw, for the
 first time," says Bernier, in a letter to Lalande, dated
November 1 7th, 1801, " the interesting inhabitants whom
we call savages, and who live as nearly in a state of nature
as can possibly be imagined : should I have the pleasure of
seeing them again, I shall give you some account of their
manners and customs. I was a witness of their melancholy
and precarious state of existence ; I found them to have no
shelter against the heat and the cold." In the year 1802
the navigators proceeded to the south-east part of Bassa's
strait and Port Jackson.     Bernier observed a solar eclipse
on the 4th of March, an eclipse of the. moon on the 1 9th,
and the transit of Mcrqury over the sun's disk.    On theQth
of November, captain Flinders, who commanded a similar
 expedition sent out by the British government, observed
the solar eclipse at land, on the south-west coast, at lat.
 38° 48', and long. 53° 49', reckoning from the first meri
dian; the commencement at lh 12' 37", the end at 3b 3(?
 ll". On the south coast two large gulphs were explored.
On the third cruize, they sailed from Port Jackson ; com
 pleted the survey of the south coast; proceeded west, and
endeavoured to approach the north coast, which, however,
has been still inaccessible.    Captain Baudin then wished to
                                                          visit

   106         Voyage undertaken     ly  the Spaniards
 visit Carpentaria, but was prevented by a south-eastern gale,
 on which account he returned to Timor. Bernier, who had
  long been struggling with bad health, when he arrived here
 found himself exceeding weak ; be was seized with an in
 flammatory fever, the consequence of bad weather ; yet he
 again went on board the vessel in the beginning of June,
 but died a few days after.     His death is a real loss to astro
 nomy, as well as to all his acquaintance. Though a youth,
 he displayed all the experience and reflection of maturer
 years, and distinguished himself as a dutiful son, a sincere
 friend, and an useful citizen.
 XVII. Account     of the Voyage undertaken ly the Spaniards to
       the North-lri-st Const of America in t/ic Year 1792.
                      [Continued from  page 14..]
  J- HE writer who drew up the account of this expedition
 acknowledges that the only result of it was, to ascertain, in
 a decisive manner, that there is no passage into the Atlantic
 through the strait of Fuca.       But this navigation must in
 future appear as useless as it is uninviting.    The barren and
 desolate coasts by which this strait is bordered, present no
 thing that can induce navigators to expose themselves to the
 dangers of a long voyage, through narrow channels inter
 spersed with quicksands and shoals. The philosopher only,
 adds he, can find here subjects for meditation, when he be
 holds a soil which reminds him of the primitive state of the
 globe, and tribes still far removed from the civilization of
 Europe, different in their manners, though inhabiting
 nearly the same climate, though devoted by necessity to the
 Same kind of life, and having, in all probability, been ex
 posed to none of those revolutions which alter the type of
 what men have agreed to call nature.
     The Spaniards saw them in too fugitive a manner to as-
 certain whether they differ in their language as they do in
 other things. The only satisfactory results obtained on this
 point relate to the Indians of Nootka, with whose lan
guage they made themselves pretty well acquainted. A man
 of letters, Don Francisco Mosino, who accompanied cap
tain Don Juan Ue la Bodega, of Quadra, resided a long time
among these Indians, and observed them with attention, it
 was to him in particular that the Spanish navigators were
indebted for the details which they at length resolved to
publish, and particularly those in regard to the language of
                                                         Nootka.

              to the North- West   Coast    of America.          107
Mootka.      According to Mosino, this idiom         is the harshest
known ; it    abounds   with consonants and sauries termina
tions : most of the words are pronounced with a strong as
piration at the commencement and in the middle. The fol
lowing examples will serve to give some idea of it;
      The   year                         Yachinic sliitlc.
      A young     woman                  Ag-coatl.
      An old woman                       Mitouc-cloiUzma.
      An ugly woman                      Pizoul-clouzma. i
      A beautiful woman                   Tloul-clouzma.
      A child                            Maetl-catzis.
      An old man                         Moutong yacops,
      Lame man                            Quouils-zac-tle.
      The beard                           Apac-tzoutl.
      The hand                            Coucou-mitzou.
       The thighs                        Apesouh-tatchi.
       The belly                          Ic-tac-tlas.
       Sweet                              HoptzB-machitl.
       An   apple                         Mou-mou-octl.
       Smoke                              Ish-cuils.
       The shoulder                        Inapatl.
       Sand                               Morec-cou-metz,
       A flower                            Co'i-matz.
       A dog                              Aemitl.
       To throw                           Huaschitl.
       To swallow                          Chtl-tzitl.
       To drink                            Ntc-tzitl.
       To sweep                             Hz-etzitl.
       To   sneeze                         Toupex-chitl.
        To sigh                            Hitl-izitl.
        To bite                            Muchitle.
        To pour out                         Tzi-chitl,
        To-day                              Tup -chit I.
        To-morrow                          Amies I la.
        The last                            Tlaeztztl.
        Afiac ammatce    sua                What is your name?
     With a language so inharmonious, manners so simple,
  and so little progress in civilization, it may readily be con
  ceived, that the music of the Indians of Nootka must be
  rude and artless : they are, however, fond of singing, and
  all their concerts are vocal ; their concords are only octaves,
   and by way of accompaniment, their singers heat time on
  boards with the first solid body they can find.        To this kind
  of continued bass they join the noise of a sort of wooden
                                                            castanets.

  108            yoyaSc undertaken   ty the Spaniards
 castanets.      Their organs are not sufficiently delicate to relish
  our European music; sweetness of tone makes no impres
  sion on their senses ; according to their taste, music, to be
 agreeable, must be noisy and produced by great efforts : one
  of their chiefs, hearing the Spaniards play on their instru
 ments, said to them, " This music cannot affect us; it is
 like the singing of birds, which recreates the ear with
 out touching; the heart."      Another ridiculed their cadences,
 and the whole of their music in which the soft languor of
 flats prevailed ; he said of the performer,   "  One would think
 he were shivering with cold ;" and to the singer on the flat
 key, " He sings like a man half asleep."
     Their balls are a kind of figured combats, in which they
 appear armed with bows, arrows, and fusees, sometimes
 disguised as bears and stags, or covered with masks and
 coarse dresses, which give them the figure of aquatic birds,
 larger than nature, the motions of which they endeavour to
imitate; while others counterfeit hunters who are watching
 for and pursuing the supposed game.          At other times they
 dance ballets, the pantomime of which, too easy to be un
 derstood, would scandalize the least scrupulous European;
 some of these ballets are so obscene, that we would not of
 fend decency by attempting a description of them.
    The Indians of Nootka have different confused methods
of counting the days and the months. Those whose minds
are more cultivated' divide the year into fourteen months, of"
twenty days each, adding some, complementary days at the
end or each month.
    In general all these people announce a good natural dis
position; they are sensible to friendship, and susceptible of
gratitude; they are not deficient in understanding; they
readily comprehend what one intends to say to. them, and
they invent ingenious methods of making themselves un
derstood. They are benevolent, and do actions of kindness
with great delicacy : Macuina, knowing one day that the
Spanish commandant was in want of provisions1, sent or
ders to iris mischimis to give him, without payment, all the
fish they might catch; and having observed that the Spa
niards could not easily dispense with the use of flesh, he
sent them a stag every week.          He was never more assi
duous in his attention to them than when he saw them in
want.       Quadra, who spent a whole summer with Macuina,
bestows nigh praise on the iindness of this chief, and the
security be enjoyed both from him and his people : Macuina
often slept soundly in the alcove of the Spanish comman-
     i , as if he had been under the protection of a friend or a
                       A                                   brother.

              to the Nurth-lVest  Coast of America.          109
 brother. When any of these Indians were surprised by
night in the habitations of the Spaniards, they asked for
torches to enable them to return to their huts, and sent them
punctually back the next day. Their fidelity in discharging
 their promises was carried to the most scrupulous rigidity :
 th« following is a striking proof of it : — one of their chiefs,
 •whom the editor calls prince Natzape, had asked from the
 Spaniards plates of copper and other articles of exchange,
 with which he intended to procure otter skins among a neigh
 bouring tribe, separated by an arm of the sea. In the pas-
'«age his canoe foundered, and poor Natzape lost his wife,
 with every thing he possessed, and all that he had bor
 rowed. He supported his misfortunes with wonderful con-           •
 stancy ; and having wept for his companion some time,
 he began to work till he had paid the whole of what he
 owed.
     The Spanish vessels left Nootka 011 the 31st of August
   1792, to explore the coast from the strait of Fuca as far as
 Monterey and Saint Bias; that is to say, for the spaee of
 twenty-eight degrees.      The Spaniards seem to be very well
 acquainted with all this part of America.       On the 20th of
  September they anchored at Monterey,          the position of
 which they had accurately determined the preceding year, in.
  lat. 36° 35' 45", and long. 1 15°47' 30" from the meridian of
  Cadiz. The shore of Monterey, besides other curiosities,
  contains a great abundance of very beautiful shells, known
  to naturalists by the name of aliotismyde ; they are found
  only on this coast and on that of New Zealand; some of
 them are remarkably large ; the index and thumb of both
  hands, when made to touch, can scarcely comprehend them.
  They are lined on the inside with a covering of mother-of-
  pearl, veined with the most beautiful azure.
     The fort of Monterey, which is the principal settlement
  of New California, has a garrison of only sixty-three sol
  diers, who, for want of tradesmen, are obliged to exercise
  all kinds of mechanical occupations.      A law which cannot
  be explained, much less excused, prevents them from build
  ing houses and cultivating the land. Two leagues from
  Monterey is the mission of San Carlos, which has effected
   a kind of miracle, by civilizing the Indians in the neigh
  bourhood.     This is one service more rendered by religion to
  mankind ; for the civilized Indians are sensibly more happy
  than those of the same canton who continue to wander
  through the woods, or to sail about at random in their
   canoes.    Though apparently stupid, they are, however,
   tusceptible of instruction; they have a wonderful dexterity
                                                                in

 i 10     Voyage to the  North- ff¦'est Coast Of Americd.
 in attracting towards     them    and killing wild beasts, by
 clothing   themselves  in their skins.
    The editor here stops to give an account of the benefits
 which his countrymen have diffused over these little
 known coasts.       He takes a view of the missions of New
 California, which extends from Port Saint-Diego in about
 lat. 33°, to Cape Mendocina in about 40°. These missions
 amount already to twelve ; but the most populous has only
 about twelve hundred colonists: they enjoy at least the first
 physical advantages of civilization; they breed cattle, cul
 tivate vegetables, and collect different kinds of seeds. These
 occupations lead to a settled kind of life, which, with the
 lessons and example of the missionaries, tends gradually to
 soften the manners of these Indians.
    Every thing, however, had not yet been done which
might be accomplished in this respect; the efforts of the
 missionaries have only been able to make them lay aside a
 part of their savage habits. The men and the women, for
 example, go entirely naked, and run about indiscriminatery
 in the fields with the brutes in search of food. They are
 still, in regard to modesty, what they were formerly de
 scribed to be by father Vencgas ; who said of them, " that
 to 6ee one of their people clothed, appears to them as risible
 as an ape in clothes would appear to us." In many respects
 they are still but children of a greater growth ; their wars
 are short, but renewed on the slightest occasion ; their pri
 mitive religion seems to he as deformed as every thing else
 relating to their moral existence; one must look very nar
 rowly to see any of their rites or their dogmas.
    Two tribes of these Indians have in particular engaged
 the attention of the Spaniards : these are the Runsians and
 the Eslencs, which resemble each other only in some
points.     Both of them admit polygamy; but among the
one the punishment of adultery is inflicted, not on the
woman, but on her seducer, who, according to the nature
of the case, and perhaps the degree of the husband's re
sentment, is exposed to severe wounds which may prove
mortal, or only to be well cudgelled. Among the Eslenians
the injured husband contents himself with repudiating, at
least for a certain time, his unfaithful spouse, or abandons
her to the seducer at the price he himself gave for her. This
¦custom of purchasing their wives is common to both these
tribes ; in both the women are remarkable for their affection
to their children; they are prolific am! robust. It is not un
common to see thein resume their usual occupations some
minutes after delivery ; but, .as. in many other parts of North
                                                       America,

 Osteological Description            of the   one- horned Rhinoceros,     i 11
America, the husband is nursed for some days after his
wife has brought forth.       Among the Runsians homicide is
almost considered as a matter of indifference ; but among
the Eslcnes it is punished with death.       Both tribes observe
nearly the same funeral ceremonies ; but among one of them,
whatever property is left by the deceased is divided among
his relations; among the other, all the friends bring, as a
farewell offering, sonic articles of furniture, which are in
terred with him.
    It is very remarkable, that two tribes so near to each other
 and so similar in some respects should be so different in
 others : this difference is particularly remarked in their lan
 guages; between which the ablest etymologists would scarcely
 find the slightest relation.
 .n   r— -
 XVIII.      Osteological Description           of   the one-horned     Rhino
                             ceros,    by     Cuvikr.
                [Continued ftom our         last volume,   p. 3;+.]
                                 id, The Teeth.
 A.    knowledge of the number and position of the.teeth,
 but particularly of the changes which take place in their
 figure at different ages, is of the greatest importance in the
 study of the nature of animals in general, but especially
 in researches respecting those species to which the fossil
 bones have belonged.          I have therefore paid more attention
 to this part than to any other.
      This was necessary in a particular manner in regard to
  the rhinoceros.       The want of proper observations had oc
  casioned a variation among naturalists in this respect ; and
  M. Faujas, the last person who examined                has only in
                                                                it,
  creased our doubts         : regard for truth has induced me to
                                 a
  rectify what he has said on this subject.
      My observations are the more necessary, as this learned
   geologist had deduced, from facts seen             wrong point of
                                                           in   a
   view, conclusions subversive of those bases on which the
   systems of zoology are founded.           But those who are not
   in situation to verify the facts in question and who, on
      a                                                         ;
   the other hand, are unacquainted with the rational foun
   dations of our systems, may too readily adopt conclusions
   advanced     by   anaturalist of so great authority, which would
    remove   still to   greater distance the epoch when the real
                         a
    principles  of   zoology will be universally acknowledged.
      I  shall observe then in general, that all the rhinoceroses
    have seven molar teeth on each side, both                   in
                                                        the upper and
    lower jaw, making twenty-eight all together."
                                                                            The

118            Citeological Description   of   the
    The head of the two-homed rhinoceros in our museum
 exhibits indeed only twenty, apparently on account of the
 age of the individual to which it belonged : but anatomisjts
 are not deceived in these cases, because they know how to
 find in the cells at the bottom of the jaw-bone, thegerma
of the teeth which have not yet appeared ; and these germs
 have really existed in this head, which would have had
twenty-eight teeth, like all those of its species, had not the
 animal been killed too young.
    The skeleton of the one-horned rhinoceros, which forms
 the principal part of the present description, exhibits also,
it is true, on one side of the lower jaw six teeth or stumps
of teeth, and on the other seven ; but this is only an ap
pearance which cannot deceive when one has studied the
laws of the growth of teeth, especially according to the
 method of Tenon.
    All herbivorous animals, beginning with the horse, wear
their teeth to the very roots, because, in proportion as the
crown is diminished by trituration, the alveolus fills up and
pushes the tooth outwards. When this root is composed of
two branches, as in the rhinoceros, and the shank of the
tooth is completely worn, there remain two stumps of the
root : these stumps drop out one after the other, always
lessened by trituration and pushed outwards by the increase
of the bone in the interior of the alveolus. At length,
however, the alveoli themselves become entirely effaced.
    This is what in part took place in the rhinoceros in ques
tion. It had already lost its two molar teeth, and the al
veoli were almost entirely effaced ; the detrition of the two
following ones had been extended to the roots, and it had
«ven Jost on one side one of the stumps of the roots, while
those of the other side both remained.
    Besides, no animal has nor can have an odd number of
teeth, considering the symmetry of the sides of the head,
and the suture which dividing the maxillary bones prevents
them from having an alveolus in the middle.        Thus, when
•one tooth more is found in the one side than in the other,
«n« is added in imagination to the latter.
    But it this rhinoceros had lost its molar teeth by age, it
had not gained incisors.     This is not the case with it,  nor
•with other animals which grow old.       The t.vo small inter
mediate incisors of the lower jaw exist at     a young age, as
is  seen by    the head given to the cabinet of M. Adrian
Camper; and still better    by  the end of the lower jaw of
a  very young subject    drawn   byhis father, and inserted in
the Trauxactivus of the Imperial Academy of Sciences at
                                                             St.

                                one-korned              Rhinoceros,                          113
St. Petersburgh for 1777*; but they remain at all times
concealed    under the gum, and this is the reason why
Meckel did not sec them in the living animal, while they
showed themselves in the skeleton. Mr. Thomas, a surgeon
of London, who has published some anatomical observa
tions on the one-horned rhinoceros, also found these small
teeth in the skeleton of' an individual four years of age.
    But what no one, as far as I know, has ever yet pub
lished     is,
           that the rhinoceros, during    certain period of its   a
life, has two similar incisors in the upper jaw, only they
are without the large ones, while in the lower jaw they are
among the large ones.      This, indeed, might be concluded
from the drawing of the intermaxillary of the very young
                              f- by
rhinoceros given       Camper the father in the Transactions
before mentioned          even at first conceived that these
                                      I
bones must necessarily have been produced              another                    by
species.
   But on examining the anatomical drawings of our rhino
ceros,  made with the greatest care    Marechal under the         by
inspection of Viq-d'Azir and De Mertrud,       observed the                 I
figure of very small tooth without the large upper incisor
                a
of the right side; and saw in the explanation which ac
                                        1
companies that drawing, and which          Viq-d'Azir, that       is   by
there was indeed on that side       small tooth which was   a
wanting in the other.     examined the skeleton, and found
                                        I
on one side the remnant of an alveolus, but the tooth,                                       al
ready too much extirpated, had been lost at the time of
maceration on the other side the alveolus even had been
                    ;
effaced.
     Itmay be readily seen that all these observations prove
nothing against the importance which characters taken from
the teeth have in zoology      but to employ their number, for
                                                ;
example, as      character, we must no doubt take the proper
                        a
precautions to ascertain what                               is,
                                       and in general to obtain
                                                       it
all the preliminary knowledge that may be necessary.        One
will not then be in danger of creating species which never
existed, — fault which would be attended with as bad con
                 a
 sequences in the simple history of animals and in its sy
 stems as in geology for,      natural history requires truth,
                                  ;         if                                                it
is  above all in those parts which are entirely conjectural                                  J.
    After this necessary digression shall return to my sub   I
ject, and continue to describe the teeth of my rhinoceros.
    To obtain complete knowledge of the teeth of herbivorous
                     is a
animals,        not enough to have seen them at one period of
                it
life,  as these teeth are continually wearing down; the figure
                    • Plate ix.                                   Plate \x. fig. t.
                                      fig. 3.                +
     J    See    Eswis      <le Geil<vie        c'e   M. Faujas      vol.
                                                                        i.   p. 193
                                                                                    —
                                                                                      156.
Vol.      20.    No.        78. Aroi'. 1804.                      H                           of

114               Osteological Description  of the
of their crown     is also in a continual state of change ; and
the naturalist must follow them from the moment when they
pierce the gum to that when they fall out of the mouth.
    But it is not always necessary for this purpose to have at
one's disposal individuals of all ages.        As the fore-teeth
appear    sooner,  they  are  also sooner  worn   ; and one may
often follow in one jaw all the degrees of detrition pro
ceeding from the posterior lo the anterior teeth.
    The following, then, are the appearances observed in the
teeth of the rhinoceros : — The base or neck of the tooth is
 quadrangular; the interior and posterior side are a little
 shorter than the anterior and exterior; consequently the
latter intercept an acute angle, and the others an obtuse.
 On this base, supposing the side of the root turned down,
 arise eminences the summit of whieh is sharp and entirely
 covered with enamel.       As long as the tooth is not worn,
 one of these eminences fits exactly the exterior edge of the
 tooth, or rather forms it: it has a* vertical rib projecting
 towards the anterior third.
    The second eminence is towards the anterior edge : it is
joined to the first at the anterior external angle ; then in
 clines towards the interior anterior, but proceeding a little
 more backward than the anterior edge of the base.
    The third eminence arises from the posterior third of the
 first ; proceeds directly inwards, then Bifurcates : one of its
 branches proceeds forwards and the other obliquely back
 wards towards the interior posterior.
     These sharp eminences, at a considerable distance from
 each other at their summils, have broad bases which touch
 each other.     The first effect of detrition is to wear off the
 enamel from the summit, and to discover every where a
 line of osseous matter bordered with two lines of enamel.
  In proportion as the detrition increases, and descends to the
 thick part of the eminences, the length of the osseous part
 increases, and that of the hollows between the eminences
 decreases.     When it advances still more, the anterior hook
 of the third eminence joins itself to the second, and there
  remains a round hollow towards the middle of the tooth ;
 a little later another branch of the third eminence unites
 with the posterior edge of the tooth, and there remains a
 second hollow behind : these two transverse eminences then
 unite at their interior extremity, and leave between them
 a large oval and oblique hollow in the fore part of the tooth.
  In the last place, when detrition has proceeded to the base
 of the eminences the hollows themselves disappear, andlhe
 crown then exhibits a smooth surface of osseous matter sur
  rounded by a border of enamel.
                                                             One

                           ome-honied          Rhinoceros.                                 Ill
    One may follow these different states in the figures of
 Plate I.*, one of which exhibits the teeth of a two-horned
rhinoceros still young, the other those of an adult unicorn.
One may follow there also the variations of the molar teeth
downwards, which are much less considerable.
   They are composed of two eminences turned round in the
form of a portion of a cylinder, and placed obliquely one
behind the other, in such a manner that their concavity is
turned inwards and a little forwards. The detrition only
enlarges the crescents of their summits; but this figure of •
a double crescent is preserved until the eminences are worn
at the base, a period when the tooth becomes quadrangular
and single.
    It was for want of being well acquainted with this varia
tion of the teeth by detrition, that Merck, to whom, how
ever, we are indebted for the first efforts to illustrate this
part of the natural history of the rhinoceros, thought him
self authorised to advance, in his third letter on fossil
bones, a fact which Fuujas inserted in his Essais de Geo
logic^. This fact is, that fossil teeth of the two kinds of
the living rhinoceros are found in Germany.
   But, even allowing this fact to be true, it would be impos
sible to prove    it,because the teeth of these two species re
semble each other when they are of the same age; but Merck
had in his possession the head of        young two-horned rhi
                                                    a
noceros   : all the fossil teeth, which resembled those of this
head, were considered            him as coming from the two-
                                    by
horned rhinoceros,     and   those  which were advanced, from
the one-horned.
   In reality, these teeth came neither from the one nor the
other, as     Ishall prove hereafter, but fro in  third species,   a
which differs from the two first in other respects than                                    by
the teeth.
   We have given in Plate IV. specimens of these fossil teeth
of the rhinoceros.     will there be seen, that, without the
                            It
rules which we have established from observation, every
body would be tempted to ascribe them to animals very dif
ferent.
   Fig. . represents
          1
                         superior molar tooth of the right side,
                                a
very much worn       the original
                       :             in our museum.
                                               is
   Fig. 2. exhibits portion of an upper jaw with two teeth,
                           a,
one of which      entire and still untouched. This fragment,
                  is
in the cabinet of Jonbert, was found near the village of
Issel, on the last declivities of the Black Mountain. The
individual must have been of small size.   a
                                                                                     •
      *
          Gii'en in our     last Number.                f   Vol.   i.   p.   207.
                                           H    2                                   Fig.   3-.

116                  Osteological Description    of the
   Fig. 3. from the cabinet, is one of the lower teeth, also
very little worn.         It was found in the neighbourhood of
Avignonet.
    Fig..4. is the germ of an upper molar tootli nearly similar
to those of fig. 2 : it is in the museum, but it is not known
in what place it was found.
    Fig. 5. a posterior upper molar tooth of the right side,
not much. worn, from the environs ofCanstadt. It was
sent to me by M. Autenrieth, professor at Tubingen.
    Fig. 6. is the germ of a posterior upper molar tooth of
the left side, from the living two-horned rhinoceros.
    Fig. 7. an anterior upper molar tooth of a large individual
in the collection of the museum : the origin of it is un
known.
    Fig. 8.    is an inferior molar from the environs of Canstadt.
It was     also sent to me by M. Autenrieth.
    I shall return to these different teeth in another memoir.
                          3d,  Of    the Vertebrae.
    Of   these there are 56     in all.
                       7   Cervical.
                      19   Dorsal.
                       3   Lumbar.
                       5   Sacral.
                      22 Coccygian.
    The atlas has its transverse apophyses as large and broad as
 that of any other animal. They have a hole instead of the in
 dentation at the base of their anterior edge.          The spinal is
 only a large tubercle.        Under the body there is a small lon
gitudinal ridge.
    The transverse apophyses of the axis are small, and turned
 backwards : those of the following ones are very broad, and
 descend towards the ribs : they have three angles, an ante
 rior and two posterior.
    The seventh has only a small one which touches the sixth,
 and which must considerably confine their respective move
ment.
    The spinal apophyses go on increasing : that of the third
 vertebra is only 0'04, that of the seventh 0'25.
    That of the second dorsal is longer, it is 0'40; it is besides
very thick : they then go on decreasing in length, and be
coming flat on the sides to the thirteenth, which is the
lowest, it is 0-12, and they then again increase. The first
lumbar is o- 1 5 ; the three spinal apophyses of the lumbar
are vertical; all those of the back are turned backwards ; the
transverse       apophyses are very short, and present to the
         •   '
                                                           tubercles

                          one-honied Rhinoceros.                      117
 tubercles of the ribs facets almost vertical; those of the
 loins are a little longer.
    The five spinal apophyses of the os sacrum coalesce
into one ridge. The first six vertebrae of the tail have an an
nular part, and spinal and transverse apophyses; the other
 sixteen are merely pyramidal, and go on decreasing in
 si ze*.
                              4th, The Ribs.
    There are nineteen pairs, several of which are real; those
of   the first pair are united togelher at the bottom.              The
 sternum is composed of four bones; the first is compressed
 into the form of a plough-share, and makes a pointed pro
jection before the first rib.
                   5th, The      interior Extremity.
    The omoplate is oblong;             its greatest breadth is at its
upper quarter;      its   posterior   edge  is raised up, and in that
place    thickened.     The  ridge  has   a very prominent apophysis,
at the upper third turned a little backwards; it terminates at
the lower quarter of the omoplate, consequently there is no
acromion : a tuberosity supplies the place of the coracoid
 beak ; the glenoid cavity is almost round.
    This form of the omoplate of the rhinoceros will always
distinguish it from those of other large quadrupeds; — that of
the elephant, for example, is a triangle almost equilateral,
and the spine has a large recurrent apophysis.
    The humerus is very remarkable, as its thick tuberosity is a
broad ridge, which proceeds from before backwards, and as the
linea aspera, which is thereby triangular, instead of being
linearj terminates at the bottom by a very prominent hook.
The anterior extremity of the thick tuberosity forms a hook
forwards ; the small produces a simeral one, and between
both is a large canal, destined, no doubt, for the passage of
the biceps tendon.          All these characters will still form a
very good distinction between the humerus of the rhinoce
ros and that of every other, quadruped of its size.           The ex
terior condvle is not very prominent; the other is not pro
minent at all ; the lower articulation is a simple pulley half
hollow.
    The radius at the top occupies the whole fore part of the
fore arm; its head has the form of a simple prominent
           * Length from the extremity of the upper jaw
                 to the root of the tail         -       -  >'9
             Length from the ccrvic?l part of the spine -   o-c.
             Length   from thr dorsal part           -  -
                                                            0*3
             Length from   the lumbar part              -   o#*
             Length from   the sacral p^rt          -   -   o'i
             Length from   the cocevgian             -  -   07
                                   H   3                         pulley;

1 18               Osteologkal Description       of t}ie
pulley;    it can bend but not turn: at the bottom it becomes
 nearly  as  broad  as at the top, and terminates in two short
 apophyses    ; one anterior,       which is pointed, and one trun
 cated ; the latter receives the semilunar ; between them is a
 fossa, which receives the scaphoid; its greatest contraction
 is towards its upper third.
    The cubitus, almost every where triangular, has towards
 the bottom a cavitv which receives a projection of the radius ;
 it  is terminated by a cavity for the cuneiform bone; the
 olecrancon is very much compressed, swelled at the end, and
 forms the fourth of the whole bone*. The carpus is com-
        of eight bones ; the scaphoid and unciform are very
  arge ; the pisiform is almost round.
{iosed
    On the scaphoid and trapezoid is a bone out of rank,
 which is analogous to the trapezoid, and the only vestige of
the thumb : the semilunar, the great bone, which here is
 one of the smallest, and the unciform have large protu
 berances on the palmar facef.
    The exterior metacarpian is articulated with the unciform,
 and has on its interior side two facets for the mean ; the lat
 ter is articulated with the great bone by a- very concave facet,
 and with the unciform by a small one.              The interior is ar
ticulated with the trapezoid and the great bone, and touches
 the middle one by a small triangular facet.
                      6th, Posterior Extremity.
    The pelvis is exceedingly broad ; the wide part of the
 bones of the ilium being 0'5 in breadth: its spine is forked,
 which distinguishes it from the whole scries of the bones
 of the ilium in the elephant: the angle which touches
 the sacrum is also more elevated;            the neck in particular is
         •
            Length  of the omopla'a                        0 53
            Brtadth  at it1- sup rior third                o »3
            Breadth at the neck                            a 09
            Height of the tuberosity of the spme           a 1-
            Length of the hunieitik                        c 4+
            Breadth at the top                            0' 2
            Breadth at the bottom                         c ' 17
            Diameter of the body                           o oS
            Length of the radius                           0 •3*
            Breadth at the top                            0 11
            Breidth at the bottom                         0' 1 2
            Length of the cubitus           •              0 S
            Length of the •lecrancon                      O' 12
            Height of the olecranton                       0 1
            Diameter of the body of the cubitus           0-05
            Diameter of its inferior head                  O'•08
         f  Length of the carpus                         0*109
            Length of the middle metacarpian             o-oig
            Length of the middle finger                  O  Oil
                                                                 much

                       one-horned       Rhinoceros.                  119
 much longer and narrower; it is 0*15 in length and 0"08 in
 breadth; the exterior edge of this bone is nearly as great as
 the interior, while in the elephant it is much smaller; the
 ridge of the pubis begins at the upper part of the neck of
 the bones of the ilium ; the oval foramina are broader than
 they are long; the tuberosity of the ischion is at the top
 very thick and in the form of a hook.
    The femur of the rhinoceros is perhaps still more remark
 able than its humerus; its upper part is very much flattened
 from before backwards ; the eminence, which 1 call the third
 trochanter, projects very much, and forms a hook which as
 cends to touch a hook which descends from the common
great trochanter, in such a manner that there remains an
 oval hole between these two eminences ; the lower pulley is
very narrow before; the interior condyle is much more pro
 minent, and ascends higher than the other behind ; the two
condyles are at a greater distance than thev are before, but
they make nearly the same projection.                The head of the
tibia is an equilateral triangle, only the interior posterior
angle forms a very strong tuberosity below the rotula.              The
lower part of the tibia is a little flattened from behind back
wards; the perone is slender, compressed                 laterally, and
swelled at its two extremities*.             The calcancuin is thick
and short; its anterior or astragalian face is triangular.
There are two large facets for the astragalus; that of the
interior sides is lengthened into a kind of tail along the
lower edge of that face.         In my opinion this is a character
proper to distinguish the species.          The facet which touches
the cuboid is very small ; the facets of the astragalus are a
counterpart of those of the calcaneuni ; the two edges of its
pulley arc of equal height; the part of the anterior face,
which touches the cuboid, is narrow.
    The cuboid has behind a long and thick protuberance; on
the interior side of the foot there is a similar production by
a supernumerary bone attached to the scaphoid, to the inte
rior cuneiform, and the interior metatarsian ; the scaphoid
then has three articular facets on its anterior face ; the inte
rior cuneiform is much smaller than the other.
                *                             -
                  Length of the femur               o-5
                  Its breadth ;it the top     -     o'l
                  Breadth n the Ixittoin      -     ot;
                  Length of the tibia         -     o-4
                  Its breadth at the top      -     014
                  Breadth at the bottom       -     on
                  Diuneter of   the l>ody     -     0-09
                  Length  of the perone       -     034.
                  Breadth at tlielxvtnm       ¦>
                                                    005
                                     If  4                          The

1 20          On the Electricity    of Metallic         Substances.
   The exterior metatarsian articulates only with the cuboid,
and touches by two facets of the exterior edge of its head
the middle metatarsian ; the latter is articulated only with
the great cuneiform, and by the exterior to the supernume
rary bone, for which it has only one facet.
   The phalangia are broader than long*.
XIX.         Observations on the Electricity of                Metallic   Sub
                        stances. By M. HAUY|.
 J. HE different methods of exciting in bodies the electric
virtue, furnish characters from which great advantage might
be derived in regard to the distinction of minerals ; the most
remarkable is that which results from the electricity pro
duced by heat, and which hitherto has been observed only
in six species of minerals, viz. tourmalin, borated magne
sia, topaze, mesoiype, phrenite, and oxidated zinc.       An
other method of exciting the electric virtue consists in fric
tion, to which idio-electric substances are subjected. This
virtue, as is well known, is of two kinds; one which we
call vitreous electricity, and which belongs in general to
earthy and acidiferous substances, and another distinguished
by the name of resinous electricity, and which characterizes
more particularly non-metallic combustible substances,      the
diamond exccpted, the electricity of which is vitreous.
Other substances are non-electric, and, to acquire the elec
tric virtue, have need of being brought into communication
with a conductor already endowed with that virtue. Metals
in the metallic state possess, in an eminent degree, the
faculty of becoming electric in this manner, which may be
employed to detect a metal concealed in a stony substance.
This is the case with iron, which enters into the composi
tion of jasper, and the presence of which is announced by
the sparks emitted by the stone on the finger being applied
to     it,
       while      in contact with an electrified conductor.
                   it   is
 I   conceived the idea of employing in another manner the
 electricity of metallic substances,               by
                                         insulating them, and
 rubbing them over an idio-electric substance.       The latter
 then acquires an electricity, the kind of which varies ac
 cording to the nature of the metal used as     rubber and a          ;         by
         • Length of the calcaneum at its exterior
                                                   edge           -   0*13
           Breadthofitsarticularfr.ee         •,                  -   009
           Breadthof the astragalus           -                   -   0-08
           Length of the middle bone of the   metatarsus          -   6"i6s
           Lengih of the middle finger        -                 -     o-n
   •(•   From Anxala du Museum Nuficnal        d'Histoire Nalurellf, No. 7.
                                                                          1
               1                                                 a necessary

           On the Electricity  of Metallic   Substances.     121
a necessary consequence, the metal acquires the contrary
kind of electricity, and retains it at least for a moment, be
cause it is insulated : for example, if tin be employed to
rub a silk ribband, it produces in it'vitreous electricity, in
stead of the resinous electricity which would be excited by
friction with the hand; and, on the contrary, the tin is
electrified in the resinous manner.         Having then observed
that the different metals tried, acquired in this manner some
vitreous, and others resinous electricity, I thought that this
diversity of states might increase the number of distinguish
ing characters which mineralogy borrows from natural phi
 losophy.
    To make experiments on this subject, I insulate the
 Igment of metal I intend to try, affixing it by common
 wax to the extremity of a stick of gum-lack, or Spanish
 wax; then holding the stick in my hand, I make the metal
 lic fragment pass several times over a piece of cloth.    If the
 surface of the fragment be rough, it will be necessary to
 smooth it by means of a file : after rubbing it five or six
 time>, I make the metallic fragment touch the knob of the
 collector, a well-known instrument, invented by Volta, to
  serve at the same time in electric and galvanic experiments,
  as a condenser and electrometer. Having repeated this ope
  ration several times, and removed the disk which performs
  the office of condenser, I determine in the usual manner
 the kind of electricity which produces the separation of the
  two straws of the electrometer.
     I shall now present a table of the different metals which
  I subjected to experiment, with an indication of the result
  given by each.     I comprehend in this list metals which
  have not yet been found naturally in the metallic state, and
  which are not obtained in that state but by separating them
  from the principles by which they are mineralized.       I took
  care to note the substances in which friction excites the
  electric virtue with more facility and in a more energetic
  manner than in others :
             Metals tvkich acquire  vitreous  Electricity.
                          Zinc, strong.
                          Silver.
                          Bismuth, strong.
                          ST
                          Oligist iron.
                                                           Metals

1 28        On the Electricity  of Metallic  Substances.
           Metals which acquire resinous Electricity.
               Platina.
               Gold.
               Tin.
               Antimony.
               Gray Copper, strong.
               Sulphurated copper, strong.
               Pyntous copper, strong.
               Sulphurated lead.
               Tellurium of Nagyag, strong.
               Antimonial silver.
               Sulphurated silver, strong.
               Nickel.
               Gray cobalt.
               Arsenical cobalt.
               Sulphurated antimony.
               Sulphurated iron.
               Oxydulous iron.
    In proofs in regard to silver, copper, and other metals,
found m a native state, I operated on fragments which were
in that state, and on others arising from the fusion of these
metals.
    I repeated my experiments a great number of limes, and
almost always obtained the same results; oxydulous iron
and oligist iron alone exhibited anomalies by acquiring,
under certain circumstances, an electricity different frem that
indicated in the table.
    Steel, which in general acquires vitreous electricity, gave
also some exceptions, arising in all probability from a dif
ference in the quantity of carbon united to the iron, or
perhaps in the effect of the temper.        Those habituated to
electric experiments know that the faculty of acquiring one
kind of electricity rather than another, by the help of fric
tion, differs sometimes by such slight shades that they escape
the most attentive observer.
    If the two parts of the above table be compared, it will
be observed that metallic substances,      which have the same
aspect,   differ from   each other in the results of electrisation.
From these results one will be able to avoid confounding
silver with platina'; the same kind of silver wilh antimo-
nial silver, native copper with pyritous copper, oligist iron
with gray copper, &c., all the first substances giving signs
of vitreous electricity when they have been rubbed, while
a)1 the second manifest the contrary electricity.
                                                             There

                          Observations  on Tea.                     123
    There are some metallic substances also, which, in the
 lame case, acquire an electricity so sensible, that the energy
of its effects alone may serve to confirm the indications of
 fered by the other characters.        Such are sulphurated copper,
 which have no need of being passed eight or ten times over
 cloth to make the first contact with the collector often pro
duce repulsion between the straws of the electrometer, in
 virtue of which the straws touch the sides of the glass flask
 in which they are suspended.
    To conclude; the metals have other properties which di
stinguish them so clearly from each other, that the charac
ters deduced from the preceding experiments will appear su
 perfluous; but 1 thought it would not be a matter of indif
 ference to collect and make known the results of these ex
 periments, considering them only as simple facts, con
 nected with a branch of natural philosophy, which for some
 years has been doubly interesting by the beautiful discove
 ries to which metallic substances          themselves     have given
 birth.
      XX.      Observations  on Tea.     By Desfontaines *.
 1 1  1 1.1.. Linnaeus, and others, have thought it necessary to
distinguish two kinds of tea; namely, bohea tea, tliea
 bohea ; and green tea, t/iea viridis ; because, according to
 these writers, the one has six petals, and the other nine-
 Linnaeus adds, that the leaves of the former are longer than
 those of the latter.       Such are the only characters which
establish the difference between them : but, according to the
 observations of Dr. Lettsom, published in 1799, the num
 ber of the petals of the green tea and the bohea tree are
 subject to vary from three to nine, so that the principal
 character indicated by Hill and Linnaeus is not admissible:
and as Lettsom could find no other, be considers, and with
justice, green tea and bohea lea to be two varieties arising
from the influence of climate and soil. Thunberg, in his
 Flora Japonica, admits only one species, and he is of
 opinion that the green tea is a variety of the bohea.          Kerap-
fcr also acknowledges only one species, which, like all
cultivated plants, has produced several varieties.           In a word,
the observations which I made on some individuals culti
vated in the garden of the Museum of Natural History, two
of which produced abundance of flowers last year, have
    • From Annates du Museum National d'llhtoirc  Nattaellr,  No. 19.
                                                                 served

1 24                     Observations on Tea.
served to convince me of the exactness of those of Kcmpfer,
Thunberg, and Lettsom.
   Tea is a branchy evergreen shrub, which, according to
Kempfer and Thunberg, grows to the height of five or six
feet, though other travellers assert that it rises sometimes to
thirty.
    Its leaves are alternate, hard, oval, and elongated, or
elliptic ; of a somewhat shining green colour, entire near the
base, but serrated in the rest of their length, and supported
on a short and half-cylindric foot-stalk.         The buttons are
acute, and accompanied with a husk, which detaches itself
and drops off at the period of their development.
   The flowers grow singly, or sometimes, but more rarely,
two-and-two, in the eyes of the leaves, on short and some
what thick pedicles.
   The calyx is small, persistent, and has five obtuse divi
sions.
   The corolla, for the most part, has six white petals,
round and open : the two exterior ones are smaller and
unequal.       Its breadth is about three centimetres.
   The stamina, which are more than two hundred in num
ber, are shorter than the corolla, and attached under the
ovarium.       Each anthera has two cells.
   The ovarium, which is of a rounded triangular form, and
surmounted by a style divided into three filiform stigmata,
becomes a capsule with three round monospermous cells
united at the base, and opening longitudinally on one side
only.
   The    seeds are spherical, internally angular, of the size of
a filberd, covered with a thin shining pellicle, a little hard,
and of a maroon colour.        The kernel is oily, and of a bitter
and disagreeable taste, which produces salivation, and even
occasions nausea.
   The tea often flowers in Europe, but it rarely fructifies.
It belongs to the order and class of the Polyandria monogy-
nia Linn. ; and M. de Jussieu has classed it in the family
of   the orange trees next to the camelia.
    It is cultivated every where, from Canton to Pekin ; where
the winter, according to the observations of the missiona
ries, is more severe than at Paris.       It would, no doubt, be
possible to propagate this valuable plant in France, if one
could procure a sufficient number of individuals to make
experiments, by cultivating it in different soils and under
different climates.      This object deserves the attention of
government,       as the consumption of tea is immense, and as
the quantity imported every year amounts to a considerable
                                                            sum,

                       Observations  on Tea.                  125
sum,    for which Europe is rendered tributary to China.
The   tea seeds brought to us from that country become ran
cid,   and spoil at sea ; so that scarcely one of a thousand
produces plants.       It would, therefore, be necessary that
persons    who   go to China should procure them exceedingly
fresh, and take care to sow them, before they sail, in boxes
filled with light earth : they would then spring up on the
passage.     Nothing would be necessary but to water them
from time to time, and to preserve them from the sea
water: the young plants might then arrive in safety.          We
are assured that the Chinese often sell to the Europeans the
seeds of the camelia for those of tea, to which they have a
great resemblance: this deception ought to be guarded
against, and might easily be prevented.
    What I have to say on the culture, preparation, and uses
of tea, is collected from Kempfer, and other travellers worthy
of credit; and though I have little to add to what they
have said, I hope this extract will still be useful, because it
will exhibit in one point of view several scattered and little
known facts.
    In Japan the tea is sown in the month of February, at
certain distances, on the borders of the cultivated fields, that
its shade may not injure the crops, and that the leaves maV
more easily be collected; and as the seeds are liable soon
to spoil, from six to twelve are sown in the same hole, be
cause no more than about a fifth of them spring up. In Chi
 na it is cultivated in the open fields. It thrives exceedingly
 well on the declivities of the hills exposed to the south, and
 in the vicinity of rivers and streams.       When the young
plants have attained to the age of three years, the leaves may
be collected from them.       At the age or seven they produce
 only a small quantity ; the trunk is then cut near to the root,
 because the stock sends out new twigs which yield abundant
crops : sometimes this operation is deferred till the tenth
year.
    The leaves of the tea are detached one by one : the best
 are those gathered at the end of February, or in the begin
 ning of March, when the leaves are still tender and not
 completely expanded. This tea is scarce, sold at a dear rate,
 and reserved for the rich and persons of rank.          The Ja
 panese call it imperial tea, flower of the tea, or bon tea : it is
 that most esteemed.      The second crop is collected a month
 later: the leaves, whether expanded or not, are gathered
 without distinction; after which thev arc separated into
 several heaps, according to their different degrees of age.
 After this second crop, a third and last are collected : the
                                                               last

  1 26                   Observations  on Tea.
 last   is   the most abundant; but it gives tea of less value,
  which    is consumed by the common people.
      The tea of the first quality, or Ion tea, which the Japanese
 call also Jieki-tsjaa, is pounded and reduced to a fine pow
 der, which is infused in boiling vvaler. The quality of it
varies according to the soil, the climate, and the age of the
 shrubs which have produced it.
     Tea of the second crop, called Chinese tea, and also too-
 Isjaa, is generally distinguished into four classes, in regard
                                            '
 to the different degrees of goodness.
     That of the third, which they call lan-tsjaa, composed of
older and harder leaves, and prepared with less care, has
 also its different degrees of value.     When the tea-harvest is
 ended, it is celebrated by public festivals and amusements.
     The most esteemed tea of Japan, according to Kempfer,
 grows in the environs of the small town of Udsi, situated in
 the neighbourhood of the sea: in that district is a celebrated
 mountain, which is entirely employed for the cultivation of
 that used by the emperor.         This mountain, which has a
 beautiful and picturesque appearance, is surrounded by a
 broad ditch, to prevent men and animals from having any
 access to it.     The plantations are laid out by the line,
arranged in a manner exceedingly agreeable to the eye, and
the shrubs are washed and cleaned every day.            While the
leaves are collecting, the men employed in that operation
 bathe two or three times every day, and wear gloves when,
 they pick the leaves, to prevent them from being dirtied.
When the leaves have been torrified and properly prepared,
they arc shut up in vessels of great value, and conveyed with
much pomp to the emperor's palace.
     Tea is prepared in public edifices, which are provided with
                             '
the necessary apparatus.        Some pounds of ihe leaves, fresh
gathered, are put into a kind of pan, made of thin iron plate,
broad but not deep, of a circular or square form, and heatfd
by means of a stove destined for that purpose, and of which
a description may be seen in Kempfer.             They are stirred
and rapidly turned with the hands, that they may be terri
 fied in as uniform a manner as possible ; and the operation is
continued until they emit a sort of crackling noise on the
plate. The heat, by depriving them of their juices, destroys
that intoxicating and noxious quality which they naturally
possess.       They must be torrihed when exceedingly fresh,
because if kept some days they would become black and
lose their value.    The heat of the pan ought to be so great
as scarcely to admit of its being touched with the hand.
In China the leaves are immersed in boiling water for half a
                                                           minute

                       Observations   on Tea.                 127
minute "before they are roasted.        When properly terrified,
they are taken from the pan with a wooden spatula, and
distributed to persons specially charged with the care of
rolling them. This operation is performed by rolling them
rapidly, and with an uniform motion, with the palm of the
hand, on tables a little raised, and covered with very fine
mats made of straw. The slight compression which they
then experience expresses from them a greenish yellow juice,
which produces on the hands a heat almost insupportable;
yet the operation must be continued till they are cold, for
they can be rolled only while hot; and, that they may not
unroll themselves, it is essentially necessary that they should
cool under the hand : the more rapid the cooling, the better
they continue rolled.       It is even' accelerated by agitating
the air with a sort of fan : but, whatever care may be taken,
there are always a certain number which become unrolled.
The rolling is still continued ; and those which, for want of
having been sufficiently dried, are not susceptible of rolling,
are torrified a second time, care being taken to check the
action of the fire, to prevent their being blackened or burnt.
Some torrify and roast the leaves five or six times, gradually
diminishing the intensity of the heat: by this practice they
retain better their green colour, and are less liable to be
come altered.     Each time the operation is begun, the pan
is washed with warm water, to remove the juices and other
heterogeneous     parts which may adhere to it.       The leaves,
 thus prepared, are spread out on mats ; and those which
are thick, badly rolled, or too much burnt, are separated.
Leaves of the first quality ought to be more torrified than
the rest, in order that they may be more readily pulverised.
 When gathered young, and exceedingly tender, they arc
 merely immersed in warm water ; then dried, by means of a
charcoal heat, on pieces of pasteboard; and, on account of
 their small size, are not rolled.
     The inhabitants of the country torrify their tea without
 much precaution, siirring it in earthen vessels exposed to
 heat.    This tea is often of a good quality, though sold at a
 low price; and M. Cassigni asserts that in Cochin-china
 it is not customary to roll the leaves.
     At the end of some months, the tea is taken from the
vessels in which it is contained, and again exposed to a
 gentle heat, to deprive it of 'all its moisture, and that it may
 run no risque of becoming worse.
     To preserve tea, it mujt be put into close vessels, and
 completely defended from contact with the air. Kempfer
 asserts that the tea brought to Europe has always lost some
                                                              part

  128                  Observations   on Tea.
part of its quality, and that he never found in it that agree
 able taste and delicate flavour which it has in the country
 where it grows. The Japanese keep it in vessels made of tin,
 and, when larsxe, they are put into boxes of fir to support
 them and give them more strength, and the joints of the
 boxes are closed both inside and outside with paper.        That
 destined for the emperor and grandees is put into valuable
 vessels of porcelain, or of some other substance.       It keeps
 them exceedingly well, and, as is asserted, even improves.
 The third sort of tea is that least susceptible of alteration.
 The peasants preserve it in vessels made of straw, which
 they suspend from the roofs of their houses.       The author of
 Lord Macartney's Voyage says, that in China the tea is
 heaped up, and trod with the feet in large boxes of wood
 lined with sheets of lead.
     Tea is perfumed with the flowers of a kind of mugwort,
 those of the scented olive, the camelia usanqua, the Arabian
jasmin, the curcuma, or Indian saffron, &c.
     Some authors have advanced that tea is terrified on plates
 of copper, and that its colour arises particularly from verdi
 gris; but Kempfer says, positively, that it is terrified on
 plates of iron.     The writer of Lord Macartney's Voyage
 asserts the same thing ; and Dr. Lettsom was never able To
discover a particle of copper, notwithstanding the number of
trials he made with a great number of kinds of tea ; so that
 this imputation is void of foundation.
     Some drink tea in infusion : others pulverise it in small
 mills made of stone, turned by means of the hand.             It is
 ground    on the evening before  it is to be used.  This  custom
 is common among the rich.           Boiling water is poured into
 the cups, and a certain quantity of pulverised tea, taken up
 with a spoon, is thrown into them : it is then mixed with a
 wooden instrument, like a chocolate-stick, which is moved
 in a circular direction with the hand.
     The third manner of taking tea is in decoction, which is
 used only among the country people.         They boil water in a
 pot, then throw in a few handtuls, more or less according to
 the company, of tea-leaves of the third quality, and drink it
 prepared in this manner to quench their thirst^      Sometimes
 they boil the tea-leaves in a bag, in order that they may not
 become mixed with the water.            That which has lost its
 virtue is employed in dyeing silk, to which they communicate
 a brown colour.
     Fresh tea has an intoxicating quality, which attacks and
 irritates the nerves, and which it does not entirely lose by
 torrifaction : it is even asserted that it is not completely
                                                             freed

                         Observations  on Tea.                   189
Freed from it before the end of ten, or twelve months ; it is
then pleasant and wholesome, and excites cheerfulness.
The Japanese never drink it fresh, without mixing with it
an equal quantity of old tea.           It removes obstructions,
assists digestion by rousing the action of the stomach ; and
there is no plant known of which people can drink an in
fusion so frequently, and in such large quantity, without
disgust. The Chinese consider it as exceedingly salubrious.
They never mix with it milk, syrup, or strong liquors.
They drink it pure, with a little sugar-candy which they
hold in their mouth; and the habitual use which these
 people have made of it for so many centuries, proves that
 when well prepared it has no prejudicial qualities. They
 form from it also an extract, which they -use diluted in a
 large quantity of water, and to which they ascribe great vir
 tues in various maladies.         Kalm asserts that tea is of great
 service in correcting the bad quality of water, that it revives
 the strength, and that it was of much benefit to him during
 his travels.
      In commerce, tea is distinguished into eight . principal
 kinds; three of which are green tea, and five bohea: but I
 shall here observe that the bohea tea of the shops is not the
 same as that known under this name by the Chinese.              The
  three kinds of green tea are:         1st, Imperial lea, or the
flowers of' tea.     Its leaves are not rolled : they are of a bright
 green colour, and have an agreeable odour. 2d, Haisveii, or
  liysson, which takes its name from an Indian merchant who
  first brought it to Europe. The leaves are small, and strong
  ly rolled ; they have a screen colour inclining to blue.
  3d, Singh, or songlo lea, which, like several other kinds,
  is called after the name of the place where it is cultivated.
      The five sorts of bohea tea commonly known in commerce
  are: 1st, Sucfiong ; the leaves of which are broad, not rolled,
  andof acolourinclmingtoyellow. It is imported into Russia
  by the caravans in packets of half a pound.         2d, Sumlo tea,
  which smells like violets, and the infusion of which is pale.
  8d, Congo; -the leaves of which are broad, and the infusion
  high-coloured. 4th, Peko tea, which is known by the small
   white leaves mixed with it. 5th, Bohea; the leaves of
  which are of a brownish green and uniform colour: a kind
   of tea rolled up in balls of different sizes, the leaves of
   which are united by a glutinous substance which docs not
   alter their quality, is also brought from China.        There are
 .likewise balls of medicinal tea, composed of leaves impreg
  nated with a decoction of rhubarb ; and there are several
   other varieties which it is needless to mention.
       Tea was first introduced into Europe by the Dutch, fn
         20. No, 78. Nov. 1804.       ,1                        1641.

130                    Observations   on   Tta.
1641, Tulpius, acelcbrated physician, and consul at Amster*
dim, wrote in praise of its good qualities. It is asserted that
he did so by desire of the Dutch East-India company, who
rewarded him with a considerable sum of money.        In 1667,
Jonquet, a French physician, extolled its virtnes. In 1678,
Bontetre, physician to the elector of Brandenburgh, who had
acquired great reputation, bestowed high encomiums on its
qualities, in a dissertation which he published on tea, coffee,
and chocolate. This work was attended with great success,
and contributed not a little to render the use of it more
genera! ; and, before the end of the century, the consump
tion of it was considerable. According to a table published
in Dr. Lettsom's work, the quantity of tea imported into
Europe from China, between the years 1/76 and 1794,
amounted annually to fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, twenty-
nine, and even thirty-six millions of pounds; an enormous-
consumption, for which Europe pays every year a targe sum
which it no doubt might save.
   The use of tea in China may be traced back to the earliest
ages ; and it is so prevalent among all classes in this immense
empire, that, according to the author of Lord Macartney's
Voyage, if the Europeans should give up the tea trade, the
value of it in the country would not be much lessened.
   The Japanese ascribe to tea a miraculous origin. Darma,
 a very religious prince, and third son of an Indian king,
named Kosjtisvo, landed in China, they say, m the year 51O
of the Christian sera. He employed all his care to diffuse
throughout the country a knowledge of the true God and
religion ; and, being desirous to excite men by his example,
imposed on himselt privations and mortifications of every
kind; living in the open air, and devoting the days and
nights to jjrayer and contemplation.        After several years,
however, being worn out with fatigue, he fell asleep against
his will ; and that he might faithfully observe his oath
which he thought he had violated, he cut off" his eye-lids
and threw them on the ground. Next day, having returned
to the same spot, he found them changed into a shrub which
the earth had never before produced.        Having eaten some
of the leaves of it,  he found his spirits exhilarated, and his
former vigour restored.       He recommended this aliment to
his disciples and followers. The reputation of tea increased,
and after that time     continued to be generally used. Kemp-
                       it
fer, in his Amoemtates e.rotwtp, gives the life with   a  portrait
of this saint so celebrated in China and Japan. There          is
seen, at the feet of Darma,     areed, which indicates that h<
had traversed the seas and rivers.
                                                      XXI.    On

XXI.     On a Liquid Sulphur.      By Professor LAMPADIUS*.
J.N   the year 1796 I discovered a liquid sulphur, which I
obtained while distilling martial pyrites with charcoal, in
order to try whether I could not extract a greater quantity
of sulphur from that mineral. I then sent a small quantity
of this liquid to my late friend Gren, accompanied with a
short notice in regard to some of its principal properties.
Chemists, since that time, have paid little attention to this
subject; and though T have frequently repeated the experi
ment, I was never able to find this substance again.        I was
obliged to suspend these researches, but without entirely
abandoning the subject.
    Performing some operations lately on pyrittsed wood,         I
succeeded in finding different methods or preparing this
remarkable substance, and have even examined several of
its properties; I shall, therefore, here give an account of my
new observations, reserving the more ample details foi*
another opportunity.
    I obtained this liquid, which for the present I shall call
alcohol of sulphur, by the distillation of pyritised wood
alone, or by distilling        martial pyrites with common
or bituminous wood, fossil wood, coals, or anthracite.
The manner of preparing it is as follows : — Charge an
earthen retort with a proper quantity of the earth, and to the
beak join an adaptor, which -is immersed in a receiver filled
with water : a communication, by means of a tube, is
 formed belween the latter, with a pneumato-chcniical appa
ratus. When the whole is well luted, kindle the fire, carry
it to a white heat, and conduct the operation nearly in the
same manner as for the preparation of phosphorus.          A large
quantity of sulphurated hydrogen gas is at first disengaged,
except when anthracite is employed, and a little empy-
reumatic oil; but, as soon as the retort is very red, the
alcohol of sulphur passes in small liquid drops, which fall
to the bottom of the water: when anthracite is employed it
is white, and contains no empyreumatic oil, with which it is
always tainted when the other s-ubstances are iised. To
separate this oil, it is again distilled by a lamp heat in a
 retort with a little water, and the beak of the retort is im
 mersed in distilled water. By this means it is obtained
 perfectly white.
    The proportions 'of the substances which I put into the
retort, and which no doubt might be varied, were :
               * From the Annalfs  e/e Ctirr.se, No. 147.
                                I 2                       1 pound

13i                 On a Liquid Sulphur.
1  pound of pyritised wood, coarsely pulverised, (gave tw»
    ounces of alcohol of sulphur) ;
4 ounces of pyrites, and       ounce of bituminous woodj
4                       and    ounce of fossil wood ;
4                       and    ounce of coals ;
4             -     - and ounce of saw-dust;
4                       and    ounce of anthracite.
    These substances, reduced to powder and treated as above,
gave from 7 to Sgros of alcohol of sulphur.
    Since anthracite gives no empvreumatic oil, but only car
bonated hydrogen gas (perhaps afso gaseous oxide of carbon),
it appears that the presence of this oil is not necessary to the
formation of the product, which can be considered only as
a compound of empyreumatic oil and sulphur.
    In all these operations, kss sulphur is obtained than in
distilling martial pyrites alone. There may be other means
of preparing this substance, but I never obtained any of it
when I employed charcoal with pyrites. It is possible that
that which I took in 1 796 was not completely carbonised, as
sometimes happens, or that some circumstance in the opera
tion had particularly favoured the combination of the sul
phur with the substance which constitutes the alcohol of
sulphur.
   Of the numerous properties of this substance, I remarked
only the following:
    1 . A penetrating odour.
    2. Extreme volatility.    Alcohol of sulphur boils at 32° of
Reaumur; the barometer being at 26 in. 6 lines.               By
evaporation it produces a great deal of cold ; and in this
respect it surpasses all the others known.
    3. The specific gravity is 130O, which is the more extra
ordinary considering its volatility.
    4. It is exceedingly inflammable t the least electric or
galvanic spark is sufficient to make it burn, and it leaves no
residuum by its combustion. The product, on the contrary,
   sulphuric acid and
i.-i                 a    Httte water.   Hitherto no carbon has
been found.      The flamei&   blue, and without smoke.
    A.       exceedingly soluble in spirit of wine.
        It It
             is
    6.     dissolves phosphorus witn extreme rapidity, and
without the aid of heat. If lutle of this solution be put on
                               a
paper, the paper inflames at the end of ten or fifteen minutes.
 JThis solution when poured into water does not shine.       At
] 0* of Reaumur the alcohol of sulphur can dissolve weight
                                                      a
of phosphorus equal to its own.
        It
       f. has an extraordinary refringcnt power.
                                                     8.   Water

                               On a Liquid Sulphur.                                 1 3S
   8. Water dissolves only a very small quantity of         and              it,        it
then assumes all the properties of sulphurated water.
 I    mention these properties only until    can make further
                                                          I
researches   they are sufficient to enable one to distinguish
                  :
the substance;     the constituent parts cannot be exactly
determined, but                by
                       repeating and varying the experiments.
    Sulphur more than the half of its weight, as appears
from properties     and    4        8,
                             and hydrogen, are no doubt the
principal elements of alcohol of sulphur.     If thought that      I
no carbon were to be sought for in this substance,        should             1
have given      the name of hydrogenated sulphur
                      it                                until its       :
nature be more precisely determined, that of alcohol of
sulphur     applicable to
               is             on account of its volatility.
                                        it
     1hope that this substance will be found hereafter    power              a
 ful remedy     cases in which ether
                      in                 employed.   is
       Frcybuig, Jdu. 28, 1804.
    P. S. Should this substance be found to be the same as
that of Clement and Desonnes,        must claim the priority
                                                     I
of my discovery, which was made in 796. But this of       1                        is
little importance, except that fact when observed
                                              a        seve                   by
ral persons who have not communicated to each other their
observations may be considered as the more authentic.
   Note —Since writing the above,     have read the experi
                                                     I
ments of Clement and Desormes with great attention, in
Gilbert's Annals, and am surprised at the resemblance which
exists between the two products.       however, find the fol
                                                     I,
lowing differences:
           Clement and Desormes'
             Carburatcd Sulpkur.                          Alcohol       of
                                                                        Sulphur.
1.    Burns, and leaves     residuum of
                                    a                     1. Burns, and leaves
     carbon.                                                 no residunm.
2.    Deposits carbon in combining                        2. Dissolves entirely
     with fat oils.                                          in fat oils.
3.    With spirit of wine      converted
                                    it   is               3. Dissolves entirely
     into    soft mass, and   small por                      in spirit of wine.
           is a
                                        a
     tion     dissolved.
4.   It    now obtained from sulphura
          is                                                  4. See the preceding
     ted iron.                                                   experiments.      ,
 I   am engaged                in
                     experiments to answer the following
queries    :
   Is my product hydrogenated sulphur     or sulphurated       ?
carbon    or carbon, sulphur and hydrogen
           ?                                  or perhaps            ?
the base of sulphur?
     Feb. 2, ltc+.
                                             I   3                      XXII. Ex-

                         [     134   ]
XXTI. Experiments     to ascertain wliether there exists any
  Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
  parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
 forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
  Esq.  of'the Colder Iran-Works.
                    [Continued from p. 36.]
With     a  view to obtain results from ores compounded
similar to those which we use at furnaces in the scale of
manufacture, the four following classes were carefully mada
and operated upon :
                 4th Class consisted       of
                    40 parts of oxide,
                    20       of chalk,
                    CO       of sand,
                    20       of clay.
                   100
                          5th Class.
                    40 parts    of oxide,
                    30          of chalk,
                    30          of clay.
                   100
                         6th Class.
                    40 parts    of oxide,
                    30          of sand,
                   .30          of clay.
                   100
                          7th Class.
                    40 parts of oxide,
                    30       of sand,
                    30       of lime,
                   100
   As the details of these experiments might be deemed
tedious,
       I    shall confine myself merely to tables of the re
sults obtained from each compound respectively    ;   by which
it will be easily perceived that the peculiar properties of the
respective earths still exist where they are not corrected by
an equality of mixture, or where lime       not used as one of
                                            is
the principal ingredients.
                                                        Results

      On the Affinities     of different Earths far Carlon.            135
   .Results   of 4th class, compounded of
                      40 parts or oxide,
                      SO          of chalk,
                      20          of clay,
                 and 20           of  sand.
   Quantity of matter used in each experiment 400 grains.
                                                                  per cent.
   Exp. I. l-30th of carbon yielded           2+ 'grs. of iron, or 625
          II. J-20th      ditto             35        ditto,    or8'75
        III.  1-J5th      ditto    —   r- 58          ditto,    or    14+
        IV. l-ioth        ditto             95        ditto,    or 83f
          V. l-7th        ditto           in         ditto,     or 27+
  This last experiment was a perfect assay.               The glass was
of a dull flinty colour, considerably transparent, and proves
that under similar circumstances an ore equally composed
of clay, lime, and silex, will smelt to greater advantage
than one either exclusively united to silex or clay.
   Results of 5th class, compounded of
                     40 parts of oxide,
                     30          of chalk,
                     30          of clay,
  Quantity of matter operated upon 400 grains.                   per cent.
  Exp. I. l-30th of carbon yielded  '            7 grs. of iron, or     1+
          II. l-20th       ditto               33       ditto,    or 9+
       III. 1-I5ih ditto                       51       ditto,    or 12+
        IV. i-ioth        ditto                78       ditto,    or 19+
         V. l-7th         ditto unfused.
  Results of 6th class, compounded of
                     40 parts of oxide,
                     30          of clay,
                     30          of sand.
  Quantity of matter operated upon 400 grains.                   per cent.
  Exp. I. l-30th of carbon yielded 16 grs. of iron, or 4
         IF. l-20th       ditto               30      ditto,      or 7+
       III. l-15th ditto                       57     ditto,      os 14+
       IV. 1-I0th         ditto unfused.
  Results of 7th class, compounded of
                    40 parts of oxide,
                    30           of sand,
                    30           of chalk,
  Quantity of matter in each experiment 400 grains.
                                                                per cent.
  Exp. I.     1 -30th  of carbon yielded         1 gr. of iron,  or      +
         II.  l-20th      ditto                13       ditto,   or 3+
      III.    l-15th      ditto                40       ditto,   or 10
       IV. l-ioth         ditto              j 03       ditto,   or 25+
         V. l-7th         ditto              129        ditto,   or 32+
      VI. l-5lh           ditto unfused from an excess of carbon.
                                 I4                                     If

136                      On the Affinities of
     If the results of this class are compared with those- of
 Class 5, it will be found that an ore compounded of sand and
 lime is more easily fused, and ultimately more productive,
 than one equally composed of clay and calcareous earths.
      In these classes I deemed it of some importance to add
 an eighth.      It has of late been received and believed by the
 most of Europe, that the French chemists have discovered
 a process of imparting carbonaceous matter to iron by the
 decomposition of the carbonic acid, and that in such quan
 tity a? to convert soft iron into cast steel.      Those who rest
 in the belief of this discover)' must naturally have expected
  lhat in these experiments the greatest quantity of iron would
  have been revived where the carbonate of lime was used,
  and that this quantity would have borne an exact relation to
  the proportions of the carbonate.
      The very reverse of this, however, turns out to be the
  fact ; for it requires double and sometimes triple the quan
  tity of carbonaceous matter to be added to revive the. same
  quantity of iron when carbonate is used, than is requisite
  with either clay or silex.
       To ascertain what difference, would arise betwixt the re
   sult of the experiments with chalk, and the same deprived,
   of its acid, the following experiments were made ;
       Results of 8th Class, compounded of
                 40 parts of oxide,
                 60          of chalk deprived of its acid.
       Quantity  of matter  (deeming it more unfusible) made use
' of,
        200 grains.
   Mxp. I. l-30th of carbon yielded no metal.
          II. l-20th     ditto     —        ditto
         III. 1-1 5th ditto        —        ditto
         IV. l-10th      ditto     — 6grs.of iron, or 3 percent.
          V. l-8th        ditto    — 37        ditto   l&j-
          VI. l-7th       ditto     — 53       ditto   26£
        VII. l-5th        ditto not fused.
       If  these results are compared with those of Class 1, it
   will be evident that a larger proportion of charcoal is requi
    site in the present case to revive the first portions of iron j
    but then it ought to be considered that the oxide is pre
    sented with a larger proportion of calcareous earth by, all
    the quantity of acid and water of crystallization contained
    in the carbonate.
                                                            General

                                  General        Table            of      the     Results     of         the                     Classes           of    compounded             Ores.
                                                                                                                    Eight
                 1st     Class.            2d   Class.                 3d   Class.            'th        Class.             5   th    Class.            6th     Class.      7th         Class.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ' 8th        Class.
                 Oxide       '0         Oxide          '0           Oxide          '0         Oxide            '0           Oxide          '0           Oxide        '0     Oxide           '0       Oxide             -     '0
 Propor-'
tions     of                 60         Sand           60           Lime           60         Lime             20           Lime           30           Clay         30     Sand            30       Deacidi--\
                 Clay
Carbon.                                                                                                        20                          30           Sand         30     Lime            30       fied                    60
                                                                                              Clay                          Clay
                                                                                              Sand             20                                                                                    Lime
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    iJ
 l-'0th                                1                    ct.        no       iron            no       iron                   no    iron               no     iron             no     iron                no     iron
                                            A    per
 l-30th                                                                no       iron         •624                   ct.     1
                                                                                                                            J                ct.    '          per   ct.        1              ct.          no     iron
                                                                                                         pcr                         per                                              per
 l-23th         9"rV                    7A
 1-20th                               9                                no       iron                81                      W                           71                  3+                              no     iron
l-15th         13"fV                  1S                            3*                 ct.                                11                                               10                               no     iron
                                                                            per                 1'                                                  1'
l-10th           unfuscd                   nnfused                "A                           231                        19*                           unfused            25
                                                                                                                                                                            \                         3          per   ct.
1 -8th                                                                                                                                                                                               181
l-7th                                                             2'"fV                        271                             unfused                                     321                       261
l-5th                                                             26                                                                                                            unfused                    unfused

138                 .'    On tin Affinities    of
   The following experiments, performed with argillaceous,
siliceous, and calcareous ironstones in the state in which
they are taken from the mine, exhibit an exact coincidence
of effect with those artificially compounded.
                    1st,   Argillaceous Ironstone.
    Of this particular quality the mine presents three strata,
each about 24 inches in thickness.            They arc found about
2 feet incumbent to a regular stratum of shelly limestone
about 9 inches thick, and containing a thin measure of cal
careous ironstone in its very centre.            The shale or matrix
in which the argillaceous strata are found, is a blackish blue
clay in thin laminae, and of that particular quality best cal
culated to stand the heat of a large furnace.                 Above this
shale is found a small gritted sandstone, commonly called
•water whin, as hard as flint and about four feet thick.
    The colour of the ironstone resembles very much the ap
pearance of the schistus described above, only a few shades
darker in point of colour.          The fracture rough, and mi
nutely granulated.          Its  hardness   as an ironstone below
mediocrity.      A  solitary    muscle-shell    is sometimes detected
upon   its surface;    and  on  one  piece I  found    an entire bivalve
neatly forced open, with the configurations distinct.                  It
may be proper to remark, that the measure of calcareous
matter below is an entire coagulation of muscles ; and
further, that the under surface of the roof, rock, or sand
stone, formerly mentioned, next to the matrix, is beauti
fully waved like the sea beach after flood tide. Irregu
larly dispersed along this surface are also found convex fi
gures of small pine-shoots very perfect and entire. The
matrix or shale below bearing the corresponding impres
sion, with all the accuracy of a highly finished mould.
    The specific gravity of this ironstone was*
    Exp. I. 400 grains of raw ironstone were fused per se.
The result was a dark coloured glass, the upper surface of
which was covered with a film of oxide of a lake colour.
Two small cavities were found formed, from which I in
ferred that the first portions of metal would be revived with
a small dose of carbon.
    Exp. II. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                  5           of carbon, or l-8Oth,
   This mixture was reduced to a very beautiful shining
black glass with a metallic lustre. Under it was found a
very perfect spherule of iron which weighed exactly 8|
grains, and equal in point of produce to 2^ per cent.
   The surface of this glass was imperfectly radiated with
             • The author has omitted to fill
                                               up this blank.
                                                         configurations

                  different Earths   for  Carbon.              139
configurations of    a lake colour. The mass was uncommonly
dense, and the fracture possessed       a lustre beyond that of a
highly finished razor-blade.
   Exp. III. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                   7         of charcoal, or l-57th.
   The fusion of this compound yielded an elegant spherule
of iron which weighed 15£ grains ; 'equal to 3Jfo per cent.
The film of oxide upon the glass and the metallic lustre
of the fracture nearly gone.
   Exp. IV. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                 10          of charcoal, or l-40th.
   This mixture formed a very perfect black glass, in the
bottom of which was found a globule of iron which weighed
35 grains ; equal to 8| per cent.       The fracture of the glass,
though   small;  presented   a perfect crystallization, consisting
of diverging lines crossed by light feathery impressions re
sembling hoar-frost.
   Exp. V. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                20          of charcoal, or l-20th.
   There was obtained from the fusion of this mixture an
oval mass of soft iron which weighed 59 grains : equal to
14 J per cent.    The film of oxide upon the surface of the
glass  was  now    nearly gone, and the colour a deeper black
than in Exps. I, II, III, IV.
   Exp. VI. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                 33^         of carbon, or 1-1 2th.
   This mixture was exposed to 160° of Wcdgewood, and a
perfect fusion was the result.       Five grains or the charcoal,
of a beautiful black colour, remained untaken up. A com
pact metallic button was found in the glass, which weighed
75 grains ; and further, twelve small globules weighed two
grains.    Total 77 grains : equal to 194- per cent.
   The glass was dull whitish green, minutely porous, and
but slightly transparent.       The film of oxide was entirely
gone from the glass in this experiment.
    Exp. VII. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                   44T*0-        carbon, or l-9th.
   This compound was fused at a high heat. The result
was perfect. A metallic button was obtained which weighed
 82 grains, and small globules thrown against the sides and
 cover of the crucible 2-$-. Total 84-l grains : equal to 2\^
 per cent.
    Exp. VIII. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                     80        of carbon, or l-5th.
   This mixture was exposed till the crucible became soft,
                                                               and

149                          On the Affinities   of
and nearly dropping.           When cold       I   found the fusion     in
complete, and could only collect in all 40 grains of iron.
    Exp, IX. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                     80          of charcoal,
                    100          of chalk.
    This mixture        fused with facility in a low heat.        The re
sult was a crystallized button of crude iron which weighed
 112 grains ; equal to 28 per cent.
  Recapitulation of experiments with argillaceous ironstone.
    Exp. I. No        metal revived.                               per cent.
           II.   l-80th' of carbon yielded 8^- grs. iron, or 2£
         III.   l-57th        ditto               15-j- ditto, or 3-fVs-
          IV. l-40th          ditto               35    ditto, or 8f
           V. l-20th          ditto               59    ditto, or 14}
         VI. l-12th           ditto               77    ditto, or 194-
        VII. l-9th            ditto               84^ ditto, or 21-^
       VIII. l-5th            ditto unfused.
          IX. l-5th           ditto
 And     100   grains   of  chalk               112     ditto, or 28
    A quantity of this argillaceous ironstone was torrified,
 and found to lose 31 per cent.               It had then assumed a
 brownish red colour, which darkened                    considerably i»
 pounding.        It was   found   to be easily  overheated   in roasting,
 and then assumed a semi-vitrified fracture, losing its adhe
 sion to the tongue. If the heat is carried to a faint white,
 the mass becomes of a blackish blue colour, swells up and
 resolves itself into the state of a honeycomb, increased in
 bulk and in weight.
     Exp. I. 200 grains of this ironstone pounded was fused
 per se, and in the first experiment was found a minute glo
 bule of iron estimated at l-3d of a grain.             The experiment
 •was   twice repeated, but without any metal being revived.
 In the first case, therefore, the revival of the iron was most
 likely occasioned by a small portion of the fuel being acci
 dentally thrown into the crucible.
     Exp. IT. 500 grains of roasted ore,
                     12£          of carbon, or l-40th.
     There resulted from the fusion of this mixture three per
  fect globules of iron which weighed 4 grains, which is about
  8-10ths per cent. These were found in the bottom of an
  elliptical cavity possessed of the highest lustre and a variety
  of prismatic tints.
     Exp. III. 400 grains of roasted ironstone,
                      44 ' • • of charcoal, or l -gih nearly.
        6                                                              This

                     different Earths     for Carlon.             141
    This mixture      fused, and yielded a very perfect glass, ac
companied by        a  metallic button which weighed 98 grains :
equal    to 24-l   per cent.    The glass obtained was green, and
possessed     a flinty fracture.
     Exp. IV. 400 grains of roasted ironstone,
                    80          of charcoal, or l-*th.
    This mixture was fused at a heat of 160°, and when cold
was examined, and found as follows :
     23 grains of charcoal were found upon the
surface of a light green coloured glass, which
covered a metallic button weighing                   -    108 grain*.
        Globules extracted from the glass             -     6
        Produce equal to 28J per cent.                -   114
     Exp. V. 400 grains of          roasted ironstone,
                 133-sl. — of carbon, or l-3d.
     This   mixture was exposed to a heat of 1 62°        of Wecfge-
 wood.       When       cold it was found imperfectly reduced.
 About 50 grains of metallic globules were obtained. A
 portion of glass was formed in perfect spheres, entirely co
 vered with carburated globules of cast iron.           The pulveru
 lent matter that remained unfused was of a deep black co
 lour mixed with spheres of very brilliant crude iron. This
 experiment was repeated as follows:
      Exp. VI. 400 grains of roasted ironstone,
                    133-f\
                            — of charcoal, or 1 -3d,
                   ICO     —     of raw chalk.
     This mixture      was  exposed in a much inferior heat, and a
 very perfect     reduction    of the compound obtained. A me
 tallic   button   was   found,  and some globules, which weighed
  142 grains; equal        to  35-J-. per cent.: which amounted to
 within 1+ grain of the whole contents of iron contained in
  the ore.
      These, with many other experiments, prove that when
  clay enters greatly into the compound of any ore, that car
  bon alone is not capable of reviving its. metallic contents
  whether the ore is used in the raw or roasted state, and that
  calcareous earth, in almost every case, can be applied as a
  substitute in part for carbon in consequence of the curious
  relation it bears to both.
      The difference betwixt the quantities of revived iron with
   l-40th of carbon is sufficiently accounted for by the roasted
  ironstone containing 31 per cent, more of iron; of course
   the additional affinity exerted by this iron required an extra
   dtase of carbon before any iron was let fall.
                                                          XXIII. On

                                C    142     ]
               XXIII.        On Prussiate        of   Copper.
AN our fourteenth volume,     p. 359, we inserted a short paper*
 by Charles Hatchett> esq< On Ike Utility of Prussiate of
 Copper as a Pigment, which was copied from the Journals
of the Royal Institution, vol. i. p. 306. In the 1st number
of the 2d vol. of that work, published the 1st of June 1803$
was inserted a letter to Mr. Hatchett from Mr. Hume, of
Long Acre, which we overlooked at the time, but which, in
justice to both of these gentlemen, we now lay before our
 readers, some of whom may not have seen the work in
which it originally appeared.
Letter   to CHARLES        HATCHETT, Esq.             respecting   the   Prus-
             siate"   of   Copper.    From       Mr. HUME.
    •   DEAR SIR,
    On many accounts I have chosen to Send the following
 communication to you, rather than lay it before the proper
editor of the work to which it alludes; not doubting, if any
public notice be deemed proper, your candour and your
pen will do meat least as much justice as I deserve.     In the
last number of the Journals of the Royal Institution, I ob
serve a paper, written with your usual chemical accuracy, on
 Prussiate of Copper, stating it to be very useful as a pig
ment, Sec.     I am very confident you were ndt aware, that
the same substance, and for th,e very same purpose, had been
many years before discovered and prepared by myself; that
I  have ever since constantly kept it foi* the use of some par
ticular friends and artists; and have given away and sold of
it to numberless other people, who, probably, never till
now heard the name ot prussiate of copper.            I believe,
amongst many      others,  two  of   the present proprietors of
the Roval Institution will bear me out and testify to the
truth of all this; viz. Mr. William Day, more particularly,
and Mr. Collins, rtiamel fainter to the king.       The former
             will recollect that, more than ten years ago, I
  ad made, indeed fora very different purpose than painting,
fentleman
a quantity of prussiate of copper; that on begging him to
try it as a colour, a task he is very competent to, he ap
proved of it and made a very favourable report, especially
respecting its use in water. Indeed I dare say you are satis
fied with this single proof; but I shall just add that, from
my friend's recommendation, Mr. Collins began to use                        it,
and has been supplied with         since more than once: the
                                     it
                                                                           last

          Second Letter to        Mr.      Tilloch on the Cow-Pock.            143
last parcel he had on the 2d of November last, which, to
use his own words,            "
                       though an useful tint, is not so fine as
that prepared two years ago."
   Permit me to add, though in this place it may be irrele
vant, that I have generally found good sulphate of copper,
answer best this purpose; and as this salt, from its cheap
ness, may possibly induce manufacturers to prefer         the            it,
prussiate of lime must give place to that  of potash or some
other, since the former would form       simultaneous preci
                                                     a
pitate of sulphate of lime ami prussiate of copper.
                                      I    remain, sir, Yours, &c.
                                                              Jos. HUME.
XXIV.   Second Letter to Mr. TILLOCH on                        the Cow-Pock,
  from Dr. THORNTON, leing a Comparison                             the Cow-
                                                                   of
   Pox with the Small-Pox.
Description         of   the natural       Small-Pox, and      its Mortality.
                                                              of
J. HERE      no disease that the medical writer has to describe,
               is
which presents        more melancjioly scene than the natural'
                          a
iimall-pox,   as    very frequently occurs.
                         it
   When the physician        first called to the bed-side of the
                                      is
patient, h<-     enabled at once to form
                    is                       probable conjecture
                                                      a
as to the approaching disorder, from the frequent sighings
and sobbings of the person labouring' under an anxiety he
is unable to express           pains felt in the region of the
                                  ;   by
stomach, with an inclination, but generally an inability, to
vomit     ;    by
             the racking and frequent shooting pains along
the back and loins        general lassitude and aching of every
                              ;   a
limb  ;   most unpleasant sensation of cold, not relieved
           a
 by  any external warmth         continued drowsiness, and dis
                                      ;    a
inclination  to  take  food.
   Then succeed heat, thirst, an inflamed eye, restlessness,
or    aconstant inquietude       the pulse ;             is
                                               quick and hard                    ;
convulsions now come on           children, and violent sweating
                                           in
in adults.
   Such are the symptoms which usher in this dreadful foe
to the human race, which now manifests itself              many         by
speck-like spots, resembling flea-bites, which appear first on
the face and upper parts of the body, and afterwards invade
the whole trunk, look angry, create pain, and gradually
elevate themselves above the skin, taking on the appearance
of pimples. By the fifth or sixth day, these are converted
                                                             into

 J44      Second Letter to Mr. Tilloch  on the Cow-Pock*
into pustules, containing    a transparent fluid, and each has
an accompanying      inflammation   around.
    At this period of the disease the throat becomes inflamed,
and is painful ; the breath is hot and foetid ; swallowing is
difficult; the voice hoarse ; in adults there comes on a sa-»
livation, and in infants a diarrhoea.
    On the seventh day the eye-lids swell, and are glued to*
gether, and the patient has both the sensation and appre
hension of the loss of sight.
    On the eighth day the aqueous fluid of the pustules is
changed into thick pus, and the effluvia now issuing from
the patient are highly noisome and infectious ; or, instead of
a yellow pu», or matter, only ichor is produced, which
erodes     deep, and ends in' mortification of the parts.
Often, purple spots appear in the spaces surrounding the
eruption, which forebode the approaching catastrophe.
Often, profuse haemorrhages of thin corrupt blood pass
off by the several outlets of the body. The human face
 divine, bereft of every feature, then exhibits the most dis
tressing sight, being one mass of corruption ; and at this
time, should sleep kindly come in to appease his miseries, it
is disturbed and short, and he frequently wakes with a start,
 as if roused by some dreadfijl apprehension ; but more gene
rally the sleepless nights are passed in tearing off this mask
of humours, which from a dark brown changes to a black,
and each morning presents a horrid scene of gore mingled
with corruption.
    To behold the poor tortured victim muffled, resisting, and
 finally overcoming every artifice lo prevent him tearing his
flesh to pieces, is the most melancholy sightwhich the tbnd
mother can witness. By-slanders no longer recognize the
 temper or features of the lovely infant — happy if he escape
without actual loss of vision, and the dimples of the cherub
 cheek are not furrowed into deep seams and unsightly pit*.
 Parents at such a moment would willingly compromise
 every external grace for the possession of life.   But fate yet
 hangs suspended on a thread. The swelling of the face
 abates ; the limbs in their turn become tumefied ; the fever,
 which had remitted somewhat of its first violence, re
 curs, from the matter absorbed ; and the poor tortured vic
 tim, undergoing a second conflict more dreadful than- the
•first,  with weakened powers of resistance,        most com
 monly from between the 14th to the 17th day (one out of
 three or four usually dying of the natural small-pox) finds
 a release from his miseries by the arrow of death, now
 esteemed as a kind deliverer, instead of the horror of the
 human conception         Or, if nature should come oft" vic
                                                        torious,

            Second   Letter  to  Mr. Tilloch     on the Cow- Pock.      14 3
torious, how scarred ! how each bone protrudes through the
skin! how the limbs totter! how fretful the temper! how
emaciated the countenance ! how sunk the eve! how livid the
flesh   !
     Perhaps even then the destroyer has still accomplished his
work; and the patient, too early congratulated, sinks under
a lingering consumption,                or is eaten away by slow cor
roding ulcers, commonly called the king's evil, or scro-
   phula.
     Such is the too faithful picture of this loathsome disease,
that baffles in description all the powers of language, and
which destroys annually in Great Britain alone 50,000 3onls,
or throughout the habitable globe 20,000,000 of people,
exclusive of those who perish from the impoverished state
of the system, producing those formidable disorders which
follow in her train.
        1.
             Of the Mortality        occasioned  ly  the Small- Pox.
                           'h£ii to »ai vaXvvus
                           K unTO/*i>* Xojr«c
                           Ka 'x-.-na; 'Efitvuc.
          I.o ! with unnumbered hands and countless feet,
          The Fi'RY comes, her destined prey to meet ;
          Deep in die covert hid, i be glides unsten —       Sophocles.
    The reader may form some tolerable notion of the ra
vages committed by the small-pox, by examining thcbiHs of
mortality; for in London, where the climate is temperate,
the disease well known, and the treatment of the sick very
ably conducted, from 2000 to 3000, at the present day, an
nually perish. — Baron Dimsdale.
    So great was the epidemic of the small-pox at Paris in
1723, that upwards of 20,000 perished in that city alone!
— Voltaire.
    In 1768, this same scourge destroyed at Naples 16,000
persons in a few weeks. — Abbe C/iappe.
     In Russia the annual destruction is estimated at 2,000,000.
— Baron Dimsdale.
    In China, where the population is immense, the number
who annually die of the sruall-pox, the most loathsome,
next to the leprosy, of all diseases, is incalculable. — Dr.
Clark.
    The fatality is still more remarkable among new people,
who arc wholly ignorant of the means of prevention, and
the methods of cure.
 '
    The small-pox was first introduced into New Spain in
1520, by a nesrro slave, who attended Narvarez in his expe-
    Vol. 20. No. 7S. Nov. 1804.                  K                 dition

MG        Second    loiter to Mr. Ttiluch   on ilia Coir-Pock.
dition against Cortcz.        Torribio affirms, that one half of the
people      in  the  provinces visited with this distemper, died.
The small-pox was not brought into Peru for several years
after the invasion of the Spaniards; but there too that dis
temper proved very fatal to the natives. — Ganla Oriaen,
p. 88. cited in Robertson's Hist, of America t vol. iii. p.4OO.
    About fifty years after the discovery of Peru, the small
pox was carried over from Europe to America, by way of
Carthagena, when it over-ran the continent of the new
world, and destroyed upwards of 100,000 Indians                     in
t|ie single province of Quito. This account was found
bv M. La Condamine, in an anticnt MS. preserved in
the cathedral of that city.       This author' also observes, that
in the Portuguese settlements bordering upon the River Ama
 zons, the small-pox was nearly fatal to all the natives, ». e.
original Americans. — See his Mem. xur !' Jnoc. p. 61.
    In 1/67, never were so many people seen to die as at
Kamtsehatka, when a soldier introduced the small-pox for               -
the first time; 20,OOO perishing from that disease, and
whole villages wereohscrvcd nearlydesolate. — COOK'S f'oyagc.
    The small-pox was first introduced into the frozen region
 of Greenland in 1733, when the mortality of this disease
was so great, that it almost depopulated the whole country.
 — See Crantz's History of Greenland, vol. i. p. 336.
    Even so late as the year 1793, when the small-pox was
 conveyed       to ihe Isle of France, in the East-Indies,        by a
 Dutch ship, five thousand four hundred persons perished
 there by this distemper in six weeks. — 1-l'ooduUle, vol. u
 p. 28.
                            The Conclusion.
     1.  Hence it appears, that had the small-pox seized upon a
 person more than once during the period of life, the body
 bcinij susceptible of more than one attack, as is the case with
 colds, fevers, agues, &c. cither the human race would have
 presented a frightful spectacle of corroded scars and mangled
 deformity, or, what is more probable, would have become
  extinct, unless the inventive ecnius of man, assisted by
  God's mercy, had found out a mode to lessen the fatality and
  deformity occasioned bv so formidable a disease, either by
  treatment, or some other means.
     i.'. It is likewise evident from this statement,     that all the
  •wais throughout the whole world (an observation worthy the
  notice of the statesman) have never cut the thread of so
  many lives as this inexorable devourer of' the human race,
  now happily, as will be seen in the following pages;
               3                                             chained

       Seco?id  Letter   to Mr. Tilloch         on the Cow-Pock.             147
chained down, it is hoped, never more to turn her destruc
tive fury on mankind, and strew the universe with dead
bodies, mangled victims, and disconsolate mourners.
   2. Of ilia  inoculated Small- Por, and             of its   Consequences.
The Result      of   these   Cases is represented in                the annexed
                     Table, taken from Dr. .Turin.
                                                 Hul    the (Supposed
                                      Persons     Small'     t i ! avL
                                       inocii-    pox by      died of
                   AGES.
                                        liteil.  inocula     tnncula-
                                                    tion.       t;on.
           Under One Year .               11         11            0
           One to Two                     15         14            2
           Two to Three . . .             31         31             1
          Three to Four . . .             41         38            1
           Four to Five     ....          33         31             1
           Five to Ten                  J 40       137             2
           Ten to Fifteen . . .           82         76            0
           Fifteen to Twenty              56         50            o
           Twenty to Fifty- two           62         50            ()
           Age unknown . ,                  3          2           0
                                    1
                       Total  . .      474         440
    Hence we find, that of the 4 74 persons first inoculated
in England,       nine died, and their deaths were not unjustly
suspected    to  have  happened in consequence of inoculation.
    Of   the  natural   sniall-pox, there usually dies one out of
three; the difference is greatly in favour of the inoculated
small-pox: hut the question is not how individuals benefit,
but the public at large.          Is the mortality of the small-pox
 diminished?
    The great and learned Dr. Meberdcn, in his observations
on the increase and decrease of different diseases, observes,
" that he examined carefully the bills of mortality, and
comparing the destruction occasioned by the small-pox
among our countrymen before and since inoculation, re
luctantly was brought to this melancholy conclusion, that at
the present period the proportional increase of deaths from
 this disease was asjiue to Jour."
    Dr. Lettsom, when examined before the committee of the
house of commons, stated, that he believed the inoculation
of the small-pox, instead of benefiting society, had greatly
increased the number of deaths.                 About the vcar 1773, he
                                     K -2                                    had

1 18     Second Letter to  Mr.   Tdloch on the Cow-Pock.
had paid particular attention to this subject, which afforded
some observations applicable to tbe present inquiry, and de
cisive upon a large scale of calculation, which a table by
figures more clearly evinced.      The experience of forty -two
years preceding the introduction of inoculation into this
country, was already placed in a clear point of view in the
Philosophical Transactions, by Dr. James Jurin, who was a
sanguine advocate for inoculation, and whose testimony was
therefore unexceptionable.        His numbers were taken from
the yearly bills of mortality, and the reason why the four
teen years from 1C86 to 1/01 wereomitled, was, because in
the bills of those years the account of the small-pox and
measles were not distinguished, as in the preceding and fol
lowing years, but were joined together in one article, so that
from them no certain account could be drawn of the num
ber of persons that died of the small-pox.        It appeared by
these tables, that out of 1,005,279 burials within the last
 forty-two years, 1742 persons mure have died of the small
pox than the proportionate number, as collected from the
experience of the first forty-two years ; seventeen more
burials therefore in one thousand had been occasioned by the
small-pox,     since inoculation had Iten adopted.
     "Taking London and     the out parishes as containing nearly
 1,000,000 of people, he calculates, that 3000 probably died
yearly by the small-pox, or eight every day ; or allowing
Great Britain and Ireland to contain 1 2,000,000 of people,
 no less than 36,000 annually.       About eight persons die by
 the small-pox every day in the metropolis and its environs,
 or a\mu\.jij-'iy-six in each week."
     The inoculation of the small-pox, therefore, increases
 instead of diminishing the number of burials.
     This circumstance soon struck the discerning mind of
 Baron Dimsdale, who had the honour of being selected from
 amontr the faculty here, and wc.it from England in order to
inoculate the empress of all the Kussias ; which succeeding,
 besides a pension, he was made a counsellor of state, and
  physician to her imperial majesty.
     Although every inducement led him to conceal the fact,
 yet, actuated by the love of truth, and patriotism towards a
 country to which he owed his promotion in life, became
 forward to sound the alarm, and show how a seeming bles
  sing was an actual evil to the state.
     " Although the loss," says he,       "  under inoculation is
  very inconsiderable, almost the whole of those that arc ino
  culated recovering, yet by spreading the disease, a greater
  proportion take it in the natural way : more lives arc now
                    1                                     forfeited

        Second Letter to  Mr. Tilloch   on the Cow-Pock.        14!)
forfeited in London than before inoculation commenced, and
the community at large sustains a grciiter loss: the practice,
therefore, is more detrimental than beneficial to society. In
the last four years preceding 1776, the London bills from
the small-pox arose at a medium to two thousand five hun
dred and tarty -four: this increase is truly alarming.        The
disease by inoculation        at the  different  public   charities
throughout London, would spread by visitors, strangers,
washerwomen, doctors, and inoculators ; by means of hack
 ney coaches, in which the sick are to be sent out to take the
air, or by sound persons approaching them in the streets.
     " The poor in London are miserably lodged; their habi
 tations are in close alleys, courts, lanes, and old dirty houses :
 they are often in want of necessaries, even of bedding. The
 fathers and mothers areemployed out constantly in laborious
 occupations, and cannot attend the inoculated sick: should
 they 'neglect their occupations, food and necessaries would
 be deficient, and the medicines ordered by the physicians
 would not be regularly complied with. The air in their
 houses is impure: they have neither areas, gardens, nor
 carriages for the convenience of ventilation and taking fresh
 air.
     " Sailors and sea-farinc people, many of whose lodgings
 are miserable in the little houses bordering on the river,
 would be liable to catch the distemper, and either to fall sick
 there without friends or assistants, or perhaps beingr infected
 on shore, to carrv it to sea in their contaminated clothes,
 and afterwards falling sick without care oraltendancc, might
  spread the disease in foreign climates.
     " Country people coming to town for markets, visits, or
 pleasure, would all be subject to the danger of infection.
  Persons coming from the sick to public charities, for medi
 cines or advice, by intermixing in the streets, tine public
 danger from their infected apparel would be great and inevi
 table: the whole neighbourhood would be exposed, afid in
  imminent danger, by having the small-pox brought to their
 doors. The gossiping disposition of the poor will spread
  it further; and after the sick recover, sallying forth in their
 infected clothes is certain to add to the misi hicf. The chil
 dren who are able to run about will intermingle in the streets,
 immediately upon their recover)', with their playfellows : the
 success therefore derived from inoculation must be beneficial
  to a.Jew only, but involve a great number of others in dan
  ger, to which they would otherwise be less exposed."
     Dr. Heberden observes, " That the poor form the largest
  part of mankind) and only consider the present moment ;
                                   K  3                          and

 1.50     Second Letter to j\lr. Ttlloch on the Cow-Pock.
 and their prejudices are strong, and not to be overcome by
 reason.     Hence, while the inoculation of the wealthy keeps
 up a perpetual source of infection, those who either do not
 choose, or cannot aflbrd expense, are more exposed to this
distemper. The danger also is increased by the custom of
 sending persons into the open air in every stage of the dis
 ease.    Hence, while inoculation may be justly esteemed as
 one of the greatest improvements ever introduced inlo the
 medical art, it occasions a greater sacrifice of life by what
has been distinguished by the appellation of the natural
small-pox."
    As a proof of this position,   we have the following record
from a most diligent and careful observer of facts, Dr. Wil-
lan, in his account of the diseases in London.
    " A child having been inoculated in a court (whose
parent kept a chandler's-shop) consisting of twenty houses;
the coaisequcnce was, that in this court seventeen persons
took the natural small-pox, although the season was kind
(April) ; and eight of these died.
    " They in their turn became the focus of fresh infection,
and thus a private good was converted into a public evil."
           3. Description of the inoculated Coii'-Pock.
    First, of the Pustule. — 4th day, A rising pimple con
taining a fluid ; the apex elevated. — 8th day, A circular
even-edged, flat, uniform pustule, containing a fluid in
cells; the apex a scab; circular inflammation. — 10th day,
Pustule enlarged with many small depressions; its central
part converting to a scab; fluid still transparent; the central
scab increased, and of a mahogany colour; hardness and
circular inflammation. — 13th day, The central scab in
creased in size, of a dark mahogany colour; the circle of
the pustule, as seen on the ) Oth day, completely converted
into a hazel-coloured scab; scarcely any fluid; inflammation,
deadened. — 14th day, Almost all the pustule converted into
a hazel -coloured scab, surrounding the dark mahogany cciir
tral scab; scarce any containing fluid, and that only in the
circumference, which has lost its blue tinge, and looks
brown. — -1 5th day, The whole pustule converted into two,,
distinct scabs ; no fluid; a white ring surrounding the pus
tule from the peeling away of some dead cuticle. — 16th day,
More white concentric rings from the same cause, and the
hardness and inflammation greatly subsided.
    These appearances may vary according to constitutions ;
tliey were drawn under my eye, from examinations made on
                                                           two

        Second  letter   to Mr. Tilloch    on (lie Cow-Pock.         151
two of my own children, and tolerably correctly charac
terize the usual stacrcs of the cow-pock.
    The cow-pock pustule is distinguished from the small
pox pustule from the following differences :
    In the small-pox the inoculated pustule is angulated, and
numerous pustules surround it; in the cow-pock, \hc pustule
has its edges regularly circumscribed, and stands solitary;
the small-pox pustule contains first a fluid, then opaque
matter; the cow-pock pustule a gelatinous iluid, which never
becomes converted into pus ; the edges of the one are more
elevated, in the otlwr more depressed ; the scab is also much
darker and harder in the cow-puck. — (.fnuier.)
    The fluid of the cow-pock is like the juice of an orange, in
blebs; of the small-pox, in a single cavity. The owe may be
inoculated upon, and is the disease of animals ; whereas the
small-box seems peculiar to the human race, and can be en
grafted, as John I lunter's experiment proves, upon no animal.
    When thecow-pock is inoculated, it never produces anir-
ruptive disease likethc other, but usually only a local pustule.
    Dr. Woodvillc, in his public report on the cow-pock,
observes, " That of the last two thousand cases of cow-pock
under my care, not a single alarming svmplom was excited ;
and I may now add, that during the last eight months 1
have not met with one instance of the vaccine disease,
 which has not been as favourable as the mildest cases of
variolous inoculation.       I have no doubt, therefore, that the
 inoculated cow-pock is as muck milder than the inoculated
 small-pox, as the latter disease is milder than the casual
 small-pox: nay, it seems to me from the very benign form
 in which the vaccine pock has of late invariably appeared,
 mat it mav be considered as a disease perfectly harmless in
 its effects."
     Dr. Willan, in his general report of the diseases of Ixm-
 don, savs, " lew or none of the out-patients of the hospi
 tal, inoculated with the vaccine pock, have pustules over
 the body." Dr. Woodville likewise observes, (Observations
 on the Cow-Pock, page 24,) " In mv private practice of in
oculation for the cow-pock, which has been very extensive, I
 have not met with one instance in which any pustules, re
 sembling those of the small-pox, appeared."             My own ex
 perience coincides perfectly with this statement,              in dif
 ferent families I have seen inoculated with vaccine fluid, oc
 casionally selected by myself at the hospital, and taken on
 new lancets, about sixtv persons, none of whom had pus
 tular eruptions*, at the maturation of the pock formed by
                                                                      the
    * In one chiM, three minute hard tulercles appcan.il an the fore-arm
                                K 4                                 a out

J52         Second Letter to     Mr. Tilloch    on the Cow- Pock.
the puncture.          Patients admitted into the inoculation hos
pital     have   often pustules on the body, after vaccine matter
 has been inserted in the arm, from the following cause :
They are mostly persons from the country, \vho, alarmed
 on finding some of the inhabitants of the houses where they
 lodge, or visit, affected with the small-pox, endeavour to an
 ticipate the disorder by means of inoculation, at some asylum
 opened to them by public benevolence.                  But the applica
 tion is probably too late : some of them have already re
 ceived the infection, and, before the vaccine pock can reach
 the end of its second stage, an eruption of variolous pus
 tules takes place in the usual manner.               In attending at the
 hospital last summer, while Dr. Woodville was on his mis
  sion to Paris, I observed four instances of persons so cir
  cumstanced, in whom the eruptions appeared, on different
  days, between the third and the eighth from inoculation*.
       The cow-pock producing no pustules, no quantity of
 fluid is re-absorbed into the constitution, producing a se
 condary fever, as is often in small-pox,, and the constitu
 tional affection is also much slighter, when it occurs, than
 with the small-pox.
       The small-pox when inoculated, or taken naturally,
 usually is ushered in by convulsion in children at all ages.
  *' Paint tp yourself," says Dr. Macdonald,               "one of these
  little innocent sufferers, stretched out, and covered with one
  continued sore; threatened with suffocation, uttering the
  igonies he feels by piercingly heart-wounding groans. — Ob-.
  serve how his mouth foams; listen to the grinding of his
  teeth; see how he thrusts his little trembling tongue be
  twixt them, and how pitcously it is wounded ! — Look ! how
  he is agitated with the most dreadful convulsions!                      his
  feeble limbs are twisted and contorted;, and threaten dislo
  cation; his frame bends backwards; is lifted up and thrown
  down again! — These fits now increase, — then cease, alas!,
  only to return with redoubled violence. — Misery calls aloud
  for help, help; — but calls in vain. — New convulsions suc
  ceed; — he foams, — struggles, gasps, — gasps again,              —    and
  pxpires !"
       The cow-pock is never ushered in by convulsions.
  aViut the seventh day, but they subsided in two or tlirec days.       This
  little eruption \va* merely the stmphulus candidus, described in the Trea
  tise on Cutaneous Diseases, page js.
       * From this cause some confusion arose in Dr. Woodvi]le'« first re
   ports j for, from inoculating at the same time with variolous matter, and
  sometimes from the contagion of the small-pox, pustular cases were not
   unfrc^ucntly produced.
                               [To  be continued.]
                                                       XXV.     Seimteenth

                              [   153    ]
XXV.     Seventeenth Communication from Dr. Thornton, rela
                   tive to Pneumatic Medicine.
                           To   Mr. Tilloch.
                                            Nov. 10, 1804,
     DEAR SIR,                  No. i.Hindc-ttrect, Manchester-square.
JL HAVE the honor to enclose you the following very striking
case for the information of the philosophic world :
         Case  of Chronic Herpes      cured  ly the Vital Air.
    Mr. Thomas CluUerham, glover, now residing at No. 3,
Thayer-street, Mahchester-square,wasapatientof'mine               so far
back as September 1796; and he had been afflicted, he be
lieves, from his cradle with a general humour extending nearly
over the wholesurface. Various remedies had been used at dif
 ferent times, but to no purpose, under very able practitioners.
 His disease appeared to me to be confirmed herpes (impetigo
 scabida of the very accurate Dr. Willan), and his face,
 when I first saw him, looked very like one labouring under
 the small-pox, being one general incrustation.            The erup
 tion, as I observed before, was also diffused over the
 whole body.       This disease had now existed twenty-three
 years.    I ordered him to continue the use of the same re
 medies, before found ineffectual ; as bark and steel, and, in
 addition, he inhaled the vital air, — agallon to four of atmo
 spheric air twice in the day, —and continued this for
 three months, without intermitting             a day (Sundays in
 cluded), when the eruption, gradually declining, was wholly
  conquered, and I pronounced him, I hoped, permanently
  cured.
                      Observations    on this Case.
     1. The patient is now before me (November 20, 1804),
  and says  "   he has enjoyed excellent health ever since, and
  has had no eruption of any kind, cither in the face or any
  part of the body ; nor has he taken any medicine whatever
  since."
     2. He    remembers     "   that the vital air very much in
  creased his appetite; that he ate more hearty during its ad
  ministration than at any former, or even at the present
  period."
     3. " His spirits were raised in consequence."
     4. Is not the rationale of this remarkable cure as follows?
  The vessels on the surface were torpid in their powers ; but
   when the heart was roused to increased action by the vital

154                                    On Cerium.
air, these were set into better motion, and the stagnated
fluids absorbed, and more vis vitee thrown on the surface,
sufficient to remove cutaneous obstructions; and, aided by
 tonic medicines, the disease vanished.
    5. Query—Would the vital air alone have effected so ex
traordinary a cure ? or medicines P — It is from combined powers
that I believe the benefit arose, as I have before endeavoured
to explain in some other cases.
                      I have the honour to remain,
                               Dear sir,
                           Your faithful, obliged friend,
                                                   Robert John Thornton.
XXVI.     On Cerium, a new Metal found in a Mineral Sub
     stanceof Bastnas in Sweden, edited Tungsten, described,
     by W. D'Hisinger and J. B. Berzelius*.
              I.   Description     of the Tungsten of Bastnas.
J.   hough this       substance was formerly tried by Scheelc and
D'Ellhuyar,          under  the name of wolfram, vet its consi
derable       specific gravity determined us to subject it to
 further researches.      Our object in particular was to find
 yttria, which, beingunknown at the time when these chemists
carried on their labours, might have escaped their attention.
Our suspicions were ill-founded ; since, instead of an earth,
we found in         according to every appearance,
                    it,                                   substance       a
hitherto unknown, as will be seen                      by
                                             what follows                     :
    The tungsten of Bastnas, which we call eerite, for rea
sons which will be hereafter mentioned, was found                the              in
year   1 750, in    copper mine called Bastnas, or Saint Gorans
                     a
koppargrufva, at Riddare-Hy ttan, in Westmannia, of which
it formed with asbestos the matrix           but after that time
                                                       ;                                 it
was inclosed in quartz and mica, at the depth of seventeen,
toises.
   Tungsten       almost ahvavs mechanically mixed with black;
                    is
amphibolite (hornbleud), striated actinote, of bright green           a
colour (schorl), with mica, sulphurated copper, loismulh,
and sulphurated molybdena, as one may be more readily
convinced by exposing          to the fire.
                                  it
   Cerite, properly    so called,    transparent, of flesh colour,
                                           is                         a
sometimes     dark,   sometimes    bright, and rarely yellow. The
stone in     mass,
              a      and  in  small  specimens,     of an irregular.
                                                               is
                         *                  i!e
                             From Annaks          Qhimie, Jfo. 550.
                                                                                  form ;

                                            On Cerium.                                     155
form    its fracture is indeterminate, compact, and somewhat
          ;
brilliant;   the edges obtuse; its consistence is tenacious and
strong;    it strikes fire with difficulty, but it does not scratch
glass; it is not Susceptible of attraction by the magnet ; but
when it has been brought to a red heat in the fire, it loses its
hardness and six or seven per cent, of its weight.       By this
operation it becomes friable, and assumes a bright yellow
colour; it does not fuse alone.
   Cronstedt, in his Mineralogv, places       in consequence  it,                            of,
its specific gravity, among the tungstens.         In pure frag
ments its weight        to that of water, as 4733 and 4935 to
                              is
) OOO.   As ScReele did not find wolfram in          he called          it,                 it
false tungsten.
   According to an analysis of D'Ellhuyar, the constituent
principles of this mineral were given        Bergmann, in the by
Memoirs of the Academy for the year 1784, p. 121, as fol
lows   :
                      Silex        -        022
                       ron    ]    -        024
                      Lime         -        054
                                                               100
  Heated            by
              the blow-pipe with borax,  forms  glass glo      it             a
bule, which, when warm, appears greenish, but colourless
when     has cooled.
              it       When fused with carbonate of soda,
in   platina spoon,
     a                    not dissolved.
                                  it   is
                              II.      Analysis           Cerium.
                                                  it of
     To separate theyttria, which        was suspected to contain,
it  was reduced to     fine powder in
                              a             porphyry mortar, and
                                                          a
 pure concentrated   nitric acid  was  then  added to it. The acid
was decomposed, and         considerable quantity of nitrous and
                                       a
 carbonic acid gases was disengaged.           The stony powder
.was several times treated with acid, until the insoluble resi
 duum appeared white.
    The solution, diluted with water, had           yellow colour,  a
 which became greenish          ebullition, and then red — when
                                            by                                    ;
 dried completely,     became yellowish white; but
                              it                           attract                by
 ing humidity      resumes its red colour.
                     it it
    In alcohol       entirely dissolved, and the solution, when
                         is
 slightly digested, deposits     considerable quantity of oxide of
                                             a
 iron.         It
            deposited   also more oxide of iron during         rest                    a
 of some days in a window.         The solution decanted, being
 almost clear, was evaporated to dryness, and the salt cal
 cined exhibited       powder of
                              a        brick colour. Water was
                                                 a
                                                                                           able

15<J                         On  Cerium,
able to dissolve only the calcareous earth.      Distilled vinegar
became charged only with a very small portion, and was not
saturated, though assisted by the heat of ebullition.         The
acetic solution, when evaporated,          gave small granulated
crystals, of a saccharine and astringent taste.         They were
not soluble in alcohol.      The part of the acetous salt, which
was not dissolved by alcohol, gave, after calcination, a
powder of a brick colour, similar to that which had not
been dissolved.
    Ammonia precipitated from the solution of the alcohol a
white powder, which became yellowish in the air. It was a
little soluble by carbonate of ammonia, and, by calcination,
assumed a brick colour.       The sediment being separated, the
carbonate of ammonia produced a white precipitate, which
•was pure carbonate   of lime. The acetous salt then contained
no yttria. The powder from which the calcareous earth had
been separated, dissolved in muriatic acid, disengaging oxy
genated muriatic acid gas, which indicated that it was a me
tallic oxide.
    Was it oxide of manganese united with oxide of iron ?
    To ascertain this, we tried to develop the pure oxide from
the manganese by means of the tartrite of potash, according
to the method of Richter.        In this manner we decomposeu
with tartrite  of potash   a solution of this substance in muri
atic acid perfectly  neutralized,   and, after having well washed
the while precipitate, we subjected it to slow calcination :
but this produced only powder of a brick colour.
    Caustic alkali had no action on the insoluble part of the
nitrate ; which proves that it contained no alumine.
    To obtain the metal pure in a sufficient quantity for
making several trials, wedissolveil another portion of cerite
in nitric acid, and evaporated the solution to dryness.
Water was then poured over the residuum, and the whole
was precipitated by ammonia. The precipitate when washed
was dissolved in nitric acid.         The solution, when well      •
neutralized by alkali, was precipitated by the tartrite of pot
ash. There was precipitated also from the same solution,
by carbonate of potash, a white powder, but in small quan
tity.   Both these precipitates were calcined separately, and
both assumed a brick colour.         The precipitate formed by
the carbonate of potash was not dissolved by the potash
with the assistance of digestion ; there was therefore no
alumine in it. The iron which the solution precipitated
by the tartrite of potash contained, was separated by the
bydro-sulphuret of ammonia.           The rest of the solution of
                                                               the

                              On  Cerium.                       15 7
the Cerite     in nitric acid, which had been precipitated by
caustic ammonia, gave by carbonate of ammonia carbonate
of lime.
    It results from, these trials that cerite contains nearly 23
parts of silex, 5-5 of carbonate of lime, 22 oxide of iron^
and a quantity of that matter in a metallic state; the weight
of which after calcination exceeded, a little, 50 per cent. But
this substance being then, as well as the iron, united with
more oxvgen than they contained in the cerite, instead of
loss we had an increase of gravity, which in all probability
arose from the oxygen.          The loss which the cente had ex
perienced by calcination is not here included.            We thus
found traces of manganese, but in a quantity so inconsi
derable that the potash fused with cerite and dissolved in
water exhibited no colour.
    Not having much experience in regard to complete ana
lysis, as far as quantity is concerned, we give these results
only with reserve, and in the hope that more expert che
 mists will employ themselves on this object.
   III.  Examination      of the metallic Oxide found in Cerite.
    With 37 grains of this oxide and linseed oil we made a
 paste, which was reduced to charcoal in a covered crucible.
 It lost half a grain of its weight. This mass was inclosed
 in a crucible of charcoal without flux: and M. Hjelm ex
 posed it for half an hour to such a degree of heat as would
 t>e necessary for the reduction of manganese.           The oxide
 was not fused, but reduced to a very fine powder: it exhi
 bited to the light brilliant particles, and stained white paper
 black.    It dissolved in muriatic acid, disengaging at the
 commencement sulphurated hydrogen gas, and then pure
 hydrogen gas.        This colourless solution had a saccharine
 taste.   It  therefore   appeared to us that the metal was in part
 reduced.       One may lind the origin of the sulphur in the
 sulphuric acid from which the matter had been separated
 by caustic ammonia.          It will be seen by further researches
 what influence this acid has in these trials.
     M. Gahn, of Fahlun, having a proper apparatus, pro
 mised to us to undertake the reduction of this substance
 with more force. If this operation be attended with success,
 we shall give an account of it hereafter.
     These and the following circumstances have determined
 us to consider the substance found in cerite as the oxide of
  a metal hitherto unknown,           to which we have given the
  name of              from the planet Ceres discovered by Piazzi.
             cerium^
                                                             Methud

 158                       On Cerium.
            Method of obtaining Oxide of Cerium.
    (A.) Dissolve  pure cerite, not calcined, in nitro-muriatic
acid, and, having saturated the clear solution with alkali,
precipitate it by tartrite of potash. The precipitate, when
well washed, calcined, and digested in vinegar, contains
pure oxide of cerium.
   Or decompose a solution of cerium in nitro-muriatic
acid, still warm, but not saturated by succinate of ammo
nia : a succinate of iron is gradually deposited.       Continue
this precipitation bv muriate of ammonia until a white pre
cipitate appears.    Leave the solution at rest, in order that
the small portion of succinate of cerium may be deposited.
The iron dissolved by the free muriatic acid deposits itself
at the same time, and the solution is obtained free from
that metal.     You may then precipitate the cerium with
ammonia, and wash and calcine it.
            Of  the Properties  of Oxide of Cerium.
    (B.) This oxide may appear under different degrees of
oxidation.    Alkalies precipitate from its solutions a white
oxide, which in the air has a yellowish colour, but which
when perfectly dry becomes dark. When exposed to a
strong neat, long continued, it assumes a dark brick colour.
The oxalate and acetate of cerium, when calcined in vessels
not completely shut, give a white oxide, which on an open
fire becomes of a brick colour.       It does not fuse alone.
   Treated bv the blowpipe with borax, it readily fuses and
swells up. The globule struck, by the external flame, as
sumes a blood colour, which by cooling passes to a green
ish yellow, and at length becomes colourless and acquires
                          '
complete transparency.      Fused by the interior flame, these
changes do not take place : it is then reduced to colourless
glass, but when exposed a little time to the exterior flame
tne same phenomena are exhibited.           If too much oxide of
cerium be employed, the glass resembles yellowish opake
enamel. These changes arc manifested more readily with
phosphates of soda and of ammonia. If two clear colourless
globules, one of which is made with borax and the other
with phosphate, be fused together, they give a transparent
glass, which on cooling becomes of an opake pearl colour.
   These characters taken together distinguish oxide of ce
rium from oxide of iron.        The latter presents the same
changes of colours ;    but its glass, after it has been cooled,
has   a dark green fugitive  colour.
   The globules of borax and phosphate fused together give
an opake gla^s, the colour of which is a little darker.
                        [To be continued.]
                                                   XXVII. Me-

                                     [    159      ]
XXVII.        Method       of giving     theGrain and Hardness of Steel
                  to Cupper.             By B. G. Sage*.
JYaahgraff           and      Pelletier have published their researches
on the union         of phosphorus with different metallic
                                                        sub
stances   the French chemist has improved this process, and
          :
it was by repeating and varying his experiments that I dis
covered that the surest and speediest means of phosphoriz-
ing copper was to take the metal under the metallic form,
to fuse   it with two parts of animal glass, and a twelfth of
charcoal powder ; but it is essential that the copper should
present a great deal of surface, — an advantage obtained by
taking shavings of that metal, which are placed in strata
with animal glass mixed with charcoal powder. I expose
the crucible to ?. fire sufficiently strong to fuse the animal
glass. There is then formed phosphorus, the greater part
of which burns, while another combines with the copper,
in which it remains incarcerated till no more is disengaged,
though kept in fusion for twenty minutes under the animal
 glass which has not been decomposed.
    When the crucible has cooled, and is broken, the phos-
              copper is found in the form of a gray brilliant
   utton under the glass, which has passed to the state of red
 Ehorated
 enamel. On being weighed, it is found that by this opera
 tion its weight has been increased a twelfth.
     If the phosphorized copper, when fused, falls on a plate
 of polished iron, it extends itself over it in the form of plates
 differently figured, which exhibit the play of colours of a
 pigeon's neck.
     The phosphorized copper is much more fusible than
 common copper : it may often be fused under charcoal
  powder without losing anv of its properties.
     The same phosphorized copper, when exposed a long
 time under the muffle, separates only with great difficulty
  from the phosphorus.
     The copper thus combined with phosphorus acquires the
  hardness of steel, of which it has the grain anil the co
  lour : like          susceptible of the finest polish
                it,
                it
                      it is                                can be            ;   it
  easily turned   ;   does not become altered in the air.     have                    1
  kept buttons of polished phosphorized copper          my labo          in
  ratory for fifteen years, without their experiencing any                                al
  teration.     The copper emits no smell when rubbed. Were
 it   ductile,  itwould be of the greatest utility, since no fat
   bodies seem to have any hold ot it.
               * From      the   Journal tit Pbv   iq:>c,   Mcssidor,   an   ji.
                                                                                          In

   iflo          On Phosphoric Acid and Phosphorus.
      Tn the phbsphorization of copper there is only a part of
  the animal glass decomposed, because a quantity of char
  coal necessary to phosphorize the whole acid has not been
  employed : but it is necessary that this should be the case
  in order that the vitreous scoria should be sufficiently fluid
  for the phosphorus to be disengaged and to collect itself
  readily.
      The dark red enamel which is formed in this experiment-
 may be employed with advantage for porcelain and enamels,
  as this red does not alter in the fire.
      Copper can combine with phosphorus only in the dry
 way.      If a cylinder of phosphorus be put into a solution of
 nitrate of copper diluted with four or five thousand parts of
 water, copper under the metallic form will be'found at the
 end of eight days crystallized and ductile, forming a case to
 the cylinder of phosphorus.
       XXVIII.     On Phosphoric Acid and Phosphorus,      fly
                         Jos. HUME, Esq.
                           T°
        PEAK    «„,
 AT     the request   of a medical friend of mine, I lately made
 some experiments      with  a view to form  a comparative esti
 mate between healthy urine and some of a peculiar morbid
 nature.
     In this analysis, amongst other observations which oc
 curred, I found that acetite of lead is by no means to be
depended on as the best test for phosphoric acid ; that it is
liable to induce error ; and in many instances where it has
been trusted to ascertain the quantity of the acid, the accu
 racy of the results may be suspected, especially where the
fubject did not consist of a simple phosphate.
     If my professional avocations permit, I shall endeavour
to extend many of these remarks, and fit them, under some
arrangement, tor a future number of the Philosophical Ma
gazine. It may be proper, however, to acquaint you, that
the substitutes I employed in lieu of acetite of lead, were
nitrates of lead, of barytes, or of zinc ; and some other
metallic salts which need not be named.
     In point of ceconomy and efficacy nitrate of lead is vastly.
superior to the acetite for the most exact and complete se
paration of phosphoric acid : hence in all cases whatever
it ought to be universally preferred in the preparation of
phosphorus.
                                                           With

            On Phosphoric Acid, and Phosphortu.             161
                                                    I
   With regard to the value, nitrate of lead may, presume,
be manufactured at less than 4-5ths of the price of the ace-
tite. The last we know requires that the lead be previously
prepared and oxidated ; and much time is spent in the ope
ration : on the contrary > the nitrate may be made directly
from the metal itself in the metallic state.
   When phosphate of soda was decomposed by these me
tallic salts, I found invariably a material difference in favour
of nitrate of lead : for 100 grains of the nitrate decomposed
 120 of the neutro-saline salt ; whereas 100 of the acetite of
lead required but 7 7 grains of the same phosphate*
   The metallic phosphate formed by the nitrate of lead and
phosphate of soda was pure; but that procured by the ace
                                                        I
tite was contaminated with an oxide, or a kind, as suspect,
<>f sub-acetite of the metal 5 and this circumstance alone
decidedly urged me to reject it as a test, and to abide by,
and rely on, nitrate of lead alone in every future analysis.
  I   know both of these metallic salts have been proposed
for the preparation of phosphorus ; but in no work what
ever, especially of the elementary kind, has any decided
preference been bestowed on the nitrate of lead : on the
contrary, the acetite is generally prescribed even by authors
of the most modern date.
    These remarks naturally point out the most frugal method
to procure phosphorus: the process, therefore,         I should
prefer is briefly this : —
    To decompose phosphate of soda by nitrate of lead ; in
wash and separate the metallic phosphate ; and, in the usual
manner, by means of charcoal, distil oft" the phosphorus.
    I have chosen phosphate of soda, in order to procure the
phosphorus quite pure;     as I apprehend, without great cau
tion,  some sulphates may exist when the acid is prepared
from bones, agreeably to Nicholas de Nancy's process, and
may eventually i>e converted into sulphur, which, we know,
will rise and distil over with the phosphorus. This suspicion
was entertained by my much respected friend the late Mr.
Woulfe.
   In many places, such as in garrisons, several public esta
blishments, and amongst manufacturers, where urine might
be collected with more decency, an immense quantity of
phosphate of lead may be formed daily, and returned for
a quantity of nitrate of lead, with which they should be
furnished for the purpose. I need not say this is Giobert'a
process, that of decomposing the phosphates in urine; such
as are capable of    bv nitrate of lead too.
                      it,                      Iam surprised
  VOL.    20.   No.   78. iVoi'.   1804.   L                 it

1 IS 2       On two Metals, found in the Hack Powder
it   has not only been little noticed, but absolutely seems to
have been rejected from general practice.
     By sundry experiments I have ascertained, tbat, on an
 average, from 300 to 500 grains of phosphate of lead may be
-daily obtained from          the urine generated by one healthy
 individual ; by employing, for thai purpose, a solution of
 nitrate of lead.
      Very pure phosphoric acid may likewise be commodiously
 manufactured by means of nitrate of barytcs.                    The phos
 phate thus formed is to be, in its turn, decomposed by sul
 phuric acid.
      This process applies equally to separate the phosphoric
 acid from urine, or from the impure acid obtained from
  calcined bones.
      After bones have been calcined and powdered, they should
  invariably be washed before the affusion of sulphuric acid,
  that no neutral soluble salt remain: this operation may be
  readily performed by suspending the pulverised ashes in a
  large quantity of water; and this method deserves to b«
  fallowed on many other occasions.               I remain, sir,
                                           Your obedient servant,
       J.»ng Acre,                                             Jos. HuME.
     Nuv. 19, if 04.
  XXIX.        On tivo Met ah, found in the Hack Pointer remaining
       after  l he Solution of Platina.      .CvSmithson Tennant,
       Esq.    F.R.S*
   v> pom making some
                                 experiments, last summer, on the,
   Wack powder which remains after the solution of platina, I
   observed that it did not, as was generally believed, consist
   chiefly of plumbago, but contained some unknown metallic
   ingredients.       Intending to repeat my experiments with
   more attention during the winter, I mentioned the result of
   them to Sir Joseph Banks, together with my intention of
   communicating to the Royal Society my examination of
   this substance, as soon as it should appear in any degree
   satisfactory.      Two memoirs were afterwards published in
   France, on the same subject; one of them by M. Descotils,
   and the other by Messrs. Vauauelin and Fourcroy.                         M.
   Descotils chiefly directs his attention to the effects produced
   by this substance on the solutions of platina.              He remarks,
   that a small portion of it is always taken up by nitro-muria-
         • Trom the Transactions
                                 of the Royal Society of London for 1804. .
                                                                            tic

           remaining after the Solution      of Plutina.          163
 lie acid, during its action on platina; and, principally from
Ihe observations he is thence enabled to make, he inters,
that it contains a new metal, which, among other proper
ties, has that of giving a deep red colour to the precipitates
 of platina.
    M. Vauquelin attempted a more direct analysis of the
substance, and obtained from it the same metal as that dis
 covered by M. Descotils.        But neither of these chemists
has observed, that it contains also another metal, different;
from any hitherto known.
    The substance with which my experiments were made,
 was obtained from platina which had been previously freed
from the sand and other impurities generally mixed with it j
so that it must have been contained in the substance of the
grains of platina. Though it has somewhat the appearance
of plumbago, it may easily be distinguished by its superior
weight.     By weighing it in a phial with water, I found its
specific gravity almost 10'7.
    Before I describe the method of separating the two metals
of which it consists, it may be worth while to mention the
effects of  it,  when combined with different metals in an
entire state.     Itreadily unites with lead but, even with
                                               ;
ten times its own weight, the
                                     compound has not, when
melted, much fluidity. "Upon dissolving the lead in nitrous
acid, the black powiltr was obtained, with little apparent
alteration, not having been entirely broken down, but con
sisting chiefly of the same scaly particles as at first. With
bismuth, zinc, and tin, the effects were nearly similar; but,
 by  fusion with copper in                              more per
                                 very strong heat,
                                 a                           a
fect union was produced. On                       to  dissolve  the
                                     attempting
compound     by  nitro-muriatic acid, some ot the powder was
taken up with the copper, forming very dark solution.
                                         a
    The undissolved portion consisted partly <*" the substance
in its original form of scales, and partly of blacker powder,
                                               a
the particles of which were too small to be visible-, and
which had probably been completely combined with the
copper. This substance may he easily united,         fusion, with
                                                        by
silver or gold; and    it   particularly deserving of attention,
                            is
that  it  cannot be separated from these metals              by
                                                         the usual
process of refining.    It  remains combined with either of
them, after cupellation with lead; and with the gold, after
quartation with silver. The alloys retain considerable duc
tility and the colour of that with gold
      ;                                           not materially
                                                   is
different from pure gold.
  1   shall now proceed to describe the analysis of the black
powder, and the properties of the two metals which enter
                                 L   2                         into

1 64        On two Metals, found in the black Ponder
hit,' its composition.       The method which I used for dis
solving     it,was similar to that employed             M. Vauquelin
                                                            by                ;
the alternate action of caustic alkali, and of an acid.                 put
                                                                          I
a  quantity of the powder into crucible of ail ver, with
                                      a                               large
                                                                          a
proportion of pure dry soda, and kept                 in    red heat for
                                                           it    a
some time.        The alkali being then dissolved in water, had
acquired     a  deep orange, or 'brownish-yellow            colour, but
much of the powder remained undissolved.                   This powder,
digested in marine acid, gave             a dark blue solution, which
afterwards became of         adusky olive-green, and finally, by
continuing the heat, of deep red colour. Part of the pow
                             a
der, being yet undissolved           by
                                      the marine acid, was heated as
before with alkali; and,         by the alternate action of the alkali
and acid, the whole appeared capable of solution.                At each
operation some silex was taken up               the alkali; and, as this
                                                  by
continued till the metallic part was entirely dissolved,                      it
seems to have been chemically combined with it.
    The alkaline solution contains the oxide of                   volatile
                                                                     a
 metal, not yet noticed, but which            Ishall presently describe,
and also    a small proportion of the other metal. If this solu
tion   is kept for some weeks, the latter metal separates spon
taneously from         it,
                        in the form of very thin flakes, of dark          a
colour.
    The acid solution also contains both the metals, but prin
cipally that which has been mentioned by the French che
mists.      The properties of this last metal, which they have
remarked, are those of giving             ared colour to the triple salt
of platina with sal-ammoniac, of not being altered                   by
                                                                  muriate
of til); and of giving, with pure alkali, dark brown precipi
                                                       a
tate.     M. Vauqnelm also adds, that                   precipitated
                                                       it   is                by
galls, and       prussiate of potash; but should rather ascribe
                  by                               I
these precipitates to some impurity, and probably to iron.
    As it   isnece'ssary to give some name to bodies which have
not been known before, and most convenient to indicate
 by
 it     some characteristic property,         I should incline to catl
this metal irit/ittm, from the striking variety of colours which
it gives, while dissolving in marine acid.
    In order to obtain the compound of this metal with ma
rine acid    in   pure state,
                   a             I tried to make        crystallize.
                                                            it
    By   slow  evaporation    of the   solution, only an imperfectly
crystallized mass was produced                but this, being dried on
                                              ;
blotting-paper,      and  dissolved     in  water,  afforded,         by
                                                                     again
evaporating      as  before,   distinct    octaedral'  crystals. These
crystals, dissolved in water, gave            adeep red coloured solu
tion, inclining to orange.         With an infusion of galls, no
precipitate was formed, but the colour was instantly, and
                                                                   almost

                     remaining after the Solution of Plutina,           I6i
    almost entirely, takea away. Muriate of tin, carbonate of
    soda, anil prussiatc of potash, produced            nearly the same
    effect.    Pure ammonia precipitates the oxide; hut (possibly
    from adding it in excess) I found it retained a part in solu
    tion, acquiring a purple colour.        The pure fixed alkalis also
    precipitate the greater part .of the oxide, but are capable
    of retaining a part in solution, becoming of a yellow
    colour.     All the metals which I tried, excepting gold
    and platina, produced          a dark or black precipitate from
    the muriated solution, which is at the same time deprived
    of its colour. The iridium may be obtained in a pure
    state, merely by exposing the octaedral crystals to heat
    which expels the oxygen and the muriatic acid.                It ap
    peared of a white colour, and was not capable of being
    melted by any degree of heat I could apply.              I could not
    combine it with sulphur nor with arsenic. Lead easily
    unites with itj but is separated by cupellation, leaving the
    iridium upon the cupel, as a coarse black powder. Copper
    forms with it a very malleable alloy, which, after cupellation
    with the addition of lead, left a small proportion of the
    iridiiim, but much less than in the former case. Silver may
    be united with           it,
                              and the compound remains perfectly
                                                              it
    malleable. The iridium was not separated from             by   cupel
    lation, but occasioned on the surface            a dark or tarnished
    hue.   It   appeared not to be perfectly combined with the
    silver, but merely diffused through the substance of            it,in
    the state of     fine powder.
                     a                 Gold alloyed with indium           ia
    not freed from         it      by
                                cupellation, nor     by quartation with.
    silver. The compound was malleable; and did not differ
    much in colour from pure gold, though the proportion of
    alloy was very considerable.         If the gold or silver dis is
    solved, the iridium        left, in the form of black powder.
                                 is                  a
        The yellow alkaline solution,which       Ihave already mention
    ed as containing       metallic oxide, distinct from the former,
                             a
    is  considered bv M. Vauauelin as solution of the oxide of
                                            by a
    chrome   in alkali but could not,
                         ;       I            any test, discover the pre
    sence of chrome. After the superfluous alkali had been neu
    tralized    byan acid,      produced
                                 it         apale or buff-coloured pre
    cipitate with      asolution of lead, and not the bright yellow
    which  is  given     by
                          chrome. But, as we are indebted to the
    above distinguished chemist, among many other important
    discoveries, for our knowledge of the existence of chrome,            it
•   is  not improbable that some kinds of platina may contain
    that substance, besides the other bodies usually mixed with
    it. When the alkaline solution             first formed,
                                                is            by  adding
    water to the dry alkaline mass in the crucible,       a pungent ana
                                        L   3                    peculiar

106       On tu'o Metals, found in the black Powder
peculiar smell     is immediately perceived.      This smell, as    I
afterwards    discovered,     arises from the extrication of a very
volatile metallic oxide; and, as this smell is one of its most
distinguishing characters, I should on that account incline
to call the metal osmium.
   This oxide may be expelled from the alkali by any acid,
and obtained in solution with water by distillation.             The
sulphuric acid, being the least volatile,, is the most proper
for this purpose; but as, even of this acid, a little is liable to
pass over, a second slow distillation is required, to obtain
the oxide perfectly free from it.            The solution thus pro
cured is without colour, has a sweetish taste, and the strong
smell before mentioned.            Paper stained blue with violets,
was   not  changed by     it to  red ; but, by being exposed to the
vapour   of  it in  a phial, the  paper lost much of its blue colour,
and inclined to e;ray.       As a certain quantity of this oxide is
extricated during the solution of the indium in marine acid,
that part may also be obtained by distillation.
   Another mode by which the oxide of osmium may be
obtained in small quantity, but in a more concentrated state,
is, by distilling with nitre the original black powder procured
from platina.
   With a degree of heat hardly red, there sublimes into the
neck of the retort a fluid apparently oily, but which, on
cooling, concretes into a solid, colourless, scmitransparent
mass.     This, being dissolved in water, forms a solution
similar to that before described. The oxide, in this concen
trated state, stains the skin of a dark colour, which cannot
be effaced.      The most striking test of the oxide of osmium,
is an infusion of galls, which presently produces a purple
colour, becoming soon after of a deep vivid blue. By this
means, the presence of this, and of the metal first described,
may be observed, when the two are mixed together. The
 solution of indium is not apparently altered by being
mixed with the oxide of osmium ; but, on adding an in
 fusion of galls, the red colour of the first is instantly taken
 away, and soon after the purple and blue colour of the latter
 appears.     The solution of the oxide of osmium with pure
 ammoriia, becomes somewhat yellow, and slightly so with'
 carbonate of soda.        Ft is not affected by pure magnesia, nor
 by chalk ; but with lime a solution is formed of a bright
 yellow colour.       The solution with lime gives with galls a
 deep red precipitate, which becomes            blue by acids. It
 produces no effect on a solution of platina or gold; but
 precipitates lead of a yellowish-brown, mercury of a white,
 and muriate of tin of a brown colour.
                    2                                             The

                  remaining after the Solution        of Platina.                  167
   The oxide of osmium becomes of a dark colour with
ilcohol, and, after some time, separates in the form of black
films, leaving the alcohol without colour.    The same effect
is produced by ether, and much more quickly.
   This oxide aopcars to part with its oxygen to all the metals,
excepting gold and platina.    Silver being kept in a solution
of it for some time, acquires a black, colour; but does not
entfrely deprive it of smell.  Copper, tin, zinc, and phos
phorus, quickly produce a black or gray powder, and
deprive the solution of all smell and of the power of turning,
galls of a blue colour. This black powder, which consists of
the osmium in a metallic state, and the oxide of the metal
employed to precipitate           it,may be dissolved in nitro-
muriatic acid, and then becomes blue with infusion of
galls.
   If the pure oxide of osmium, dissolved in water, shaken               is
with mercury,           very soon loses its smell
                         it                          and the metal,
                                                           ;
combining with the mercury, forms             perfect amalgam.
                                                 a
   Much of the mercury may be separated                        by
                                                       squeezing                    it
through leather, which retains the amalgam of firmer con        a
sistence. The remaining mercury being distilled off,                                a
powder       left, of dark gray or blue, colour, which
             is               a                                  the          is
osmium in its pure state. By exposing            to heat with access
                                                      it
of air, evaporates, with the usual smell; but the oxida
         it                                                         if
tion    iscarefully prevented,        does not seem in any degree
                                       it
volatile.    Being subjected to        strong white heat, in cavi
                                        a                                     a
it ty
    made      in piece of charcoal,
                   a                       was not melted, nor did
                                            it
    undergo any apparent alteration.           Heated in     similar     a
situation with copper and with gold,           melted with each of
                                                  it
these metals, forming alloys which were quite malleable.
These compounds were easily dissolved in nitro-muriatic
acid, and,        distillation, afforded the oxide of osmium with
                   by
the usual properties.
   The pure metal which has been previously heated, does
not seem to be acted on           by
                          acids; at least   could not per  I
ceive any effect produced  boiling by  for some  time with
                                                  it
nitro-muriatic  acid. By heating       in   silver cup with
                                                 it        a
caustic alkali,  immediately combined with the alkali, and,
                        it
with water, gave     yellow solution, similar to that from
                              a
which     was procured.
         it               Acids expel from this solution the
oxide of osmium, which has the usual smell, and the power
of giving to infusion of galls the blue colour before men
tioned.
                                       L4                                XXX.      On

                                  I   168     ]
XXX.         On a vew Metal, found in crude                       Platina.     By
    William Hyde Wollaston, M. D.                                 F. R. S.*
.[Notwithstanding I          was aware that M. Descotils had
ascribed    the red colour of certain precipitates and salts of
 platina, to the presence of a new metal ; and although Mr.
Tcnnant had obligingly communicated to me his discovery
of the same substance, as well as of a second new metal, in
the shining powder that remains undissolved from the ore of
platina; yet I was led to suppose that the more soluble parts
of this mineral might be deserving of further examination,
as the fluid which remains after the precipitation of platina
by sal ammoniac, presents appearances which I could not
ascribe to either of those bodies, or to any other known
substance.
    My inquiries having terminated more successfully than I
had expected, T design in the present Memoir to prove the
existence, and to examine the properties, of another metal,
hitherto unknown, which may not improperly be distin
guished by the name of rhodium, from the rose-colour of a
dilute, solution of the salts containing it.
    I shall also take the same opportuuity of stating the result
of various experiments, which have convinced me, that the
metallic substance which was last year offered for sale by
the name of palladium, is contained (though in very smafl
proportion) in the ore of platira.
   The colour of the solution that remains after the precipi
tation of platina, varies, not only according to its state of
dilution, but also according to the strength and proportions
of the nitric and muriatic acids employed. This colour,
though principally owing to the quantity of iron contained
in it,  arises also in part from     small quantity of the am-
                                          a
rooniaco-muriate of platina, that necessarily remains dis
solved, and from other metals contained                in
                                               still smaller pro
portions.
    (A   1 .) To recover the remaining platina, as well as to
separate the other metals that are present from the iron,                      I
have in some experiments employed zinc,          others iron, for
                                                            in
their precipitation.     The former appears preferable; but,
when the latter has been used, the precipitate may imme
diately be freed from the iron that adheres to          muriatic it,   by
acid, without the loss of any of those metals which axe at
present the subject of inquiry.
   * Froin      the Transactions oftbe Royai Society    London for 1804.
                                                       of
                                                                            (A3.)

             On a new Metal, found in crude Platina.          16<>
    fA 2.) Having in one instance dissolved such a precipitate
in nitro-muriatic acid, and precipitated the platina by sal
ammoniac, I suffered the remaining fluid to evaporate with
out    heat j and obtained a mixture of various crystals, very
different from each other in form and colour.        From these,
I   selected for examination some that      were   of  a deep red
colour, partly in thin plates adhering        to the sides of the
 vessel,    and partly in the  form  of  square prisms having a
 rectangular termination.
    (A3.) A portion of these crystals being heated in a small
tube, yielded sal ammoniac by sublimation, and left a black
residuum, which, by greater heat, acquired a brilliant me
tallic whiteness, but could not be fused under the blow
 pipe. Having obtained this substance from a distinctly cry
 stallized salt, I was inclined to consider it as a simple
 metal ; and, as I found it to be wholly insoluble in nitro-
 muriatic acid, I judged it not to be platina.
     (A 4.) The crystals also, instead of being nearly insolu
 ble, like the ammoniaco-muriatc of platina, were dissolved
 in a small quantity of water, and gave a rose-coloured solu
 tion. Upon mixing this with a solution of platina, the
 ammonia was transferred by superior affinity to the latter,
 forming an ammoniaco-muriatc of platina; and the precipi
 tate was of a yellow colour.     Consequently, the metal con
 tained in the salt was neither platina, nor that which giveg
 the red colour to the salts of platina.
     It would be useless to detail my first unsuccessful experi
 ments, made upon the properties of this metal, in hopes of
 discovering means by which its separation from platina
 might be effected ;   I shall therefore confine myself to the
 following process, which appears to be the most direct for
 procuring rhodium in a state of purity. In the same process
 also palladium is obtained, so as to afford a presumption,
 that it is rather a natural simple body than any artificial
 compound.
     (B l.) Since the platina to be procured in this country
 generally contains small scales of gold intermixed, as well an
 a portion of the mercury which the Spaniards employ for the
 separation of the gold, the platina used for my experiments,
 after being by mechanical means freed, as far as possible,
 from all visible impurities, was exposed to a red heat, for
 the purpose of expelling the mercury.       It was then digested
 for some time in a small quantity of dilute nitro-muriatic
 acid, and frequently shaken, till the whole of the gold was
 dissolved, together with any impurities that might super
 ficially adhere to the grains of platina.
                                                            (B2.)

 HO                 On anew Metal, found in crude Platina.
    (B 2.)    Of the ore thus prepared, nearly 2£ ounces Were
 then dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid, (diluted for the purpose
 of leaving as much as possible of the shining powder,) and
 the whole suffered to remain in a moderate sand heat, till
 completely saturated.
    (B 3.)   Such a portion of this solution was then taken for
 analysis, as corresponded to 1000 grains of the prepared ore.
 An ounce of sal ammoniac was next dissolved in hot water,
 and used for the precipitation of the platina.       The precipi
 tate obtained was of a yellow colour, and, upon being heated,
 yielded 815 grains of purified platina.
    (B 4.) The water used for washins this precipitate hav
 ing been added to the solution pourc3 from                 piece of
                                                                 it,   a
clean zincwas immersed in         and suffered to remain till there
                                    it,
 appeared to be no further action upon the zinc.            The iron
contained       the ore (to the amount of 14 or 15 per cent.)
                    in
 remained in solution.     The other metals had subsided, in
 the form of black powder, which
                     a                      estimated between 40
                                                  1
 and 50 grains; but, as there was no occasion to weigh                          it
with accuracy,      thought
                         I     better not to dry this precipitate;
                                  it
for,   if  be heated, the rhodium
            it                           in danger of being ren
                                             is
dered insoluble.
    (B 5.) As had previously ascertained that this precipi
                         I
tate would contain platina, rhodium, the substance called
palladium, copper, and lead, the two last metals were first
dissolved in very dilute nitric acid, aided            gentle heat.
                                                            by   a
The remainder, after being washed, was digested in dilute
nitro-muriatic acid, which dissolved the greater part, but
left as much as 4| grains undissolved*.
      (B6.) To the solution were added 20 grains of com
mon salt and, when the whole had been evaporated to
               ;
dryness with      very gentle heat, the residuum, which
                      a                                          had       I
found from prior experiments, would consist of the soda-
niuriates of platina, of palladium, and of rhodium, was
washed repeatedly with small quantities of alcohol, till                        it
came off nearly colourless.     There remained        triple salt of
                                                             a
rhodium, which               by
                         these means       freed from all metallic
                                              is
impurities.
    (C     1 This salt, having been dissolved in small quan
            .)                                                   a
tity  of hot water, and let to stand 12 hours, formed rhom-
boidal crystals, of which the acute angle was about 75°.
    (C 2.)      was then again dissolved
                    It                          water, aftid divided
                                                       in
int,o two equal portions.    Of these one was decomposed                       by
                                                                                a
  •   It   was presumed that this residuum   consisted principally of the me
tal called  Mr. Tennant indium but, as
               by                      ;          itwas accidentally mishit',
and was not examined,  might also contain
                             it                   a   portion of rhodium.
                                                                            piece

              On a new Metal, found in crude Platiiia.       171
piece   of zinc,     and the other examined by the following re-/
agents.
    (C 3.)   Sal ammoniac occasioned no precipitation; but,
when a solution of platina was added to the mixture, a preci
pitate was immediately formed, and the colour of this preci
pitate was yellow ; which again proves, that the metal con
tained in this salt is. neither platina itself, nor that which
gives the red colour to its precipitates.
    (C 4.) Prussiate of potash occasioned no precipitation,
as it would have .done if the solution had contained palla
dium.
     (C 5.) Hydro-snlphuret of ammonia, which would have
precipitated either platina or palladium, caused no precipita
 tion of this metal.
     (C 6.) The carbonates of potash, of soda, or of ammo
 nia, occasioned no precipitation; but the pure alkalis preci
 pitated a yellow oxide, soluble by excess of alkali, and also
 soluble in every acid that I have tried.
     (D 1 .) The solution of this oxide in muriatic acid, upon
 being cvapoTfated, did not crystallize; the residuum was
 soluble in alcohol, and of a rose colour.        Sal ammoniac,
 nitre, or common salt, caused no precipitation from the
 muriatic solution ; but formed triple salts, which were not
 soluble in alcohol.
 '
      (D 2.) The solution in nitric acid also did not crystalline.
 A drop of this solution, being placed upon pure silver, occa
 sioned no stain. On the surface of mercury a metallic
 film was precipitated, but did not appear to amalgamate.
 The metal was also precipitated by copper and other metals,
 as might be presumed, from the usual order of their affinities
 for acids.
    (E 1.) The precipitate obtained by zinc (C 2.) from the
 remaining half of the salt, appeared in the form of a black
 powder, weighing, when thoroughly dried, nearly 2 grains,
 corresponding to about 4 grains in the 1000 of ore dissolved.
     (E 2.) When exposed to heat, this powder continued                 ,
 black; with borax, it acquired a white metallic lustre, but
 appeared infusible by any degree of heat.
     (E 3.) With arsenic, however, it         is,
                                             like platina, ren-
 tlered fusible; and, like palladium,     may also be fused
                                         it                        by
 means of sulphur.       The arsenic, or the sulphur, may be
 expelled From       it continuance of the heat but the metal
                          by   a                    ;
  lic button obtained does not become malleable, as either of
 the preceding metah would be rendered              by
                                                  similar treat
  ment.
      (E 4.)     unites readily with all metals that have been
                It
                                                             tried.

   1?2           On a new Metal, found in crude Plai'ma.
  tried, excepting mercury; and with gold or silver it forms
   very malleable alloys, that arc not oxidated by a high degree
   of heat, but become incrusted with a black oxide when very
   slowly cooled.
       (bl 5.)    When 4 parts of gold are united with 1 of rho
  dium, although the alloy may assume a rounded form under
   the blowpipe, yet it seems to be more in the state of an
  amalgam than in complete fusion.
       (E 6.) When 6 parts of gold are alloyed with 1 of rho
  dium, the compound may be perfectly fused, but requires
  far more heat than fine gold. There is no circumstance in
  which rhodium differs more from platina, than in the colour
  of this alloy, which might be taken for fine gold, by any one
 •who is not very much accustomed              to discriminate the dif->
  Jierent qualities of gold.          On the contrary, the colour of an
 alloy containing the same proportion of platina, differs but
 little from that of platina. This was originally observed by
 Dr. Lewis. " The colour was still so dull and pale, that the
 compound (5 to l) could scarcely be judged by the eye to
 contain any gold*."                                        *
      1 find that palladium resembles platina, in this property of
 destroying the colour of a large quantity of gold.              When
  1 part of palladium is united to 6 of gold, the alloy is nearly
 white.
     (E 7.) When I endeavoured to dissolve an alloy of
 silver or of gold with rhodium, the rhodium remained un
 touched by either nitric or nitro-muriatic acids; and, when
 rhodium had been fused with arsenic or with sulphur, or
 \\hcn merely heated by itself, it was reduced to the same
 state of insolubility.         But when 1 part of rhodium had been
fused with 3 parts of bismuth, of copper, or of lead, each of
these alloys could be dissolved completely, in a mixture of
 2 parts, by measure,            of muriatic acid, with 1 of nitric.
With the two former metals, the proportion of the acids to
each other seemed not to be of so much consequence as with
lead; .but the lead appeared on another account preferable,
a* it was most easily separated, when reduced to an in
soluble muriate by evaporation. The muriate of rhodium
had then the same colour and properties, as when formed
from the yellow oxide precipitated from the original salt.
(Dl.)
     (E   8.)    The specific gravity of rhodium, as far as could
be ascertained by trial on so small quantities, seemed to
exceed 1 1 .       That of an alloy consisting of 1 part rhodium
              •
                Lewis's Philosophical  Comm?rc; of Arts, p. jz6.
                                                                  and

                On a   neu>   Metal, found in    crude   Platina.            1   7*
and about 2 parts lead, was 11-3; which is so nearly that
of lead itself, that each part of this compound may be con
sidered as having about the same specific gravity.
   F. As it was expected that the alcohol employed for
washing the salt of rhodium (B 6.) would contain the soda-
muriates of platina and of palladium, the platina was first
precipitated by sal ammoniac. This precipitate was of a
deep red colour ; and, when it had been heated, to expel the
sal ammoniac, the platina which remained was of a dark
gray colour.
   (G  1.)  To the remaining solution, after it had been
diluted  to prevent any further precipitation of platina,                         I
added prussiate of potash, which instantly occasioned a very
copious precipitate, of a deep orange-colour at first, but
changing afterwards to a dirty bottle-green, which ascribed          I
to iron contained in the prussiate.
   (G 2.) This precipitate, when dry, weighed 12J- grains.
After it had been heated, it left a metallic residuum, in small
grains, of a gray colour, weighing nearly 7 grains. A small
portion, of h being heated with borax, communicated a dark
brown colour to the borax, as from iron, and acquired a
bright metallic lustre, but could not be fused under the
blowpipe.     With sulphur, however, it fused immediately
into a round globule, which, by floating upon mercury,
appeared of less specific gravity than that metal.
    (G 3.) The whole quantity was then treated in the same
manner, and purified by cupellation with boraxj ttll it cooled
with a bright surface.       From the globule the sulphur was
expelled, by exposure     to the extremity of the flame; and it
became spongy and malleable, weighing in this state very
nearly 5 grains.
    (G 4.) A portion of thi« metal was dissolved in strong
nitrous acid, was precipitated by green sulphate of iron, ana
in other respects possessed all the properties ascribed to the
palladium offered for sale, in the printed paper that accom
panied    it,
            as well as others since noticed         Mr. Chenevix.
                                                         by
    (G 5.) In its precipitation             by
                                        prussiates,     differs most
                                                              it
essentially from platina and consequently
                                   ;                            by
                                                          no means
                                                           is
difficult to be distinguished, or separated from it.
    (G 6.) The action of muriate of tin upon the solution*
of these metals      also totally different.
                        is                        A dilute solution
of platina,      is
               thereby changed     from     pale yellow to
                                                 a             trans     a
parent   blood-red.        solution
                              A       of  palladium, on the con
trary, usually becomes opaque,              by
                                         the formation of brown          a
or black precipitate; but,        mixed in such proportion as to
                                       if
remain transparent,      changes to
                              it          beautiful emerald -green.
                                             a
                                                                                 7.)

 174            On a new Metal, found in crude Platina.
       (G  7-)   In the formation of triple salts with the alkalis,
  as    observed by Mr. Chcnevix, palladium may be said to
  resemble platina; but the salts thus formed are far more
  soluble than the corresponding salts of platina, and differ
  entirely in the colour and form or' the crystal*.
       (G 8.) The soda-muriate of palladium is a deliquescent
  salt; that of platina, on the contrary, forms permanent
  crystals.
       (G 9.) The triple salts of platina, with either muriate of
  ammonia or of potash, form octaedral crystals of a yellow
  colour, that are very sparingly soluble in water. The
  corresponding salts of palladium likewise resemble each
 other in every respect.           The crystals are very soluble in
 water, but insoluble in alcohol ; their form is that of a four-
 sided prism, and they each present a curious contrast of
 colour, that certainly is not observable in any known, salt of
  platina.
       (G 1O.)     Although the solution is of a deep red, the
 crystals are of a bright green when viewed transversely.
 In the direction of their axes, however, the colour is the
 same as that of the solution; but, on account of its extreme
 intensity, it is with difficulty distinguished in fragments that
 exceed -pj-j- of an inch in thickness.             One consequence of
 this colour is nevertheless very observable; namely, that in
 viewing anv crystal obliquely, it appears of a dull brown,
that arises from a mixture of the red and green*.
      The characters of palladium that have Tjeen enumerated,
 undoubtedly belong to none of the simple substances that
we are acquainted with; and no experiment that I have
made has tended to confirm the suspicion of its being a
     :" The
             change of colour aVc-ve described, though certainly uncommon,
js neverthekss not peculiar to the salt's of palladium, but may be seen also
in some kinds of tourmalin. Arr,on»» those which come to us from Ccyloii,
»ome arc transparent j and one variety is of a deep red in the direction of
ks axis, but of a yellowish green when viewed transversely.           There is
also 3 corresponding, but opposite contrast of colours, that has been ob
served by Muller, anil described by Bergmaun, in some of the Tyrolese
tourmalins.      The general asp- ct of these stones \s black, and apparently
opaque.      Some, however, of which the fracture is vitreous, arc found to
transmit a yellowish-red lignrwhen viewed transversely, but in the direc
tion of iheir axis the colour is a dull bottle-green.
    Jn each of these tourmalins, as well as in the salts of palladium, the
colour in the direction of ihc axis, is at least 10 times more intense than in
the transverse direction.    A thin lamina, cm from the end of a Tyrolese
tourmalin for i!iis purpose, transmitted no visible light, till it was reduced
toi-6othofan inch in thickness; and, when less than i-ioo:h of an inch,
it was not more transparent than another portion of the same crystal seen •
transversely, i-io;hof an inch in tliickncis.
                                                                 compound,

            On a neiv Metal, found in crude Plalina.         175
compound, consisting of any known ingredients.           The ex
periments     above related   show evidently that the ore of pla-
tina contains a very small quantity of palladium ; and it is
not unlikely that this may have been a constituent part of
some .of the compounds obtained by Mr. Chenevix, and
may have misled him, by some properties which he would
consequently observe, into the supposition that he had
formed palladium.
     Tt is not, however, without having repeatedly endeavoured
to imitate his experiments, that I have ventured to dissent
 from such authority.        1 made many attempts to unite pure
 platina with mercury, by solution and by amalgamation ; but
 without success in any one instance.
     From a solution of platina, carefully neutralized, as Mr.
 Chenevix directs, with red oxide of mercury, and mixed
 with a solution of green sulphate of iron, I indeed obtained
 such a precipitate of metallic flakes as he describes ; but,
 upon examination of these flakes, they yielded mercury by
 distillation ; and the remainder consisted of platina com
 bined with a portion of iron, but had not any properties
  which I could suppose owing to the presence of palla
  dium.
      Upon comparing the specific gravity of this substance,
  which was said to he, at most, H'8, with that of mercury
  or of platina, I was always strongly inclined to doubt the
  possibility of its being composed of these metals.      I could
  recollect no one instance in which the specific gravity of
  any compound is less than that of its lightest ingredient,
  and could not, without careful examination, admit the sup
  position, that mercury could be rendered lighter by intimate
  union with platina.       It now appears fully confirmed that
  this persuasion, arising from uniform experience, was well
  founded ; for, if we consider the difficulty of producing even
  an imperfect imitation of palladium, the failure of all at
  tempts to resolve it into any known metals, the facility of
  separating it from any mixed solution of those which it has-
  heen supposed to contain, as well as the number and di-
   gtinctness of its characteristic properties, I think we must
  class it with those bodies which we have most reason to
   consider as simple metals.
                                                      XXXI. No

                            L   Wfl   J
            XXXI.    Notices respecting  New Books.
  JL he Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of
 London for the Year 1604, Part II., contain: — Analytical
 Experiments and Observations on Lac. By Charles Hat
 chett, Esq. F.R.S. — On the Integration of certain differen
 tial Expressions with which Problems in physical Astro
 nomy are connected, &c. By Robert Woodhouse, A.M.
 F.R.S. Fellow of Caius College. —Observations on Basalt,
 and on the Transition from the vitreous to the stony Texture,
 which occurs in the gradual Refrigeration of melted Basalt;
with some geological Remarks.        In a Letter from Gregory
 Watt, Esq. to the Right Hon. Charles Greville, V.P. R£.
 *— An Analysis of the magnctical Pyrites; with Remarks on
 some of the other Sulphurcts of Iron. By Charles Hatchett,
Esq. F.R.S. — Remarks on the voluntary Expansion of the
Skin of the Neck, in the Cobra dc Capeflo,or hooded Snake
of the East Indies. By Patrick Russell, M.D. F.R.S. With
a Description of the Structure of the l'arts which perform
that Office.    By Everard Home, Esq. F.R.S. — Continua
tion of an Account of the Changes that have happened in.
the relative Situation of double Stars. By William Her-
schel, LL.D. F.R.S. — Observations on the Change of some
of the proximate Principles of Vegetables into Bitumen;
with Analytical Experiments on a peculiar Substance which
is found with the Bovey Coal. By Charles Hatchett, Esq.
F.R.S. —On two Metals found in the black Powder remain
ing after the Solution of Platina.      By Smithson Tennaut,
Esq. F.R.S.— On a new Metal found m crude Platina. By
William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S.
11 The Transactions of the Linnean Society of London, VoLVIL
contain: Charter of the Linnean Society of London. — Bye-
laws of the Society. — Patent of Armorial Ensigns. —A new
Arrangement of the Genus Aloe', with a chronological Sketch
of the progressive Knowledge of that Genus, and of other
succulent Genera. By Adrian Hardy Haworth, Esq.T.L.Si
—On the Germination of the Seeds of Orchidece. By
Richard Anthony Salisbury, Esq. F.R.S. & L.S. — Account
of the Tusseh and Arrindy Silk-Worms of Bengal. By
William Roxburgh, M.D. F.L.S. — Description of the Bri
tish Lizards; and of a new British Species of Viper. By
Revett Sheppard, A.B. F.L.S. —Description of Bos Fron
talis, a new Species, from India.          By Aylmer Bourke
Lambert, Esq. F.R.S. V.P.L.S. — Description of the Esox
                                                       Saurus.

                         Royal Institution*                   1 77
  Saurus. By the Rev. Thomas Rackett,       M.A. F.R.S. & L.S.
  — Description    of several Marine Animals found on the
  South Coast of Devonshire.        By George Montagu, Esq.
  F.L.S. — Descriptions of four new British Lichens. By
 Dawson Turner, Esq. M.A. F.L.S.           Descriptions of sonic
 Species of Care x from North America.        By Edward Rudge,
 Esq. F.L.S. — Remarks upon the Dillenian Herbarium. By
 Dawson Turner, Esq. F.R.S. A.S. & L.S. — Description of
 some Fossil Shells found in Hampshire.          By William Pil-
 kington, Esq. F.A.S. 8c L.S. — An Historical Account of
 Testaceo'.ogical  Writers. By William George Maton, M.D.
 F.R.S. & L.S. and the Rev. Thomas Rackett, M.A. F.R.S.
 & L.S. — An Illustration of the Grass called by Linnaeus
 Cornucopia; Alopecuroides.        By James Edward Smith,
 M.D. F.R.S. P.L.S.— Description of such Species of Chi-
 ronia as grow wild at the Cape of Good Hope.              By Sir
 Charles Peter Thunberg, Knight of the Order of Wasa,
 Professor of Botany at Upsal, F.M.L.S. — Remarks on the
 Generic Characters of Mosses, and particularly of the Genus
 Mnium. By James Edward Smith, M.D. F.R.S. P.L.S.—
 Observations on the Zizania aquatica.       By Aylmer Bourke
Lambert, Esq. F.R.S, V.P.L.S. — Observations on the Du-
 rion, Durio zibethinus of Linnasus.        By Mr. Charles K6-
 nig, F.L.S.  —   Observations on some   Species of British Qua
 drupeds,   Birds,  and  Fishes.   By George Montagu, Esq.
F.L.S. — Biographical Memoirs of several Norwich Bota
nists, in a Letter to Alexander MacLeay, Esq. Sec. L.S.
 By James Edward Smith, M.D. F.R.S. P.L.S.— Further
Account of the BosFrontalis. By Aylmer Bourke Lambert,
Esq. F.R.S. V.P.L.S. — Description of a large Species of
Rat, a Native of the East Indies. By Captain Thomas
Hardwicke, F.L.S. — Extracts from the Minute-Book of the
Linnean Society of London. — Catalogue of the Library of
 the Linnean Society, continued from page3Q4of Vol. VI. of
the Society's Transactions. — List of Donors to the Library
 of the Linnean Societv.
          XXXII.     Proceedings  of Learned   Societies.
                      ROYAI. INSTITUTION.
 J. HIS  national establishment opened its sessions on Tues
day the 13th of November.         Mr. Davy will deliver twelve
lectures  on  Chemical   Analysis ; Mr. Fletcher, a gentleman
    Vol. 20. No. 78. Nov. 1804.           M                whose

1*8                Board   of Agriculture.
whose talents have been long known among the literary con
versazioni of the present day, twenty-four lectures on Na
tural Philosophy ; Mr. Landseer, engraver to the king,,
three lectures on engraving ; and Dr. Crotch six lectures o»
music.
                 BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.
              Premiums offered hy this Board.
                   [Continued from    page   So.]
   Culture of Hemp. — To    the person who shall send to the
Board, the best essay on the culture of hemp, which shall
include the useful facts hitherto published, with such addi
tions as the writer may be able to make, either from hisv
own experiments, or those of others, within his knowledge,
with the best means of extending the culture in the united
kingdom, without lessening the growth* of wheat — thirty
guineas. Accounts to be produced on or before the first
Tuesday in February, 1805.
   Culture of Hemp. — To the person in his Majesty's colo
nies of Upper or Lower Canada, New Brunswick, and
Halifax, who shall make the most satisfactory report to the
Board, of the present state of the cultivation of hemp in,
those provinces, in respect of soil, previous state of the land^
manure, seed, culture, watering, dressing, produce, price,
and the expense of labour, with the state of population a»
applicable to this branch of culture; as well as of the ob
stacles to the extension of      the best means of removing
                                it,
them, and of promoting the cultivation— -fifty guineas. The
report to be made on or before the first Tuesday    in  January
1606.
      eging   Machine.   — To the person who shall, before the
25th of March      1805, produce to the Board, or shall erect
in London, in some place to which the members of the
Board can conveniently have access, the machine for weigh
ing cattle alive, as high as 300 stone at Slbs. and as low as
five stones weight, that shall be the cheapest in proportion
to its accuracy and utility — twenty guineas.
   Machine for reaping corn. — To the person who shall in
vent, and produce to the Board, the best machine for reap
ing corn— -from one hundred to two hundred guineas, ac
cording to merit.
   Simplicity and cheapness of construction, and     (if
                                                      the ap
plication of horses or oxen be required) ease of draught, will
be considered as essential objects. To be produced on or be
fore the first Tuesday in May 1806.
                                                         Diseases

                       Herculaneum Manuscripts.                   1 79
      Diseases   of Cattle. — To the person who shall write, and
   produce   to  the Board, the best practical essay, founded on
   experiments, on the diseases of neat cattle, their symptoms
   and cure — the gold medal.        The essays to be produced on or
   before the first^Tuesday in May 1800.
      Diseases of Sheep. — To the person who shall write, and
   produce to the Board, the best practical essay, founded on
  experiments, on the diseases of sheep, their symptoms and
  cure — the gold medal. The essays to be produced on or be
  fore the first Tuesday in May 1 806.
      Diseases of Swine. — To the person who shall write, and
  produce to the Board, the best practical essay, founded on
  experiments, on the diseases of swine, their symptoms and
  cure — ten guineas. The essays to be produced on or before
  the first Tuesday in May 1806.
         XXXIII.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                   HERCULANEUM        MANUSCRIPTS.
   JL HE literary world will rejoice to learn, that the six vo>-
  lumes of Papyri, presented to the prince of Wales by the
 king of Naples, are arrived in London ; and thus, under
 the immediate auspices of his royal highness, the learned
 and the ingenious will be invited to exert their skill in en
 deavouring, not merely to develop their contents, but to
 contrive some more speedy and efficacious means than have
 been hitherto practised, i'or unrolling and transcribing the
 many volumes that yet lie in the ashes of Herculaneum and
 Pompeii.       It is a roost important event to the cause of lite
 rature, that the prince has patronized this undertaking with
 so much ardour and liberality, since in no other country
 could the resources of science and art be so well applied to
 the object as in England.         Our artists will vie with one an
 other in the suggestion of means to facilitate the decypher-
 ingof the nearly obliterated manuscripts ; and if some happy
 contrivance should be found to preserve the tinder from
 perishing until it can be traced and read, what treasures of
 literature may not yet be brought to light, and what ho
 nours and gratitude will not be due to his royal highness for
 his noble patronage of the design !
     Our readers may wish to have a short statement of the
eircunistances that induced the prince to take steps to fur
ther this great work.         In the year 1800 he directed the rev.
John Hayter, a gentleman eminently qualified for the task,
                                   M2                             to

1 SO               Hereulaneum Manuscripts.
to go to Italy, and, with a suitable provision, to exert him
self on the spot, under the' kind permission of the king of
Naples, to unrol and transcribe the papyri.            He was gene
rously   moved   to this undertaking by    the  love   of literature,
and by the accounts of the very slow progress which up to
 that time had been made in the work of developing the ma
nuscripts.
    The importance of the undertaking will be best shown to
our readers by an extract from the letter which Mr. Hayter
 addressed to the prince at the outset of his mission in 180O,
 a few copies of which were printed at the time, and distri
 buted among literary men.
     After a very becoming expression of gratitude to his royal
 highness for the honour of his confidence, he gives this short
 narrative:
     " The numerous settlements of the Greeks in Italy re
 ceived the name of Magna Graecia, because their mother
 country was of- a size considerably less than that in which
 they- were planted": among these were nearly all the cities in
 tlic province of Campania, including Naples, the capital
 of liis Sicilian majesty, and also Hereulaneum and Pompeii,
 which are supposed to boast a foundation coeval with Her
 cules himself, three thousand and fifty years ago, or twelve
 hundred and fifty yearsbefore the Christian aera.         This pro
 vince, more than any other part of Magna Graecia, was al
 ways celebrated for the studious and successful cultivation
 of the arts and sciences.      The two cities of Hereulaneum
 and Pompeii ranked next to that of Naples in every respect,
 as places of considerable note ; they had their public thea-
 ties, with every other attendant of great population, splen
 dour, opulence, and general prosperity. These, in common
 with all the rest of Campania, became the elegant and
 favourite resort of the Romans, for the different purposes of
 health, luxury, repose, and erudition.
     " In the ninth year of Nero's reign*, these two cities
 experienced a most formidable shock from an earthquake,
 which overthrew a great part of them. Nor had they re
 covered altogether from the effects of this calamity by their
.own exertions, and the aid of imperial munificence, when
 a second calamity, of a different nature, but equally un
  expected, consigned them both at once to the most com.-
                              * U. C. 816.
                                A. D.  63.
                    Caius Memmins Rtgulus,") ,,      ,
                    Lucius Vilnius Rufus, /(-en5UIs-
                                                                 plett

                   Herctilaneum Manuscripts.                       181
pletc  oblivion.    This calamity was the great eruption of
Vesuvius, which happened on the 24th day of August*, two
full months from the accession of the emperor Titus Ves
pasian. Herculaneum was buried under a mass of lava,
and volcanic matter, to the depth of twenty-four feet.
Pompeii, being more distant from the mountain, was over
whelmed principally with a shower of ashes, nor in any
place more than half the depth of the other city.             But the
fate of both was sudden and inevitable; and yet it appears
that almost all of the inhabitants, and, what is an equally
surprising circumstance, more of the Herculaneans than
the Pompeians, escaped.         By the few skeletons which have
been found in either place, the relation of Dio Cassius,
who states the destruction of the people while assembled
at the theatre, is proved to be totally erroneous. It may be
proper to remark, that before this eruption the whole of
Vesuvius was in a state of cultivation and fertility, from the
top to the bottom ; and though the form and soil of the
mountain in one particular spot seemed to denote the traces
of some former explosion, yet no extant memorial of any
kind had recorded it.
   " Neither of these two cities was discovered again till a
Jong period of sixteen hundred and thirty-four ye/ars had
elapsed.     It was in the year 1713, that some labourers, in.
sinking    a  well, struck their tools against a statue, which
was on a bench in the theatre of Herculaneum.                    Forty
years afterwards Pompeii was excavated with much less dif
ficulty, as the incumbent stratum was neither so hard nor
so deep as that of the former city.
   " The number of the manuscripts saved from both those
cities is said to be about five hundred; but, if I am rightly
informed by those whose official situation must give them a
competent knowledge of the subject, your royal highness,
by facilitating the development of these volumes, will pro
bably be the means of further excavation, and of rescuing
from their interment an infinite quantity of others. About
thirty years ago, his Sicilian majesty ordered the develop
 ment, the, transcription, and the printing of the volumes
which had then been saved, to be undertaken. This ope
ration was accordingly begun, and has never been discon
tinued till the late invasion of the French.            But its mode,
however excellent, was extremely slow ; it has been per-
                              • U.C.    831.
                                A. D.    79.
                   Flavitii Vcspasianus   i, \oConsul,.
                                                    ,
                                    u*    i  }
                                   M3                          formed

188                  Herculaneum Manuscripts,
formed by a single person, with a single frame only, under
the direction of the marquis del Vasto, chamberlain to the
king, and president of the royal academy.
     " The frame consists of several taper and oblong pieces
 of wood, with parallel threads of silk that run on each side,
 the length of each piece: when the frame is laid on any
volume, each piece of wood must be fixed precisely over
 each line of the page, while the respective threads being
 worked beneath each line, and assisted by the corresponding
 piece of wood above, raise the line upwards, and disclose
the characters to view *.
     " The operation seems ingenious, and well adapted to
 the purpose : it was, I believe, invented by a capuchiii at
 Naples.      The fruits of it are said to be two publications
 only ; one on music, by the celebrated Philodemus, who
 was a cotemporary of Cicero ; and the other on cookery.
 The first is in his majesty's library, at the queen's palace.
 Through the obliging politeness of Mr. Barnard, the king's
 librarian, I have nad the advantage of perusing it. Indeedx
 I  hope your royal highness will not disapprove my acknow-i
 lec'ging in this placu the very warm and respectful interest
 which both this gentleman and the right honourable the
 president   f  of the Royal Society have expressed for the
 furtherance of your royal highness's great and good design,
 Meanwhile, by this specimen of Philodemus, I am con
 vinced that, if the frames should be multiplied to the pro
 posed extent, several pages of thirty different manuscripts
 might be" disclosed and transcribed within the space of one
week.
     "  But the very period at which the manuscripts were
 buried, serves to point out to your royal highness that you
 may expect the recovery of either the whole, or at least
 parts, of the best writers in antiquity, hitherto deemed ir
 recoverable.      All of these, in truth, had written before that
    * From the want of information in this
                                               country,  I am apprehensive
that this description of the frame is rather defective.    But, when I am
on the spot, I shall not fail to transmit, for your royal highncss's inspec
tion, an exact model of its mechanism.      I am equally apprehensive that
the same cause may have occasioned more errors in this part of my ac
count : the same local advantage, of which I shall be careful to make
the earliest use, will enable me to remove them.
    •f Jt was suggested by Sir Joseph Banks, that, fcom the nature of the
 antitnt atramentum, which perhaps was not so much an ink as a paint,
and from the material of these manuscripts, there may be derived a chance
 of applying a chemical process to this development of the cinders with
incrcdtcd expedition and effect. The suggestion is of the first import
ance : hereafter there may be an opportunity of ascertaining its utility by
experiment.
                          6                                         period,

                      flerculaneuni Manuscripts.                       163
period, if we except Tacitus, whose inestimable works were
unfortunately not composed till twenty years afterwards,
•during the reign of Trajan.
   "  Nor can it be imagined for a moment, that among five
or six hundred manuscripts, already excavated, and espe
cially from the numberless ones which further excavations
may supply, lost at such a period in two of the most capital
cities, in the richest, most frequented, and most learned
province in Italy, each of them an established seat of the
arts and sciences, each of them the resort of the most di
stinguished Romans, not any part of those illustrious au
thors should be discovered.
   "   But the manus-cript of Philodemus itself makes the
reverse of such an idea appear much more probable.      To
the moderns, who have
                  "   Untwisted all  the chains that tie
                      The   hidden soul of harmony,"
his Treatise on Music cannot, indeed,     be supposed to com
municate much information ; yet the subject is scientific,
and scientifically treated. The author himself, too, was one
 of the most eminent men in his time for wit, learning, and
philosophy.      But in the rest of the arts * and sciences, in
 history, in poetry, the discovery of any lost writer, either
in whole or part, would be deemed a most valuable acqui
sition and treasure, and form a new sera in literature.
   "   It is extremely fortunate that the characters   of thesef
manuscripts, whether ihcy should be Greek or Latin, must
be very obvious and legible. Before the year of our Lord 79,
and some time after         it,
                           the Majusculse or Unciales Litterae,
capital letters, were solely used.    A page, therefore, in one
of these manuscripts, would present to your royal highness
an exact image of some mutilated inscription in those lan
guages on an antient column, statue, or sepulchre.
   " There cannot remain doubt, even omitting the as
                                   a
surances from men of official situation to that effect, that
your royal highness superintendant will receive every pos
                          's
sible assistance from the marquis del Vasto        and in that
                                                           ;
case   itseems improbable that the object of this mission can
be altogether fruitless.
   " With such termination of
                      a                       it,
                                          however, your royal
   * Particularly the antient mode of cementing      architecture, and on
                                                    in
proportions in sculpture and painting.
f    One of the principal difficulties in copying these manuscript? ap
pears to consist in supplying the proper letters or words at the different
chasms.
                                  M   4                        highness,

164                        Earthquakes.
highness, by having proposed to concur with his Sicilian
majesty in the quicker and more effectual development,
transcription, and publication of these manuscripts, will
reap the satisfaction of having made a most princely attempt
in behalf of knowledge and literature, on an occasion where
their interests might be affected most materially, and in a
manner of which no annals have afforded, or can hereafter
afford, an example. Your very interposition will be your
glory : your want of success will only make the learned
world feel with gratitude what you would have done."1
    The interposition of his royal highness has had the hap
piest effect.   The splendid encouragement which he gave             .
to the work revived the drooping spirits of the Italian lite
rati ; and the consequence has he.cn, that the business of un
rolling and transcribing the manuscripts now proceeds with
an alacrity which promises the most brilliant success.           In
forty-six years not more than eighteen rolls were developed
before the interference of our prince.         Under his encou
ragement, ninety     have  been recovered  in two  years ! What
new facilities may not now be expected when all the vigour
 of British intelligence is exerted on the subject !
                          EARTHQUAKES.
                                    Clermom Ferrand, Oct. 24., 1^04.
    At half past eight in the morning, on the C5th of Au
 gust last, the weather being very serene, the thermal wa
 ters of Nery (Allier) suddenly became agitated in a wonder
 ful manner.     At the principal place from which they issue
 they first rose to the height of a foot above the level of the
 bason which contains them, then to three, and in that state
 exhibited for two minutes the figure of a cone the base of
 which seemed to be four or five feet in circumference.           A
 great agitation was observed in other parts of the bason.
  The water boiled with the greatest violence : a greater
 quantity of gas seemed to escape ; and this extraordinary
 effervescence continued for the space of five or six minutes.
    Letters from Almeria, in Spain, announce, that at half
 after eight, on the 25th of August, three shocks of an earth-r
 quake were felt in that city : they were so violent that not
 a house escaped suffering injury : some of the houses were
 destroyed.    Is it not probable that there might be some
 connection between this earthquake and the pnsenomenon
 observed at Nery? May, not the perfect coincidence of these
 two events, which took place the same day, and at the same
 hour, throw sonic light on the cause, still unknown; of the
                                                                heat

                 Newly   discovered Island.               181
heat of thermal waters ?   These questions must be submit*
ted to chemists and philosophers.
   We must add, that at the time of the earthquake at Lisbon,
in 1755, the same waters experienced so much agitation
that they rose in considerable quantity above the sides of
the bason.    M. de Vauvret, mayor of Nery, attests this
fact, having been an eye-witness of it. At the time of the
same earthquake at Lisbon the thermal waters of Bourbon
1'Archambault suddenly increased in a similar manner. We
do not know what took place at them on the 25th of Au
gust last.  The public journals mention, that on the same
day some very strong shocks of an earthquake were expe
rienced in Holland. The same day Vesuvius gave some
new signs of an approaching eruption.
               NEWLY DISCOVERED ISLAND.
   This island was discovered in the South Sea by captain
Sowle, in the American ship Palmyra, of Providence, Rhode
Island, on the 10th of November 1802.      As the weather
was fine, that day at noon he had an observation of the
sun's altitude, by which the latitude is accurately ascerr
tained ; and as he took his departure from Christmas Island,
and had a gentle westerly wind, it is scarcely possible there
can be any error in the longitude.
   This island lies out of the track of most navigators who
pass either from America to Asia, or from Asia to Ame
rica; and till lately English whalers have been prohibited
fishing in that quarter j which accounts for its not having
been seen before. It is probable that there are several other
islands in the same direction.      Captain Sowle thinks he
passed one the day before, as he saw many birds, and be
lieved he heard breakers ; but the weather being very hazy
he could not see either rocks or land.
    Palmyra Island, so called after the name of the vessel, is
situated in north latitude 5" 49', and in west longitude 162°
23', from London.       It is about three leagues in extent.
There are two lagoons on    it,  in the westernmost of which
is twenty fathom water, with     fine sandy bottom.
                                  a                      It   is
very dangerous to approach the western part of the island,
on account of the coral rocks which are just below the sur
face of the water, and extend to the distance of three or
four leagues from the shore.
   The eastern part terminates in steep reef of coral, over
                                      a
whir!) the sea breaks with considerable force.
   On the nprlh-weet side there     good anchoring ground,
                                      is
                                                      about

  166  (Economy   of Light. — Information  to Mariners, &c.
 about three quarters of a mile from the breakers, in eigh
  teen fathom water, on a coral bottom.
     There is no inhabitant on the island j nor was any fresh
 water found ; but cocoa nuts of very large size are in great
 abundance ; and fish of various kinds, and in great shoals,
 surround the island.                                           ,
     A great quantity of drift wood lay on the beach, which
 enabled those who landed to ascertain that the rise of {he-
 tide was about eighteen inches.
                      tECONOMY OF LIGHT.
     We announced some time ago that Mr. Paul, of Geneva,
 had effected a considerable improvement in lamps for streets.
 We understand that his invention has since been extended
 to lamps for domestic purposes, possessing the property of
 effecting the perfect combustion of common lamp oil, which
 costs only about the half of spermaceti oil, and yielding a
 sheerful, steady, and durable light, without smoke or smell.
                 INFORMATION     TO MARINERS.
    The following article was furnished by captain Candlcr,
 who arrived at Boston on the 6th of August in the schooner
 Betsey, from Madeira :
     "  On the 29th of May     I was running for the western
 islands, when I made something which appeared like a sail,
 but, as I approached it nearer, discovered it to be a rock, the
 top of which was nearly 100 feet out of water, and, from
 appearanpe, deep water all round about it.     It blowing very
 hard, I was not able to sound, or examine the rock any
further than by running within a cable's length of it on the
northern side.     By observation I found it lay in lat. 39°
47' north, and, by calculation, in long. 34° 29' west. The
situation of this stupendous rock may DC relied on, as I was
very particular in my course and distance till I made the
land, which was the third day after: I then made Fayal.
As I never saw a rock laid down in this situation, I think
it my duty to give this information to the public.
                              (Signed)      JOHN CANDLER."
                          VOtCANOES.
    Letters from Petersburgh, of the 20th October, mention,
that near the southern angle of the fortress of Fanagorji, a
hill on the summit of a mountain, situated contiguous to a
lake of 300 fathoms in circuit, began to swell on the 4th of
July last, between twelve and one o'clock at night. The
hill rose about twelve fathoms, and then burst, with light
                                                           ning

                    Vaccination. — Longevity  .             187
p'mg and a rumbling noise like thunder, emitting burning
clods and ignited stones, which were thrown a considerable
height, ana to a distance of 100 fathoms.          Next a clear
flame made its appearance, which spread a disagreeable
 smell, and blazed for an hour and a half. The eruption
occupied one half of the lake, forming a hill of ten fathoms
in height, and 300 in circumference.
                                                  Rome, Oct. iq.
    The eruptions of Mount Vesuvius have ceased. The fol-»
 lowing fact may deserve the attention of naturalists ; — The
English ship of the line which lies before Naples, changing
its position during the time of an eruption, one of the an
chors, when drawn up, was found to be so hot that the
sailors could scarcely touch it. Does not this prove that
the principal source of the volcano is under the sea ?
                         VACCINATION.
    Dr. Valentin, of Paris, is said to have adopted the fol
lowing method of inoculating the cow-pock : — He collects
a quantity of the dried vaccine pustules or incrustations,
which he reduces to powder, and forms into a kind of paste
with water. With this substance he inoculates his sub
jects, by means of a lancet, in the usual way.          W. B.
                           LONGEVITY.
    Lately died at Gloves, near Athenry, Ireland, of a short
illness, Mr. Denis Coorobee, of Ballindangen, aged 117j
a truly honest man.      He retained his faculties to the last,
and, until two days previous to his death, he never remem
bered to have any complaint or sickness whatever (tooth
ache only excepted).       Three weeks before his death he
walked from his house to Galway, and back the same day,
which is 26 miles. He could, to the last, read the smallest
print without the assistance of glasses, which he never ac
customed himself to, with as much ease as a boy of sixteen.
He was a man of strong natural powers; and, as he followed
husbandry, the results of his long experience, as might
naturally be expected, were highly useful in improving agri
culture.    It is upwards of seventy years since he propagated
that most useful article the black potatoe.
    He was married seven times: the last time when he was
ninety-three years of age.       By his different wives he had
48 children.      His descendants by these were 236 grand
children, 944 great grand children ; and 25 great great
grand children, the oldest of whom is four years of age.
His youngest son by his last marriage is now about eigh
teen years old.
                                                  SUBSTITUTE

IBS                                           Astronomy.
      SUBSTITUTE                 FOR CINCHONA AND FOR                                             WHEAT.
 M. Westring, of Norkoping, in Sweden, in a letter trv
M. Bergman, at Paris, says : " Tell M. Vauquelin that 1
have found that the inner bark of the Pimts sylvestris acts
in the same manner as yellow quinquina (cinchona regia) ,
and that for two years I have made use of the powder of
this bark with the same advantage as quinquina j and that,
in certaiir cases it is even of superior utility.
  "  M. Tutin announces, that in some provinces of the
north of Sweden the poor inhabitants form with the spha-
ganum patustre a kind of bread, which is white, and or' the
same quality as wheaten bread.       M. Tutin has analysed                                                             it,
and found that this vegetable substance contains         great                                               a
quantity of saccharine matter
                                   — proof that nature has         j     a
given us the means of supplying the place of wheat in times
of scarcity."
                                         ASTRONOMY.
  A  table of the right ascensions and declinations                                                         of Palla*
and Ceres for November and December 1804.
                                 1     ALL    AS.                                            Ckr   r   8.
                     Right     A       ccn.   Dccl. South                    Right Ascen.           Dccl. South.
      Nov.           21h   51m         40"        6°               45'         13™ •18'                13°       32'
             8 5 2
                     ..    52           40      7                  4           12            32        13        25
                     ..    53           48       7                 23          11            28        13        16
             ]] ..         55            6       7                 40          10            36         13        5
             14 .. 56                   40                         55                        56        12        53
                                                                               9 9 9 9 9 9
                     ..    58           20      8 7                                                    12        40
             17                                                     9                        32
             20 22                                                 21                        16        12        25
                           8 6 4 2 0
                                         8      8
             23      ..                  4      S                  32                        16        12         9
             26                         16      8                  42                        24        11        52
             29      ..                 24     8                   50                        48        11        33
      Dec.           ..                 44     8                   57          10            20        11        13
             5 2     ..    11           12                                     11                      10        53
                                                                                             4 8
                                                                    3
                                               9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
             8       ..    13           48                          7          12                      10        31
             11 ..         16           32                         11          13            12        10        9
             14 ..         19           20                         13          14            32                  45
                                                                                                        8 9 9
             17 ..         22            2                         14          16            0                   21
             20 ..         25           12                         14          17            36                  56
             23 ..         28           20                         14          19            24         8        31
             26 ..         31           32                         11          21            20         8        5
             29 ..         34          48                          9           23            24         7        38
                                                                                                       SMEARING

   Siaeariitg      of Sheep. — Improvement of Mossy Lands.                  199
                        SMEARING OF SHEEP.
   The following has been found effectual : — Immediately
after the sheep are shorn, soak the roots of the wool that
remains all over with oil or butter and brimstone, and three
or four days afterwards wash them with salt and water :
the wool of next season will not only be much finer, but
the quantity will be in greater abundance.     It may be de
pended upon that the sheep will not be troubled with the
scab or vermin in that year.    Tar water is a safe and effec
tual remedy against maggots.
                  IMPROVEMENT       OF MOSSY       LANDS.
    Sir John Sinclair has communicated to the public the
result of some extensive experiments he has been lately
making on the improvement of mossy lands.
    He states his failure for two years; but the third had
completely removed all doubts of his ultimate success in
this important undertaking.
    The causes of his original failure, and of his ultimate
success, he assigns to his having, at first, omitted to mark
the distinction between quick and dead                 which was
                                                moss^
latterly  called to his  attention by perusal
                                     a          of Dr. Anderson's
 Practical Essay on Peat Moss; in which, for the first time
to his knowledge, that distinction is pointed out.        " While
it is quick or growing, it cannot afford food for other vege
tables, being a vegetable, or a combination of vegetables,
itself; it is necessary, therefore, to convert          into dead
                                                            .it
moss, before       it can be productive."      And lie assigns this
additional cause, that he had adopted the mode used in*
England for flat fens, whereas the grounds on which he
tried the experiments lay on the sides of hills.
    The mode he recommends           is,
                                       after having used the fen
 plough for paring the surface merely, for which alone                      it   is
 calculated, to plough deep before attempting to crop the
 land, the utility of which practice Dr. Anderson bad expe
 rienced. " He knew," says Sir John, " the beneficial
 effects of deep ploughing, and of exposing moss to the
 influence of frost,      bywhich   it converted not only into
                                         is                                      a.
 fertile soil, but even into    a manure well adapted for light or
 clayey lands.       It   is,
                            however, particularly to be observed,
 that exposing      amossy soil to the influence of the sun, or
 ploughing    it during the summer season, does mischief, dry
 ing up its moisture, and changing         into peat for fuel,, after
                                              ft
 which  it   isalmost proof against the effects of frost; whereas
 the more     it can be exposed to frost the better; as         thus.
                                                                  it   is
                                                           changed

190     Improvement    of Mossy Lands. — List of Patents.
changed from quick into dead moss, and fertilised at thft
same time.      Hence it appears that the mosses which are so
gloomy    and  so unpleasant to look at, in their original state,
and the abundance of frost, which so many object to in the
climate of Scotland, may become sources of fertility and
riches."
    Preparation. — On this head he recommends to begin with
draining the land, so as to put it into a state for being
ploughed, without rendering it at the same time too dry.
After burning the heather, and using the fen ploughs for
paring the surface, the surface may be made into turf walls
for sheltering the grounds, or for filling up hollows.    When
the surface is cleared, the moss to be ploughed, to the depth
of from six to nine inches, with a common Scots plough,
during the months of September, October, and all the
winter months while practicable, exposing the moss as much
as possible to the frost.    The frequent use of a heavy roller
is recommended, as rendering the soil sooner capable of
producing abundant crops, and effectually banishing that
noxious weed sorrel, with which it is otherwise apt to over
 spread.
    As manure — fire spread over the surface is recommended ;
the ashes to be immediately harrowed in, and the ground
sown.     Dung, lime-) clay, sand, or small gravel, may alsc?
be employed, as circumstances require.
    Bear, oats, rye, rye-grass, rape, red clover, and the grass
called Yorkshire fog, seem the crops which answer best.
    Of the succession of crops sufficient time has not elapsed
to enable a judgment to be formed.       The great object, how
ever, is stated to be, to get the lauds laid down into grass as
speedily as possible.     They can then be broken up with the
fen plough, the surface burnt, and the quantity of rich ashes-
which the roots of the grass will produce, will ensure a suc
cession of abundant crops for the last three years, of which
 two may be grain, and with the last crop of grain the land
 may be again laid down in grass.
     " There is great reason," says Sir John, " to believe, that,
by following such a system, the extensive bogs in England,
 Scotland, and Ireland, may be rendered fertile, and a great
addition made to the wealth of the country, and to the sub
 sistence of its inhabitants."
           LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS
 Which    have passed the Signet Office from October       24  to
                       November 24, 1804.
    To William Henry Claynclcl, of the city of Bristol, wine-
                                                      merchant,

                List of Patents for new Inventions.          19 1
merchant, for certain processes For separating the alkalis of
pot-ash and of soda from their sulphates, or vitriolic salts;
and from their sulphurets, or combinations with sulphur; as
in soaper's slack ash, and other similar compounds.
    To Robert Raines the younger, of the town and port of
Hull, in the county of York, tanner and glue-manufacturer,
for a method for the making and manufacturing of hard glue,
from the tail, fins, and other parts of the whale fish.
    To James Sharpies, of the city of Bath, in the county of
Somerset, esq., for certain combinations and arrangements
of implements and mechanical powers, and certain principles
and forms of tables useful for surveying, and various other
 purposes.
     To James Ryan, of Doonane, in the Queen's County,
 Ireland, engineer to the undertakers of the Grand Canal,
 for his invention of sundry tools, implements, or apparatus,
for boring the earth for coal, and all kinds of minerals and
 subterraneous substances, by which the different strata may
 be cut out in a cheap and expeditious manner, in cores or
cylinders, from 1 inch to 20 inches and Upwards in length,
 and from 2 inches to SO inches and upwards in diameter, so
 as to be taken up entire at any depth that has hitherto been
 bored ; by which, not only the quality of such minerals and
 substances, but also the declination or dip of the strata, caa
 be ascertained beyond a possibility of mistake . and which
 tools, implements, or apparatus, are -also applicable to the
 purposes of sinking for wells, and giving vent to subterra
 neous water in bogs, and draining mines and grounds, and
 ventilating pits, and other beneficial purposes,
     To John Edwards, of Bow-street, in the parish of St.
 Paul, Covent Garden, in the county of Middlesex, currier
and harness-maker, for certain improvements in fire-places;
 calculated to save fuel, give a more general heat, and prevent
 «himneys from smoking.
     To Matthew Gregson, of Liverpool, upholder, for a
 method of cleansing feathers for beds ; and hair, wool,
 down, and other the natural covering of birds and animals,
  from their animal oil, in the most perfect manner, and in such
 a. way as to render them more healthful, sweet, and pleasartt
  for use.
     To Edward Steers, of the Inner Temple, London, esq.,
  for an engine producing a force by the impetus which the
  parts of a fluid body have to an equal altitude, applicable to
  tin: working all kinds of machinery.
                                              METEOROLOGICAL.

193                                   Meteorology.
                      meteorological table
                  By Mr. Carey, of the Strand;
                                For   November     1804.
                      Thermometer.
                                                                                           '
                                                                                           •
                                                       DegreesofDry.
                 j<   si
                                                                          Hygrometer.
                                          Height of
Days of the                 C    •Si                                                           WeatMro"
                                          the Barom-
  Month.                         -J tJ)                      by
                                                       ness    Leslie's
                           8
                                            Inches.
                 »9S
  Oct.   27 49°            54°    44°      29-78            12°                         Rain
         28 46             53     49         •66            10                          Fair
         29 49             52     48         •56                5                       Rain
         30 47             55     50         •21            16                          Fair, with rain
                                                                                          at    night
         31       49       58     51         •46            18                          Fair
   Nov.  l        52       59     51         •60           29                           Fair
           a      50       53                •61            10                          Showery
                                  47
           3      45       46     42       30-25           26                           Fair, with wind
           4      42       44     41         •06           20                           Fair, with wind
           5      39       43     40       29-90           20                           Cloudy
           C      39       40     37         •95           20                           Cloudy
           7      37       45     45         •75            15                          Cloudy
                  47       52     47         •42                5                       Cloudy
           9 8
            46             51     50         •42                                        Foggy
                                                              0 0 4
         10 50             54     51         •20                                        Rain
          11      50       50     45         •35                                        Rain
         12       47       55     57         •93            15                          Fair
         13       52       57     52         •67                5                       Rain
          14      50       53     49         •52            12                          Stormy
         15       45       46     45         •86                                        Cloudy
                                                                6 7                     Small rain
         16       45       47     46      30-00
         17       44       47     45         •11            15                          Fair
         18       45       52     47         •15            10                          Cloudy
         19 50             52     46         •01                O                       Rain
         eo 44             50     48         •04           12                           Fair
         ei 46             50     42      29*74           32                            fair
         22 42             47     37         •85          33                            Fair
         23 39             48     46         •82           10                           Ram
         24       35       34     36         •80              0                         Snow and rain
         25      40        43     35         •85          25                            Cloudy
         £C      34        43     34      30*06            19                           Fair

                              [   193     ]
XXXIV.        Concerning the Analytical and Synthetical Modes
    of  Reasoning     made use of in Mathematics and other
    Sciences.    Bij the Rev. JOHN TOPLIS, A. M.
                           To Mr.   Tilloch.
         SIR,
AF you think      the following worth insertion in the Philoso
phical Magazine, it is at your service. I have almost wholly
extracted it front a long discourse read before the Philomatic
Society at Paris by S. In . Lacroix. I am, sir,
                                   Your sincere well-wisher,
      Arnold, Notts,      .                        JOHN TOPLIS.
    October 15, 1)104.          _____
    There are two methods of reasoning made use of in the
mathematical sciences ; the synthetical and the analytical.
By referring back to the Greek origin of the words syn
thesis and analysis, we shall find that one signifies compo
sition, and the other resolution or decomposition.       Nothing
appears clearer at the first glance than these denominations ;
and we easily conceive that the methods they denote are the
inverse one of tke other : nevertheless, it appears to me that
we do not pay sufficient attention to the difference between
the proceedings of synthesis and analysis, nor form always
distinct notions of them.       I therefore thought it necessary
 to search into the writings of the antients for examples of
composition and resolution, in order to fix my ideas upon
this important point; from which the following reflections
have arisen    :
    The Elements of Euclid       are according to the synthetical
method.       That author having formed certain axioms, and
made certain demands, advances his propositions, which he
proves by means of what precedes;            and thus continually
passes from simple to composite, which is an essential cha
 racter of synthesis.
    At the origin of geometry we meel with traces of the ana
lytical method ; for it is not correct to suppose that algebra
constitutes exclusively analysis: it serves likewise to facili
tate synthetical demonstrations ; for it is at the bottom onlv
an abridged and regular method of writing, by means of
which we represent all the relations which magnitudes can
have with each other: and I shall remark upon this subject,
that Condillac, when he shows in his Logic that algebra is a
language, merely repeats what Clairaut asserled and proved
in his ElSmens d'Algtlre, printed in the year 1748.
    The first usage of analysis in geometrical researches is
Vol. 20. No. 79. Dec. 1804.              5l             attributed

19* On the Analytical and Synthetical Modes of Reasoning
attributed to Plato.    By this method we suppose the pro
posed problem is already resolved; from which it results
that one condition is fulfilled., or, what comes to the same,
that an equality takes place amongst certain magnitudes
given and others sought. It is by finding out the conse
quences of the condition which we suppose fulfilled, or of
tie equality which is the consequence of           that in the              it,
end we discover the unknown quantity, or trace the pro
ceeding which         necessary to follow in order to perform
                         it    is
what   isdemanded.                                      •                                   ,
 I    cannot do better than show here the definitions which
Vieta has given of synthesis and analysis, after Theon,                                              a
geometrician of Alexandria, who, from his living so much
nearer the times of the antients, was better able to judge of
 their opinions than we are.
    " Kst vcritatis inquirendae via quaedam in mathematicis,
 quam Plato primus invenisse dicitur,        Theone nominata          a
 analysis, et ab eodem definita, adsumplio quaesiti tamquam
 conecssi per conscqut-ntiaad verum concessum. Ut contra
 synthesis, adsumptio conccssi per consequentia ad quaesiti
 flnem et •eomprehensioncm." (HctisB opera, pag. 1.)*
                                                           The
    • There     tslikewise     definition nf analysis and synthesis given
                                a                                                 the           in
preface to the seventh book of the Mathematical Collections of Pappus,
which, for its curiosity,       shall insert.
                                I                                                                    ,
    Analysis    is the way \\liich, proceeding from the thing demanded, ar
rives,      means of certain established consequences, to somewhat known
           by
before, or placed among the number of principles acknowledged fur true.
This method makes us go from truth or proposition through all its an
                                              a
tecedents; and we call           analysis, or resolution, or an inverted solution.
                                    it
In synthesis, on the contrary, we begin from the proposition last found in
 analysit, ordering properly the above autcccdints,              which now present
'themselves as consequents; and                by
                                           combining them amongst themselves
•we arrive at the conclusion sought, from which we proceeded in the first
case.
    We distinguish two sorts of analysis:—               one, which may be named
                                                                 in
 contemplative,      it    proposed to discover the truth or falsity of .an ad
                          is
 vanced proposition       ;the other      related to the solution of problems, or
                                              i,
the research of unknown truths,            hi the first,              by
                                                            assuming for true, or as
formerly known, the subject of the advanced proposition, we proceed                                  by
the consequences of the hypothesis to something known               and     the result
                                                                            5          it
is  true, the proposition advanced         likewise true. The direct demonstra
                                                  is
tion  is  lastly found       taking, in an inverse order, \the different parts of
                               by
the analysis;    if  the consequence to which we arrive at last          found to be
                                                                                  is
false, we conclude that the proposition analysed             likewise false. When
                                                                       is
 have to prove       aproblem, we suppose         already known, and we proceed
                                                       it
upontiiis supposition till wt arrive at something known.                           If
                                                                          the last re
sult which we can obtain           comprised in the number of what geometri
                                         is
cians call known truths, the question proposed can be resolved. The de
monstration (orproperly the construction)             again formcd^by taking, in an
                                                            is

                    used in Mathematics               and other Sciences.                    \ 95
     The demonstration of theorems in the manner called rc-
  •ductio ad absurdum                  is,
                              properly speaking, an analytical
 proceeding     for we
                    ;   suppose the converse of the proposition
  is true, and            by
                     seeking consequences     which are absurd
  make      appear that the hypothesis
           it                            so likewise.          is
   I   believe the characteristics of synthesis and analysis i»i
  the mathematics are rendered tolerably clear          the pre                by
 ceding descriptions.     In the first method, the proposition
 enunciated      always the last consequence of the chain of
                    is
 reasonings which form the demonstration              composi       :   it   is
                                                                             a
 tion; for we add principle continually to principle, until we
 come to this consequence.
      In analysis, on the contrary,                       by
                                           supposing the question
   resolved, we take in the whole of the subject and making             ;                     it
   pass with -different forms, or making diverse traductions of
   the enunciations, we come to the solutions sought.
      Condillac, in the fourth volume of his Course of Studies,
  makes    itappear that all the art of reasoning merely consists
  in discovering the identity of diverse propositions;          the                it   is
 order in which we connect the propositions that constitutes
  the method moreover, when we reason synthetically, all
                  :
 the propositions that we make use of are identic until the
  last, which       itself
                    is       consequence of the preceding ones
                                   a                                                         ;
 and,   by  containing the subject of the enunciation, shows
 that the proposition advanced          true.   When we reason
                                                     is
 analytically, we proceed from the enunciation, which          not                      is
 identic     byitself; and ali the traductions which we pass                                 by
are merely hypothetical, until we arrive at the last, which
always ought to render         identic and from that results the
                                       it            ;
determination of the quantity sought likewise            the con
                                                               :             by
nection of the anterior ideas all the intermediate proposi
tions become identic, and consequently the proposed ques
tion  is  resolved.
     Those who understand algebra will readily perceive that                                 I
have traced the order made use of in resolving equations;
they will see that at the last operation, when we have ob
tained the value of the unknown quantity, the final equa
tion will become identic by its substitution       which will also  ;
be the case with all those which precede it.
    Analysis        isgeneral the method of invention
                         in                               and we              ;
inverse order, the different p^rts of the analysis.    The impossibility of
the last result of ihe analysis will prove evidently, in thii case as in the
preceding one, that of the thing demanded.
   There   islikewise,    the solution of every problem, what
                              in                                  called the  is
determination   ;that   tn MV, the reasoning
                         ii                                by
                                                 which we show when, in
what manner, and how many different way*, the problem can be nolvrH.
                                             N   2                                  believe

 1 96    0?i the Analytical and Synthetical Modes                of Reasoning
 believe that through its means the geometers of the two last
 centuries found out the numerous discoveries which made
 them so illustrious, and which have served as a foundation for
 the labours of their successors.               But either to conceal their
 proceedings, or probably not being sufficiently used to the
 method, they dared not entirely trust to it ; but when they
 had discovered a proposition, they always demonstrated it
 synthetically.          It appears from the posthumous works of
 Pascal and Hobcrval, that they first made use of the method
 of indivisibles to resolve problems, and afterwards demon
 strated them according to the manner of the antients. They
 generally concealed the proceedings which they made use
 of; because, their ways of invention not being reduced to
              rules and methods, they had the greatest interest in
    ecping them secret, for to assure themselves of arms
 feneral
 proper to make them superior in the attacks which their
 rivals made by their defiances, which increased every
 day    *.
      Certain authors, in very different sciences, supposing that
 the evidence of which geometry exclusively boasted was
 owing to the method of geometers, thought, by applying
 this method to the object of their researches, they should be
•enabled to protect it from opposition ; but it is easy to per
 ceive that this imitation of method is imperfect, and that
 there will also be some difference owing to the nature of the
 subject.
      It is in chemistry that the application of the two method*
 appears most evident, and conformable to the etymology of
 their names. We combine together certain simple sub
  stances, or regarded as such, and thus operate by synthesis.
  We take a compound body, and separate it into its coin-
     * This could not be Newton's motive ; for he appears to have supposed
  that a mathematical proposition was rot lit to bo- published but with a
  synthetical demonstration.         In bis Treatise upon Fluxions, he expresses
  himself as follows upon this subject :
      " Postquam area curvx alicujus ita (analytice) rcperta est et con
  structs, indaganda est demon cnuio constructions, ut omisso, quarenus
  fieri pct.st, calculo algcbuico, theorcma fiat concinnum et elegans, AC
  LUMEN       PUBLICUM      SI'S I IN  KRE VAI.EAT.''
     Laplace thinks likewise th.it Newton " had discovered by analysis ihe
  greatest part of his theorems ; but his predilection for synthesis, and great
  estimation for the geometry of the antients, induced hiiv. to givea synthe
  tical form to bis theorems, and likewise his method of fluxions." (Ex-
  posil- ii'u Syst. dit Moudi. jd tdit. p. 33*.}
      \Vc find in the luminous reflections upon the character and respective
  advantages of synthesis and analysis which follow this quotation, all that
  precision and clearness which the author has made use of in the rest of his
  excellent work, upon the most abstract principles of mechanics.
              5                                                         ponent

             used in Matliematics and oilier Sciences.             197
ponent parts: this belongs to analysis. However, these things
do not take place in every instance, for all analyses arc not
perfect ; often we do not perceive the composition which
we seek, but by comparing the properties which it manifests
with those formerly known from synthesis, without being
able entirely to decompose it. In like manner, all syntheses
do not completely succeed, and we may reasonably suspect
that they are often accompanied with decompositions which
alter their truth.   The objections of Deluc against the new
theory appear to me to arise from these circumstances; and
without admitting them, they ought, in my opinion, to ren
der us very circumspect about the consequences we may de
duce from experiments, so long as we are not sufficiently
acquainted with the nature of the effects of light, heat,
electricity, and, in genera),, of substances whichi are in-
coercible.
   The same reasons which caused the synthetical mode of
proof- to be adopted in all the sciences, when the geometers
only proceeded by theorems and corollaries, induced the me
taphysicians of the middle of the last century to call that
method analytical which they made use of to manifest their
discoveries. Mathematics at that epoch enjoyed all the con
sideration which chemistry and physics have acquired since,
The mathematicians who succeeded Newton had perfected
those theories which he only hinted at, and resolved questions
which he was not able to effect by the assistance of analysis.
The metaphysicians were willing in some manner to asso
ciate their labours with those of the mathematicians, and to
attach the revolution they had made in the system of ideas
to that which Newton had made in the system of the world.
But without being imposed upon by words, let us examine
whether their method merits the name which they have given,
it,  at least when  it    is
                         compared    with mathematical ana
lysis.
   The writings of Condillac will furnish us with examples
of this method. In his treatise upon sensations, he com
mences   by  supposing his statue solely to possess the sense
of smell, all others being abstracted; and he examines into
the nature of the ideas possible to be acquired solely        by
                                                            this
sense.    In passing to the second chapter of this work,           I
perceive, in the first paragraph,   definition; in the second
                                       a
and third paragraphs true theorems, that     isto say, proposi
tions first enumerated, and afterwards proved            by
                                                        tracing
them up to identic ideas.    By reading forwards in the same
chapter, and the remainder of the work, we may perceive
that he advances in manner analogous to. that followed in
                      a
                               N   3                      elements

  IDS On the Analytical and Syntlietical Modes ofReasmin
 dements of geometry ; he proceeds from simple to compo
 site.     The understanding, or more especially the rapidity
 with which the faculty of comparing ideas, and presenting
  their result, exercises itself, conducted him to assertions,
  the truth of which he afterwards demonstrated by develop-,
  ing all the intermediate proposition*, which his judgment
  had led him to consider nearly in the same manner as
  gamesters estimate, almost at a glance, what they have to
  hope or fear from the different chances which are able to
  present themselves. This is much the same as what is called
 synthesis in geometry.              This synthesis may be said to hav«
'been preceded by an analysis; for the author decomposed
 the system of sensations in order to discuss what regarded
  smell alone. The same takes place in geometry ; and some
  thing eqnivalent to this analysis may be found in the diverse
  abstractions made by geometers to simplify their subject :
  thus they deprive a body of two of its dimensions, to form
  lines.     It is not possible to find in the methods of Con-
  riillac, that proceeding of mathematical analysis which con
  sists in supposing the question resolved, which it is probably
  impossible to apply to the things which he has treated
 upon.
      By examining his logic under the same point of view, I
  think we may convince ourselves that it proceeds according
  to the synthetic method.               In fact, this proceeding may be
 unknown as such by those who have been struck with the
 difficulty of understanding the propositions which Newton,
 for example, has demonstrated synthetically.                           But this is
 merely an illusion         which     may easily     be  destroyed. The pro
 ceeding? of Newton              might     be  understood         with the same
 ease as those        of    Condifhc,       if all  the   truths    which he has
 manifested        were    to   follow    each    oilier   as   closely as those
 •which we meet        with     in  the  \vorks    of the   latter.    But the in
 terval that separates        them,      both   from    each     other    and those
 which are admitted          as  elementary,     is  so  great   ; the  number     of
 intermediates       to  compare,       and  frequently       to  apply,    is such,
 that the most continued application and profound talents
 are necessary to be employed, in order to avoid being lost
 in the series of consequences.
      There, is no doubt but, by establishing all the intermediate
 links, we might make the Principia of Newton as easy to
 be comprehended as the Elements of Euclid.                             In a word,
 that might       take   place     here  which     probably      does    in the na
 tural   classifications     of   animals   and     plants   j  if all the   species
 were    known,      we    might      pass   from     one   proposition       to an
 other    bv  almost    insensible     transitions.      It  is  easy  to   perceive
                                                                                 that

           used in Mathematics and other Sciences.          199
that in the Elements of Euclid there are to.be found a great
 number of places in which it is very necessary that all the
 intermediate truths should be exposed; thuywer,e not known
 to the inventors, and it would be difficult to produce them
 although their existence is evident.
     Analysis produces these intermediates, and makes them
 pass under the eyes of the operator, although in an inverse
 order ; and when they become so numerous that it is im
 possible to express them otherwise than by algebraical for
 mulae, it then becomes necessary to employ calculation ;
  and this makes known truths to which otherwise the rea^
  soiling faculty could never attain.
     It will sometimes happen, that synthesis, by representing
 things much simpler than analysis, will lead to a conclusion
 in a much less complex manner.         The researches upon the
 attraction of spheroids by Maclaurin, are a remarkable in
 stance of this circumstance ; but in the hands of Lagrangc,
 Laplace, and Legendre, analysis re-assumes, in these cases,
 those advantages which it possesses in all others.
     I think that to all those who have clear notions of the me
 thod employed by geometers, it will appear proved from what
  precedes, that the true method of analysis has never been
 applied to metaphysics, which does not appear susceptible
 nf ihis application, at least in the present state of science. •
     It is not because Lp.ekc and CondilUo made use of the
 analytical method, that metaphysics made such great pro
 gress in their hands, but because they sought their first no
 tions from nature, and. not from their imaginations ; it       is,
 because they ascended to the true origin of all our know
 ledge, rather than create   a  system according to their fancy.
 If the first geometers had been willing, or perhaps able, to
form to, themselves other notions of the right line and circle
 than those they received from nature, doubtless they would
 have formed geometry which had no resemblance to that of
             a
nature, but would have been entirely imaginary.              The
method of geometers     is   not the sole cause of the certainty
of their results; this certainty     isprincipally owing to the
 nature of the notions which they have to combine.         It   is
 possible fora     mathematical demonstration to be obscure,
embarrassed,     and incomplete, and y«t at the same time to
conduct to the truth of the enunciated proposition any per
son who shall have the patience and sagacity necessary to
follow and rectify this demonstration.         This takes place
from mathematicians employing only complete notions, or
such that the property which forms their principal charac
ter excludes all others. When they wish to reason upon
                                N4                       notions

200   On the Analytical and Synthetical Modes of Reasoning
notions of another kind, they often find themselves deceived,
notwithstanding all their exertions to preserve rigour in the
form of the demonstrations; a thing which no one will dis
pute their knowledge of.
     It is therefore less in the method than in the simplicity
and evidence of first notions, that the certainty of reasoning
consists; and with regard to general principles, which Con-
dillac always speaks of with merited contempt, they have
no place, in geometry.          That of the least action, which
Maupertuis       made  so  much    noise about, has only been re
garded by       mathematicians     as   an analytical result, arising
 from the general laws of mechanics ; and it has never been
exactly defined but by the assistance of mathematics ; for it
formerly assumed very different forms in the hands of me
taphysicians.
    The second and third articles of the Peusees de Pascal ap
 pear to me to contain what is most luminous upon the man
 ner of reasoning; and I do not perceive that Condillac hks
 made any improvements to them.            Already Pascal had per
 ceived the abuse of definitions, and reduced them to their
just value, that  is,  to descriptions and impositions of names;
 but far from proscribing any method of reasoning, as has
 been done latterly,     by calling that synthesis which was but
 the abuse of reasoning, he classed the different methods of
 treating the sciences in such          manner as to show the as
                                               a
 sistance which might be derived from each of them.
    It   ispossible, says he, to have three principal objects in
 the discover^' of truth the first, to discover
                          :                            when we seek
                                                             it
 it; the second, to demonstrate            when we possess it; and
                                                   it
 the last, to distinguish      from false when we examine it.
                              it
      In fact, these three cases are able to present themselves         ;
 the first evidently almost always takes place;              likewise
                                                                  it
  sometimes happens that the analogy of circumstances makes
a   proposition suspected, and then we endeavour to assure
 ourselves of its existence           by
                                      formal demonstration. Lastly,
                                           a
if     we wish to submit     proposition to examination, in orde-r
                             a
  to discover its truth or falsity,          useful to know the ge
                                                   it   is
  neral means for fulfilling this end.
      With regard to the exposition of acquired notions or
  known truths, the only rule to be observed as often as pos
  sible consists in comparing them in those parts               which
                                                                   in
  they   have  the greatest connection,    and  where  the fewest  in
  termediates are required.
      By calling, asis    most proper after the etymology of the
  words, that synthesis,        means of which we proceed from
                                 by
  simple to composite aud that antSys^, which returns from-
                         ;
                                                           composite

              used in Mathematics and other Sciencit.                    201
composite to simple, we shall see that these two methods
almost always meet together : there are no complete truths
but what result from their concourse ; but they vary a little
in their form, according to the nature of the subjects to
which we apply them.
      To unite synthesis with analysis at all times that we are abl«
to make use of both; to exert the most scrupulous attention
in the enumeration of the different appearances which the
various cases of the proposition we examine present, in or
der to assure ourselves that all are comprised in the consi
derations upon which we found it; that i? to say, if the
 connection of ideas is observed; it is to this small number
 of principles, in my opinion, that all the drt of reasoning
 should be reduced*. But this art, like all others, cannot be
 acquired but by continual ami well-directed exercise; and
 all times when the theory is forced beyond a certain limit,
 it appears to lead the human mind from one error to an
 other, and to present a vicious circle which produces all the
 subtiltics of the antienl schools.              In fact, if nothing ap
 pears     that  ought   to  limit  the progress that may be made, by
 applying      this  reasoning    to  those  sciences which rest imme
 diately upon      ideas   acquired by    the senses; it is not the case
 when we wish to analyse by themselves the operations of the
  understanding. It is possible, in this case, for the same cir
 cumstance to take place as sometimes happens in mathema
  tical researches, when by some error we combine one equa
  tion with another, which only differs from it in appearance ;
  but being in fact the same, it does not aid the solution of
  the proposed questions, but gives a result purely identic. In
  the mathematics this result, which falls immediately under
  the senses, and is also expressed by signs which are well de
  termined, cannot be mistaken; but when forced to turn our
  thoughts to subjects not susceptible of the same precision,
  we deceive ourselves so far as to regard as essential modifi
  cations, those trifling appearances which the intensity of
  understanding, which is exercised when the mind dwells
   too long upon one thought, produces in the manner of
  judging ana perceiving — nearly as the sight becomes con
   fused with being fixed too long upon one object. We think
      * The fifth article of the EUmfns tie Philosophic, given by D'AIembcrt
   in tome 4. of his Melanges tie L'nUrniure,      and the Supplement to this
   article (tome 5. pag. 46.) contain, in a few words, all that it necessary
   to know upon the natural mechanism of reasoning.         With respect to the
   different forms which can be given to syllogisms, they are robe found ex
                                                        ;
   posed in a manner as short as luminous, in tune . Uei Lttlra d'fLulcr H
   tine Princesst d'Allcmagne,
                                                                             to

202      On tlie Analytical and Synthetical Modes,    &c.
to give a substance, if I may so express myself, to those
fugitive deceptions, by creating new modes to design them,
or by combining, in a different manner, words already
known; and we afterwards blindly treat upon these hypo
thetical abstractions : but as they are exposed to the founda
tion, there comes a time when the absurdity of the conse
quences derived from them shows their want of solidity. We
then seek a new path, and in general find one formerly
trodden, in which we again lose ourselves.
    It is probable we commenced hy perceiving, in our sensa
tions, the origin of our ideas ; but being obliged to class,
divide, distinguish, and abstract the different circumstances
•which the acquired ideas presented, we lost ourselves in the
catagories, and all the abstractions which are attendant upon
them.      The discoveries in physics, by giving a real subject
far reasoning, opened the eyes to the abuse which had been
made of it.     The road traced by Newton in the third book
of the Principia, could not be restrained solely to the objects
to which it had been applied.        The eclat ot the discoveries
•which he made by following      it,   excited in those who cul
tivated the sciences an emulation which soon produced
improvements in metaphysics.       It  is to be granted that they
have gained much       by this revolution but there may possi
                                            ;
bly come time when its progress will be stopped and
             a                                       j         by
comparing what    it   has lost on o.ne hand and gained on the
other, we shall know that this alone, amongst all the sci
ences,  is   susceptible of a  limited progress, and that ther^
exists, in the theory of the operations of the understanding
a  point which cannot be gone beyond.
   Let us turn, therefore, to the physical sciences, which
promise numerous and useful discoveries, all the activity of
our understandings and the theory of probabilities,
                    ;                                     by  be
coming familiar to all those who cultivate the moral sci-,
ences, will give solid bases to those parts of our knowledge
which are not capable of being ramified to      a   small number
«f abstract notions and complete ideas.
                                                XXXV. Affinity

     Affinity  between the Gealic and Greek Languages.   303
IE
-
 ii
   5
"«"
      X
        '  •   O                          a
           •
      £\
      U9
      =
              °?
              S
               1
                                    .1
         •<           <!                           og
                                          i
*?$>                                      o
f-f
i-3
^1                    <;  w                        S
                                    ci
>             <           8              IS!
x             3
                               c                   O
                                                   3
                                                       Greek/

                            /A* Affinity between the
              •- u     •»*
                                 J£
                                      "I
                                        S                       3 O
                                               J
                                                               .=•£
              1J1-
               O ^i e>
                                                                r*)
                                                                O
    5 g       (£^-°                             tl
  5     3
                                                               |l
              1     ^7            C    A                o
    t?j"3      «                 -S
                   '«•   2              3
               c    .-~
  I£ 5
               f                        O                      *"^ tfl
                ,|| Ms
                    F* ...                      a
              .c
  13          (•.
                    £
                                               1        . »B?              o5°
                                                                      «
  II
   *u          o   .~.
                                                g
                                                       .^
               is8**              bO
                                                _,
                               I             -I-
                                                            *~
  •6,1        •si-?                    «                ^,-c^ffi^^^
                               *                        s 5.B
  <     *      B-Sig      I       o     g£°-.           ««
                                       il:
                                                                &     »r
                                        <U fefl u  .    ,_  i-   O    G
                                                        o c
                                                                **
   IT
   t;   «»
               c    =l            4rf                                '5    C    fc0!+^
   g--         |a                 rt    C   c   ^    5  -.ex          g   S-s.°
                                                                          «-=^
                                          J
                                                   O,,  s                  «- T;
                                 t
               *                        c
                                        «
                                       fc   ,r"~            ?• —
                                                            •£ o
                                                                   •
                                                                      2
                                                                      o    o
                                                                                —   c
                                                                                    s
                               o                -
                                            .V .^       c                       s-..=
  l«a
    'A O
              •g,0
               CJ i ^t ^ TO 4-»
                                      £fcfj
                                            ?
                                               .5
                                                   •
                                                                                3
  •c *.
    3 3       £§i^                           « bo
                                                          Js    °9
               O W C   '"      0
                                       Ic -a££)
  H
               «5   s         <£                          " -   C     c
    O  j«
                            I 13 v=                                   o         2 §    g
  ^^           E-^.                                                            ,3   «.'
                                                                     SBffc
    o          rt '
                                 fill"
        ••«
  b0-0p
  a
   i£ si    " i
              O
               B
                   •
                       'T
                                 O
                                  g'24* i
                                      u^       ca
                                                     :_y!
                                                       cs
                                                             :.i
                                                               )(-.
                                                               tg
                                                                      lull5
                                                                      2 ^
                                                                      O  c^jjE^^*B
                                                                          S
                       .b        iA
                                      J                J
  •a
  1            S         3
                                  i             iI
                                                               4
                                                                 !
  ba          O        D         Q             M       W       S5
                         '/i      C
               «;      :E        .s
                                        3                                  O
o  »>                    u            ^2
    ca         u                                                           •A
  3           O        o                                                  S
                                 2    j                                   n
                                                                          o
  I
                        e-
                        Id       55   o
              c±
              £
                        X
                        H        |    ^       CJ
                                                               o
                                                               £
                                                                          S
                                                                          a!
                                                                               Greek.


                                   On the Affinity letween the
I
o « 3
      g-g
      3 d
      «M   0
           it
- *•
    ~^3
c/i oj
O
      "
tO 3
«
3
      CJ
      U    6S,
               e
 i»i>oP-
v2 &.
               «
0     o"5.2
l-^sl
1 *rs u
« a
 M O
           tso
                                                       ii-s.
-
 <u--K >^U
J3 J> rt J3
          ""
    S ^ ^*^
 £2 r* £
                     MERALS.
 « •£ fl o
 ^    ^ o >>
 IP to » *J
•S'w'5'3O"           g
                     P
l!|l
J3^>2
                    2
«
n t *•
8-S^-S
»
e   -I
    «
<J F^i
      «    °   «
               c
           •*• O
                    g
                     W
                     w
                     O
                                     •nil
                                     ffiQQ A
                                            liinip^
                                      US .~>fc*
M...3          §"
.s.a"3 ,
»u       u     =
c«    u "5
               ^3
55-5
? -- bo        w               U     111
 C
jc    oS
           o o
               C
                                     <QQ
^*_c  °3
e^-S«-«
               <«
•n.g       g
O. O> 4)        «N                                          I
C~"
      "^   E
       CO *r
               o
               *J
                               0
                                      «§'2
8     * c      s
y^-3           ^                                  n
,3    V u bO                                      ?
•3 o> >-       c                                  CM
                                                  u
                                                  n
                               0                  H
                                                                 P.   C.

                  Gealic and Greek            Lanuaes.
     II
     a)       I   U         •»»    CJ   iJ   i4H
                  111^                  ^
     •*
     m *T
     .is o
          S       2
                  C
                      ij!   E^-*
                      *^ ^^ C/5   C
                                        O O
                                        &    .S
                                                         II
     5            CoJ^C^^-O^wB
X                                                        -»*
<
*
H
B
V)
                                                         I!
                                                         «•-
3
O
Z
H
                                                          °s
                                                          8-a
     Weo                                           Q     III
                                                         "*    C    •£
                                                               w
                                  O                      rt
                                                         X!    Si
                                                                    O
                                                         •     "    B
          -       J               -
                                                         12
                                                         -=•£>
                                                                    J=S-
                                                          5P
                                                         .§.•£      j3
0
     u                                             3
     W    OT                                       D     *o
                                                               ai
                                                               w
                                                                    Q
                                                                    3a
                                                         c j=
                                                            o
                                                         «          c
<i
                                  M
O
                                                   2
     w    3                 ^     ^                U
     CzJ Lu                 O     b)               <
c                                                             i;=   =
CL
                                                         1
                                                               3'S          O
                                                               O    Si     56
                                                                xxxvi.

                                   [   208   ]
 XXXVI.        On Blasting with Gunpowder.              By    J. Farey,
                                     Esq.
                               To  Mr. Tilloch.
        SIR,
  Observing,         this day, among the original communi cations
 in  a cotemporary journal, the use of sand recommended by
 an eminent engineer, for stopping in the charge of gun
 powder intended for blasting or splitting rocks; who states
 the usual practice to be, after introducing the powder, " to
 ram up the remainder of the hole with stone pulverised by
 the operation of ramming it ;" and which operation he justly
 states to be tedious and dangerous; I am induced to state,
 for the information of such of your readers as it may con
 cern, that, during a temporary residence at Hallifax, in
 Yorkshire, in the year 1782, I frequently observed the
 quarry-men, in the neighbouring hills, blasting the rocks,
 and using coal-cinders roughly pulverised, and very slightly
 rammed into the hole, upon the powder round the priming-
 wire.     I made no minute at the time ; but, if my memory
 serves me correctly, 1 think two inches or even less of the
 hole, thus filled with cinders, was sufficient to retain the
 requisite charge of powder.
    in the year 1784, after heating some pit-coal in a gun-
 barrel, with the touch-hole closed, and a tobacco-pipe ce
 mented by whiting into its muzzle, to show some friends
 the raising of buboles of soap, and other experiments which
the rage tor balloons then suggested (and among them the
 producing of a continued flanie, or light, by means of the
 inflammable air separated from the coals, which has lately
 been shown, and rather pompously announced in a pam-
         from the Lyceum in the Strand) ; on unscrewing the
   reech-pin, and attempting to clear the barrel of the very
Ehlct
tender and spongy cinder it contained, by punching it out
by means of an iron rod, I found it could not be penetrated
or started forwards by the strongest blows of a hammer, al
though the end of a rod a little flattened afterwards bored
the whole out, in a few seconds, with perfect ease.               I have
little doubt but a few inches of cinders rammed into artillery,
upon the charge, would effectually burst such pieces as were
intended to be destroyed. Brick-dust and the clay plaster
ing of an old wall 1 have seen used with success in some
places instead of cinders in blasting rocks.             It is not alto
gether foreign     to   this subject  to mention,  that I had occasion,
tn   the  year J t>01 ,  to  visit one  of captain Mudge's stations in
                                                                     the

          On the Feathers and Down           of domestic Fowls.       21 1
be formed, through which a current will spirt while the
*upply is on, and as long afterwards as any water remains in
the pipe. This hole may be stopped with a nail in general, and
only Itft open in frosty weather; when the water, which
will run to waste at each supply, will scarcely exceed a few
pails full. lu pipes that are already laid, should "the lowest
part of the course not be conveniently situated for the drain
ing of the pipe, as in an area, or over a sink, such alteration
must be made in shaping the course of the pipe, as will
place its lowermost part in a convenient situation for drain
ing.     But in pipes that are to be new laid (if what I have
already said is understood) it will be obvious, that svhen a
deflection between the main and cistern is necessary, the
 lowest angle or part thereof should be fixed in a convenient
situation for draining the pipe, as over a sink ; and to this
point the whole of the pipe must incline.                   I have taken
some pains in examining the laying of pipes in manufacto
 ries, &c.; and I have met with no instance wherein the ne
cessary deflections of a pipe might not be reduced to one
lowermost      angle, to effect the exhaustion of the whole
course.
     Should the small current alluded to be found an objection,
 as continuing       during the whole of the supply, the peg need
 only be removed for one or two minutes, within a few
 hours after the supply has ceased, when the waste water
 will be drawn off before a formation of ice can take place.
 XXXVIII.        Erpcriments     and Observations on Feathers, and
     the Down of     domestic Fowls.         By M. FARMENTIER*.
 -LJiRDS    are caught and reared not only for the sake of their
 flesh, their fat, and their eggs, but also on account of their
  feathers : the feathers,       given them by nature for their
 clothing,    and   to  form   their  principal means of flight, are
 applied   to different   purposes   more     or less useful to society.
     Some, remarkable for their softness and elasticity, for the
  beauty of the filaments of which, their barbs are composed,
  serve to overshadow the helmets of warriors, to ornament
  the head-dress of ladies, to form those tresses and those
  elesrant plumes hy \\hich the richest articles are surmounted.
     Others, sought for on account of the length and solidity of
 iheir barrels, and the facility with which they can be cut at
                   • Fram AnAal't   dtt C-iimie, No 151.
                                 O   2                            pleasure

312     Experiments and Observatiojis    on Feathers,
pleasure for writing, become the interpreters of our thoughts.
Among the Europeans, they form an advantageous substi
tute for the reeds employed by the Arabs, and for the style
with which the antients engraved upon tablets.
   There are feathers also proper for filling those cushions,
en which, when fatigued with the labours of the day, we
repose during the night.    It is from among the latter that
Luxury herself has selected some of peculiar fineness, light
ness, and elasticity, to form of them a bed on which she
enjoys gentle sleep.
         Plumes and other Ornaments    of Luxury.
   The most beautiful and most esteemed of all the plumes
are those made of the feathers of the ostrich, that singular
biped, which has its feet and parts of generation like those
of quadrupeds, the head of birds, and the faculty of laying ;
the stomach and intestines of ruminating animals, and yet
the gizzard of fowls ; which has its body covered partly with
hair and partly with feathers; in a word, which has wings
which are not the instruments of flying, but only a kind of
balances, with which it supports itself, and easily preserves
an equilibrium in the exceedingly rapid courses which it per
forms in the deserts of Africa.
   The plumage of the male is black, with some gray and
white feathers; that of the female is brown, and of an ash
gray ; the large feathers of the wings and tail are white in
the male and black in the female.
   What in particular distinguishes these large feathers, and
renders them proper for making plumes,       is, that they are
soft, open, and flexible; that their barbs, composed of
detached filaments, without consistence and adhesion, are
long and full; and, lastly, that the white plumes of the
male are susceptible of assuming the finest tints.
   The rarity and high price of these ostrich feathers, which
are brought to us from the Levant, might, no doubt, have
suggested the idea of naturalising these birds in Europe, had
it T)een believed that they were capable of residing in any
place but the burning sands of Arabia.       But there   is an
other kind of ostrich, that of Magellan, which, inhabiting
the cold districts of South America, might thrive in our
climates: it   would be necessary to introduce     it,
                                                    and to try
to multiply the breed, in order to take advantage of its eggs,
its flesh, and its feathers.
    In the mean time, there   is  another speculation which
would succeed more speedily, and with more certainty     j    is
                                                             it
to multiply white turkeys, and to employ for plumes the
            4                                          featheri

                  and the Down of domestic Fowls.              213
   feathers found on the lateral part of the thighs of these ani
  mals. This substitute for ostrich feathers would become
  useful to commerce.
      Besides the large ostrich feathers which are seen waving
  with so much grace over the head-dress of ladies, there are
  some taken from other birds which serve also for ornament
 ing these heads: of this kind are the feathers of the bird of
 paradise, and particularly the long and beautiful black fea
  thers which proceed from the top of the head of the heron,
  forming an aigrette, which is balanced on their neck.
      Luxury adorns itself also with the feathers of the peacock :
 the colours of gold and of precious stones which nature has
  bestowed in profusion on the tail of this beautiful bird, are
  its exclusive property ; those of the golden birds, the hum
 ming bird, and others of the large family of the woodpeckers
 exhibit the freshness and velvety appearance of flowers, the
 polish of the most brilliant metals, the splendour of the
 most precious stones, and the variegated and dazzling re
 flection of the rays of the sun. It has employed, in trim
 ming robes, the beautiful yellow and brilliant feathers of
 the neck of the toucan.       It has not even disdained to use,
 for the like purpose, the azured feathers of the jay, and
 with which that in the fable was not contented.
     So active a war was carried on some time ago against
 these birds, in order to obtain their feathers, that the far
 mers nattered themselves with the hope of being soon freed
 from them. Unfortunately the rage for the feathers of the
jay is over, and that bird continues, as before, to ravage
 the fields.
     Not satisfied with objects of ornament, for which luxury
employed those feathers, embellished with the most bril
liant colours, the idea has been conceived of rendering them
useful.
     It is with skins furnished with feathers of the same bird.-,
to which are added those of the swan, duck, diver, pintado,
 pheasant, &c. that muffs and palatines are made.
     The skins destined for this purpose, says M. Vieillot in
the Nouveau Dictionnaire d'Histoire Naturelle, ought not to
be those of birds which have died of disease, or which have
been killed in moulting- time; in this case the feathers would
drop' off, or would not be in a state of perfection.       None,
therefore, must be employed but those of birds killed in their
state of perfection, and stripped off soon after their death,
especially when the weather is hot; otherwise the same ef
fects would result from corruption as from disease.
     When the skin has been freed from all its impurities, it
                                 O3             ,               is

    214           Experiments and Olseruations on Feathers,
    is spread over a small table, the plumage downwards, and
    the feathers previously well arranged over each other.               To
    stretch it better, it is fixed with pins, or with a thread.
       The grease and flesh which may adhere to                are then reit,
    moved, and the rents in                any, are sewed up the skin
                                            it,   if                             ;
    is then covered with glue, prepared from            handful of farina,
                                                                    a
    a pinch  of  common     salt,  and   as  much  good white wine as                      is
    necessary   to mix    up  and
                               it   bring      to the proper consistence.
                                                       it
       The skin being thus covered                exposed to dry to the
                                                           is
    north wind, after which               cleaned
                                            it    is   scraping by    which      it  ;
    may   be  easily  done,  as   the   glue   detaches   itself  in scaJes.
    After this operation,           stilt retain any humidity,
                                      if   it                          must           it
    be again covered with glue, and dried as before.
       When well dried,             fixed with thread upon paper, or
                                      it   is
    on   aribbon, to preserve               it,
                                      and inclosed in       box, the bota
    tom of which        covered with absynthium or rose-wood. If
                          is
    an agreeable odour be required in the skin,             will be neces
                                                                        it
    sary, before     ittaken from the table, and after
                          is                                       has been     it
    scraped, to give            it,
                              with       sponge,  a   stratum or two of
                                                                a
    some odoriferous composition.
       When the skins are those of large birds, vinegar,                                   in
    which salt or alum has been dissolved,                 used instead of
                                                                     is
    wine; several strata of this mixture are dauhcd over them                              j
    the quantity depends on the thickness of the skin,
                                      Writing Quills.
       Pens, for such      the name given to the feathers of the
                                is
    wings and tails of birds, to distinguish them from the fea
•
    thers, properly so called,     which their bodies are covered,
                                                by
    are the longest and strongest of all the feathers        those                   ;
    of swans, geese, and crows, are employed in preference to
    all others for economical purposes, and according to the
    quality of their barrels.
       Thus, the quills of the swan are most esteemed for writing
    and for forming brushes       those of the goose, which are
                                            ;
    more plentiful, and almost as good as those of the swan, are.
    more generally used for writing and those of the crow are
                                                       ;
    more particularly employed for the keys of harpsichords,
    and     draftsmen in those kinds of drawings which are exe
             by
    cuted "with the pen.
                      Method           of Ditlchifying Quills.
        The bird which   supplies the greatest quantity of writing-
    pens      the goose. One furnishes quills of ten different qua
             is
    lities y but there always remains on their surface       greasy                  a
    matter, from which they must be freed to render them pure,
                                                                             transparent,

                      and the Down   of    domestic Fou-h.                       2 15
transparent, shining,        and, in   a   word,         proper for acquiring
 the nectssary qualities. This preparation is generally given
 to them by the Dutch.        Hence the expression of dulctiifu-
 ing quills to denote the operation to which they are sub
jected.     I took advantage of the circumstances of the war,
 when several apothecaries, acquainted with the arts and sci
 ences, were employed in Batavia, to request them to pro
 cure some information in regard to a process which is still
 very little known.     The following is the substance of what
 was communicated to me :
    The process consists in immersing the quill, when plucked
 from the \xing of the bird, into water almost boiling; to
leave it there till it becomes sufficiently soft ; to, compress
it,  turning      on its axis with the hack of the blade of
                 it                                                               a
knife.     This kind of friction, as well as the immersions in
 water, being continued till the barrel of the quill be trans
 parent, and the membrane as well as the greasy kind of co
vering be entirely removed,           immersed
                                     it   is        last time to
                                                              a
render    itperfectly cylindrical, which     performed with the
                                                     is
index finger and the thumb           :   then dried in
                                           it   is         gentle       a
                             '
temperature.                     •
                Feathers and Down for Cushions.
      Pillows,mattresses, and cushions, may be filled with the
small feathers of domestic fowls and pigeons. There are
some cantons in which they arc employed for this purpose;
but for the most part the down of the palmipedes       chosen.         is
Those of birds of prey might be employed also, were they
sufficiently numerous to promise abundance.
    There are two kinds of down.     One, which     neglected,    is
consists of light soft barbs, open, bristly, and without con
nection, which cover        great many young birds soon after
                            a
birth, and which drop oft in proportion as they are deve
loped. The other, more adherent, which are carefully col
lected, consist of those short feathers, with slender barrels,
and long, equal, disunited barbs, with which nature has
composed     the warm clothing of birds which take        hio;h             a
flight, and those which are aquatic, in order to secure the'm
from the cold they would otherwise experience, the one in
the upper regions of the atmosphere, and the other from
the contact o? the water.     This down in the latter       co              is
vered with     close oUy plumage, which preserves
                 a                                     entirely        it
from humidity, and          by
                           these means permits these birds to
 preserve their natural heat.                        \
    The. down of birds of prey, known under the name of
eider down, being, as already said, exceedingly rare, col
 lectors endeavour to obtain only that of palmipedes      very          ;   a
                                 0   -1              numeroiw

816     On the Feathers and Down            of domestic Fovuhi
numerous class of birds, and of which three species only
have been subjected to the condition of domesticity ; viz.
the swan, goose, and duck.
    But before I speak of the collecting of these three kinds
of down, which are readily obtained, I shall say a few words
in regard to a kind of down which is far superior to them
on account of its softness, lightness, and elasticity; it ia
the elder down, furnished by a duck called the eider duck
(Anas molllssima Linn.), which inhabits Iceland.                The
following is the description given of it by Sonnini, the
worthy friend of Buffon, and one of the principal co-ope
rators in the Nouveau Dictionnaire d'Histoire Naturelle :
    " The eider duck pulls from its breast and belly the down
with which they are covered, in order to line its nest to warm
its eggs and its young.       It is sought for with great care in
 all countries where these birds are common. It is the softest,
 the lightest, warmest, and most elastic of all the kinds of
 down. Norway and Iceland furnish this valuable substance,
 which is sold there at the rate of a pistole per pound when
 pure and well picked.
     " The nests of the eider duck are in the north of Europe,
 to the inhabitants of the coasts, a sort of property which
 though free is constant and certain. Each individual en
joys in peace the nests situated on his land, and does every
 thing in his power to draw thither these ducks.            A heavy
 fine is imposed on those who kill any of these birds. One
 man, if his habitation be placed on one of the rocks at a
 distance from the land, can collect in a year from fifty to
 a hundred pounds of down.          The Danes purchase all they
 collect.    But it is a general rule that the down taken from
 a dead eider duck is inferior in quality to that which it
 plucks from its own body."          I have already made this ob
 servation, and shall here add that it is general for all birds.
     There    is,
                indeed,  a   very great difference between fea
  thers plucked from   a  living animal and those taken from
 one which has died     in  consequence     of disease. The latter
 have very little elasticity  ;  their barbs become matted when
  exposed to the least humidity.       They are attended also with
  another inconvenience, which        is, that though baked in an
  oven they are attacked more readily         insects, and in little
                                             by                  a
  time reduced to dust.                        ,
     But this difference     is observed not merely in the fea
  thers of domestic animals wool and hair are equally sub^
                                  ;
 ject to it. Wool shorn from an animal which has died of
  diseaseis  not nearly so valuable as that cut from       asheep in,
  good health. The state of the disease even lessens the qua
                                                                     lity

     Dutch Processes in regard to the Arts and Sciences.    217
iity in a considerable degree.      All cloth made of hair cut
from an animal which has died of disease is destitute of
strength. Merchants, therefore, are very careful to say that
their liair is the product of a living animal ; and they are no
doubt taught by daily practice to distinguish it.
    Even ivory which is collected by chance in countries
inhabited by elephants is inferior to that obtained from ele
phants which are hunted : the latter being whiter, less brit
tle, finer, and susceptible of a better polish, and in every
 respect superior.
 XXXIX.       OLservations on some Dutch Processes in regard
      to the  Arts and  Sciences.   By M. PARMENTIER *.
 As     we have had a camp at Utrecht, and as government
 attached    to it M. Paysse in the Quality of apothecary in
 chief, I flattered myself, from the knowledge I have of the
 zeal and talents of that chemist, that by requesting him to
 take advantage of his stay in Batavia to examine the cabi
 nets of natural history, to visit the workshops, laboratories,
 and manufactories, and particularly to frequent the com
  pany of the professors with whom I'maintain a correspon
  dence, it would be possible to obtain some useful in
  formation in regard to certain processes of which the Dutch
  seem to have been in exclusive possession since time imme
 morial.     My hopes have not been deceived ; and I shall here
  give an extract of the different letters I received from
  M. Paysse : it is he himself who gives an account of what
  he collected in his excursions.
     " Our camp at Utrecht is very beautiful, and as advan
  tageously situated as local circumstances will permit. Water
  is good and abundant.        The evenings are rather cool, in
  consequence of the ground having very little shelter, and
  of the condensation of the water with which the air is al
  ways saturated.     There are not so many sick as we at first
  imagined ; and we hope that in the autumn, which is the
  season of disease to military people in this country, we
  shall have very few, or a much smaller number of sick than
  we have in our hospitals, in consequence of the means of
  salubrity which have been recommended to us, and the great
  tare employed both in the camp and in the hospitals.
     « I have had the pleasure of spending a day at Leyden
                  * From
                          4"»ala dt Cbimie, No. i ji.
                                                            With

 418.  .      Observations  on some Dutch Processes
 with your friend M. Brugmans, arid, after visiting every
 thing curious in his cabinet and that of the academy, we
 conversed on your ideas respecting the preservation of eggs.
 This celebrated professor is of opinion that your process is
 the only method proper for the proposed object.     The ship
 captains whom I consulted assured me, that when going
 on long voyages they took on board a very large quantity
 of hens without cocks, and that to preserve the eggs which
 they laid they put theni in large wooden boxes, or pots of
 earthen ware, arranging them in strata and covering each
of them with half an inch of chaft' of sarazin, commonly
called in French boquette. The boxes, when well filled and
 shut, are inverted every day.     The bran of wheat, some
times employed for this purpose, does not seem to be so
proper. The ashes of turf, wood, &c. may be substituted
in the room of these two matters.
    " Eggs which have been fecundated by intercourse with
a cock, cannot be kept so long by the same processes as the
 preceding; but if they are put into an earthen-ware pot, or
any other vessel capable of holding inched butter in order
to cover them, they may then be secured from putrefaction
for a very long course of time. Some inclose them in small
barrels with successive strata of sea salt.   The vessels are
inverted every two or three days, to change their position.
   " From Leydcn I went to the Hajjue, where I visited
several cabinets of natural history.     The most remarkable-
are those 'of Messrs. Voet and Froost, and especially the
former.     One of the members of the Batavian council, to
whom M. Brugmans was pleased to recommend me, showed
me the central dispensary of the military hospitals of tliat
nation, as well as the laboratory where the chemical pre
parations are made.       Besides the good order which 1 re
marked in that establishment, it appeared to me (hat every
thing was prepared with exactness; and that the simple drugs
employed were well chosen and of the best quality.
   " One thing which interested me much was the machine
used for pounding the greater part of the roots, bark, &c.
It consists merely of mason-work, covered with a plate of
cast iron having a rim of about nine inches in height. The
plate is about eight feet in diameter, and from the middle
of it arises an axis having at the extremity a pinion which
communicates with a large horizontal wheel moved by a
horse. From the axis proceed two iron arms which are fixed
to two vertical millstones, placed opposite to each other,
and which, by the motion communicated to them, reduce
to powder the substances they meet with in their passage.
                                                        Each

                in regard to the Arts and Sciences.           219
 Each of these millstones is furnished with     a  machine which
 raises and changes the place of the matter to be pounded, so
that in a short space a very large quantity of any dry drug
 whatever may be pulverized.       The sifting is performed on
 a large scale by bolting cloths like those used for wheat, the
 tissue of which is exceedingly fine.
    "The ?ame mechanism puts in motion eight large knives
 arranged four and four in a large vessel somewhat conical,
 and hollowed out in a block of wood nearly four feet in dia
meter and two in depth. This apparatus is employed for
cutting medicinal roots, &c. It is much to be wished that
 similar moans were employed in the military hospitals of
France.      This apparatus has ceconomy and every thing else
 in  its favour.
     "  From the Hague     I  went to Harlem to see M. Van
Alarum, to whom I was recommended. This learned man
took the trouble to accompany me to the different cabinets
of the university, and the academy of which he is director.
 I saw there a collection of minerals, the specimens of which
are exceedingly fine ; but it is not complete.       The physical
cabinet is superb : I saw there several instruments improved
by M. Van Marum himself; and particularly Lavoisier's
gasometer.
    "   At Amsterdam I took an early opportunity of paying
my respects to ihe society of the Dutch chemists, Messrs.
Vrolick, Dcyman, Puff, &c. This city contains some in
teresting collections ; such as those of birds of Messrs. Ray,
Temminck, &c.         1 had here an opportunity of forming au
acquaintance with a drug merchant, who superintends, on
his own account, a chemical laboratory, where several pro
ducts are fabricated on a large scale.      I visited his manu
factory, where I saw a refinery of borax, furnaces, crystal-
lizators, and other apparatus.     I examined all his glass ves
sels, and every thing; employed on a large scale for the fa
brication of corrosive sublimate, red precipitate, mercurius
dulcis, cinnabar, sal-ammoniac, spirits, and for the puri
fication of oil of turpentine, 8cc.    The same merchant has
.1 manufactory also where he refines      camphor, alum, and
carmine ; but I must observe that he would not allow me
to gee the processes he employs for the last three.        In re
gard to every thing else, I acquired, notwithstanding my
short visit, a good idea of whatever I saw : the form of the
sublimatory vessels, the furnaces, their sand-baths j nothing
escaped me.
    "   I made a sketch   of an alembic according to the mo
dern form,    which   stems  to me to unite many advantages,
                                                           I have

                    Observations      on some Dutch Processes
I  have substituted for the spiral tube an instrument difficult
 to be constructed and repaired, a metal cylinder, as this
 matter appears to me preferable to glass, wood, earthen
 •ware, 8cc., in consequence     of the property it possesses of
 being a good conductor of caloric.      This reason is sufficient
 to convince me that the cooling of the liquor in distillation
 •will be effected more speedily.      I have not settled the di
mensions which ought to be given to this instrument : this
 point must be relative to the application intended to be made
 of it. The diameter of the still ought always to exceed the
height, &c.       The furnace for placing it on ought to be
 constructed according to the principles of the celebrated
Lavoisier.      A large quantity of liquid may be distilled in a
short time, and with little fuel, by means of this apparatus.
    " During my instructive tour, I did not fail to procure
information from different learned men and booksellers, in
regard to the domestic ceconomy of the Dutch ; I was told
by Messrs. Brugmans, Van Marum, &c., that there were
some dissertations     on this subject scattered throughout the
transactions of learned societies. There is, however, a work
entitled La Cuisiniere Hollandavse ; but, as you supposed,
it is of as little value as those of our country distinguished
by similar names : I shall however translate the most useful
parts of
              it,
               to enable you to judge whether the processes in
it are worth your attention. There are some articles in         so        it
ridiculous, that they will excite your laughter. The Dutch,
who are exceedingly provident, have not forgot to accom
pany the formulae for the preparation of their different dishes
with medical recipes; so that their alimentary code contains
every thing suited to people both in         state of health and
                                                       a
disease.
    "   In   the    Dutch domestic ceconomy   there are multitude
                                                                a
 of processes   for   preserving legumes throughout the whole
 year:  there  are  three for prolonging the duration of French
 beans without sensibly altering their colour: the first is, to
 cut the pod into small rhomboidal portions while               yet it   is
 tender, and when the seeds begin to assume their form.
When this operation, which            performed            by
                                                      women, each
                                           a is
armed with       knife,
                    a      ended,
                             is      stratum of the beans, about
 an inch     thickness,
             in             placed in an earthen or wooden ves
                                 is
sel.   This stratum       besprinkled with handful of pounded
                            is                         a
muriate of soda; other strata arc added, besprinkled with
muriate of soda in the like manner; and these alternate
layers are repeated till the vessel     filled to within about two
                                                  is
inches of the brim, care being taken that the last stratum
shall he muriate of soda.         piece of board, of the size of
                                       A
                                                               the

                in regard to the Arts and Sciences.              321
the diameter of the vessel, is then placed over the whole,
and loaded with a weight sufficient to compress it strongly,
and the vessel is deposited in a cellar: at the end of five or
six days the surface is covered with a certain quantity of
water, arising from the solution of a portion of the salt in
the juice of the legume. This liquor is decanted ; after
which a new solution of the same salt more saturated is
added.     At the end of eight days, the operation is renewed
with the same precaution; the liquor thrown aside becomes
acid in the course of some months, which announces that
the greater part of the mucous matter of the fruit has been
 in a state of fermentation ; this acid taste has a great analogy
 to that of the oxalic acid; I am even inclined to think that
 the latter predominates, and perhaps I shall have an oppor
 tunity of confirming it. After a similar preparation of two
 months, these beans may be used at table: before they are
 boiled, they are washed in water : by these means a great
 part of the saline matter with which they are impregnated,
 as well as the acid, is removed : when boiled they retain a
 slight acidity, which gives them a very agreeable taste.
   " Another method of preserving French beans consists
in taking them nearly in the state of the preceding; cutting
them only in two, or according to their length ; freeing them
from their filaments, as is done in regard to the former, and
boiling them for a quarter of an hour in water : they are
then taken off and suffered to drain on a table : when cold
they are put into earthen-ware pots, in alternate strata, with
common salt ; the vessel is covered in such a manner as to be
hermetically closed; and they are deposited in a cellar, where
they are left untouched till the time of their being used,
which is in winter: they are then washed and boiled.
    " A third process for preserving these beans       is,
                                                        to take
them very green and tender, and boil them in water for some
minutes, after which they are hung up in        proper place to
                                                 a
dry.
    " Some people, to preserve to French beans their green
 colour, adopt the pernicious practice of adding salt to them,
 and macerating them for some time in       copper vessel they
                                             a               ;
 even put among them pieces of copper coin.          The same
 method     employed
           is          in the preparation of cucumbers    in re
                                                             :
 gard to the latter, some boil them     in
                                         vinegar strongly satu
 rated with pepper   ;others only pour boiling vinegar over the
 fruit in   a vessel; some also suffer them to macerate
 cold, adding the common spices, tarragon, elder flowers,
 onions, 8cc.
    "  Ihave observed that cucumbers, prepared        by
                                                      ebullition
                                                                       in

 S22   Dutch Processes in regard to the Arts and Sciences.
in vinegar,   have the most agreeable taste; those macerated
cold always retain a green taste, and are not so tender as
the former.
   " Red cabbages, which are exceedingly fine in this
country, and particularly in Belgium, are prepared in the
same manner as the white cabbages arc for saner kraut ; they
are delicious food, and preferable to the real chou croute.     I
think it needless to describe the process, as it is so well
known in France; but it is applied here to red cabbage, and
even to turnips, as is practised, in some countries or Ger
many.
   "  The potatoes here are of a very fine kind, and will keep
throughout the whole year; we eat them even in the spring
time and summer^ yet they.do not appear to have lost any
part of their quality: instead of keeping them in cellars
during that season when the frosts are to be apprehended,
the Dutch spread them out in a barn ; they partly become so
dry, that the germ cannot be developed. To boil them,
they put them into a large kettle, taking care to add no
more water than is sufficient, when reduced into vapour, to
penetrate each tubercle, and to separate the farinaceous
inoleculje.    By this method they are always good. This
practice,  as you have proved in your works, has a great in
fluence on their quality.
   " The Dutch are accustomed to preserve the root of the
ginger, and the calamus aromaticus ; in this state they are
much employed as a tonic ; they are used in particular after
dinner, and in the evening.
   " To prepare them, they pick and clean the roots, free
them from the rind, and cut them into pieces about an inch
in length ; they then boil water in a bason, throw the roots
into it for some time, in order that they may become soft and
lose some of their acridity : when sufficiently tender, they
are carefully taken out and suffered to drain on a sieve. This
operation is called bleaching: a syrup, of a good consistence,
is then made with sugar, in which the roots are suffered to
macerate for twenty-fourhours;      next day the whole isplaced
over the fire, and gently boiled till the roots are well dilated,
and impregnated with the saccharine matter.        The vessel in
which this operation is performed, the object of which is to
render them verv tender, ought to be well closed, that the
evaporation of the aqueous liquid may be effected only with
difficulty : the whole is then left at rest for twelve hours,
taking the vessel from the fire on the third day. The syrup
is then concentrated, and brought to a strong consistence :
the preserve is afterwards put into vessels of glass or of
                                                         earthen

                       Oh the Principles             of Famf-Work.
earthen ware well closed : the roots must be covered with
syrup only to the depth of some lines.
     " Sometimes a dry consistence is given to these roots ;
for this purpose they are immersed .in sugar cult a la grande
plume, leaving them to drain and to dry at each operation,
if  it be required to have them candied or crystallized in
sugar, they are left in syrup of very white sugar boiled to a
strong consistence.
XL.    On the Principles of Pump-Work, illustrated and ap
   plied in the Construction of anew Pump, without Friction,
   or Loss of Time, or Water, in working ; humbly proposed
  for the Service of the British Marine, with the Privilege
   of His Majesty's Royal Letters Patent. By BENJAMIN
     MARTIN*.
J.N a civilized nation,                every person, considered as a member
of the community,                   is,   bythe first law of nature, obliged to
exert every faculty in his power towards establishing, sup
porting, and preserving the public good since the happiness       ;
of individuals must result from, and therefore   necessarily                 is
dependent upon, that of the commonwealth.         And when
every thing     duly considered, no person will be found en
                       is
dued with talents not considerable enough to render them of
importance to the public some way or other.
   There     no case wherein this maxim of politics
                is                                     more                        is
conspicuously verified than in that of sea-faring men. The
marine    well known to be the bulwark of every common
              is
wealth circumstanced like ours; and therefore the life of
ivery man        that respectable and momentous body must
                       in
deserve the first regard of the higher powers, or regency of
such      a   state.
     But when we consider their mode of living, as        were,                    it
founded in instability, and liable to all the fortuitous events
that the four elements can expose them to, their situation
merits all the care of government, and the concurrent asist-
ance of every person in the community,         to protect them
     ''This     article     is   copied from    n   pamphlet     hy   the ingenious Benjamin
Martin, \\li\\ which we were fdvourcd                   by   a   fiu-nd.    As the pump de
scribed in     possesses great merit, and rr my advantages over any pump
                it
we have seen,       cvjght to be generally known; which we find
                       it                                               not,        it   is
though the invention was published in 1766.         The same kind of piston
is,  ifwe recollect ripht, noticed    Dosagulicrs's Natural Philosophy, but
                                               in
cjnly applied to one working barrel; one great advantage       Mr. Martin's  in
pump arises from employing two. — We gave an engraving of this pump
 hi our" last Number, Plate V.
                                                                                    against

                On the Principles   of Pump-fVorL
 against the numberless casualties that hourly await them,
fluctuating on the surface of the ocean.
    Among these perils by sea, we may justly reckon a leak
 ing ship the most dreadful and fatal of all others : here not
 only one man or a few men perish, but every creature
 breathing on board the sinking ship, the brave commander
 with the meanest of the crew, are equally devoted to de
 struction by such an irresistible catastrophe : if a ship
 strike against a rock, and is wrecked, some lives may be
 saved by floating planks and rigging : if the magazine takes
 fire, death comes instantaneous, and kills, perhaps, in the
most gentle manner : but, in the desperate case of a leaking
 ship, how slowly does the awful monarch advance, arrayed
 in all the terrors possible ! How are all their united forces
successively applied, and as constantly defeated by the un-
abating torrent, which rushing in, and gradually overpower
ing them, plunges them at last into the bottomless deep!
    Now, as in such a melancholy situation all their hope and
expectation of help and safety must be placed in the pump,
of what prodigious estimation and consequence does such a
consideration render that machine ! and how much must it
import every commander of a ship (to whom the lives of his
men are committed) to take the utmost care that the ship
be supplied with such pumps as will best provide against
and ward off those impending dangers ! By any negligence
in this respect, he may become guilty of destroying his
own life, the lives of his men, and of the ruin and misery of
many families.      It is therefore his duty to see that his ship
be furnished with the best pump that can be procured for
evacuating the hold of the water that may at any time get in>
with the least force and in the shortest time.
    Here, then, a question of the most serious concern will
naturally offer itself for discussion ; viz. whether that hy»
draulic machine, called a chain-pump, now used in ships,
be as proper and effectual a construction to evacuate the ship
as that of a real pump ; I say a real pump, because the chain*-
pump is not such, — and, properly speaking, it is no pump
at all.
    Now, by considering the true nature of a pump, I appre
hend, it will appear that its structure is the best adapted to
answer the above purpose of any machine whatsoever, be^
cause it will raise just as much water whose weight is equal
to the force of the men employed; and to pretend to any
thing more would be absurd.
    I here speak of the just or genuine construction of *
pump, such as it ought to be ; and not such as are in corn-
                                                            moo

                  On the Principles           of Pump- Work.           223
 mon use, for they are faulty in many respects, particularly
the two following : 1 . They have, in general, a great deal of
friction, to overcome which a part of the given force must
be applied.     2k One half of the time employed in working
them is lost : and since every moment of time is precious in
a ship that has sprung a leak, it is evident a common pump
is by no means to be depended upon in any such pressing
exigence. These are two essential defects of structure ;                I
pass over all circumstantial ones that render their application
on ship-board every way improper.
   The effect of a pump         is,
                              with given force, to raise the
                                               a
greatest quantity of water to     given height,
                                          a         the shortest  in
time. From this definition       follows, that every pump, or
                                      it
hydraulic machine, which has any friction, or loses any
water in its operation, must, in its own nature, be unfit for
all naval purposes. And that one or the other of these deficien
cies  isinseparable from the structure of chain-pump, musta
be evident to every intelligent person      for,     the pallets
                                                      ;           if
touch the pipe, there will be friction; and        they do not,if
there will be loss of water, which    the same thing as loss of
                                               is
time.     Therefore   it  manifest a chain-pump cannot be
                           is
used in    aship without hazarding the loss of the ship, the
cargo, and the lives of all his majesty's subjects on board
the same.
 *   Itwill be in vain to allege any thing in favour of                a
machine which       isin its own nature bad, and of dangerous
consequence to be used; to say the lower part of the pipe              is
so fitted to the pallets that the water raised cannot there run
out and be lost,    is to confess frictiona     for no person who
                                                      ;
understands the force and effect of the pressure of the atmo
sphere, will pretend that any pump or engine whatever can
be made water-tight,       without friction to      degree superior
                                                              a
to the pressure of the air; since          the pressure of the air
                                                by
the water endeavours to descend between the piston and the
barrel, which can only be prevented                  by
                                              the close application
of some springy substance about the piston, as cloth, leather,
&c., producing tiie friction above mentioned.
   The chain-pump         not only subject to the friction of the
                         is
piston   and  water-pipe, but to much more besides, arising
in mi the two wheels and axles in each from the common:
principles and experiments of mechanics,          appears that near
                                                          it
a third part of the power      lost
                                is     most mechanical machines,
                                          in
as being employed to overcome friction unavoidable in their
structure    and this impediment we shall in vain attempt to
remove     by ;
              friction wheels        in
                                    the chain-pump,    whose con-
   Vol. 20. No. 79. Dec. 1804.                  P         struction

226              On tJie Principles of Pump-Work.
struction is necessarily too clumsy and coarse to admit of
 any benefit from such nice applications.
      I take no notice here of the small power (or purchase, as
 it is called) that the manner of working this pump allows of j
 nor the great disadvantage of applying the power in a circu
 lar motion ; with many othe,r things that one would think no
judicious mechanic could ever appear an advocate for. And
 therefore it must be presumed the chain-pump could never
 have continued so long in use, but because other pumps, not
 subject to the same imperfections and inconveniencies, have
 not, as yet, been offered, though many have been'contrived
 and proposed in lieu thereof.
      The ill success of others, however, has not deterred me
  from speculations of this kind. I thought, if pumps cou'd
 not be made without friction and loss of water or time in
 working them, it should seem as if nature itself had been in,
  this case wanting in its usual perfection.        But as no such
  thought could be admitted, it was clear to me that the most
  perfect method of constructing pumps had not yet been
  made public.      As I knew it was a matter of the last conse
  quence, I applied myself to consider which way water might
  be raised without friction or loss of time; and with little
  reflection, it appeared that nothing was wanting but a right
  application of the several parts concerned in the structure of
  a pump, to make it answer all the purposes which could bt
  expected from the principle of hydrostatics, hydraulics,
  and mechanics, all united together.
       That the public may have no doubt of this, I have for
  their satisfaction given a summary of all those principles (aa
  far as pump- work requi'res), and illustrated the same in a
  variety of copper-plate figures : every position or principle
  here advanced the reader may find demonstrated in my Phi-
   Iv.tophia Britannica, and P/ujsico- Mathematical Institutes.
  These principles I have here put together in one view, as I
   know of nothing more wanting in our language, to assist
   the mind in forming a right judgment of the nature and due
   construction of a pump.         And" I must further observe to
   the reader, that whoever may think fit to criticize upon the
   pump here offered to the public, unless he is known to un
   derstand these principles, his judgment, objections, or cen
   sure, ought to pass for nothing.
       However, it would, after all, be trifling with the public to
   talk to them about a pump in theory only. I knew so well
   the nature of the construction which the theory directed to,
   tfeat I made no demur about putting it into execution at
                                                             large;

                      On tlie Principles        of Pump -Work >
  large; and when I had finished           found it,
                                                  I answer all my it
 expectation, and, indeed, beyond what the common theory
 of pump-work required.
     For, as the theory has hitherto considered pump consist  a
 ing only of single barrel and piston upon the sucking-pipe,
                  a
it   supposes that no water rises into the barrel but while the
 piston is
             ascending; which       true in all common or single
                                           is
 pumps but in double pump, or that here proposed with,
       :                a
 two barrels upon one pipe, the case           otherwise; for the
                                                        is
 water not only rises while the piston rises, but continues to
 do so even after the piston begins to descend       and therefore5
 we soon found the pump delivered more water than was ex
 pected from calculation.                                          .
     To account for this hydraulic paradox,       must be consi
                                                             it
dered, that as this pump has both its large pistons working
 (alternately ascending and descending) at the same time,
there must be produced             constantly rising column of
                                       a
water in the pipe, whose velocity through             bore of fivea
inches to supply the barrels of twelve inches diameter each,
must be so great, that         cannot be checked or stopped at
                                  it
once, or upon the first descent of the piston, and therefore
a   surplus of water must be produced, as we found there ac-
  ually was,      by
                   the experiment.
    This   is  therefore an argument which alone proves the
superior perfection of this construction of        pump, as such
                                                              a
an effect can never be produced in any other.
     How deservedly this pump may be considered as without
friction, will appear from its own nature, and from experi
ments tha't have been made upon it. With respect to the
nature and construction of the piston,            evident that no
                                                        it   is
friction can arise from thence; for, while any body                        is   in
                             by                                                      is a
fluid,it   is  affected      pressure every way equally, and
                                  a
therefore in the same condition as            was not acted upon
                                                  if   it
by   the fluid at all that
                        ;
                                  is,
                                 will be absolutely free to move.
                                  it
Now this     is the case of the leathern pistons in this pump                        ;
they touch not the surface of the barrels, but produce their
effect by  a    motion of the several parts in water only, and
therefore entirely preclude even the very possibility of fric
tion from that quarter.
    The only source of friction, then, must be in the axle,
arising from the pressure of the lever, pistons, &c. But
how very small and inconsiderable this            will be evident
                                                             is
from two experiments made on             pump at large, viz. the .
                                                 a
height sixteen feet, the diameter of the piston tsvelve inches,
and the length of the stroke nine inches.
                                       P   2                           Experiment

228             On the Principles  of Pump- Work.
                          Experiment     I.
     The double lever (of iron) and both its pistons weighed
 178lb. : and less than one pound weight laid upon the end of
 the lever or handle, made it descend directly ; which plainly
 shows the friction arising from the pressure of SOOlb. is not
 more than equal to one single pound weight ; a sufficient
 proof of the great simplicity and perfection of the structure
 of this pump.
                          Rrperimeiil    II.
     After this, the axle was laid upon the surface of perpen
 dicular moving bars of twelve inches in length, which were
 tantamount to friction wheels of two feet aiameter ; and rt
 was found that much about the same weight, viz. nearly one
 pound, was then also necess-ary to make the end of the lever
 preponderate.      Whence it appears, that the friction of the
 axle may be entirely neglected, or, being so very small, may
 be esteemed as nothing.
     This fact was also further verified by the men who worked
 the pump ; for they all unanimously declared, that they
 found not the least difference whether they worked with the
 friction bars, or without them.        These are all convincing
 proofs, that the construction of this pump is not liable to>
 the common objection of friction.
     As to the other imperfections of pump-work, viz. loss of
 time, and which is unavoidable in common pumps, it is as
 evident, that it can have no place here, as being inconsistent
 with the very construction of the pump } for, since one pis
 ton or the other is always ascending, the water (conducted
 in one pipe) must be always rising ; therefore no time can be
  lost.
     Neither will the construction of this pump admit of any
  water being lost in working it; for it is self-evident, that it
  has such a structure of the pistons and valves, as necessarily
  renders them not only water-tight but air-tight likewise j
 and consequently no water is necessary, and no time lost, in
  fetching this pump, as is the case with all others of the
  common construction.                        ,
     Long   after this pump  was  erected,   and its effects publicly
  shown, it was objected oy some, that the invention was not
  new; for it could be proved that, years before, pumps had
  oeen made with two oarrels upon one pipe ; and also that
  leather had been applied to a piston for raising water without
  friction before now. To all this I answer, 1. That I had
  never heard of any such construction of two barrels upon
 one pipe, when I'made mine.         2. That upon inquiry, I find
                                                                   no

                 On Ike Principles     of Piimp-lVork.         229
no such      application of the barrels to the pipe in them, as
appears    in mine, where the course of the water from the
pipe is   directly into each barrel ; but in them it is very
oblique, and the force of the water must be greatly broken.
3. None of these double-barrelled pumps have pistons, like
those in mine, without friction.            4. The leathern piston
above mentioned was applied to a single pump, and not in
a double one, as in mine.         5. This leather piston was of a
different form from mine, and admitted of but a very short
stroke.    6. Not only the construction, or application of the
parts of this pump is very different from that of all others,
and their essential defects thereby removed ; but it is at
 tended with many circumstantial advantages which cannot
fail of recommending it to all who have occasion for a ma
chine to raise water.
     The great velocity and force with which the water rises in
the pipe, carries up every thing that lies in the way, as heavy
pieces of iron, So:.; therefore it is plain it can be no ways
liable to be choked as other pumps are too often, as is well
 known by fatal experience.
     One thing here is of too great importance not to be
mentioned, viz. that whereas in common pumps a fissure or
crack in the water-pipe, by which the air can get in, stops
the operation of the pump entirely ; in this pump, if the
 fissure be not very large, the water will continue to rise, as
 we have experienced by making a hole in the said water-
 pipe 1 -fourth of an inch wide.         An effect, I believe, never
before heard of in pump-work.
     The structure of this pump is so very simple that it can
                                                   is,
 not be often out of order; and when it             may be rectified
                                                   it
 in very short time, without any difficulty or trouble.
   a
     And peculiar advantage           this pump is, that while one
                                     in
          is a
 piston    mending,    the  other  may   be kept working; and how
great  a  succour  and  relief this   must   afford to the dejected
 mariners in     aleaking ship, they best can tell whose lives
 have been deeply endangered          byan unavoidable cessation of
 the operation of the pump.
     This pump may be made of any size, and constructed
 with an air-vessel, as in the common- stream engine for
  putting out fire may be wrought with men, water, wind,
                     5
 horses, &c. for all the purposes of raising water to supply
 reservoirs, extinguish fires, water gardens, evacuate ponds,
                          [To   be   continued.]
                                P3                       XLI.,Ex-

                              [   230   ]
XLI.     Experiments      to ascertain whether there exists any
    affinity betwixt    Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
   parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
   forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By DAVID MUSHET,
    Esq. of the Calder Iron-Works.
                       [Continued from p. 141.]
                      2d,  Calcareous  Ironstone.
o    P this class there were subjected to experiment two var
rietu's : one in the state of band, or regular stratum; the
other in the state of calx : the former containing about
25 per cent, of iron, the latter 42.
    The first variety of calcareous ironstone is found about
two inches in thickness, and is inclosed in a regular stratum
of shelly limestone, mentioned in last communication. The
fracture of this stone is smooth and dense, exhibiting a
great number of calcareous lines which describe the exterior
lineaments of muscle shells. It roasts to a very fine purple
colour, and displays every appearance of a rich ironstone.
The calcareous lines, however, sopn attract moisture, swell,
and burst the ironstone, first into masses shaped like mus
cle ; but soon after an entire decomposition takes place, and
 the ore passes into the state of a fine powder, assuming a
deeper shade as it falls.
    This band or stratum is the companion of coal metals ;
 and wherever found indicates the existence of coal with an
 almost unerring certainty.       Its enveloppe by burning forms
 good lime, which has in some cases been deemed to make
 excellent mortar. The two substances, though not homo
 geneous, yet adhere so strictly together that they cannot be
 separated distinctly till after burning.
    The extent of this measure or stratum is so general, that
 in almost every coal field it may be met with ; and there is
 no iron-work in Scotland but the same ironstone^ is found
 modified in some shape or other.
     Exp. I. 400 grains of raw ironstone was fused per se.
 The result was a~ very black shining glass, in which there
 were found no traces of metal.
     Exp. II. 400 grains of ironstone,
                 13-j-       of carbon, or l-30th.
     There resulted from the fusion of this mixture a shining
 black glass, porous upon the surface and round the edges.
 Below was found a fine shaped gpbule of iron, weighing
  9 grains : equal to 2^- per cent.
                                                            Exp.

        On the Affinities     of different Earths for Carlon.        93 1
 .  Exp.    III.   400 grains of calcareous ironstone,
                    2O          of carbon, or l-20th.
    The fusion of this mixture afforded a glass equally black,
but more shining than the last.               A crystallized button of
steel was obtained which weighed 2y grains, and equal to
 7^- per cent.
    Exp. IV. 400 grains of ironstone,
                     27           of carbon, of 1-1 5th nearly.
    The result as to glass was very similar to No. III. The
metallic button was coloured, and still more elegantly crys
tallized. Its weight was found to be 37 grains, or 9$ per cent.
    Exp. V. 400 grains of ironstone,
                   40          of charcoal, or 1-1 Oth.
    The result was a triangular-shaped button of crude iron,
which sveighed 68 grains : equal to 1 7 per cent.
    Exp. VI. 400 grains of ironstone,
                    55-i-
                          — •—* of carbon, or l-7th nearly.
   The chief part of this mixture was reduced to glass, and
detached globules of iron, which could not be collected with
any degree of accuracy. A portion of the mixture, very
magnetic, was found upon'the surface of the glass.                   The
glass   itself was    of  that  pure flinty     nature which always in
dicates a saturation of coajy matter in the mixture.
    Exp. VII. 40O grains of ironstone,
                      SO -. — - of carbon, or l-5th.
   The same circumstances were produced in this as in the
former experiment. A portion of very fine glass was formed,
more transparent than in No. VI. The quantity of globules
appeared greater, though equally diffused.              A much greater
portion of the mixture remained unfuscd, and which seemed
to increase in proportion as the charcoal is augmented.
Recapitulation of experiments with first variety of calca
       reous ironstones : quantity of matter 400 grains.
   Exp. I. Perse; no metal obtained.                             percent.
          II.    -30th of carbon yielded
                                      '          of metal 9 grs. or
        III.     -20th         ditto         —>  —       29       or  7$-
         IV.     -15th         ditto                     37       or  9J-
          V.     -10th         ditto         -.          68       or 17
         VI.     -7th          ditto    imperfect,
       VII.      -9th         ditto       ditto.
Experiments made with the same calcareous ironstone in a
   roasted stale, after having ascertained that in torrefying
   it lost of water and carbonic acid 42 per cent.
   Exp. I. 400 grains of          roasted ironstone,
                  13^         of carbon, or l-30th.
                                     P 4                            This

  232                  On the Affinities of
     This mixture was easily reduced, and a perfect result ob
 tained.    A smooth, stained, shining metallic spherule wa»
 obtained weighing 17 grains : equal to 4$ per cent.
     The glass, as is usual in the early stages of separation,
 was very black and dense, and its upper surface was covered
 with enamel of purple oxide.
     Exp. II. 400 grains of roasted calcareous ironstone,
                 20         of carbon, or l-20th.
    The fusion of this compound afforded a handsome shaped
 hutton of metal which weighed 30 grains; equal to 7-i- per
 cent. The glass was nearly the same as obtained in last
 experiment.     The oxide enamel was more shining) and not
 so deeply incrusted.
    Exp. III. 4CO grains of roasted calcareous ironstone,
                  27         of carbon, or l-l5th.
    The glass obtained in this fusion was in thin fragments,
 possessed of a dull amber shade.      A smooth-skinned me
 tallic button was obtained which weighed 60 grains, or 15
 per cent.
    Exp, IV. 400 grains of roasted calcareous ironstone,
                 40         of carbon, or 1-lOth.
    There resulted from the fusion of this compound an ele
 gant crystallized button of cast steel, the surface of which
 was covered with a variety of prismatic colours.
    The weight of the regulus was found to be 116 grains;
 equal t9 28 per cent.
    The glass had received a very perfect impression from the
 button of steel, and contained in concave lines an exact
 copy of the crystallization.
    Exp. V. 400 grains of roasted ironstone,
                55-j-      of carbon, or l-7th.
    The result of this experiment was a perfect fusion, ac
companied by a very fine button of crystallized cast steel.
 Upon the upper surface there were several circular spots of
a bright silvery colour, marked with the most minute, yet
perfect, lines of crystallization.   This result was found to
weigh 146 grains; equal to 3&J- per cent.
    Exp. VI. 400 grains of roasted calcareous ironstone,
                 80         of carbon, or l-5th.
   This compound was exposed to 160° of Wedgewood.
When cold I found the following result :
   A considerable portion of the mixture was found upon
the surface of a pure flinty glass. This was interspersed
with a number of globules of cast iron beautifully carbu-
rated.   One solid mass was found of the quality of white
cast iron, which, with the globules, amounted to 130 grains ;
                                                        being

                     different Earths   far Carton.                «33
being equal to 32£ per cent. This is 4 per cent, less than
in No. V,       and is no doubt occasioned by part of the com
pound forming an infusible residuum at the temperature at
which the mass entered into fusion.
Recapitulation of experiments made with roasted calcareous
                         ironstone, first variety.                 cent>
                                                              p<rr
    Exp. I. l-30th of carbon yielded of         metal  17 grs. or    4-}-
           II.   l-20th       ditto                    30      or    7$
          III.   l-15th       ditto                    60      or 15
          IV. l-ioth          ditto                   116      or 28
           V. l-7th           ditto                   146      or
          VI. l-5th           ditto                   130      or
    It would appear to result from these experiments, that
when a large portion of carbonaceous matter is used, there
results an imperfection in the reduction, which, though
neither of the same magnitude nor importance as was ex
perienced in the argillaceous compounded ore, or with that
compounded of siliceous matter, yet is equally extensive
with the deficiency remarked in the argillaceous ironstone
treated of in the last communication.          1 he metallic produce
in the case of the argillaceous ironstone appears to be re
 tarded by a quantity of the iron still remaining in the state
of glass of iron, over which the carbonaceous matter does
not seem to act during the short period of reduction with
 full  effect.
    In   the case   of the calcareous ironstone, the want of com
 plete   reduction,    or the deficiency of the metallic product,
 arises from a very different cause.          The glasses are found
 perfect, containing little or no iron; but a portion of the
compound is formed, by means of the agency of the calca
 reous earth, into a dull magnetic carburet of iron, which re
 sists the highest heat of the furnace.
     If this reasoning upon facts that seem sufficiently esta
blished by experiment be correct, then the present calca
reous ore either contains too much lime or too small a pro
portion of iron to make a perfect reduction without the ad
 dition of another earth.         To prove this the following expe
 riments were made:
     Exp. I. This was No. VI, with raw calcareous ironstone,
 repeated in the following manner :
           20O grains of ironstone,
             28-i-        of carbon, or 1 -7th nearly.
             50           of sand, very pure.
    This mixture was completely reduced without an atom of
                                                                    any

 S34                       On the Affinities   of
 any matter whatever being found within the crucible when
 cold.    A pure flinty glass was obtained, and covered the
 metallic result, which was found of the quality of cast steel.
 Its weight, including two small globules, was 42 grains ;
 equal to 21 per cent.; and 4 per cent, more than was ob
 tained in Experiment No. V, with l-ioth of carbon.
     Exp. II. 200 grains of raw ironstone,
                  28           of carbon, or nearly l-7th,
                  50           of Sturbridge clay.
    The result of this fusion was an irregular shaped button
 of iron -weighing 35 grains, or 171 Per cent- No part of
the mixture remained unfused.             The glass was of a black
colour and very dense, with every appearance of containing
 a portion of iron.
    It would appear to result from this and the former expe
riment, that a mixture of l-4th of sand is of more service
in reviving the metal of calcareous ironstones than an equal
weight of clay.
    The second variety of calcareous ironstone operated upon
is found in the shape of oval balls weighing about 7 pounds
each. The external colour is rusty yellow.              The fracture
is splinty, of a grayish white colour and porcelain appear
ance.
    Exp. I. 400 grains of raw ironstone yielded a very pon
derous glass, dense, and free from honeycombs through
out, and without any symptoms of revived metal.
    Exp. II. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                   13-J- ——of carbon, or l-30th.
    The fusion of this mixture formed a glass nearly the same
as in No. I.        In the middle of this glass I found a perfect
globule of iron which weighed 4 grains ; equal to 1 per
cent. The surface of the glass was deeply enamelled with
oxide, and the fracture of a dazzling metallic lustre.
    Exp. III. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                    20          of carbon, or l-20th.
    From the fusion of this I obtained a very fine spherule of
iron which weighed 25 grains, and equal to 6-J- per cent.
    Exp. IV. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                    40          of carbon, or l-10th.
    This mixture        when   fused yielded a beautiful smooth
button of      metal     weighing 68 grains ; equal in point of
product     to  17 per cent.       The glass was still black and
shining   :  the  fracture  in  point of lustre resembled the polish
of a highly    finished   razor-blade.
    JGrp. V. 400 grains of raw ironstone,                ,
                  57          of  carbon,  or  l-7th.
                                                          A metallic

                  different Earths     for  Carbon.             233
   A metallic button resulted from the fusion of this mix
ture weighing 1J2 grains; equal to 28 per cent.
   The surface of the glass was covered with an enamel of a
pearly white colour : the fracture however was still black
and shining, and in thin fragments very opake.
   Exp. VI. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                                 ....
                 80          of carbon, or l-5th.
   There resulted from the fusion of this mixture a large
button of white fractured cast iron weighing           -   162 grs.
About 50 globules mixed with a small portion of
   untaken up charcoal                                       3
                                                           165
                 Equal to 41i per cent.
   The glass obtained was of a foul brownish rusty colour;
but the quantity did not exceed 20 grains, and was attached
to the sides of the crucible only.
   Exp. VII. 400 grains of raw ironstone,
                 100          of carbon, or l-4th.
   The result of this was precisely the same as last. The
quantity of iron 414- per cent. The glass the same in quan
tity and in colour. Eight grains of charcoal remained un
taken up.
   Recapitulations of experiments made with the second
                 variety of calcareous ironstone.
   Exp. I. fusion per      se, yielded no metal.            percent.
         II.  l-30th of carbon yielded 4 grs. of iron,       or 1
       III. l-20th ditto                      25    ditto,   or 6±
        IV. l-10th        ditto           <- 68     ditto,   or 17
         V. l-7th         ditto     ——112           ditto,   or 28
        VI. l-5th         ditto             165     ditto,   or4l±
      VII. l-4th          ditto             165     ditto,   or 414-
   The specific gravity of these three varieties of ironstones
was as follows :
           Argillaceous ironstone         - - 2*984
            Calcareous, first variety          - 3*124
            Ditto, second variety         - - 3*550
                         [To   be continued.}
                                                      XLII% Com*

                                      [    23C      ]
XLII.     Comparison           of the Cow-Pock with                    the      Small-Pox.
                              By Dr. THORNTON.
                              [Continued from p. 151.5
IN EITHER     is the cow-pock attended with sore throat or
diarrhoea.   Its entrance into  the system may be marked by a
fever of one or two days' continuance ; but this should ex
cite no alarm, as there is no danger from         and shortly the it,
whole constitutional affection will have subsided.         In the
small-pox there       often
                         is   secondary fever more to be appre
                                    a
hended than the first. When the fond parent had hoped that
the danger was over; when the eyes begin to open; the swell
ing of the limbs to subside, dawning reason to return, and
food be craved after,— expectation fancies that her doubting
fears have ceased for ever; — soon the deceitful calm        only                  is
the prelude to     more direful scene
                     a                     the matter formed in
                                                         :
the first fever, or effort of Nature,    again taken up into the
                                                    is
frame, and,   with  weakened   powers,  assailed in every part by
the circulated poison, unable further to resist, she yields at
last to the renewed attack of her most powerful enemy.
   From extensive experience,         may now be pronounced,
                                               it
that none die        the cow-pock, either taken naturally or
                     of
from inoculation.
   The cow-pock never kills, the natural and inoculated small
pox not unfrequently . — If the whole merit of the cause of
vaccine inoculation depended on this single point,          might                 it
rest secure as the greatest discovery ever made.        The cow-
pock never destroys life! —-Glorious tidings — Happy annun        !
ciation! — who have lost
             I                            by
                                 variolous inoculation my first
born child   ;   hoy who, not alone in his parent's eye, but
                 a
to all who knew him, promised the fulfilment of every wish,
have a  just right to exult in the present fortunate discovery
of Dr. Jenncr. How was his lovely form defaced, and what
•were his sufferings, before death snatched      him to an early
tomb, has been drawn              by
                             me with     trembling band, when
                                                    a
I wrote my detail of the symptoms and account of ihe ra
vages of the small-pox! — So faithful         the portrait, that
                                                             is                         I
have often witnessed tears to flow in abundance when this
history has been read            by
                            others, as bringing to recollection
many  a   similar distressing scene exhibited      some favourite     by
child, or    by some friend's or relation's child. — My tears
are now wiped away, and may theirs be also,          the pleasing          by
view of the present ameliorated condition        humanity     of                   !
   The cow-pock never disjtgures the countenance.
   To all who have the refined sentiment of taste, and con
                                                         template

     Comparison      of the Cow-Pock with tlie Small-Pox,               237
template the human form as the master-piece of creative
power, and acknowledge that female charms are destined
by the ALMIGHTY as the zest of otherwise a vapid exist
ence, must grant every praise to the Jennerian discovery t
which is never known to disfigure (as does often the natural
and inoculated small-pox) " the human face divine." — Al
though external appearances are not of themselves solely to
be desired ; I ask, where is the parent who does not wish
for her daughters to possess a pure unblemished heart in an
elegant and pleasing person ? — For often, at the very first
glance, the soul takes lire, and soon after joins in holy bands
of wedlock the two sexes destined by PROVIDENCE to make
each other happy.          But, when the features are all changed,
the nose drawn inward, a speck perhaps in both eyes, "and
horrid seams pervade the pallid cheek — the mind of sensibi
lity revolts at the ruins of fair nature, and marriage is pre
vented, unless for the sake of sordid pelf! — I shall here beg
leave to make a quotation from Dr. Beddoes's " Hygeia*.
11
    What impression," says this sagacious writer, " do not
a callow unwholesome complexion, seams from the small-
fox, scrophulous scars, and those marks which debauchery
is apt to stamp upon the face, make upon the spectator? Is
he not in general disposed to turn away in disgust from
these appearances? or, if politeness forbid him to give way
to his feelings, do they not rise to a greater height for being
suppressed ? And in what manner docs the mind of those
who perceive themselves to be objects of aversion react ? —
 Instead of going for an answer to the theory, which ex
plains how our habits are formed, I shall bring one of the
most sagacious of self-observers to speak for himself.                  The
late professor, J. George Busch, whose memory the city of
Hamburgh is at this moment employed in honouring, tells of
his having had the small-pox at nine years old; and, though
they were attended with no imminent danger, they left him
ladly marked.           ' I was afterwards informed,'
                                                                says this
philosopher,       *
                     that previously to this affliction I had a
comely appearance.            For myself, I had never attended to
the point.       But one thing I know well. After this time, [
perceived that those who visited my parents universally
withheld from me that kindness of attention, which with
a child is the first motive to render him self agreeable, though
   *"  Wygeia, or A Series of Esiayi on tbf Mrcms of avoiding habitual Sick-
lines', and premature MtrtaLly, on a Plan finitely fofn/ar, by Thomas
Ikcldocs, M. D."     A work admirably conceived, and likely to be pro
ductive of the greatest benefit to the human race.
                                                                       they

                Continuation      of the   Comparison    of the
 they showed it to my well-looking brothers and sisters : all
 the pranks that I, poor pock-pitted boy, to whose feet no
 dancing-master had given the right position, or drawn the
head from between              the shoulders,       played    in my vi
vacity, might        indeed     have     been  performed      with  an ill
grace.
   "  ' This toOj I should observe, was the period when the
chief art of education consisted in hard words and blows.
On me reproaches rained from all quarters. When my
parents, who alone treated me with any degree of sense,
carried me to Haarburg; my grandmother and abrisk grand-
aunt so maltreated poor George, that my father and mother
were extremely unwilling I should repeat the visit.                In my
grandfather's favour I stood all the higher, for he was stock-
Blind ; so could not judge of me by my exterior.' — From
his subsequent history — particularly from the hypochon-
driacal complaint into which he afterwards fell — it should
seem that this man, wise and useful as he proved, never
entirely recovered of the wound inflicted on his tender mind."
What then can be hoped where fewer resources exist, and
fewer favourable circumstances concur in riper years ?
   The cow-pock never deprives any one of sight.
   There scarce needs a comment on the advantage of the
cow-pock over the small-pox, as here stated.                 The blessing
of vision, so often destroyed by a.small-pox pustule settling
on the eye, is but too obvious to be much insisted on. How
feelingly does Milton deplore this loss !
        ——   ——      Thus with     the year
        Seasons return ; but not to me retains
       Day, or the sweet approach of ev'n or morn,
        Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer's rose,
       Or flocks or herds, or huimn face divine ;
       But cloud instead, and ever-during dark,
        Surrounds me,— from the cheerful ways of men
        Cut off, — and for the book of knowledge fair
        Presented with an universal blank
        Of nature's works, tome expung'dand       raz'd,
       And wi>dom at one entrance quite shut      out.
   The cow-pock is so mild a disease as rttrely to prevent
the patient from pursuing his daily avocation.
   1 his is an advantage over the small-pox particularly to
be considered with regard to the army and navy.
   Dr. Marshall reported to the committee of the house of
commons, that he, assisted by Dr. John Walker, com
menced, in     July 1 800, vaccination on       board    of his majesty's
                                                                     ship

                  Cow-Pock   with the Small-Pox.                 239
 ship the Endymion, eleven of whose crew were inoculated,
 and went through the vaccine disease without any remission
 of their ordinary duty, or any deprivation of their usual al
 lowance of wine or provisions.         He also inoculated such
 soldiers of the garrison of Gibraltar as had not had the
 sniall-pox: the plague, at this time, prevented the garrison
 from receiving the usual supplies of fresh provisions from
 Barbary ; and Spain was shut against them by the war: their
 food, in consequence, was principally salt provisions sent
 from England, and they generally indulged in drinking new
 wine: this diet, added to the excesses which soldiers usu
  ally commit, put the cow-pock to a severe trial, especially
  when it is further considered that they, whilst under ino
  culation, performed their ordinary regimental duties; and
  so far was the cow-pock from preventing their doing this,
  that not a single case occurred where any application wa»
  requisite to the inoculated part, though the heat of the at
  mosphere was frequently upwards of ninety degrees; ii?
  corroboration of which the surgeon-major's certificate wa»
  produced. At Minorca the same success attended the ino
  culation, where it was also generally introduced amongst
  the inhabitants; and their medical men were instructed in
  the practice: such seamen also on board of the British fleet,
  under the command of admiral lord Keith, as had not had
  the small-pox were inoculated with the cow-pock.                 At
  Malta, its practice was also generally introduced both
   among the troops and inhabitants; and an hospital, called
• the Jennerian Institution,    was established     by the governor,
   for  the inoculation of  the poor.   In   this island  the ravages
   of the small-pox had always been dreadful ; and some of the
   men of war then in the harbour had the small-pox on board,
   and had buried several men : this apprehension was also en
   tertained by the admiral, and the late general sir Ralph Aber-
   crombie, who each issued general orders for the inoculation
   of such seamen and soldiers, under their respective com
   mands, as had not had the small-pox.          A certificate, con
    firming   the above  facts, was   delivered    in, signed by sir
   Alexander Ball, governor of Malta.          In'Sicily, the small
   pox had been, if possible, still more fatal than in Malta;
   for the computation of deaths, occasioned by it in the yea;
    preceding his arrival, exceeded eight thousand in the city of
    Palermo alone : the introduction of the cow-pock was there
    fore received with enthusiasm, and an hospital, similar to
    that at Malta, was immediately established by his Sicilian
    Majesty; and although the small-pox, soon after his arrival
    in the city, again appeared, it was immediately stopped by
                                                               vaccine

24O             Continuation     of the   Comparison     of the
vaccine inoculation, which was also extended through the
whole island. The benefits received at Palermo from the
 cow-pock excited a great wish for its practice in Naples,
where the small-pox has always been considered as very
fatal.    An hospital was also there established by his Ma
jesty,   and  the practice of vaccine inoculation was speedily
adopted throughout the whole kingdom j his Majesty hav
ing commanded that children to be inoculated, attended by
 surgeons to be instructed in the practice, should be sent
 from each province to the hospital at Naples, to carry both
 the knowledge of the disease, and the practice of          into     it,
 their respective provinces.    On his leaving Naples the wit
ness received very honourable testimonials from his Sicilian
Majesty, which were produced. He also extended his prac
 tice to other parts of Europe, to Rome, Leghorn, and Ge
noa and
    ;           every instance where tried he found
                in                                        resist    it
the infection of the small-pox.       He never heard that any
such mode of inoculation had been practised or known in
 those countries before     and, as an example of the disbelief
                             ;
entertained by the medical men of Naples, he related        trial    a
•which they instituted soon after his arrival there, and with
out his knowledge, at the Foundling Hospital        where they
                                                            ;
first inoculated with the cow-pox      considerable number of
                                               a
children and, after they had passed through the disease, ex*
            ;
posed them to all possible modes               of
                                        infection   tlie small
                                                            of
pox, Loth       ly
                 inoculation and          by
                                      making tliem sleep     the      in
bed with people infected with the small-pox.         This trial,
which had excited the attention of the whole city, com
pletely established the reputation of the cow-pox      and they ;
appointed deputation to him publicly to express their con
                a
viction of its efficacy.
                           Public   Testimonies.
      "   General Mcmor.                                Malta, Dec. 9, 1800.
    "     The small-pox having
                                          Foudroyant,
                                   its appearance on board
                                     made
the Alexander, and other ships in the fleet, the commander
in chief thinks   necessary to refer the respective captains
                     it
to the general memorandums of the IQth October last, and
to recommend immediate application to Dr. Marshall and
Dr. Walker, whose    safe and excellent mode of treatment
has been experienced  on board the Foudroyant, and other
ships, in preventing the dreadful effects so often attending
the small-pox, which may now so easily be avoided without
danger or inconvenience.
                           " By
                             command of the vice-admiral,
                          (Signed)   " WILLIAM YOUNG."
"   To the respective captains, &c."
                                                   " These

                   Cow-Pox with      the  Small-Par-                841
    "   These are to certify that Drs. Marshall and Walker
have administered the vaccine inoculation to such of the
crews of all his majesty's ships under my command at
Gibraltar, Minorca, Malta, the Port of Marmorice,                   and
on the coast of Egypt, as had the opportunity and were de
sirous of submitting to the operation : that these gentlemen
have manifested the greatest assiduity for the extension of
the practice, bestowed the most unwearied attention to its
successful application, and have, according to the informa
tion I have received from all quarters, exhibited it with
perfect success.
     " Given under my hand, on board his majesty's ship the
Foudroyant, in the Bay of Aboukir, 20.th March 1801.
                                                           " KEITH."
                    "  Camp, four miles from Alexandria,  April n, iSoi.
     " This    is to certify, that Drs. Marshall and Walker at
 tended     at the hospital at Malta for the purpose of inocu
 lating the respective regiments of the expedition to Egypt,
 according to the general orders of the late commander in
 chief Sir Ralph Abercrombie, at which time the small-pox
 had got into the fleet, and was very fatal.
     " Dr. Walker accompanied the expedition, with the ap
 probation of the commander in chief, to Egypt, and intro
 duced the new practice into the army in general, which was
  found effectual in arresting the ravages of the small-pox ;
  those soldiers escaping it who submitted to this operation,
  and doing their duty as usual, while a few who neglected
  the opportunity were laid up.
      " We now experience his services in another way, he
                                                         surgeon of the
  having consented to be associated with the
  brigade of seamen on shore ; and from Sir Sydney Smith
  finHing it necessary to have the attendance of the surgeon
  at a distance from the camp, the medical care of the whole
  brigade falls upon him.
      "  Major-general Hutchinson feels a sincere pleasure in
   recommending Drs. Marshall and Walker (for their inde
   fatigable zeal in the service) to his royal highness the duke
   of York, who ever takes so lively an interest in whatever
   renders the situation of the soldier comfortable.
                      " J. HELY HOTCHINSON, Major-General."
      As  there is no loss of labour, so the expense of the cow-
   pock  is  only inoculation, which is usually performed gratis.
      The small-pox is a serious evil. What with preparation
   Vol. 20. No. 79- Dec, 1804.              Q                     before

 212         Continuation of the Comparison        of the
 before inoculation, inoculation, and the treatment often re
 quired during, and always after, the disease, with the abso
 lute necessity of lying by, it is an expense that the gene-
•rality of mankind are unable and very often unwilling to
 support.
    The cow -pock does not admit the olstades to a general
 inoculation winch the small-pox does.
    The obstacles to a general inoculation of the small-pox arc
 such as in all probability to prevent a plin of this kind from
 ever being carried into execution.
       1st, The prejudices of the lower orders of mankind.
    The cold calculator may estimate the advantages of ino
 culation to society, and calculate the comparative number
 of deaths from the natural small-pox and artificial disease;
 but yet, as he must allow that sonic die under inoculation,
 the fond mother naturally will thus argue within herself:
 — " Can I bring my mind to -consent to what may bereave
 roc of my dear child ? — If he were to die, how shall I forgive
 myself? — Am I sure that I am not anticipating an evil that
 may never arrive ? — Where is my right to do this ? — Is he
 certain to catch the small-pox? — And were this to happen,
 and he were, alas ! to be taken from me at a later period, I
 shall then, relying on Providence, have nothing to reproach
 myself with."
    In vain will the philosopher oppose to these" natural sug
 gestions of the weak mind,
    1. That were the child to die under inoculation, the mo
ther has truly nothing to upbraid herself with, having only
done her duty.
    2. And had not the Almightv designed inoculation to be
 performed, it would not be endowed vcith the extraordinary
virtue it possesses of preventing the small-pox, and have a
 nature infinitely milder than the other.
    The more ignorant the person, the more stubborn against
 the conviction of reason; and, as lludibras says,
               " She who's persuaded 'gainst her will
                 Is of the same opinion still."
So here, no force of argument will be able to bring over the
unwilling, and words are only lost in the attempt ; and a large
class of mankind will be always found adverse to inocula
tion, the possibility of death arising to the person inocu
lated,   being the stumbling-block         against its universal ac-«
ception.                                        .                   ,
                        2                                      2dly,

               Cow-Pock with tlie Small- Pox*                  S43
,2dly, The chances that infants at the breast have of dying 't
   early age being found most unfavourable to the insertion
   of the small-pox.
A    fact \vhich soon drew the attention of many eminent me
 dical writers, who endeavoured to account for this circum
 stance.     Thus Dr. Percival :
     " I. The number of diseases to which infants are liable,
 render them unfit subjects for inoculation.         Hippocrates,
•two thousand years ago, remarked, cctatibus morbosissiml
 sunt juniores.     And when we consider the great and sud
 den changes, both external and internal, which they undergo
 at birth ; the laxity and wonderful delicacy of their frame ;
 and their extreme irritability, perhaps depending upon it ;
 the copiousness of glandular secretions, with the difficulty
 of preserving that equilibrium, the least deviation from
 which aftects them ; it is matter of real astonishment that
 life itself can be supported under a series of such apparently
 unfavourable circumstances. Scarcely hath the little stranger
 been ushered into the world but he discovers signs of in
 disposition, by his restlessness, anxiety, crying, and vo
 miting; by the swelling of his belly, and sometimes by
 convulsions.     These symptoms arise from the load of me •
 conium with which the stomach and bowels are oppressed,
 and generally cease when those organs have been gently eva
 cuated. The jaundice next succeeds, and is sometimes com-
           with a very acrimonious state of the fluids, as appears
   y the eruption of little red pustules, with which the skin is
 Elicated
 every where loaded.      The thrush, watery gripes, and con
 vulsions, observe no regular order of time, but attack most
 infants, either singly or collectively, according as they are
 more or less obnoxious to the causes which produce them.
 The quick growth of children in the first period after birth,
 is likewise a source of numerous ailments ; notwithstanding
 the provisions which nature hath made to guard against the
 inconveniences resulting from    it,   bythe laxity of the glan
 dular system.     And as most of these causes continue to
 exert their influence after birth, though in     a   less degree,
 the increment of the young animal proceeds apace, and re
 dundances are formed, which in     a   healthy state are carried
 off by one or other of the glandular excretions. But de   a
 ficiency or excess in any of these, necessarily produces dis
 eases.    And in such feeble, delicate, and irritable subjects,
 the equilibrium cannot long be preserved.        If they are de
 fective, all the complaints which arise from plenitude ensue  j
                                                            •
                                Q*                             tfw

214                   Continuation of the Comparison        oj lite
the child grows feverish, dull, and comatose ; his stomach
is clisorderv-'d ; his bowels arc oppressed with wind; and if
 his belly be constipated, he falls into convulsions.           On the
 other hand, if they are excessive, a diarrlicca is produced ;
 u[>litl/(c :ind severe gripes succeed ; and the violent irritation
 seldom fails to occasion epileptic fits.        From this short view
 of the first period of infancy, I think it must appear evi
 dent that inoculation is ill adapted to that tender season of
 life. Nature, feeble and irritable as she then                  is,
                                                          can scarcely
 struggle     with   the  diseases to  which    she     ordinarily ex
                                                            is
 posed.            therefore
                  Tt   is      equally cruel   and  unjust to add to
 the number with which she                  is
                                          already oppressed.      For            it
is  demonstrable from the bills of mortality that two-thirds
 of all who are born, live not to be two years old and                       ;   I
 think    it    more tb.m probable, that
                  is                             considerable propor
                                                        a
 tion of these die under the age of six weeks.
    The fears and anxiety of the mother, excited                   at            a
 time \\hcn her strength hath been exhausted                 the pains by
 of labour, and when every uneasy impression should be
 cautiously avoided, cannot fail to injure her milk. And
 this    is  powerful objection to the early inoculation of in-
              a
•fauts.     If hired nurse be employed, her milk may disagree
                   a
 with the child        she may fall into some disease during the
                            ;
 time of inoculation, may be guilty of excess in eating or
 drinking, or may be under the influence of violent passions;
 each of which will acgravatc the symptoms and increase the
danger of the artificial distemper under which the infant
has to labour.
     "   It   hath been observed       by   a    very   able and experienced
practitioner,     that young children have usually         larger           a
 share of pustules from inoculation than those who are                           a
 little further advanced iii'Iifc; and that, from this circum
 stance, so many have died as to discourage the practice
 of ingrafting the small-pox on such delicate subjects. This
 fact     not easy to be explained. Whether the greater irri-
         is
 lability of infants subjects them to be more afflicted with the
.variolous miasma (ban children of two or three years old                        j
or whether the larger eruption, to which they are liable, be
owing to the proportionally greater quantity of their fluids,
I   will not presume to determine. Both causes may possi
bly conspire to produce this effect     the former,
                                                  ;     exciting        by
a   quicker and increased contraction of the heart and vascu
lar system      the latter,
                  ;               by
                              affording moie copious palulinn
                                                   a
lor the variolous ferment. By the same principles we may
perhaps account for the greater virulence of several other
                  1                                                     eruptions

                   Cow-Pock with the Small-Pox.                 S45
  eruptions in infancy than in the more advanced stages of
  lite.
      "   A considerable number of those who die of the
  natural disease, before the expulsion of the variolous erup
  tion, are infants, or very young children.         This does not
 arise, as Dr. Kirkpatrick supposes, from the extreme weak
 ness of the vis vltee of infants ; for the contraction of their
 hearts is proportionably stronger than in adults, as the quick
 ness of their growth evinces ; but from the high degree of
 irritability with which their nervous system is endued.
  Hence the convulsive paroxysms which often precede the
 appearance of the pustules, and which, though regarded by
 Sydenham as no unfavourable signs, are always alarming,
 and, when they happen to very young infants, are frequently
 fatal.
     " If the number of pustules be so great in the mouth
 or throat as to obstruct suction, the disease,in all probability,
 will prove fatal. Even a few pocks in those parts are highly
 troublesome and dangerous to infants; for, besides the pain
 and restlessness which they produce, they often terminate
 in ill-conditioned ulcers. Under such circumstances the
 mute waitings, or shrieks, of an infant occasion, equal em
barrassment     and distrcss.-
     "   Those   who are affected      with    cutaneous diseases   .
have     been generally regarded as unfavourable subjects of
 inoculation.     Infancy, therefore, which is seldom unat
tended with eruptions on the skin, must he an improper
 period for receiving the small-pox by ingraftment.
     "  The thickness of the teguments of infants, which
arises from the quantity of fluids interposed between their
fibres, by which the skin is rendered soft and oedematous
to the touch, and their perspiring less than children who
are capable of using exercise, are further objections to very
early inoculation.
     "  But the most forcible argument against this prac
tice is deduced from the ill success which hath attended
infant inoculation in general.      For it appears by Dr. Jurin's
account of the progress of     inoculation  in Great Britain from
1721 to 1/26, and by        Dr.  Scheuchzer's   continuation of it
to 1728, that of fifty-eight      children   under  two years old
who received the small-pox by ingraftment, six died ;
whereas of two hundred and twenty-one, inoculated between
the ages of two and five, only three died."
     " It is too common an opinion," says that able writer
Dr. Underwood, in his Treatise on the Diseases of Children,
                                 > 3                        " that

S46         Continuation   of the   Comparison      of   the
" that    a very young infant, sucking at the breast, is the fit
test subject for inoculation ; and medical people have some
 difficulty in persuading parents to the contrary.        Children
 arc then saia to be clear from humours, their blood mild
 and balsamic, their food innocent, and they are free from
 all violent passions of the mind.      But all these advantages
 may    be  counterbalanced   by  the  delicacy   of their frame,
 their disposition to spasm, and their inability to struggle
 with a severe attack of the disease, if it should chance to
 fall to their share.  And such, indeed, are the facts : infants
 may have the small-pox very lightly, whether taken natu
 rally or from inoculation, though in both there are a few
 instances of (heir expiring in a fit at the time of the erup
 tion ; but they seldom get through the disease if they are
 lull, or it prove of the confluent or malignant kind. And
 this furnishes a peculiar objection to inoculating infants at
 the breast, which arises from their necessarily lying so much
 on the arm of the mother or the wet-nurse, especially in
 the night ; the heal exposing them to a much more copious
 eruption than children who are weaned.         This I have seen
 clearly exemplified in the instance of a child whose mother
 could suckle only with the richt breast; the consequence
 was, that the leftside of the chTld was perfectly loaded with
 the eruption, (though the pock was of the distinct kind,)
 whilst the other had only a moderate sprinkling.              The
 child, however, sunk under the secondary fever at the end
 of five or six weeks, though turned of two years old ; the
 only child I have known to die of inoculation at so advanced
 an age.     A similar instance is related by Mr. Moss; who
 not being able to prevail on a young woman, whom he had
 inoculated, to keep her feet (w'hich were very cold) out of
 the warm ashes of a hearth fire, at the time of the eruption,
 they were, in consequence, 'so loaded with          it,
                                                      as to appear
 one continued blister ;  though   the disease  was  very distinct,
 and went on very favourably in other parts.
   "   'l am aware," he adds,  " that many children are inocu
 lated very young, and even   in the mouth, and generally with
  very good success; but the frequency of this practice, among
'eminent surgeons,    is owing to the urgent solicitation of
 parents, and their fear of contagion.         'Icannot therefore
 avoid saying, that however few may die under inoculation,
Under any circumstances, the fact        is, that the far greater
 proportion that  I   happen to. have had an account of,             is
 amongst infants under six months old.         Aremarkable proof
'of/ this disproportion appeared lately under       a    general inocu
                                                                 lation

                   Cow-Pock with Ike Small-Pox.                           eAJ
 lation at Litton, during the progress of u malignant small
 pox, which carried oH' one-half of those who were attacked
 by it in the natural way.               In the midst of this fatality,
 twelve hundred and fifteen paupers were inoculated through
 the humanity of the Hon. and Rev. Mr. William Stuart,
 many of whom refused all preparatory medicines, and were
 besides addicted to the use of strong liquors : nevertheless,
 out of the twelve hundred and fifteen on\yjlve died — all of
u'/iom were infants under four months old.                 Seven hundred
adult people of better condition, in the same neighbourhood,
were inoculated a short time afterwards, and with the like
good success with the former. ..
    " From this view of the matter it is pretty evident, I
think, that this operation ought, in general, to be post
poned to a later period, which is pointed out by the child
having cut all its first teeth."
    Dr. Macdonald justly remarks, " that the deaths of in
fants often happen under circumstances the more distress
ing."
    "  Before me lie the records of two unfortunate families.
In   the one, a father and four of his children were inocu
lated for the small-pox : the eruptions proved of the con
fluent kind : two children out of the four died. The other
is a young widow, who lost her husband at the early age
of twenty-four.          One infant at the breast was left her,
which, in her pitiful situation, constituted her only con
solation.     Soon afur, the small-pox began to rage in the
city   where    she lived ; she therefore was advised by her
friends to inoculate her little boy. With reluctance, as if
presaging her impending misfortune, she consented.                      Her
fears, alas ! were but too well grounded : on the day pre
ceding the eruption the child was seized with convulsive
fits, and expired on the tenth day.
          "  One smiling boy, her last sweet hope, she warms,
             Hush'd in lier bosom, circled in her arms ;
             Daughter of vvoe ! eie morn in vain carcss'd.
             Clung the cold babe upon thy milkless breast;
             With feeble cries thy last sad aid rc<juir'dt
             Strctch'd its slifl" limbs, and on thy lap expired."— Darwin,
3«lly,  Dentition is found to le it period in which inoculation
                               tt'as hazardous.
   The small-pox       is usually ushered         in by convulsions in
childrca    at every age.          The period    of dentition being very
                                          4                          -liable

248          Cant'mualion  of the  Comparison  of the
 liable to such convulsive attacks, which often prove fatal,
 would naturally put the practitioner on his guard against
 bringing on, or adding to, an event equally terrific, as it is
 often fatal.
     "  It cannot be denied," says my learned and eloquent
 friend Dr. Macdonald, " but the inoculation of the small
  pox has proved to mankind a ready means to alleviate and
 escape the danger of a most distressing disorder : still, not
 withstanding; these happy effects, the inoculated small-pox
 is often accompanied with symptoms which give just cause
 of alarm, and sometimes prove fatal under the most judi
                               '
 cious management.               •
     " Were I to record all the distressing scenes which fre
 quently attend the inoculated small-pox, or relate the sad
 histories of those unfortunate families, who, in consequence
 of inoculation, have felt the ragings of this dire disorder,
 the stoutest heart would shrink with horror, and drop a
'tear of pity over the sufferings of humanity.
     "  I would wish to relinquish this subject; for my pen
 can give but a faint sketch of those pictures of singular
 distress, which every physician of even moderate cxpepence
 has witnessed.
                         4thJy,  Old  age.
     Although this period cannot be alleged as equally un
 favourable to either of the foregoing, it is one a practitioner
 would not prefer, and it seems cruel to subject a person on
 the verge of the grave to the chance of a disease that pos
 sibly may prove extremely severe.
 Sthly, Pregnancy    h a situation in which inoculation gene
    rally produced  abortion, and the death oftfte individual.
    Cases of this sort are to be found in every author.        In
 Mead we have the following affecting narrative :
    " A lady of quality at the seventh month of her preg
nancy was seized with the natural small-pox, which proved
of an unfavourable sort. On the eleventh day she was
brought to bed, and safely delivered of a male child : on
the fourteenth she died. On the fourth day following, the
infant was seized with convulsions, the forerunner of the
eruption, which appeared on that same day, and he died in
the evening."
    The inoculated disease is found also equally dangerous.
    " A physician at Winchester informs me," says Dr.
Kirkpatnck' in bis Analysis of Inoculation,       "  that in the
                                                         several

                  Cow-Pock with the Small-Pox..                249
  several towns of Hampshire,        Sussex, and Surrey, there
  have been inoculated 2000, of whom two only died, both
  pregnant women, who admitted this operation contrary to
  the opinion of their physician."
;     The cow-pock, on the contrary, may be inoculated under
  all   circumstances.
       1. Early infancy.  — Dr. Jenner  relates, " that he caused
  an infant, but twenty hours old, to be inoculated for the
  cow-pock by his nephew Henry Jenner ; and this little
  Wranger, so newly ushered into life, felt but a very slight
  disease; and, being afterwards inoculated for the small-pox,
  and exposed to its contagion, resisted all attempts to com-        -
  municate the small-pox.
       2. Time of teething. — We may adduce here the autho
  rity of Dr. Denman, one of the most eminent accoucheurs
  in London, in confirmation of the experience of Dr. Jen
  ner. " It became now the duty," says Dr. Denman. wri
  ting in the Physical Journal for April 1 8OO,
                                                     " of medical
   men, especially of those who are much engaged in the
   practice of inoculating for the small-pox, or who are much
   consulted in infantile diseases, to declare their experience;
   about vaccine inoculation, and examine into it with the
   greatest possible care.v   For my own part, I can affirm, that
   I  have seen inoculated with the cow- pock, through my son-
   in-law Mr. Croft, a great many children at ullages, and
   they went through the disease without the least sign of
   danger, and even without much fever or indisposition."
       3. Humours in the body. — As scrophula does not ap
   pear to be called into action by the cow-pox (vide last
   comparison, p. 250) 5 but, on the contrary, there are
   cases where this cruel disorder has been found to be not
   only mitigated by vaccine inoculation, but also wholly re
   moved, the dread of the subject being humoury is unim
   portant.     Fat and lean children do equally well.       In-^njr
   experience at Lowther the reader will find a case of tinia
   cupitis, which was not at all increased under inoculation.
   Dr. Pearson has recorded two cases of psora (itch), which,
   being unknown to me at the time, were inoculated ; and
   from the pustule, which was broken, vaccine matter was
   conveyed to different parts of the body, producing a very se
   vere disease, which appeared pustular solely from this cause.
   The psora, therefore, must be allowed to be a ground of ex
    clusion to this, or any other inoculation: the only exception
    1 am at present acquainted with.
                                                           **
                                                               More

 25O            Contiituation   of   the Comparison
                                                 of the
   "   More than   a      thousand subjects," says Mr. Dunning,
surgeon     at Plymouth     -Dock,     "
                                  have been vaccinated in this
neighbourhood during the last year. Some hundreds of
them have fallen to my share.      Complete success has been
invariable in every case, where the vaccine character has been
unequivocally expressed.     With a very few exceptions, tbe
indisposition  has been  none  at all, or the least imaginable,
and I know of no shade of accident that can fairly be attri
buted to the new practice.     In one child a very general and
obsl inate cutaneous complaint, which had previously resisted
much external and internal medicine, very soon disappeared
after vaccination.   Health and firmness have shortly suc
ceeded it in several weakly children, under my own observa
tion, and I have heard of many similar occurrences : this has
so often and so strikingly liappcned,   that it has more than
once been proposed to me to vaccinate sickly children."
    4. Besides humours which militate against the small-pox
inoculation, there are variety of diseases, which, if they at
tack at the same time the child labouring tinder the small
pox, or soon after, usually prove fatal: a combination, Jww-
ei'er, not found to become aggravated by, or increase, the
ani'-pox.
  Miss R—•— ,         ayoung lady about five years old, was
seized, on the evening of the eighth day after inocula
tion with vaccine virus, with such symptoms as commonly
denote the accession of violent fever.        Her throat was also
a little sore, and there were some uneasy sensations about
the musck»s of the neck.          The day following a rash was
perceptible   on   her  face and  neck, so much resembling the
efflorescence of the scarlatina anginosa, that I was induced
to ask whether miss R —         —  had been exposed to the con
tagion of that disease. An answer in the affirmative, and the
rapid spreading of the redness over the skin, at once relieved
me from much anxiety respecting the nature of the malady,
which went through its course in the ordinary way, but not
without symptoms which were alarming, both to myself
and Mr. Lyford, who attended with me.              There was no
apparent -deviation in the ordinary progress of the pustule to
a state of maturity*, from what we see in general ; yet there
was a total suspension of the arcola, or florid discoloration
around    it,until the scarlatina, had retired from the constitu
tion.    As soon as the patient was freed from this disease,
this appearance advanced in the unual way.
   The case of Miss H                 R       not less interesting
                                               is
than that of her sister above    related. She  was exposed to the
                  2                                     contagion

                  Cow- Pock toith the Small-Pox.                       851
contagion of the scarlatina at the same time, and sickened
almost at the same hour.     The symptoms continued severe
about twelve hours, when the scarlatine rash showed itself
faintly upon her face, and partly upon her neck.      After re
maining two or three hours it suddenly disappeared, and she
became perfectly free from every complaint.         My surprise
at this sudden transition from extreme sickness to health, in
great measure ceased, when I observed that the inoculated
pustule had occasioned, in this case, the common efliores-
cent appearance around          it,
                               and that as     approached the
                                                     it
centre     was nearly in an er.ysipelatous
            it                                 state.  But the
most remarkable part of this history          is,
                                           that, on the fourth
day afterwards, as the efflorescence began to die away upon
the arm, an/1 the pustule to dry up, the scarlatina again ap
peared, her throat became sore, the rash spread all over her.
.She went fairly through the disease, with its common sym
 ptoms.
    That these were actually cases of scarlatina was rendered
 certain     by
            two servants in the family falling ill at the same
 time with the distemper, who had been exposed to the in
 fection with the young ladies*."
 I    had   similar case of scarlet fever and cow-pox in the
             a
 child of Mr. White, coachman, Adams Mews. The ef
 florescent areola was arrested, but became visible after the
scarlet fever ceased.
   "I   have met with," says          Mr. Ring,     "   three cases   of   the
co-existence of cow-pock and measles within the last six
months.      The first was in the child of Mr. Shepherd, in
Phoenix yard, Oxford-street.        The second was the child of
          Hardey, No. 45, Peter-street, Westminster.       Thi«
case    showed to Dr. Jenner and his friend Dr. Marshall, of
       ;I
Gloucestershire.       It
                        was also seen       Mr. Missiter.
                                              by           The
                                                                                 *
•third case was in the child of           Groom, World's-end-
passage, Newington-causeway."
   "   Mr. H. Jenner lately met with similar case. — In these
                                            a
•different instances, the periods of the respective eruptions
 were various.    In the first that occurred to me, the measles
 appeared on the second day, and went through their regular
 course yet in no degree retarded the progress of the vaccine
        ;
 pustule. In the second instance the measles appeared on
 the eighth day; and in the third instance on the fourth day                ;
 yet neither distemper interrupted the other.       In the case
 which occurred to Mr. H. Jenner, the measles appeared the
                        *   From Jenner's Inquiry.
                                                                      eighth

   252           Continuation of tfio Comparison        of the
   eighth day, -without checking the progress of the pustule. In
  those cases which         I  have seen, the arcola surrounding the
   pustule was perfect. This was also remarked by Dr. Jenner,
                          I
   m the case which showed him. Dr. Marshall assured me,
  that nothing but ocular demonstration of such a case could
  have convinced him of the possibility of its existence."
     "I    have had," says Dr. Jenner,             "  an opportunity of
  trying   the  effects  of   the  cow-pock   matter  on a boy who, the
  day preceding      its insertion,     sickened with  the measles. The
  eruption    of the   measles,     attended  with  cough, a little pain
  in the chest, and the usual symptoms accompanying that
  disease, appeared on the third day, and spread all over him.
  The disease went through its course without any deviation
  from its usual habits j and, notwithstanding this, the cow-
  pock virus excited its common appearances, both on the arm
 and on the constitution, without any sensible interruption ;
  on the sixth day there was a vesicle.
     "  8th. Pain in the axilla, chilly, and affected with head
 ache.
     "  Qth. Nearly well.
     "  12th. The pustule spread            to the size of a large split
 pea, but without any surrounding efflorescence.                 It soon
 afterwards scabbed, and the boy recovered his general health
 rapidly.     But it should be observed, that, before it scabbed,
 the efflorescence, -which had suffered a temporary suspension,
 advanced in the usual manner.
     "  Here we see a deviation from the ordinary habits of the
 small-pox ; as it has been observed, that the presence of the
 measles suspends the action of variolous matter. However,
the suspension of the efflorescence is worthy of observation.
     "  The case of co-existence of the cow-pox and the
 chicken-pox, which occurred to Mr. Little, of Plymouth,
is published by Mr. Dunning, in his Observations on Vac
cination.       In that case the chicken-pock appeared on the
tenth day of vaccine inoculation.             The vaccine pustule was
at that time arrived at its height of inflammation, and main
 tained its specific character."
     A most remarkable case occurred to me. A girl, aged
about nine, living with the dowager the countess of             C—     «,
fell from the balustrade of the. siair-case, from the height of
above forty feet, and pitched on her skull on the stone land
ing-place.       The fracture was extensive, and the largest piece
of   bone   ever remembered was taken away by Mr, Heavisidc,
which     is  to  be seen in his invaluable museum.            A silver
plutc now      defends     the    brain.   This  child  was cautiously
                                                              watched,

                    Cow-Pock with the Small-Pox.
watched, in order that she might not catch the natural small
pox; and Dr. Turtonand Mr. Heaviside were justly appre
hensive of inoculation. Their good sense at once, however,
coincided that she should be inoculated by me with vaccine
matter, and she passed through the disease without one day's
illness, with only the slight inconvenience of the pustule
on the arm.
     5. Pregnancy. — " 1 have inoculated,"               says Dr. Mar
shall, " a great number of females at different periods of
pregnancy, and never observed their cases to differ in any
respect from those of my other patients. Indeed the disease
is so mild, that it seems as if it might at all times be com
municated with the most perfect safety *." The same suc
cess is recorded by Henrv Jenner, who relates a case, where
he inoculated a person a week previous to the accouche
ment f.
     6. Old age no exception. — For confirmation of the truth
 of his position, I shall give the report of the committee of
 vaccine inoculation J at Paris, instituted by order of govern
 ment.
     " REPORT. The vaccine affection appears to us to be
 of a nature the most benign, and which hardly deserves to
 be called a malady : not so much as one accident occurred to
 the hundred and fifty subjects who have been inoculated.
     "   The vaccine inoculation is no less practicable than
 exempt from accidents, whatever be the age of the persons
 on whom it is performed. Infants have been inoculated in
 the arms of their nurses ; others at the age of one, two, and
 three years to fifteen.          Persons of the age of forty, and
 even fifty to seventy years, have also been inoculated, and
 always with the same success."
     IMS tli/, the cow -pock does not leave any lad humours
  after it.
     The small-pox has been justly accused of often leaving
 the body in that state of wretched debility, as to make lite
 afterwards only a continued series of excruciating affliction.
 Besides other horrid disfigurations of the person, scrophulaf
 or the king's evil, not unfrequently follows the natural or
     *  From Jenner's Inquiry, p. 16 1., second edition.
     t  Vide Jenner's Inquiry, p. 174.
     •* The most
                    distinguished physicians at Paris were selected for this
 purpose ; as, Thouret, director of the school of medicine ; Pinel, professor
 of physic in the school of medicine ; Leroux, clinic,,! professor ; Parfait,
  inspector of the military hospital*, &c. tec.
                                                                inoculated

f54             Continuation   of the   Comparison   of the
 inoculated small-pox.      The insertion of the humour of a
 brute into the human body in vulgar conception led a priori
 to the expectation of a loathsome distemper.         But fortu
 nately for the human race a more benign disease than the
 smalf-pox was the consequence, and one only similar to                   it,
 in having somewhat resembling pustule, and in the pro
            a
 perty, ot ever after securing from that fatal and loathsome
distemper.
'    " Every practitioner       medicine," says Dr. Jenner,
                               in
"    who has extensively inoculated with the small -pox, or
has attended many of those who have had the. distemper in
 th,c natural way, must acknowledge that he has frequently
 seen scrophulous affections, in some form or another, some
times rather quickly showing themselves after the recovery
of the patients. Conceiving this fact to be admitted, as                 I
presume    itmust be    byall who have carefully attended to the
subject, may    I not ask, whether     does not appear probable
                                         it
 that the general introduction of the small-pox into Europe
has not been among the least conducive means                  in
                                                        exciting
that formidable foe to health? Having attentively watched
the effects of the cow-pox in this respect,         am happy in
                                                     I
being able to declare, that the disease docs not appear to have
the least tendency to produce this destructive malady."
    To this authority of Dr. Jenner .we may add the following
from the evidence delivered before the committee of the
house of commons:
    Dr. Nelson, physician to the Vaccine Institution, de
clares, that he had never observed any disease to have been
fxcitcd    by the vaccine inoculation:    on the contrary, the
health of sickly    iInklrm was in general much mended                   by
it.
    Dr. Baillie declares, he has not known an instance in
 which the vaccine inoculation had introduced or excited any
 disease; but he had known instances of the absorbent glands
 becoming enlarged atul scrophulous, soon after patient had
                                                        a
 undergone the small-pox:       these instances  happen suffi
 ciently often to make general impression upon the minds
                          a
 of medical men, that the constitution was sometimes ex
 cited to form scrophula, in consequence of the irritation
that  it had previously undergone during; the small-pox.
    Dr. JamesSims, president of the Medical Society of Lon
 don, gave  it  as his opinion,  that the vaccine disease does
.not introduce any other disorder into the human frame.
    Mr. Cline, surgeon, lecturer on anatomy, states, that he
                                                                   believes

                Cuw-Ptick with tfie Small-Pox.              853
believes that the cow-pock does not excite scrophula, or any
other disease, which is sometimes the case with the inocu
 lated small-pox.
    Mr. James Simpson, surgeon to the Surry dispensary,
and to the Magdalen hospital, has practised vaccine inocu
lation, and has inoculated between fifty and sixty patients,
and in no one instance had any symptoms occurred in
jurious to the part inoculated, or constitution of the patients;
and he believes them to be completely secure from the
 small-pox.    In one particular instance, the patient, a child
 of nine months, was covered with a crust commonly called
the crusla lactea, which generally covers the body from
head to foot, and had resisted ,the usual remedies for that
disease : but on the tenth day after the infection it began
to disappear, and on the twelfth day was wholly gone ;
during which time not a particle of medicine was given to it,
and it continued in perfect health ever since.
    Dr. Willan, who practised the cow-pock in the absence
of Dr. Woodville on a large scale, who is more conversant
with every species of eruptive diseases than any other prac
titioner, I believe, in Europe, relates in his reports of the
 diseases of London.
    " The vaccine disease has not, in any case I have seen,
been attended with glandular swellings, ulcers, cutaneous
affections, diseases ot the lungs, puffy tumours of soft parts,
enlargement of bones, ophthalmia, deafness, dyspnoea,
anasarca, hydrothorax, which so often occur after the small
pox, whether produced by contagion or inoculation.         This
circumstance alone would cast the balance in favour of the
cow-pock, even were this disease on a level in some other
respects with the small-pox."
    Its security as a prophylactic against the small-pox has
 been before considered.
                                            XLIII.   Eightentk

                                      «8
XLIII.         Eighteenth Communication from Dr. Thortiton,
                    relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                               To   Mr. Tillock.               ,
                                                      Dec. 15, 1804,
   DEAR SIR)                        No.   i,   Hinde-strect,       Manchester-square.
IN   order to show the superior advantages of any remedy, it
is necessary to state cases in which the common means have
failed under the ablest practitioners; and this will plead my
excuse f'orgenerally naming the parties concerned; for, having
no other purpose in view but to spread a knowledge of pneuma
tic medicine, I have related usually both the names of the pa
tient* cured, anil under what physician's care these were
previous to their applying to me, but without ever intending
thereby to derogate aught from their well-known skill. The
following case is a very striking one in favour of pneumatic
medicine :
                  Case   of   an Affection       nf   the   Heart.
  Mr. Morllock,          aged 26, who keeps the large Colebrook
Dale China warehouse, No. 250, Oxford -street, when                             I first
attended          had been -nine months ill. His disease was
               him,                                            a                     "
continual gnawing, uneasv pain" in the chest ; I suppose
it to arise from the heart, his interrupted pulse appeared to
indicate this, so that life was insupportable: the pain was so
acute, upon using the slightest exercise, that he could not
get up a flight of stairs without resting, and he could even
hardly walk across the room.        So increased was this pain,
also, upon taking any food, that he was obliged to desist
from     allanimal food, wine, or beer, and lived wholly on
garden stuff, and drank water.        His spirits partook of his
general inability; there was no intermission to his pain
night or day. He first was under the care of Mr. Cheva
lier,a   surgeon distinguished for his treatise on gun-shot
wounds, which obtained for him           diamond ring from the
                                                 a
present emperor of Russia; who, after trying various reme
dies, recommended        physician, Dr. Pitcairn, who was con
                          a
sulted; and    leeches  to  the chest, with blisters, and then
tonics,   were   used, but  all to no manner of purpose; he
began to despair of ever being cured        when the duchess of
                                                      ;
Bolton, and the countess ot Lonsdale, urged him              all                by
means to consult me. Lady                 Mount-Edgcumbe                pressed him
                                                                                     in

                       On Pneumatic Medicine.                    t57
in the same manner, with several others of the nobility ; and,
from obedience rather than faith, he put himself under my
direction.     I shall be brief in my narrative; — employing
the same strengthening remedies that Mr. Chevalier was
then judiciously using, I ordered, in addition, the inhalation
of a gallon of vital air, mixed with three of atmospheric,
once a day, and the pain gradually abated from the very first
trial of the air, and wholly disappeared in the course of a
fortnight, and at the end of three weeks he was the most
altered person in the world, being then in the full enjoyment
of health.
                     Observations    on thh Case*
    1. The  effect  of  the inhalation of a gallon of vital air, de-
luted as above, was a kind of intoxication, which lasted for
five minutes;      he could stand upright, but felt, he says,
"as one under the impression of liquor, all objects appearing
confused to him, and in motion." This was not succeeded
by head-ache.
    2. This intoxication was produced for a week, but dimi
nished in degree after each successive inhalation ; afterwards
no such effect was observed.
    3. Only a sensible increase of warmth.
    4. His appetite, which was before wholly lost, recurred.
    5. Now he eats whatever comes to table, and takes his
beer and wine as others.
    6. He walks now often three miles at a stretch, without
feeling any distress or fatigue.
    7. His pulse is regular and good.
    8. The benefit, as yet, has continued more than three
months, and, I trust, will be permanent.
    9. The question is, whether so quick a change in such a
disease could have been accomplished by the use of medicine
alone? or vital air alone?
    10. Or whether the vital air, by stimulating the heart,
did not impart, aided by proper medicines, some change to
 that organ, and thence produce the whole train of benefits.
                I have   the pleasure to sign myself,
                       Dear sir, your obliged, devoted friend,
                                       ROBERT JOHN THORNTON.
   Vol.  20. No.    79- Dec. 1804.        R         XLIV.     Nine

                                    [    258        }
XLIV.            Nineteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton re
                       lative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                               To   Mr. Tillock.
                                                        Dec.   jo,   1804,
                                        No.   i,   Hinde-stiect, Manchester-square.
                      Case   of Defective Circulation.
JV.LARY STAFFORD, aged thirty, servant to Mrs. Mills, No.
16, Queen Ann-street, west, was subject to have her fingers
swelled in both hands, looking blue, and so stiff as to inca
pacitate her from doing, any kind of needle-work ; she could
not clench her hand. This disease, if I may so call          oc                  it,
curred every winter, and various external remedies were used,
but stiff     remained always throughout the winter.
                 it                                         This
lady having observed this affliction in her maid,       valuable             a
servant, for five years, the time she has live'd with her, Mrs.
Mills wished her to consult me' about the vital air. In conse-'
quence, advised the inhalation of the vital air, gallon per
             I                                                           a
diem, diluted with three of atmospheric; and at the end of
a week, ihe swelling, blueness, and tension of the fingers,
went off, and she obtained the perfect use of her fingers, and
is abl"e to do any kind of needle-work, even during this hard
frost    ; circumstance she cannot remember in any former
             a
winter,    and  she ascribes the benefit received from the inha
lation of the vitaf air.
                         Observation^ on this Case.
    . Mrs. Wilkinson, whose remarkable cure have recorded
     1                                                               I
in my Philosophy of Medicine, had whitlows frequently
'during the time of her inhaling of vital air, and was never
subject to them before or since, which, together with the.
present case, evinces that the blood, by the vital air,                                is
powerfully determined from the heart to the extremities.
   2. Governor Pownall mentions, in         letter to me, that he
                                                          a
knew     manufacturer who was acrfustomed, once
             a                                            day, to            a
give to his workmen, obliged to be confined in the vitiated
air of    crowded room, after work, diluted vital air, and
             a
thereby preserved them both in health and spirits.             He
makes this query — Have \ve in nature        more Useful cordial
                                                           a
than the vital air? other cordials, as they are called, indirectly
accelerate the motion of the heart, this mediately, and
without injuring in the least the tone of the stomach.
   3. When inhaling the j-ital air for other diseases, chil
blains have ceased 'in winter to appear.
                                                                             XLV. Mr-

                                     [   25Q     ]
    XLV.      Memoir on the Devitrification of Glass, andthePkai-
       nomena which take place diirina Its Crystallization.                  Bi/
       DAUTIOUES*: Read in the Physical Class oj                     the  Insti-
       lute, May 20th, ISO-lf.
                         have considered glass as a crystallization :
    this opinion appears to be natural, in consequence of the
    transparency of glass or crystal, since we have borrowed the
   name of the latter to denote a regular and spontaneous ar
    rangement of the moleculasof bodies; but, on a little reflec
   tion, we discover our error : glais, indeed, never affects the
   crystalline form, either at its surface or on its fracture; it
   never exhibits crystals of its own substance, as is remarked
   in certain metals properly cooled ; and if crystals are formed
   in the mass of glass, they are foreign to the part still vitri
  fied; they maybe considered as a retrograde step of vitrifi
   cation ; this I shall prove in the course of the present me
  moir.
       Beginning with a definition of vitreous fusion, I shall
  distinguish and separate that of bodies fusible by themselves
  in the fire of our furnaces ; such as borax, phosphoric and
  other acids. Here caloric, being condensed, softens and
  fuses the substances, which retain more or less, after they
  have cooled, transparency and the other physical proper
  ties of glass, with which every body is acquainted.
      But I ought to examine and describe that fusion experi
  enced by the vitreous compositions employed in the com
  mon purposes of life: in the latter case, vitrification is the
  result of a double phenomenon; it is not only the effect of
  caloric accumulated, but it is produced also by the affinily
 of the substances which enter into the mixture. Those sub
  stance which tend to combine and to penetrate each other,
 exercise the laws of their affinity the moment they have at
 tained to a sufficient temperature. It is thus that several
 earths, when united, fuse at a degree of heat at which each
 of them separately would not have changed its state.
      Thus common vitrification, among different and hetero-
     * Dartigues, proprietor of glass manufactories and other establishment;
at Vonccht, (Sambre-et-Meuse) engaged to submit to the institute a trea
tise on the art of glass-mating, to serve as a continuation of the Arts and
 Metiers of the academy.      The first part is ready for publication ; a great
a.any of the plates arc engraved.      The second part contains the applica
tion of glass in the different arts in which it is employed.    The third part
consists of detached memoirs on the physical and chemical properties of
glass.' The present dissertation is an extract from one of these memoirs.
     f  From Aiiiales tic Cbimii; No. 15-).
                                     R  2                            geneotw

26*0              On the Devitrification of Glass.
geneotis substances, is the result of a combination made at a
high temperature; a result which exhibits a compound per
fectly homogeneous, more or less transparent, elastic, break
ing in ;i particular manner, whence comes the name vi
treous fracture;      a body a very bad conductor of caloric
and electricity, and susceptible of becoming soft at a tem
perature inferior to that at which it was fused, of beCStaiing
paste-like, ductile, &c.
    The phenomenon, during which all these properties dis
appear, is what I call devitrification : this expression may at
first appear extraordinary, but it will be seen that it is per
fectly just.
    Devitrification has already been observed by various che
mists ; some es'en have seen and remarked several circum
stances, but in an insulated manner; and I do not know
that any one has ever published a complete body of re
searches proper for rendering it clear, and for proving that
it is connected with all the known properties of all bodies of
nature, and that it is only the product of crystallization.
    Reaumur first observed that glass, especially when com-
po?ed of different earths, as bottle-glass is in general, may
 be decomposed, and lose its transparency and all its other
vitreous properties.     Being entirely engaged with his labour
on porcelain, he was desirous of applving this discovery to
the fabrication of pottery, and ascribed the pruenomcnon to
the substances in which he caused glass to cement.          This
fact is called cementation of glass ,and the result, Reaumur's
porcelain.     Nothing was more calculated to retard the real
knowledge of this phenomenon than a similar denomi
nation.
    The labours of Bosq d' Antic, on the same object, were
undertaken merely to obtain by this method a good kind of
pottery, and to find cements by the help of which new proper-
tics might be given to that body. It is thus that, by giving the
improper name of cementation to a phenomenon which de
pended in no manner on ihe substances added as cement,
they misled those who were induced to follow the conrse of
the experiments before made. It indeed results, that science
has    gained nothing in this respect since the time of
Reaumur; several persons have attempted to cement glass,
and observed nothing more in the result.
    Several persons have since observed in glass the property
of giving birth to crystallization; those remarks, made in"
particular by artists placed at the head of glass manufacto
ries, have not furnished the consequences which ought to be
deduced.      The heads of a large establishment have seldom
                                                            time

                   On the Devitrification     of Glass.        .       261
time to stop to contemplate small effects; they are obliged to
embrace too many things at once.               These remarks, curious
in themselves, remained without any consequence; and no
one imagined, or dared to publish, that the crystallization of
glass and cementation, by the process of Reaumur, were ab
solutely one and the same.
    Sir Jaroes Hall, in his ingenious experiments on whin-
stone and      lava*, discovered in these stones the property of
fusing      into  glass, and of returning to the state of stones,
according to circumstances.
    He calls the latter fact n devitrification; he saw that it
was the effect of a precipitation, and he explains it in a
true and satisfactory manner ; bu{ being too much occupied
in deducing from this fact arguments in favour of the vol-
canists, he neglected to follow in that phenomenon whatever
interesting it presented to the philosopher.             This is the task
which I have imposed upon myself; and, in this memoir on
devitrification, I propose to explain the result of my last re
searches; as my situation has placed at my command a fire
exceedingly violent, and continued for several years, I was
enabled to observe what few have an opportunity of seeing.
The tacts which I am going to relate partly explain them
selves; they are the result of the laws to which all bodies are
subject; the whole merit of the observation consists in
having seen them in substances in which, and at times when,
it was not known that these laws took place.
    The bottom of furnaces for fusing glass exhibit in gene
ral large cavities, hollowed out by the action of the fire and
of corroding substances, which often fuse crucibles. These
cavities become filled with a kind of glass called picadil.
This picadil is the result of the ashes, which are vitrified, of
some of the stones of the furnace which are fused, and par
ticularly of the gla<s which falls from the pots. Care is taken
to take it out at each fusion.          At the end of the duration of
the furnace, the fossae, being enlarged, cannot empty them -
selves entirely, and on that account picadil remains in them.
When the furnace is extinguished, the picadil experiences a
cooling exceedingly slow, because it is surrounded by
mason-\vork, consisting of several cubic toises, which has
been heated for more than a year.               I always observed that
it was in the glass at the bottom of the furnaces that I
found crystallizations; they were diffused throughout the
mass of the glass, which, in other respects, was exceedingly
   •
     Bililiotbeque Britanniqnti vol. xiv. See also the Philosophical Tram-
actions.
                                      R  3                            pure

S69                    On the Devitrification                of Glass.
pure and transparent. These crystallizations, always nu
merous and very regular, excited my curiosity, as they had
done that of several glass manufacturers before. I collected a
large quantity of them; and I carefully selected the most
curious, and those which exhibited the most extraordinary
characters.
     By comparing the pieces I had obtained, and the circum
stances under which they were produced, and by making
remarks, attempts, and experiments to imitate at pleasure
these crystallizations, I was soon able to distinguish different
 classes of them, all produced by the nature of the different
 substances      which enter into the composition of glass.             I
 shall here take a short view of them : I shall not, however,
 speak of devitrification, which almost always takes place in
 the scorias of forges; every body has been able to remark                                      it,
 and may account for              what
                                 it        am about to say.
                                          by        I
      The first remark which may be made                           is,
                                                     that the more in-
               there are in glass, the more susceptible                of             it   is
    eing speedily ami easily dcvitrificd but as solvent charged
 fredients                                               :               a
 with a    great quantity of saline substances suffers them to
 crystallize in      more confused manner,
                       a                              also not in these
                                                                  it   is
 kinds of glass that the most regular crystallizations are re
 marked;     a  precipitation     effectedis             in
                                               the whole mass; each
 of the ingredients obeys, at the same time, the laws of af
 finity
      :     transparency disappears speedily, and in               little         a
 time nothing more            perceived than
                                 is                stone instead of
                                                                  a                             a
 vitreous body.        Amidst this chaos,             however impos
                                                              it      is
 sible not to discover the rudiments of crystallization.           Such
 are the phenomena exhibited in their devitrification              glass
                                                                                      by
 bottles, which approach near to glass entirely earthy, since
 very few salts enter into their composition.
      Any person may keep          -common glass bottle in
                                           a                        heat              a
  long enough continued,        and   capable of softening its paste                             ;
  soon after      changes its colour, becomes gray, 411 has the
                 it1                                                              d
  appearance     of earthen ware.      Such    the porcelain of Reau
                                                             is
  mur; but   it
             is     seen  that there     nothing here which has the
                                                    is
  least resemblance to     cementation.
       Now, instead of observing the phtenomenon              so small       in                  a
  mass, ifI     search  the  bottom   of  the furnaces   in which   such
   bottles are fused,      find that the glass
                            I                       absolutely   devitri-
                                                                  is
   fied, and that       even has assumed so stony an appearance,
                           it
   that the most expert eye can scarcely distinguish the brick
   of which the furnace           constructed from the part which
                                          is
   has been glass.              It
                              only   is         by
                                        following, in the fragments
   less advanced,     the progress of the devitrification, that one
         distinguish the glass          granulated stone, which has
                                               in   a
                                                                  rather

                   On the Devitrification        of Glasf.
rather the appearance of earthen-ware, or strongly baked
clay.
    Cooling, continued for an hour or two, is often sufficient
to effect an entire devitrification of the glass of bottles. I
have pieces about eight centimetres in thickness, which I
collected in the glasshouse of M. Saget, at La Gare.            Oa
taking from the furnace a pot intended to be renewed', the
glass which remained at the bottom was preserved from
cooling during the time employed by the pot .in cooling:
and the nature of this glass was entirely changed ; it was
nothing but a mass of crystals composed of small needles
converging towards common centres. There was no longer
any appearance of vitrification.
    This fact shows with what facility the glass of bottles
becomes vitrified, and always without the least appearance
of cementation.
    The infinite variety of the substances employed in making
Bottles produces a great change in the phaenomena which
take place during their devitrification, and no doubt must
have an influence on the form of the crystals ; but I have
not had much opportunity of observing this kind of glass.
    Proceeding then to glass less earthy, and composed of
fewer substances, — if I examine also the bottom of furnaces
for fusing that kind of glass called glass of Alsace, or half
white glass, in which there is more pure silex, and more
alkali to fuse      it,
                      I observe nearly the same phasrtbmena,
but, being less abrupt, they are more easily remarked and
               At first, and in- pieces where devitrification
                                                                      a is
separated.
 commencing, people might almost say that they saw
blue colour diffused throughout         greenish liquid.
                                           a a
 I    shall here briefly mention        very singular fact, which
I  intend to examine at more length in another memoir.
This greenish glass mixed with blue seems, indeed, to have
become of      adirty blue when looked at opposite to the light       ;
 but if    be placed between the light and the eye,
          it                                                  seems
                                                             it
 always greenish, so that reflects the blue, and only refracts
                                it
the greenish colour.       Continuing to observe the devitrifi
 cation of demi-white glass,          seen that the blue precipi
                                     it   is
 tation    followed
          is              by
                          another more abundant, which gives
 the dirty white, anu       very distinct from the former.
                           is                                   The
 latter becomes still darker and darker, till       at length as
                                                        it
 sumes the colour of gray horn.
    In these different transitions the paste of the glass seems
 always to exist. One may distinguish its polish, its frac
 ture, and all -its other properties except transparency but      :
in  the midst o.1' this paste similar to horn, very distinct cry-
                               R     4                etallizations

                    On the Devitrification   of Glass.
stallizations are formed : these are nuclei composed of small
needles all converging towards the centre.       In this state it
is no longer glass ; u    is crystal, which possesses all the
physical properties  of mineral  substances left to themselves.
   An exact analysis, made with a certain number of crys«
tals carefully detached from the mass, would indicate their
nature, and throw more light on their formation.
    It often happens that these crvstallized nuclei are enve
loped with a crust which seems foreign to their nature, and
which may be compared to the crust with which flints are
covered in the banks of chalk, where they seem to grow.
   $uch is the series of the phenomena exhibited by the
devitrification of demi-white glass when it takes place
slowly ; but if hastened too much, these phoenomena return
to the class of those which may be observed in glass bottles.
The common       glass in question was that in which no earthy
substances   but wood ashes were employed. There ought,
therefore, to be infinhe varieties in         according to the dif
                                             it,
ferent compositions.
     It   very difficult to make white glass crystallize or to
          is
become devitrified.        When well made one may even say
that      it not
               is  altered     by
                               heat   a
                                        long time continued but
                                                            ;
that this may be the case there must DC nothing in its com-
pOBition except silex, and only the quantity of flux neces
sary to saturate it.     A heat continued as long as possible
will not then effect any other change in the glass than to
harden      and make
               it         itbecome yellow.
   When white glass contains         a certain quantity of neutral
salts or glass call, which the fire has not had time or power
to dissipate, there often results during        slow cooling what
                                                   a
is  called grctisse, ratine, bubbles, and stones, which re
suddenly and spontaneously formed.
   These accidents, their different causes, and the remedies
to be applied, are treated of at fall length in the first part
of my work, where         I  speak of the fusion of glass ;    but,
though the explanation of these facts belong entirely to the
theory of devitrification,      I think   itnecessary to treat here
of the phenomena arising from the presence of the different
earths.
   White glass contains lime in greater or less quantity, in
consequence of the reasons mentioned in speaking of the
different compositions of this substance.  This lime, when
in excess, crystallizes exceedingly well, as remarked by
Loysel.    These crystals may be easily distinguished   they
                                                           :
ire so  abundant  that they absolutely obscure the transpa
rency. They are prisms which seem to float in the midst
                                                                of

                         On the Devitrification   of Glass.                S65
of the paste of the glass, and which tend to collect them
selves into stars of different forms. These stars are all nearly
of the same size, and about two or three millimetres in
length.    When this crystallization is effected of itself in
large masses at the bottom of the furnaces, the colour of
the glass becomes darker, inclining to black, by the pre
sence of a certain quantity of ashes mixed with it.         The
striated stars here mentioned become the more numerous
as they recede further from the side in contact with 'the fire.
Crystallizations first insulated are soon succeeded by a mass
entirely crystallized, in which nothing of the vitreous cha
racter is distinguished.
    Such are the most usual characters of crystallization ;
but one often sees others which are certainly owino- to
chance, and which deserve to be observed on account of
their variety*.
    I have some pieces of glass containing crystals of so great
 tenuity that they can scarcely be seen by the help of a mag
 nifying glass. They are prisms diverging from the same
centre and forming stars which arc often not more than a
millimetre in size : their union seems to be a slight obscu
 rity in the paste of the glass.
    Some pieces exhibit the aspect of a saline crust applied
 on a foreign body with which the glass was in contact.        Iu
 some, this crust, composed       of striated paps, seems to ad
vance more and more, and to gain on the glass.
    There is still another variety more curious than any of
those already mentioned ; it is that observed in the middle
 of the paste of theglass; centres of crystallization like peas,
and almost similar to grains.       They are small globules flat
tened at the two ends, with an umbilicus in the middle of
each depression.      The sides have ribs like the seeds of the
capucin, and' these ribs are always six in number.
    My intention       when    is,
                                 can procure
                                     I         sufficient number
                                                     a
of these singular crystals, to analyse them, in order to dis
cover what        the earth which affects so extraordinary
                     is                                                       a
form .
    Such, in    few words, are the principal facts
                     a                                     which    by
the precipitation and crystallization of glass are character
ized.    It   seen that they arc of the same nature as those
                is
produced        by
               the cementation indicated                 by
                                                  Reaumur, and
that the result     always devitrification more or less abso
                          is         a
lute.
  * M.
         Sage has   his possession
                          in          piece of glass
                                         a               crystallized   into ba
saltic prisms  MX place* sjul entirely dtviirified.
                of
                         3                                               When

266              On the Green Colour     for Painting,
    When glass is devitrified it has no longer a vitreous but
a granulated fracture : it possesses no transparency, and has
a perfect resemblance to a stone : it becomes a less bad con
ductor of caloric and electricity.        In a word, it is no longer
susceptible of being fused at the same degree of heat ; and,
to bring it more easily to the vitreous state, it must be first
pounded, in order to place in contact the substances which
were separated from each other during the crystallization,
and which can no longer serve as mutual fluxes.
    I wish the novelty of several of the facts which                I have
here related, and the consequences             I have deduced from
them, in proving that the crystallization of glass is a devi
trification, may be sufficiently interesting to induce che
mists to pay attention to them.          I have no doubt they will
be able to form many comparisons which escaped me, or
which the limits of a single memoir would not allow me
to mention.        The resemblance of my specimens of devi
trified class to those of certain kinds of lava; the possibility
that other kinds of lava may have undergone a more abso
lute devitrification by a longer cooling through volcanic cur
rents, or by remaining fluid for whole years under crusts
already cooled : every thing, in short, induces me to believe
that these facts may afford the means of explaining geolo
gical nhasnomena respecting which philosophers have not
agreed, because nothing could make them believe that stones
had before been glass.
XLVI.      On the beautiful Green Colour          for Painting, which
    may   be    obtained  from   Chrome.         By GODON-SAINT-
    MEMIN *.
 W    HEN M. Vauquelin made known his ingenious labour
on the red lead of Siberia, as the interesting series of the
analyses which he published showed him that chrome is
dispersed throughout various parts of the earth ; since Ame
rica presents it in the emerald, India in the spinel, and Si
beria in chromatizfd lead ; he foresaw that this metal would
one day be found in a natural state sufficiently abundant to
make a useful application of it to the arts, and he indicated
the importance of it in a mcmoirf.            The discovery of chro-
matized lead ore found in France confirmed the happy con
jectures of this illustrious chemist, and convinced us that
   • From   jinnnles du Museum National d' Hilttire Nat are/If, No.  n.
   f  Annales de Cbtmie, Fevr. 1798.
                                                                       the

              which may Ic oltained from Chrome.             267
the knowledge of chrome was      a present  of great value made
to the sciences and to society.
    Being employed at present in examining the chemical
properties of this metal, I directed my observations in par
ticular to its oxide, or the combinations it may present with
earths, in the hope of finding the elementary green colour
so long wished for by painters.       A series of experiments
enabled me to publish results so very satisfactory, that        I
hope soon to see the green colour of chrome make a figure
 on the pallette of the painter along with those beautiful co
lours for which the art has long been indebted to those oc
cupied with the natural sciences.
    Having prepared, by the common processes, an alkaline
chromate, I poured into it a solution of mercury ad mini
mum. There was formed a precipitate of a very beautiful
 red colour, which experienced no sensible change in the
 air. As this chromate exhibited a combination very proper
 for furnishing oxide of chrome by an easy decomposition,
 1 thought that this salt mixed with an earth would give, by
 the aid of heat, the colour I required.
     Three parts of the chromate of mercury and one of alu-
 mine were strongly heated in a crucible.       The result was a
 yellow substance, slightly greenish at the parts in contact
 \rith the air, and which I found to be chromate of alumine.
     I repeated the same experiment with the same propor
 tions, but in a stronger heat, and obtained a beautiful green
  colour having a great deal of body, which experienced no
  alteration either from the air or from light.     The series of
  my experiments naturally    induced  me  to  analyse the chro
 mate of mercury, the result of which I shall here lay before
  the reader, as it may serve to guide those who may be de
 sirous of procuring oxide of chrome, or ihe green colour
  proper for painting.
              Analysis of the Chromate of Mercury.
     Fifty grammes of the chromate of mercury were intro
  duced into a retort, to the neck of which was adapted a
  glass tube immersed in a tub, a flask being properly placed
  lo collect the gas which might be disengaged during the
  operation.
     After being exposed for fifty minutes to a heat which,
  during the last moments, was exceedingly strong, I thought
  that the whole of the mercury must have passed over.           I
  took the apparatus from the fire. The whole of the mercury
  condensed in the tub was found to amount to 40 grammes.
  I found the chrome oxidated under the form of a light re-
                                                            gulus

 163          On the Green Colour   for Painting, &c.
 gulus of a green colour, exceedingly intense, the weight of
 which amounted to no more than 06-3.
    The neck of the retort was slightly lined with some small
 portions of green oxide , and of a substance of a darker red
 than that ot chromate of mercury, but which I suppose to
 be, with some modifications, the same combination.
    I have not yet determined the weight of the oxygen gas,
but it may be easily seen that the defect 03'7 minus the
 quantity of oxygen which constitutes the oxide of mercury
 at a minimum, expresses nearly the difference which exists
between the state of oxidation and that of the acidity of       : 1
 chrome.
    This oxide alone, by its mixture with the carbonate of
lead (white lead), furnishes durable and varied tints j but'      ;
it is no doubt more advantageous to employ it in the state        '
of combination with an earth ; for it appears certain that
in this circumstance the colours of the metallic oxides ac
quire more brilliancy and durability, as we find to be the
 case in ultramarine, smalt, sienna, earth, &c.
    The green of chrome, besides the advantage of being use
ful in painting in oil and distemper, may, with the ne
cessary quantity of flux, be applied immediately on porce
lain, and can endure the greatest heat without alteration. It
may be employed for painting on glass, in enamel, and for
communicating to crystal the colour of the most beautiful
emerald. It may be used in general for ornamenting pot
tery of all kinds.    I have found by experiment that it may
be prepared at such a price as to be within the reach of all
manufacturers.     The different essays I had had the honour
to submit to administration seem to me sufficient to induce
me to believe that this colour will one day furnish a great
resource to our manufactories.
    I propose to make known other observations proper to
enlarge the history of chrome, as well as of sonic prepara
tions, which, perhaps, as well .is artificial chromate of lead,
already introduced into painting;, may become interesting
to the arts ; but I wish to have leisure to present in order
the notes I may be enabled to make on this substance, of
more importance to be studied, as the territory of France
seems to furnish it in abundance.
     Result of the Analysis of tlie Chromate of Mercury.
      Oxide of chrome        -     -      -     -      12-6
      Oxide of mercury       -     -      -     -   .  83'
      Difference between the state of oxidation
         and that of the acidity of chrome        -     4-4
                                                      100-0
                                                    XLV1I. Re-

                           t   869    ]
XLVII.  Reflections on the particular Properties of Roman
  Alum.   By M. Curaudeau, Member of the Society of
  Pharmacy at Paris, ££c*
JV1. Vauciuelin has recently analysed the different kinds
of alum employed in commerce, and from this analysis has
shown that the proportions of the acid and of base are nearly
the same in each   kind.
  M.    Hassenfratz observes f, that if Vauquelin finds no
sensible difference in the proportions of the acid and bases
of each kind of alum, it is however very true that dyers
allow that Roman alum produces in dyeing, effects which
could not be obtained from the other kinds.           The same
chemist adds, that if any other person than Vauquelin had
announced this result he should have been inclined to sus
pend his opinion ; but that chemists have assured them
selves of the exactness of M. Vauquelin, and the confidence
to which his experiments are entitled.          This opinion, in
which    I  sincerely participate, is still strengthened by the
labour I have been engaged in on alum.
    M. Hasserii'ratz, however, cannot resist the doubt excited
 by the difference in the crystallization of Roman alum,
 which affects the cubic form, and of the other alums the
 form of which is octaedral.       He suspects that this diffe
 rence may depend on the quantity of the base which Roman
 alum may have greater than the other kind* of alum,
 though, like them, it may have an excess of acid.
    This observation of M. Hassenfratz on the difference of
 crystallization is very correct j but, as the consequence
 which he deduces can be only conjecture, it can in no ¦
•manner stand in opposition to the analysis of Vauquelin.
 In regard to the preference given by the dyers to Roman
 alum, it is not the result of an ill founded prejudice; it 19
 certainly true that Roman alum produces in dyeing, effects
 which cannot be obtained from the other kinds of alum.
  I have prepared with Roman alum red morocco as beautiful
  as that of Choisy, while with any other kind of alum I could
 obtain only disagreeable colours.
     Crystals of Roman alum obtained in a liquor with excess
  of sulphuric acid, retained in dyeing the same properties as
  they had before their solution.
     This experiment, which destroys the conjecture of
  M. Hassenfratz in regard to the excess of base in Roman
  alum, proves that this alum has properties peculiar to    it,
  but which cannot be explained      byanalysis. Unfortunately,
                • From Awaits de Cbimie, No
                                                133.
               f   Anna! a lie Cbimie, No. 150.
                                                         there

    2?0      On the particular     Properties of Roman Alum.
   there are many       of these phoenomena of which chemists will
   long   remain    spectators before any cause can be assigned for
   them .
      How can 'we explain the phenomena of cementation,'
   which converts into steel one of the extremities or the mid
   dle of a bar of iron subjected to this operation, while, cce-
   leris parilus, the remainder continues to be irori ?
      How can we explain the phsenomena of the combination
   of hydrogen with oxygen, which, instead of giving birth to
   an acid liquor, produces an insipid liquor ?
      From the analysis of M. \7auquelin one might stispect
   the observation of M. Hassenfratz, and the experiment I
   have mentioned, that the properties of Roman alum depend
   on the state in which the alumine is found, and that there
  must be a great difference between the alumine of Roman
  alum and that of our natural or artificial alums.
      A volcano has been the crucible in which nature prepared
  the Roman alum, while our furnaces, in which we prepare
  that alumine, though brought to a strong red heat, are cold,
  in comparison of the conflagration produced by a volcano*.
  How much colder are the turfy marshes in which the latter
  alum is prepared by nature ? Every thing then proves that
  the action ef the caloric must have been very strong, and
  that it is by it that a very particular modification has been
  brought to the state of alum.                This conjecture is still
  further strengthened by another phenomenon — that exhi
  bited by the presence of potash in the earths of solfaterra.
 This alkali has certainly not had there a vegetable origin,
 and under this circumstance it cannot be considered but as
 the result of a combination of the principles which the heat
 may have called into action in some mineral substances.
     I shall conclude by observing, that the accuracy of
 M. Vauquelin's analysis ought to subsist, because analysis
 cannot follow these modifications, and that alumine, when
 it issues by analytical means from Us com position cf Roman
 alum, cannot appear to us but in that new state of modifi
 cation given to it by the re-agent in taking it from its first
 composition.         I presume that this explanation will long be
the only probable one that can be given in regard to the
causes of the particular properties of Roman alum, and that
further researches on this subject may have a great resem
blance to those the object of which is to discover the phi
losopher's stone.
    * If this opinion of the author be correct, how arc we to account for
mineral sulisunces being found unfu^cd in volcanic scoria which would
not teiist the action of our furnaces : — iiujT.
                                                        XLVIII.    List

                            t   271    ]
XLVIII. List of      Patents   for   new Inventions which have
   passed the Signet    Office from November 24 to Decent'
   ber 24, 1804.
JL o Thomas Margrave, of the parish of St. Mary, White-
chapel, in the county of Middlesex, silk throwster, for the
sole use, benefit, and advantage, of his invention of certain
mills and machinery, upon a new or improved construc
tion, for throwing, spinning, doubling, and twisting silk
thread, cotton thread, flax thread, hemp thread, and all
such other articles as usually are or may be thrown, spun,
doubled, or twisted.
    To Samuel Guppy, of the city of Bristol, merchant, for
his invention of certain additions and improvements on
machines for cutting, heading, and finishing nails, and the
mode of working thereof, for which machines he obtained
his majesty's letters patent, bearing date on or about the
 19th of August 1796, whereby considerable labour is saved,
and which additions and improvements may be used with,
or independent of, such former machines.
    To Richard Willcox, of the city of Westminster, engi
 neer, for certain machinery for more expeditiously cutting,
 stripping, or plucking the various furs of beavers, seals, •
 wool, hair, &c. from the various skins now cut, plucked,
 or stripped by hand, and for sundry methods of preparing
 and cleansing the said skins.
    To Stephen Pasquicr, of Wilderness-row, Charterhouse-
 square, in the county of Middlesex, professor of languages,
 for a new manufacture, system, or method of writing, print
 ing, engraving, drawing, painting or stamping, working
 and using certain characters, figures, instruments and ma
 chines for facilitating correspondence and other literary
 operations.
              —This patent extends to all his majssty's colo
 nies and plantations abroad.
     To Joseph Wickham Mayer, of Soho-square, in the
  county of Middlesex, esq., for certain improvementsonbits
  of bridles.
     To Abraham Underdown, of the parish of Ealing, in the
  county of Southampton,         for a new mode Or method of
  making   flour without  grain.
     To Solomon Hougham, of Aldcrsgate-street, in the city
  of London, goldsmith, forspring clasps for buckles, lockets,
  and other ornaments of dress.
                                                             To

  272          Description  of a Wbulf's Apparatus.
     To William      Everhard, baron Van Doornik, of Wc-fl-
  street, in the county  of Middlesex, tor certain compositions
  formed by uniting an absorbent, or detergent earth with
  other ingredients, so as to render the same more effectual in
  washing or scouring, and for various purposes, to which
  soaps and detergent earths are now applied.
 XLIX.      Description  of a  IVoulf's Apparatus, invented   ly
           Mr. J. KNIGHT, of     Foster-lane, London*.
  JL HE inconvenience attending the complicated form of the
 Woulf 's   apparatus now in use, is felt by experimental che
 mists in general.     Considering, therefore, how desirable a
 thing it would be to render so useful an apparatus more
simple, and at the same time preserve all its properties, I
 have endeavoured to accomplish it by constructing an ap
 paratus agreeably to the following description.     How far I
have succeeded in my object, the public will be able to
judge ; and should it prove useful I shall feel gratified in
 having contributed to the advancement of science.
     AAA (Plate VIT.) represents three vessels, each ground
 into the mouth of that below it.
    EBB, glass tube?, the middles of which are ground into.
the neck of each vessel, which allows the upper end to rise
above the liquor, while the lower descends nearly to the
bottom of the next vessel below.         The upper vessel serves
as the receiver to catch whatever may come over in a fluid
form.
    E, a Welter's tube of safety, to prevent absorption.
    D, the lowest vessel, has a foot which supports the whole
apparatus.     The tube C is for the purpose of conducting
the gas into a pneumatic trough.
    F, an adapter ground to fit the receiver, to which any
retort may be joined and luted before the latter is put into
its place.
    In order to prevent the danger of oversetting the appa
ratus I place it on a square wooden foot, to which the glass
one is easily fixed by sliding it in between two grooves.
    By substituting a stopper in place of the adapter this ap
paratus forms a very complete Nooth's j the materials being
put into the receiver at top.
                   • Communimstl by thf Inventor.
                                                       L. Pro-

                             t   273  ]
                                                     -
     L.  Proceedings of Learned and Economical Societies.
                   ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
ON     Friday the 30th of November, being Saint Andrew's
day,   the  Royal Society held their anniversary meeting at
their apartments in Somerset Place, when the president,
the right honourable sir Joseph Banks, hart. K. B., in the
name of the Society, presented the gold medal (called sir
Godfrey Copley's) to Smithson Tennant, csq. for his va
rious chemical discoveries communicated to the Society,
and printed in several volumes of the Philosophical Trans
actions.     The president delivered the customary discourse
on the subjects contained in Mr. TennatU's papers. After
wards the Society proceeded to the choice of the council and
officers for the ensuing year, when, on examining the bal
lots, it appeared that the following gentlemen were elected
of the council :
    Of the old council,— The right honourable sir Joseph
Banks, bart. K. B.; sir Charles Blagden, knt.; Henry Ca
vendish, esq.; Edward Whitaker Gray, M.D.; right ho
nourable Charles Greville; Charles Hatchett, esq.; William
Marsden, esq. ; Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, D.D. ; George earl
of Morton ; Joseph Planta esq* ; John Walker, esq.
    Of the new council, — The right honourable lord Frederic
Campbell ; Davies Giddy, esq.; William Herschel, LL.D.;
George earl of Macartney ; William Parsons, esq.; James
 Robertson Barclay, M.D. ; Samuel Horslcy, lord bishppof
St. Asaph ; Kev. Richard Dickson Shackleford, D. D. ;
William Hyde Wollaston, Esq. ; Henry Penruddocke
Wyndham,        csq.
    A nd  the officers were, — The right honourable sir Joseph
Banks, bart. K.B. president; William Marsden, esq. trea
surer;    Edward     Whitaker Gray,     M. D.; William    Hyde
WolUston,      esq. secretaries.
    Afterwards the members of the Society dined together,
as usual, at the Crown and Anchor Tavern, in the Strand.
                        ROYAL ACADEMY.
    On Monday, Dec. 10th, being the anniversary of the in
stitution of the Royal Academy, a general assembly was held
for the appointment of the annual officers for the year 1 805,
 when
    Benjamin West, esq. was re-elected president. Henry
Thomson, Philip James de Loutherbourg, Robert Smirke,
 Joseph Farington, George Dance, John Hoppner, Thomas
    Vol. SO. No. 79. Dee. 1804.        S            Lawrence,

27*                   Board of stgrhvliurc.
Lawrence, and Thomas Stodhard, esqrs. in rotation, council.
    John Flaxman, Henry Feech, Thomas Lawrence, Joseph
Norskens, M. A. Shoe, James Northcote, John Hoppner,
Henry Thomson, and John Opie, esqrs.- visitors.
    Joseph Farington and George Dance, esqrs. auditors.
    And a premium of a silver medal was voted to Mr. Wil-
}iam Tallemacb, for the best model of an academy figure.
                   BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.
                Premiums offered by this Board.
                      [Continued  tV"m page 179 j
     Operation of Tillage. — To     the person who shall report to
the Board the result of the most satisfactory experiments
on the various operations of tillage — the gold medal.        It is
required that the soils on which tlje experiments are made
be carefully described, and that the implements with which
the opciations are performed be explained.          Accounts, ve
rified by certificates, to be produced on, or before the first
Tuesday in March 1806.
     Food for Mankind. — To the person who shall draw up,
and produce to the Board, the most satisfactory accounts,
founded on specified facts, of the comparative food fur man
kind, produced by the application ot grass land to cows,
for butter and cheese; to oxen for beef; or to sheep for
mutton — 'the gold medal.          Accounts to he produced on or
before the first Tuesday in March 1806.
     Food for Mankind. — To the person who shall draw up,
and produce to the Board, the most satisfactory account,
founded on specified facts, of the proportionate difference
between grass and arable land, in producing food tor man
kind— the gold invdul.           Accounts to be produced on or
before the first Tuesday in March ] 806.
     Paring and Burning. — To the person who shall report
 to the Board the result of the most satisfactory experiments
 made by, or under the inspection of, the reporter, in the
 paring- and burning-husbandry — the gold medal.              Ac
 counts, verified by certificates, to be produced on or before
 the first Tuesday in April 1606.
     Paring and Burning, — To the person who shall report to
 the Board the result of the most satisfactory experiments
 made by, or under the inspection of, the reporter, to ascer
 tain the proper depth of paring, in order to burn, relative to
 the Quality of the soil — the gM medal.          Accounts, veri
 fied oy certificates, to be produced on or before the first
 Tuesday in December 1 806.
      Burning Clay, Loam, or Marl. —To the person who shall
  pake, and report to the Board, the rnyst satisfactory expe
                                                           riments

                    Bath JgricultuTK   Society.              27 5
rimcnts to ascertain the utility of burning clay, loam, or
niarl, tor the purpose of manuring — the gold medal.            It
is required that equal portions of land (not less than five
acres; be cultivated, the one thus manured, and the other
without manure, for the comparison, during three years,
each portion under similar crops.       The quality of the soil,
the expense of burning and carting, and the products of
the respective portions, to be reported to the Board, and
verified by certificates, on or before the first Tuesday in
March 18<'9|.
     Luines. — To the person who shall draw up, and present
 to 'the Board, covenants consistent with ihe interests of
 landlords and tenants, that sh;'.ll point out the best means
 of preventing the tenant from leaving his land in <m ex
 hausted state at the expiration of his lease — tin-nty guineas.
 To be produced on or before the first Tuesday in May 1805.
                BATH AGRICULTURAL       SOCIETY.
     The annual meeting of this respectable society began, on
  Monday the 10th of December, when the several commit
 tees met at Hetling-house,       in Hath, belonging to this so
 ciety, and the residence of its secretary, and made aH the
  necessary arrangements for the show of cattle, implements,
  Sec.   Several excellent specimens of store cattle were shown
  and examined in a yard adjoining ; after which the company
  dined together at the White Mart tavern.        Sir G. O. Paiil
  was in the chair; and there were present, lord Cawdor, sir
  John Smith, sir J. Hippesley, Messrs. Dickfnson and Gore
  f,angton, the members for Somersetshire ; Mr. Hobhoute,
       f
  M. ; Mr. Eastcourt, M.P.; Dr. Parry ; Mr. F. Sitwell,
  M. P.; Mr. Paul; -Mr. Billihgslev ; Mr. Ashley, Mr. Ac-
  land; Mr. Dyke ; Charles Gordon Grey, esq. ; Mr. Biggs ;
  Mr. Lethbridge ; Thomas Crooke, csq. &c. &c.
      Captain Norton, an American gentleman, who has vi
  sited this country for agricultural information, was elected
  an honorary member ; as were Mr. Davy, professor of che»
  mistry, and Dr. Currie.
      The meeting at 1 letling-house, on Tuesday, was in st
  numerously attended.
      Benjamin* Hobhouse, M. P. esq. in the chair in the ab
   sence of the duke of Bedford, the president, who was pre
  vented from attending;.
      Lord Somerville, also, was prevented from attending, by
   indisposition.
      Several excellent fat cattle were shown alive in\ the yard ,
   among which, Mr. Eldridge showed an excellent two years
     I                           S 9                           old

   270      Imperial Academy    of Sciences   at Petcrslurgh.
    old new Leicester sheep ;    Mr. Grey,     three good new Lei
    cester,  of one, two, and three years old j Mr. Jones, near
    Wellingford, two sheep of mixed breeds, Dorset and Lei"
    tester, and Leicester and Wilts.
       Several excellent specimens of fine wool were produced
    and examined, particularly from sheep of crosses between
    the Spanish, Ryelands, and Wilts.
        Specimens of cloth were also laid before the society from
    English wool, much exceeding in quality any before made
    from wool imported from Spain.
       The first adjudication of the annual gold medal, left by
    the late lamented duke of Bedford, and called the
                                                           " Bedford
    medal," was made to Mr. Arthur Young, for his Essay on
   the Nature and Properties of Manures, there being several
    other candidates.    Sir J. Hippesley was elected a vice-pre
   sident, and between fifty and sixty new members, resident;
   in different parts of the united kingdom.            Premiums to
   encourage friendly    or benefit societies  among   the labouring
    poor were adjudged, and a new one established for the en
    couragement of female friendly societies. The company
    retired to the White Hart to dinner, where the utmost na.r-
   mony prevailed till a late hour.
       On Wednesday morning the carcases of the fat cattle,
   •which had been viewed alive on the preceding day, and
   examined by Messrs. Grey, Paul, Ashley, and two other
   gentlemen, who were appointed judges, were examined ;
   after which B. H. Hobhouse, csq., the chairman, adjudged
   the, premium to Thomas Crooke, esq., for the best heitcr
   and calf: they were of the Tytberton breed, or two parts
   French and one Devon.        To Mr. Clyde, of Preston, near
   Yeovil, the prize fi,r the best sow and her offspring: they
   were between the China and Leicester breed, and remarka
   ble, fine ones.    To Mr. Troy, utar Monmouth, for the best
   fat sheep of the new Leicester breed ; and to Mr. Lewis the
   prize for the best fat spayed heifer, being of the Glamorgan;
   breed. Several implements and other things were exhibited,
  which want of room obliges us to omit.
       IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES AT PETERSBURG!!.
       The following has been proposed by this academy as the
.  subject of a prize for the year 1806 :
       There arc a few subjects in natural philosophy, which in
   regard to those parts susceptible of explanation, have beea
  examined with more success than light ; but the nature of
   this wonderful matter is still little Icnown, and it is not
  improbable that we are entirely unacquainted with it. Two

          Imperial Academy        of   Sciences at Pelerslurgh.                    877
 hypotheses, equally celebrated by the names of their authors,
 have been formed on this subject : that of Newton, which
 makes light to. consist in material emanations from 1mm-
Jious bodies ; and that of Euler, according to whom it arises
 From the vibrations of a particular elastic fluid which are
 produced by the action of luminous bodies. The founder
 (if the modem chemistry, the illustrious Lavoisier, has given
a third hypothesis in regard to light ; which                       is,
                                                              that there
 exists in nature     a  peculiar matter which          the productive
                                                           is
 cause of the sensation denoted under the n:'.me of light                            ;
 that the'matter of light      is  subject to chemical affinities, in
 consequence of which        it   is susceptible of combining with
 other bodies, of fixing itself in them, of beinsr disengaged
 from them, and of producing in them sensible modifica
tions that
      ;          bythe effect of its great affinity for oxygen                       it
 reduces   it, with the concurrence of caloric, to that aenibrni-
 state under which     it  enters into the composiiion of atmo
 spheric air; and that the fire manifested             the combustion
                                                          in
 of bodies results from the decomposition of the oxygen gas
 of the atmospheric air operated             by
                                            the combustible accord
 ing to the laws of affinity, in virtue of which the oxygen,
 which forms the base of this gas, being absorbed                     the      by
 burning body, the caloric and matter of light become free and
 are disengaged. However uncertain and subject to difficulties
 may still appear the existence of matter of light, and the
                                              a
 reality of its affinities, on which the illustrious author of?
 the hypothesis expresses himself with             reserve worthy of
                                                     a
 so great  a   searcher into nature,           it however beyond all
                                                    is
 doubt that this ingenious idea, which             not entirely desti
                                                     is
 tute of support from experience, exhibits            kind of research
                                                          a
 highly interesting     to the  progress  of  natural  philosophy.      If
 there exists    amatter of light,       if  be subject to chemical
                                              it
 affinities, and diffused around us,          may,
                                              it               by
                                                         the combina
 tions into which     it enters with other bodies, have         striking  a
 influence on them and on several natural phenomena. The
 advancement of our knowledge in regard to this matter
 •Would consequently furnish us with results which,               giving  by
 us further information in regard to the secret springs of na
ture, might, perhaps, throw new light on                     number of
                                                                    a
its operations.     In consideration of these reasons the Im
 perial Academy has thought              would be advantageous
                                        it                              i»
 the progress of science to propose publicly               prize of .501)
                                                                a
 rubles, which will be adjudged to the philosopher who shall
 make, and communicate to              " the most instructive series
                                       it,
 of new experiments on light considered as matter; on the
 properties which he may be authorized to a?cribe to                   on     it
                                                                               ;
                                  £     3                                           the

       fmperial ^cacftmy       *f Science^ at       Ptterslurgh.
the affinities it may appear to have with other bodie? cithef
organic or nc>n-or»aiiic; and on the modifications and pha1-
noniena manifested    itithese substances  viYtueof the com
                                                   in
binations into which the matter of lie hi has entered \\'\\\f
them."
  Without entering into        history of the objections formed
                               a
against   this hypothesis, or of  the researches made to unveil,
in. different modifications of bodies and of natural-phaeno-
mena, the traces of the action of the chemical affinities of
light, the academv observes, that these researches might
perhaps be extended,     and not without utility, to the Gal
vanic fire, the dazzling splendour of which, in larsxe Voltaic
piles and on carbonaceous substances, imitates              in
                                                      some mea
sure that of the solar light.     In word, the academy
                                         a                    Sa      is
tisfied with announcing generally the subject of the prize,
in order that the learned who wish to employ themselves in
it may not in any manner be fettered in the points of view
under which they may be led to consider and treat         matter  a
so difficult, which has scarcely vet been touched, and which,
however, deserves so much to be examined for the benelit
of science.
   The academy requests the learned of all nations, without
excluding its honorary members and correspondents, to
labour on this subject.          thinks
                                It           its duty to exclude
                                              it
none but the members who are to discharge the function
of judges.
  The learned       who intend to be candidates for the prize
must    not  put their  names to the. essays, but only         motto
                                                                  a
or device, adding    a    sealed   note  having on  tlu. outside the
same device, and in the inside the name, quality, and resi
dence of the author.         None of the notes but that belong
ing  to  the  paper  which   gains the prize will be opened. The
rest will be burned.
   The essays, written in legible hand, either
                               a                           Russian,
                                                             in
French, English, German, or Latin, must be addressed to
the perpetual secretary of the academy, who will deliver to
the person commissioned             bythe author    receipt marked,
                                                        a
with the device and motto accompanying the essay.
   The essays will be received till the 1st of May 1806 ex
clusively;    and the author of that which in the opinion of
the academy    is   entitled ts» the prize will be announced in
the public meeting held in the month of July the same year.
   The successful essay         the property of the academy, and
 he author cannot cause     it isto be printed without special per
mission.      The other essays may be demanded from the se-
cjetary, who will cause them to be delivered at Petersburg!!
lo those deputed for that purpose            by
                                            the authors.
                                                                  LI. In-

                               [   970     ]
          X.I. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                             GEOGRAPHY.
 A. LETTER from St. Petersburgh, dated November the sd,
 says, " The large hydrographical chart of the White Sea,
 which has been some time preparing, under the direction of
 lieutenant-general Golcnischtscheft-Kutusoff,         will soon be
 printed.    A trigonometrical survey of this sea, comprehend
 ing the bays and a part of the northern ocean, was made
 between the years 1798 and 1801; at the same time the
 depth and nature of vhe bottom were ascertained and exa
 mined, and sixteen principal points of the coast were de
 termined by astronomical observation ; so that this chart, by
 the indefatigable zeal of general von Kutusoft", has been
 brought to a considerable degree of perfection, and will
 render the navigation of that sea much safer than it hitherto
 has been.
                             ASTRONOMY.
    We    have  received    a note from      Mr. Joseph Emmanuel
 Pellizcr, a gentleman who some time ago published a new
 system of astronomy, containing some doctrines very dif
ferent from those generally received.          We cannot enter into
the arguments he offers in defence of his system ; but as he
 mentions one decisive test by which the question may be
settled, we shall state it as shortly as we cah for the consi
deration of astronomers.
    According to the Nautical Almanac for 1605, there will
be a conjunction of the moon and sun on the 30th of March
next, at 10'1 53' P. M. — According to Mr. Pellizer's cal
culation, that conjunction will take place March 29th, 20' 2"
A. M.
    Mr. Pellizer proposes that the distance of these two lu
minaries should be observed three days before the conjunc
tion — say on the 26thof March, at 20' 2" A. M. j when it will
be found, according to him, 39° 30' and a fraction — while,
according to tlie received astronomy, it ought to be 56° 40'.
                      POISON    OF THE VIPER.
    To determine, in a certain manner, whether the poison of
the vipers in the forest of Fontainbleau * is as subtile as
imagined, Dr. Paulet has been induced to make some expe
riments on this subject, and the result has been agreeable to
                   •              of this volume.
                      Sec page 91
                                 S 4                   expectation.

280                     Poison of  the  Viprr.
 expectation.    Till the month of October last, all the facts
 known respecting the bite of these animals attested that
 their poison was mortal, either to man or to the small ani
 mals subjected to experiment.         It was therefore necessary
 to ascertain whether it would be equally prejudicial to
 stronger animals, such as the horse: one procured for this
 purpose laboured indeed under a disease of the breast, but he
 was still strong, ate and drank, and, according to every ap
 pearance, likely to live two months longer. He fed on grass
 while preparations were made' for the experiment, and gave
 no signs of his respiration being confined.       He was bit in
 the cheek in two different places, and immediately after the
 part swelled in a sensible manner.        As no remedy was ap-
         the tumour increased,    and advanced to the neck, the
   ead became deformed by the size of the tumour, which was
Cliecl,
more sensible on one side; respiration became quick and
very laborious ; the extremities cold; and he dial at the end
of fourteen hours. The opening of the body, which was
performed by veterinary artists, showed that the tumor was
visibly gangrenous.
    At the end of October, another horse, but stronger and
more vigorous than the preceding, though he had been sub
ject for several years to a lientcry, but in a state of conva-.
lescence, was subjected to a new experiment ; he was bit in
the lower lip by the same viper which had occasioned the.
death of the former.      The same symptons took place ; that
is to say, the part was sensibly tuinified; but a remedy beinjv,
applied in time, under the direction of Dr. Panlet, he had
the satisfaction next day, at noon, of observing that the dan
gerous symptoms had disappeared, and that the horse was
in a good state, though weak from fatigue and the loss of
blood he had sustained the preceding evening.          Three days
after, being fit for labour, he performed a journey of three
leagues with a carriage, and mounted by a postillion, and, at
the same time, was cured of his lientery.
    A third experiment was made, a few days after, on an
other horse belonging to a veterinary artist, who took charge
of his treatment; he gave him proper drink; byt, on the
third day, he was not entirely cured of his tumor, which was
still livid in the centre.
    " It may be concluded," says Dr. P-inlet, " from these
experiments, that the bite of this reptile may be fatal to a
horse which receives no assistance; but that if a remedy be
applied, he may be speedily and easily cured ; and that the
same treatment is applicable to man, and affords hopes of a
similar result."
            4                                               Such

                              Meteorology.
    Such has hitherto been the researches made in regard to
this reptile, which has all the characters of a viper; that is
  to say, the teeth oc hooks bent forwards, moveable, re
tractile, hollow, and furrowed; with a glandulous apparatu*
£br filtring the venom, a reservoir to contain            it,
                                                         an aperture
 at the bottom of t,he tooth to permit its entrance into the
 interior, and a furrow on the outside to facilitate its flowing
into the wound which          occasions; the tooth being cut into
                              k
 a gutteris   open at the extremity, and pointed like needle.   a
    Since tin1, first discovery of these animals, fifteen indivi
duals of -the same species have been killed or taken alive;
 among that number there were two females, one of which
 contained sixteen eggs, and the other six,, which forms            a
 total of thirty-seven individuals destroyed. More than three
 hundred persons are employed           the pursuit of these ani
                                        in
 mals, and it   is hoped that may be possible to destroy them
                                  it
ia the forest of Fontainbleau.
    Dr. Paulct      almost certain of curing the effects produced
                   is
by the bite   of  this reptile, not     by
                                       volatile alkali, nor the cau
 tery,  but   by   more   simple   means,  which he proposes to
 make known.
                              METEOROLOGl'.
    Kingston, Jamaica, Sept. 22. — On the 30th ult. at fifteen
minutes past eleven P. M.          single but violent shock of an
                                   a
earthquake was felt at St. Ann's Bay; its direction appeared
to be from north to south; its duration about four seconds;
moon waning; thermometer 85; no wind, but was preceded
by  a  solemn stillness of the atmosphere. The brute crea
tion, immediately previous and subsequent to the concus
sion, were extremely agitated, as was manifested by their
cries of alarm.      For several hours before the shock, the air
was close and     almost  irrespirable;      heavy fall of rain took
                                             a
  lace  the following day.      The   usual  rumbling noise and un-
5 ulatory   motion   of the  earth,  which    generally attends those
phenomena,        were  not  perceived.
    St. Jago de       Fega, Oct. 6. — A correspondent who re
                     la
sides near the Black River hns transmitted to us the fol
lowing account of most awful and alarming phenomenon,
                          a
which made its appearance in Middle Quarters, in the parish
of St. Elizabeth, on Monday the 24th of September ult.
about four o'clock in the afternoon.                began with very
                                                     It
heavy    black  clouds,  as   ifthere   were    deluge of rain ready
                                                 a
to fall.  It   was presently afterwards accompanied with a
dreadful roaring noise, as         if  aviolent squill of rain witJ\
wind was coming on, but much more loud and horrible.
                                                                There

tB2                                Antiquities.
There was soon the appearance of a large globe rising and
ascending into the atmosphere, occasioning very violent
cormfiotions and convulsions in the ea.th. The tall of
trees was distinctly heard, and large branches thereof, to
gether w ith innumerable birds, \vere seen carried to an im
mense height in the air, the clouds, at the same time, con
vulsed in the most awful manner : There was seen what re-
semoletl a water-spout, but no water fell from it.         This*
continued its course from the nr>rth-east to the southward,
carrying all before      it,
                         tearing up logwood, cotton trees, &c.$
 by the roots, and whirling up in the air the limbs of numbers
of the largest trees, having, at the same time, the appear
ance of fire, attended with         thick black smoke, which
                                            a
ascended from      in itscourse: and reportlike guns went off.
                    it                          a
This continued nearly an hour, and its course was upwards
of mile. Fortunately
      a                       kept where no dwellings or build
                                   it
ings stood, otherwise they must have been destroyed, as the
strongest buildings could not have withstood the violent
force of this awful convulsion of nature.
                               ANTIOCITIES.
    Some Russian peasants, in digging for the foundations of
a  fortress on the fords of the Limar, at the mouth of the
Danube, discovered lately       tomb which the antiquaries of
                                        a
that country consider as that of Ovid; the reasons given for
this opinion arc — first, that    stands on the site of Tomi, to
                                        it
which that unfortunate poet was banished        second, that this
                                                             ;
spot has long been known in the country under the name of
Lncidl Oi'idhli (the I^akcs of Ovid) third, that there was
                                                    ;
found in the tomb bust, \s hich, being compared at Peters-
                         a
burgh with the heads of the beautiful Julia, the daughter of
Augustus, has been found to have a perfect resemblance.
The Russians have given to their new fortress the name of
Ouidcopofis.
    Notwithstanding these details, given in the Russian jour
nals, we do not believe that this tomb       that of Ovid. We
                                                        is
are acquainted with no medals of Julia but such as were
struck in countries at distance from Rome, and
                               a                          which  by
it   difficult to determine precisely the character of her form
     is                                                                 ;
besides,  it    not probable that Ovid should cause himself to
               is
be interred \vith the portrait of the daughter of Augustus.
     Sometime ptgotwoWallachians,                   named Jeremiah Thoma
and Z.icharias Andre, found in the forests of the Bannat,
near Kis-oclos, belonging to count Hunyades, the former
814, and tht latter OG Greek medals in gold, which they
                                                                  carried

carried to the m'mt'at Carlsbourg, whence they were sent to
the royal treasury at Hermanstadt, the capital of Transyl
vania, and to Vienna. To judge from the impression, these-
medals were struck in the time of Lysimachus.         Their in
trinsic value is about 280O florins (30ol. sterling).   A con
siderable number of similar medals have been found at dif
ferent times in Transylvania ; so that this new discovery
cannot be considered as a direct increase of our neumismatic
knowledge, if we except two medals of king Pharmaces and
 his general, Asandcr.
    The treasury of Hermanstadt has received intelligence,
also, that evident traces and the ruins of a town, very con
siderable by its extent, have been discovered in the mountain
of Gredistye, in the same county *. In the same neigh
 bourhood, and particularly the mountain Gattano, some
 Wallachian priests have found several antique medals of gold,
 about four hundred of which have already been sent to the
 treasury at Hermanstadt ; each of them is equal in weight to
 about two ducats and a quarter; — the price for which they
 have been purchased by the treasury from those who found
 them, is 4,417 florins (about 4501.). All these medals are in
 fine preparation ; on one side they exhibit the figures of
 three men, the first and third of whom bear axes ; at the
 bottom is the word KOSflN; on the reverse is seen an eagle,
 holding in its right claw a crown.    In the catalogue of the
 cabinet of Viennaf, Eckhel ascribes this emblem to the
  town of Cosae, in Ktruria, as Tristan Patin Havercamp and
 other antiquaries had done before ; on the other hand, in his
  Doctrina Numorn»i\ : he shows that these medals ought to
  be ascribed to Marcus Junius Brutus.
   A   letter from Rome, says : " This city is engaged with
 the greatest activity in repairing its losses. Thepope neg
 lects nothing that can improve or encourage the arts.
 People are employed in digging around the triumphal arch
 of Severus, which is almost halt buried.. Fifty galley slaves,
 brought from Civita-Vecchia, 'are engaged in this under
 taking. The same labour has been several times undertaken
"in the course of the last three centuries, hut the places
•where these        researches   were   made had ahvays        been again
     • No inscriptions capable of giving further information 'have
                                                                   yet been
  fcund ; a brick with the letters PERS co Rite only has been dug up.
                                                                     "
   f   Vol:   i.'
           p. p.
                   14.                                  •«.•'
                                                               .       J
-  {   Vol.
         i.       10, ami vol. vi. p. 13, et. scq. '•  »       •   .-It'I

    384                         Antiquities.
   filled up j which will never again be the case, because the>
   works are surrounded by a parapet, as has been done in re
   gard to Trajan's pillar.       Researches of the same kind will
   be made around other ruins, and in particular near the co
   lumns of the temple of Jupiter Stator, which are two-third*
  buried.     Workmen are now employed in clearing the py
  ramid of Cestius from the bushes with which it has been
  covered for several years, and the roots of which had begun
 4o displace the stones.
       The researches at Ostia are still continued.       At present
  they are carried on in the site occupied by the antient city.
  The foundations of several houses have been discovered ;
 and also of some temples, plans of which are now making
 by the architect Balistra, who attended lord Elgin to Greece.
  It is hoped that this discovery will give some information
 in regard to the method of building, and the domestic oeco-
  nomy of the antients.
      Apartments are preparing at the Vatican to receive such
 curious articles as may be found at Ostia.          Other arrange
 ments arc also making, and artists are employed in erecting
 the statues of the Belvidere.       It is hoped that the pope will
 purchase     the  Faune   endormi  which    formed part of the Bar-
 berine collection, and which now belongs to the sculptor
 Paccetti.
      Tie science of antiquities is also cultivated at Rome with
 great zeal.      A new edition of the Roma Antica of Venuti
 has been published, with supplements and notes by Philip
 Visconti, brother to the celebrated antiquary of that name
 settled in France.       The learned Zaega is still employed on
 his catalogue of all the Coptic manuscripts in the library
 of cardinal Borgia. He has been engaged also several years
 on researches in regard to the topography of antient Rome ;
 and it is supposed that he will throw great light on this
subject.
      In the month of February         last several antient monu
 ments    were    discovered   at Bois-de-Vaux, near Vidy, at a
 small distance from Lausanne.           This discovery was made
by accident in working at the mines. This place, accord
ing to some authors, was the site of the supposed city of
Carpentras ; and according to others, perhaps on better
authority, of the antient Lausanne. A beautiful bas-relief,
in bronze, representing a taurobolus, presented by the
council of Lausanne to the museum of Betne, where it is
still preserved, was discovered here in 1629.            About 4he
                                                                end

             Botany.  — Coating  Copper  with Platina.        S83
<end  of the last century some tombs of white marble were
dug up, and one of them is still employed as the bason to
a fountain.      The researches already made have left unco
vered, at the depth of two feet below the surface, on the
edge of the spot on which the city seems to have been
placed, two parallel walls of mason-work at the distance
of five or six feet from each other. At the depth of five
feet there was found a cellar filled with a number of urns of
earthenware, placed close to each other, some of which
wtre broken by the workmen.             There were found also
bronze medals, and silver of the lower empire, having on
them the impression of Philip.         Besides several beautiful
medals of Augustus, Domitian, Trajan, Adrian, Antoni
nus Pius, Marcus Aurelius Faustina, Septimus Severus,
Constantius, Chlorus, and Valentinian, there were found
a steel stylus, a metal mirror, and some vessels of black
and red earth covered with figures in bas-relief; the torso
of a woman, the small statue of a horse, and an inscription
in which has been dccyphered the name of Julius Caesar;
a beautiful silver medal with two heads, representing on
one side the emperor Claudius, and on the reverse that of
the young Caesar, Nero, &c.
                             BOTANY.
    It has hitherto been supposed that the plant- called by
Linn ecus the Lichen islandtcus does not grow any where
but in the regions of the north. Don Mariana Lagaa, how
ever, who belongs to the royal botanical garden at Madrid,
in a tour through Spain to complete the flora Hispanica,
discovered it in the park of Pajares, in Asturia, and in
many other places, where it grows in great abundance. This
plant is employed by the physicians as a remedy for the
phthisis.
                COATING COPPER WITH PLATINA.
    M.   Strauss  announces in Gehlen's journal, that a solu
tion of platina precipitated by ammonia, washed, dried,
and exposed to a red heat for half an hour in a covered cru
cible, may be amalgamated with iron) five to seven parts
of mercury by trituration in a warm mortar. This amalgam
may be laid over copper, and the mercury be driven ofl'by
heat : a second coating is applied mixed with chalk and
sprinkled with water, and the plate is again ignited.        The
 plate  is afterwards  burnished.   By   this application  copper
vessels may be defended from th'- action of acids.
                                                        TANNING.

 286             Tanning.   — Ichthyology. — Lectures.       .
                                               -   ."  .       . .  -. v
                                 TANNING.
  I                                              * fc." •• "
                                                                «."**•
    M.   Hermbstadt, of Berlin, has announced that the Tor-
 mentilla erecta (tormentil or septfoil), a plant which grows
 almost every where ; and the Polygomim bistorta (creat
 bistort or snakeweed), contain such a large quantity otlan-
 nin as to make them preferable to oak bark for tanning.
 One pound and a halt of tormentil, or three pounds of
 bistort, will tan a pound of dry hide which requires seven
 pounds of oak bark.          He likewise recommends the use of
 the leaves of the oak tree in tanning leather.
                             JCHTHYOLOGr.
    A very   uncommon fish was on Saturday the ?2cl of Au
gust    exhibited    in Portsmouth market : its shape bore re
semblance to the smaller class of quadruped animals.                     It
had no appearance of fins; its eyes were scarcely visible;
 it had two horns, which it put out at pleasure.             Its appear
ance in the water was very unpleasing but for the relief of
some beautiful variegation of colouring on its skin, shading
to purple and red.         It was about ten inches long, but was
not of the species of sea cow.
                                LECTURES.
    On Monday the 25th of January, Mr. Macartney will
commence his lectures at St. Bartholomew's hospital upon
comparative anatomy and the k\vs of organic existence. In
these   lectures    the   structure and functions of organized
beings   are  fully   described,   with a comparative analysis of
the  mental   operations     of  man  and animals, and the general
history   of  diseased   actions.
    Mr. Blair's physiological lectures, for the information of
scientific and professional gentlemen, amateurs of natural
history, students in the liberal and fine arts, &c. will re-<
commence on Tuesday the 8th of January, to be continued
every succeeding Tuesday and Friday, at eight o'clock in the
evening.      Further particulars may be learned at Mr. Blair's
house, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury-square ; where may
be had a printed syllabus of the lectures.
    At the theatre    of anatomy, Blenheim-street Great Marl-
borough-street,       Mr. Brookes will commence his spring
                                                                   course

                            Lectures.
course of lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgery,
on Saturday 19th January, 1S05, at two o'clock.              In
these lectures, the structure of the human body will be
demonstrated on recent subjects, and further illustrated by
preparations; and the functions of the different organs will
be explained.
    The surgical operations are performed, and every part of
surgery so elucidated, as may best tend to complete the ope
rating surgeon.
    The art of injecting, and of making anatomical prepara
tions, will be taught practically.
    Gentlemen zealous in the pursuit of zoology, will meet
with uncommon opportunities of prosecuting their re
searches in comparative anatomy.
    Surgeons in the army and navy mav be assisted in renew
ing their anatomical knowledge; and every possible atten
tion will be paid to their accommodation as well as instruc
 tion.
    Anatomical conversaziones will be held every Sunday
 morning, at eight o'clock, in the museum, in which the
 different subjects treated of the preceding week will be dis
 cussed familiarly.
    To these none but pupils can be admitted.
    Spacious apartments, thoroughly ventilated, and replete
 with every convenience, will beopen daily, until two o'clock,
 for the purposes of dissecting and injecting; where Mr.
 Brookes constantly attends to direct the students, and dc->
 monstrate the various parts as they appear on dissection.
     An extensive museum, comprising a collection of prepa
 rations illustrative of every part of the human body and itt
 diseases, the result of many years' labour, and t^eat expense,
 is attached to this theatre, to which the students will have
 occasional admittance.
    The inconveniences usually attending anatomical investi
 gations are counteracted by an antiseptic process, the result
 of experiments made by Mr. Brookes on human subjects, at
  Paris, in the year 1 782; the account of which was delivered
 to the Royal Society, and read on the 1 7th of June, 1 78+-
 This method has since been so far improved that the florid
 colour of the muscles is preserved, and even heightened.
     Pupils may be accommodated iu the house.

SS9                         Meteorology.
                    METEOROLOGICAL           TABLE
             Br Mr- Carey, or the Strand*.
                       For  December       1804.
                                               1 M
               Thermometer.
             H                   Height of
                          u  >
Days of the                                              Weather.
  Month.                 (J bfi
                                the  Birom.
             P  5
                    Z              Inches.
                                              1  Si
  Nov.   27   35'   38°   35°        •02        20° Cloudy
         98   35    35    32      29'96         IS  Cloudy
         29   35    37    33         *91        10  Cloudy    .
         30 34      37    33         •91        10  Fair
   Dec. l 33        41    35      3002          11  Cloudy
          S 35      37    31         •27         2  Cloudy
          3   34    36    28         ¦20        15  Fair
          4   27    37    40      29-79         lO  Cloudy
          5   42    47    44         •09         2  Small rain
          6   35    38    40         •09         0  Foggy
           7  41    43    42         •58         2  Cloudy
          8   43    44   ¦41         •87          1 Cloudy
          9 49      44    40         •83         0  Rain
         10 39      46    44         •86         5  Cloudy
         11 45      47    45         •70         4  Fair, stormy at
."                                                     night
         12   40    46    46         •49         5  Fair, stormy at
                                                       night
         13   47    47    45         ¦10        16  Fair
         14   44    47    44         •48        17  Fail
         16   44    46    37         •88        18  Fair •
         16   34    39    35     30-09          15  Cloudy
         17   31    36    32         •16        10  Fair
         18   31    34    30         •26         5  Fair
                                           ¦        Snow
         19   28    29    28         •36         0
         20 28      29    28         •15        10  Fair
         21   28    34    34     29*99           5  Fair
         £2 34      34    30         •61        12  Cloudy
         23   31    34    24     29-59           6  Cloudy
         24   19    29    30         •70         5  Fair     < §4 «
         25   34    38    34         •54         0  Cloudy
         26   34    34    33         •46         0  Rain
 -*

 LI I.   Description   of an Instrument for equalizing the Pres*
    sure and   Efflux of non-elastic Fluids. By Mr. JOSEPH
    STEEVENS.
                          To Mr. Tilloch.
 HSIR,ERKWITH       you have a drawing and description of an
 instrument for equalizing the pressure and cfnux of non-
 clastic fluids. The principles on which it depends are the
 same as that which I constructed for the Mathematical
 Society about four years since, but which had no provision
 for refilling during an experiment,      Should it merit a place
 in your valuable publication, it is very much at your ser
 vice. At some future time I purpose to submit to your con
sideration a gasometer much simplified by various altera^
 lions, and rendered more universal by the addition of this,
 instrument.       I am, sir,
                                   Your obedient servant,
•2.6, Garlick Hill,                         JOSEPH STEEVENS,.
   Dec. 7, 1804.
    Having frequently had occasion to. regulate the pressure
 and efflux   of water with some degree of accuracy, and find
 ing  it usually attended with much difficulty, I was induced
to try what could be done by the re-action of the atmo
 sphere.     The instrument represented in the annexed draw
ing (see Plate VIII.) is the result of several trials, and ap
pears to be at once simple and accurate, and is at the same
time,    I  conceive, applicable to every purpose for which
 such an instrument can be required.
    There are several other constnictions far more elegant
and equally useful with that of which I have made choice.
I   have preferred distinctness of parts to symmetry, my
principal object being the explanation of the principle rather
than the construction of the machine.           AB is a glass or
metal cylinder about 24 inches long anil 4 inches diameter,
cemented at the bottom into a brass socket on the foot C,
and at the top into the cap A, through a collar of leathers
in which is inserted a copper tube, ej, about 3-10ths of an
inch in diameter in the bore, g is a cock screwed into the
socket B, the orifice of which is about l-4th of that of the
tube ef.
    Having the machine thus constructed, unscrew the nut d,
and fill the vessel nearly full of water : screw it again into
its place, and thrust the tube     ef down until its lower end is
a little below the cock g ; which may now be opened, and
    Vol. 20. No. 80. Jan. 1805.         T                 a small

2QO        Pressure and Efflux  of non- elastic Fluids.
a small portion of the water will issue, but will cease to run
as soon as the air in the upper part of the vessel is so rare
fied that its spring, together with the weight of the column
of water above r or g, are exactly equivalent to the re-action
of the atmosphere.     Raise the tube ef, and the water will
issue with a continued and uniform stream, discharging
equal quantities in equal times, without regard to the height
of the column qr, provided it be within the limits of atmo
spherical pressure.
   The reason is obvious ; for it is evident that the pressure
of the water at r would be proportionate to the whole height
of the column rq, were the atmosphere to act equally at g
and q; but since the air is made to enter through the tube
ef, and thereby to counteract the column fq, it follows
that the pressure at q will be less than that at g by the
weight of the column qf. Now the pressure at c/ is in the
inverse ratio of fq, therefore the pressure at r will be uni
formly the same.      For while the vessel is closed at the top,
and the air made to enter through the tube ef, the pressure
on any plane, nn, will be equal to the column qf, together
with the pressure on the surface q ; for as the weight qf
decreases by the reduction of the water, so does the pressure
of the air on the surface increase by its easier access (in
having to counteract a less column of water), the increment
of the one being always equal to the decrement of the other,
    I shall now proceed to explain that part of the instrument
which is employed for keeping up a constant supply of
water when attached to a gasometer or the like, where an
experiment is required to be continued a considerable length
of time without intermission.     V is a vessel provided with
a cock h and funnel k, having also a cock 1 communicating
with the top of the machine near d ; and a tube nin, and
cock p, communicating with the bottom of the machine AB.
Shut the cocks- 1 and p, and open k ; fill the vessel V and
tube mn with water until it rises above k, which must now
be shut, and the cocks 1 and p opened ; by this means the
whole is formed into one vessel, and the operation is no
more than transferring the rluid from one part of the ma
chine to another, the pressure' and efflux remaining the
fame. Tt will easily be perceived that the pressure may
be increased or decreased at pleasure by slippine the tube ef
upwards or downwards as circumstances may require. The
instrument in the Mathematical Society's repository is used
 (besides the above purposes) for the illustration of all those
experiments termed hydrostatic paradoxes.
                                                      LIII.  0«

                                       [        201   ]
LI II.  On the Principles of Pump-Work, illustrated and ap
   plied in the Construction of a new Pump, without Friction,
   or Loss of Time, or Heater, in working ; humbly proposed
  for tlie Service of the British Marine, with the Privilege-
   of His Majesty's Royal Letters Patent. By Benjamin
  Martin.
                             [Continued fiom          j>.   129.]
1. JL he particles of fluids and solids are equally hard, solid,
and impenetrable.
   2. Fluid particles arc affected by gravity, act upon each
other, and are subject to all the affections and laws of mo
tion in common with all heavy bodies.
   3. Their fluidity is owing principally, if not solely, to
their not being in contact \s ith each other.
   4. For that reason the particles of fluids, as such, can
produce no friction, or impediment to motion, among
themselves.
                                           Fig. 1.*
   5. The weight of              a    perpendicular line of fluid particles,
as cd, is in proportion to the number                of such particles, that
is,to the height cd.
   6. Therefore the pressure of the line cd on   fixed point             a               d',
in the bottom of the vessel ABCD,           proportioned to itsis
altitude cd.       ,
    7. The pressure of the whole fluid upon the bottom of
the vessel,     therefore in proportion to the height of the
                 is
fluid and the area of the bottom of the vessel.
    8. From the nature of fluidity,    constant endeavour to
                                                       a
wards an equilibrium, or state of rest, must obtain among
•il the particles.
   n. But in case of an equilibrium of particles in         fluid,                a
each particle must have     central force every way equal.
                                      a
    10. Therefore fluids press every way equally.
    11. Consequently, the lateral pressure of     fluid     equal        a        is
to its perpendicular pressure at the same depth.
    12. The lateral pressure against the line BD        just half            is
that upon the line CD in the bottom,           BD be equal to       if
CD.
      13.   The re-action of the particle     as being fixed, d,                         is
equal to the pressure     of the line cd, and must entirely sus
tain it.
      14. But    if   a   hole   EF    be made in the bottom                 of   the ves-
            •
                Sec Plate   V,   given     in   our Number for November.
                                           T     2                                     sel,

393                   On the Principles of Pump-Work.
sel, there will be nothing to sustain the column aFEi of
the fluid over     which therefore must descend through
                       it,                                                          it
by  its weight.
    15. The particles on the surface contiguous to the de
scending column at      and     will lose their lateral support,
                                 a   I
and must therefore fall in and descend       and as this will be
                                                       ;
the case of all the particles in the surface, the whole surface
will also descend.
   16. By this means there will be supplied      constant de    a
scending  column   of the fluid through the hole till all run                 is
out.
  1  7. If the hole were made in the side of the vessel at D,
the fluid would issue out            by
                               the same lateral force, and with
the same velocity.
   18. If the descending column be received into        recurved      a
hollow tube or pipe FNGHl, of any form or size,              will             it
rise in that pipe to the same horizontal level with that in
the reservoir AD, viz. to the line AH, and no higher.
    19. The air being taken out of the tube NH        will cause    I,
the water to descend in the reservoir from AB to KL, by
the pressure of the air AXYB over                      it,
                                               and at the same
time     will rise from H to in the tube.
        it                           I
   20. Since the water in ABKL             equal to that in the
                                                  is
tube from H to        the velocity of that
                         I,                       A
                                              the reservoir    to              is
the velocity of that in the tube as           to HI, or as the
                                                  K in
square of the diameter of the tube to the square of the dia
meter of the reservoir.
                                     Fig. 2.
      81.   If AB
               be   surface  a        of water,
                                         which     till tube or
                                                   in             a
pipe    BE  placed,
              is     and   open at the end      then     the air
                                                           B ;           if
DC extracted from this tube at the upper end E, the water
will rise therein to the height BD         the pressure of the
                                                   by
column of air AX, upon an equal base.
   22< The weight of the column of water BD will be pre
cisely equal to the weight of the column of air on the same
base A or B, and extending to the height of the atmo
sphere,
                                      F!g.   3.
    93.      found by experience, that when the air
            It   is                                      of                   is     a
 mean gravity      will sustain
                        it        column of mercury in the
                                          a
 tube AB of       barometer to the height
                       a                        equal to 20^ C,
 inches.
    24.      Italso known that mercury
                  is                         about 14 timesis
 heavier than water; therefore the pressure of the air
                                                                          a in
                                                        such
                                                                                   case

                            On the Principles          of Pump-Work.                        393
 fli   case    raise water to the height of 29£
                     will                              14 = 413               x
 inches, or 34 feet    inches,  as at
                                    5   (fig. 2).         F
    25. When the air        heaviest the mercury rises to 31
                                          is
inches nearly, corresponding to which           36 feet ot water    is
in the pipe at D (fig. 2).
    26. And in the lightest state of the air the mercury rises
but    little above 28 inches, to which, in the pipe of water,
          a
answers about 32£ at G.
   27. Hence the greatest height to which water can be
raised               by
              pump will be -less than 36 feet, and
                       a                                 may                      it        al
ways be raised to the height of 30 feet at least.
                                                 Fig. 4.
   28. Suppose    be         A                   pipe AC
                                              reservoir of water, with
                                        a a
                                                                              a              ;
then upon AC, as        diameter, describe the semi-circle
ABC, and from any point D therein let fall the perpendi
cular DE; and join AD and DC.
   29. If now   hole be made at E, the water will issue out
                            a
with    force proportional to the height AE of the fluid
                 a
above.
       30. The velocity of the effluent water will be as the
square root    of the height AE, and with an uniform velo
city.
    31. The time of its descent from      to the horizon at H,
                                                            E
will  be as the square root of the perpendicular descent      C,                       E
or height of the fall.
    32. The horizontal distance CO, to which the water
will spout from hole N in the centre,
                             a                equal to A C, the is
altitude of the water.
    33. If we take NF = NE, then water spouting from
holes at     and    will go to the same horizontal distance
                     E      F
CH, which will in all cases be less than CO.
   34. The form of the curve EKMH, .which the spouting
fluid describes,    that called
                             is   parabola.        a
   35. The weight of      cubic foot of water
                                        a          62^-lb. aver-         is
dupoise weight;    hence   the  weight of    cylindrical foot   a                           is
49-rVlb.
                                                Fig. 5.
   36.           If
              pipe or tube
                      a                        ABDC
                                      be placed in water at A,
and     plane at'    which  AC
                             exactly fits    and moves freely it,
in     a it,
        be suspended       rod or wire fixed at D to the end
                                    by    a
of           a
       lever DE, whose fulcrum or centre of motion          F.                         is
Then supposing the tube filled to the top with water, let                                   it
be equipoised     weight    by                  HGI
                               hanging from the other end
                                a
of the balance at E. Therefore    the tube      be 12 feet
                                                       if                A    B
high, 12 inches in diameter, and of    cylindric form or      a
                                                T  3                                   bore,

               On tlie Principles of Pump-Work.
bore, the weight of the water which fills it is 589'2 lb., and
equal to the weight HGI.
    37- The weight on the plane AC will always be the
same while the fluid stands at the same height A B, what
ever be the form or capacity of the pipe ABDC above it.
    38. If the top BD be covered close, and in the cover be.
made a small hole; then if a weight H I KL be appended
to the former, it will cause the water of the tube to rise
through that hole in form of a. jet d'eau, and with a velocity
that will cany it to a certain perpendicular height DO.
    39. This height will be such, that a body BVOD of the
fluid, of the same diameter with the pipe AB, will be equal
in weight to the superadded weight HL.
    40. The velocity with which it rises from the hole at D,
is the same as a heavy body acquires in descending through
the same height VB.
    41. The space through which any body descends in a
second of time. is iG-J^fcet; in two seconds it descends
through four times that space ; in three seconds, through
nine times that space ; and so on : the descent is therefore
known for any given time.
    42. If a third weight KLMN be added to the two former
it will cause the jet to rise higher still, viz. from B to W. '
    43. If upon the axis of the pipe continued out, be de
scribed the parabola DPRS, and through V and W be
drawn the right lines VP, WK, to the parabola (in the
points P and R), and parallel to the horizon.        Then these
lines VP, WR, will be as the square roots of BV and BW
 (the heights of the jets), and therefore as the velocities of
the water at D, which produce those jets, respectively.
    44. These lines VP, WR, will therefore, when compared
with AV and AW, express the velocities of the jets com
pared with the weight KGL and MGN which produce
them.
    45. But the ratio of VP to AV is expressed by the angle
VCP made by drawing the line CP. Now this angle will
he greatest of all when the ight line C P touches the curve,
but does not cut it ; which suppose to be at the point R.
    46. Then in that case we h'aveBW equal to BA, and
consequently the weight ITN equal t9 the weight HGI.
  •
    47. Therefore the velocity ot a fluid at D will be greatest
 m proportion to the force which produces it when that force
 is double of the force that will just sustain a column of
 water to the given height AB.       And this is the first maxi
mum in pump-work.
    48. Hence if 589' 2 lb. sustains a column of water in the
                                                            pipe

                         On tlie Principles of Pump-JFork.                           293
pipe     AB      =    12 feet                      ; twice that weight
                                      high, in equilibrip
will produce             a   jet    feet above
                                      12         or velocity of water
                                                           it,      a
at   D      greater      in   proportion to the height than any other
weight can do.
   49. But this velocity and altitude of 12 feet     not the                   is
greatest effect that this maximum force of 11 78p4lb. will
produce; but some other altitude AG, and some other ve
locity acquired      descent through WG, will be the maxi
                             by   a
mum effect produced                        by
                          the said given .weight. See
                                                Fig. 6.
   50. For, since the weight       78'4 Ib. will sustain in equi-
                                                  1
                                                  1
librio   acolumn of water in the pipe to the height AW =
24 feet,    will produce jet of water at any less height
             it                            a                                         A
                                                                                     G   ;
and its effect will be proportional to that altitude AG, and
the velocity of the jet at G conjointly.
   51. Therefore let WPS be           parabola, passing through
                                                      a
the point      such, that GP may every where be as the ve
                 P
locity acquired at G in descending through WG.            Then                           it
is plain,    we
             if complete   the parallelogram  AGPO,     the effect
of this force will be every where as the area of that figure
inscribed in the parabola, viz. AG x PG.
   52. But the area of that figure          greatest of all when
                                                               is
GW         one-third part of the altitude AW; and conse
            is
quently when AG         equal to 16 feet, then the effect of the
                                   is
weight NHI = 178'4lb. will be 1           maximum, or greatest
                                                           a
possible. And this       the second maximum of pump-work.
                                   is
   53.      the orifice of the pipe at
            If                             were quite open, theG
whole body of the fluid would rise to W in the same time
with the jet, and the velocity of the plane or pallet AC
would be the same in both cases         the action of the weight
                                                          by
NHI.
   54. Therefore,     the said weight was connected with
                              if                                                         a
chain AG with many pallets AC fixed upon          and passing            it,
over the wheel GED, moving on its centre              would,               F,   it
by .a continual descent, cause     constant column of water
                                                     a
to rise from G to W of     feet in length.  8
   55. The velocity of the rising water, and consequently
of the pallets AC, will be at the rate of 23'6 feet per se
cond and every such foot will contain 4'8 gallons there*
        ;                                                                       j
fore the whole quantity of water raised       this maximum          by
force will be 108 gallons per second, at the height of 16
fiet.
  56. Hence the nature of "chain-pump appears    a and its                      ;
utmost force (with   tube or pipe of any given bore) may
                                      a
be estimated for that pump
                     :          only  constant succession
                                                     is        a
                                                 T4                                      of

£96              On the Principles      of Pump- Work.
of    pallets  AC,     passing over two wheels at the top and
bottom of the pipe AG, and put in motion by the force of
men instead ot the weight HNI *.
    57. If instead of the wheel GED a lever GM be used,
then a weight R at the end M of the lever would have the
same force and produce the same effect with the weight
NHI, if it be in proportion thereto, as the distance FG to
the distance FM.
    58. Let now the plane AC represent the sucker, bucket,
or piston of a common sucking-pump, placed at the bottom
of the pipe, and the rod AG connected with the lever or
handle GM. And let FG : FM : : 1 : 6. Then, since the
column of water ABCD (fig. 5.) 12 feet high, weighs
58Q-2 lb., it will be sustained^ in equilibrio by somewhat
less than 100 lb. = R, at the end of the lever GM.
     59. If we suppose the muscular force of a man's arm
equal to 100 lb. it would, acting at M, sustain the same
 column of water ; therefore two such men would sustain a
column of water 24 feet high = AW : which we may there
fore call a maximum force.
     60. If now it be required to raise water in a sucking-
pump, it is evident that given maximum force will produce
the greatest effect when the altitude of the water to be raised
is AG = 16 feet.
     61 . In this case also the lever acts to the greatest advan
 tage; for now the force which acts at M being 2O()lb., is
one-half more than the force 13 lib., which is nearly equi
 valent at M to the weight of the column of water A C 1 6
 feet high.      And this is a third maximum in pump-work,
 and follows immediately from the second.
     62. In all mechanism, what is gained in power is lost in
 time j for now the motion of the point G, and consequently
 of the piston AC, is six times slower than the point M,
 the motion of which is determined by considering the lever
 GM as a pendulum vibrating about the point F, and being
  charged with two weights, one at G, the other at M, which
  are to each other as 785-6 to 200, or as 6 to 1-j. ; the di
  stance of the centre of oscillation will thereby be found, and
  from thence the time of an oscillation, or motion through
'the arch rfMc, will be known, and is 40"'; then if the said
  arch c M d be six feet, the arch « G I will be one foot.
      63. Therefore the velocity of the piston AC is 12 inches
     * This is u;>on supposition that in the cha'm -pump there is no friction,
  »nd that the pallets lose no water ; hut as one or the other of these casts
  im;>t take place in that machine, it deserve* no further consideration.
                                                                            in

               On the Principles           of Pump-Worn,              297
in 4O'" or   18    inches per second, if a lever be worked with
its natural motion.          But in the descent of the piston no
water is raised ;     therefore    only 1 8 inches of water is raised
by one piston in       two   seconds,   or the water raised in a single
pump       is not   more   than   nine   inches per second, which is
about 3-6 gallons, or 216 per minute, which is short of a
ton by 36 gallons.
      64. But if the pump be so constructed with two pistons,
that while one descends, the other ascends, the water will,
 in that case, always keep rising in the pipe ; and the water
 delivered by such a pump would be 18 inches per second,
 or 432 gallons, or     If    ton per minute.
      65. Such would be the state of pump-work in its utmost
 perfection if men could act like a weight, viz. always with
 the same tenor of force ; but though the force of two men.
 may be equivalent to 200 Ib. for a few efforts at first work
  ing, yet this human force will soon abate and decrease, and
  it is found by experience, that for working a pump without
 ceasing but 10 or 1-5 minutes, one man can raise no more
  than about 30 Ib. of water to his share ; therefore six men,
  at least, must be employed for raising the above-mentioned
  quantity of 432 gallons of water per minute.
       66. But such perfection is not to be expected in common
   puinps, for two reasons : first, they are subject to great
   triction between the piston and pipe, and other parts of the
   mechanism; and this is scarce ever so little as a third part
   of the charge of the whole machine, and therefore will re
   quire nine or ten men to raise that quantity of water instead
   of six.
       67. But, secondly, the great imperfectipn of all common
   pumps working with a single piston            is,that the water rises
   pf.r vicem, or  by    fits;  for while the piston   is   descending,
   the watery column AG          is quiescent, and only moves when
   the piston rises therefore every time the stroke
                   ;                                         isrepeated,
a      new or additional force         required to give motion to the
                                      is
   •water, over and above what              necessary to continue that
                                           is
    motion when produced.
       68. Again, thirdly, the motion of the water           by   asingle
    piston can never be equable.            For suppose the jet BW
    (fig.
        b
       .)     was produced       by the pressure of the atmosphere or
    weight of the water BD (in fig. 2.), then the velocity of
    thejet    at the first instant will be as \/BD — v/BR, and
    the jet will thereby rise to V.
        69. But the velocity of the jet must increase        by the con
    tinued pressure of the column KD, and at last will be as
  //KD,      and thereby produce the uniform           jet   BW.       And
                                                              something

  $98             On the Principles   of Pump- Work.
  something analogous to this will always be the case of a
  single pump, where the stroke of the piston is large, and
 its velocity nearly equal to that of the rising water.
     70. But it is quite otherwise with the pump which has
 two pistons upon one pipe, and where the rising water is
 constantly in a uniform motion ; for there the whole force
 is employed to continue that motion only, and the velocity of
 the water will always be as the square root of the difference
 between 36 and the height of the pump, or in the present
 case   of fig. 6, as v/20.
     71. The piston playing at the bottom of the pipe or the
 top, makes no difference in the power to work the pump ;
 since in both cases the same column of water          AG  is moved
 by the piston,    the  pressure   of air  on the  column  at G and
 A   being equal.
     72.  The force of any column of a fluid to resist motion,
 is compounded of its quantity of matter and velocity ; there
 fore while the force remains the same, the quantity of the
fluid may be varied as you please, since the velocity will
ever compensate any deficiency or redundancy of force that
 may happen on that account.
                                 Fig.  7.
     73.  Thus suppose EKLI         be the. cistern of the head of a
 pump, in which the piston            MN     works,   then the pipe
AB CD may         be in  bore   in  any proportion less,    and still
the water shall be supplied to the cistern when the piston
rises, with the same force and in the same time as it would
be if the bore of the pipe were all the way the same with
thai of the head, or equal to KFIIL.
     74. In-this latter case the velocity of the water will be'
the same with that of the piston, but in the former the ve
locity of the water will be to that of the piston as the square
of MN to the square of BC, because the quantity of fluid
in EFHI is to that in the contracted pipe AB CD in the
same proportion.
     75.  If the pump be -required to raise water 26 feet (as in
fig. 7.), then since the height AG = 26 is % of 39 =           AX,
the jet GX will be J3 feet; and since the air at a mean
gravity is equal to a column of water 34 feet high, we have
34 — 26 = 8 ; therefore the maximum force will produce^
a uniform velocity of near 29 feet per second ; and the pres-"
sure of the air only a velocity of 22'6 feet per second, if the
piston moves in a pips       ABCD       of an equal bore through
out.
    76.  In this  case the water would be wire-drawn,          since
                                                                 the

               Ort the Principles of Pump-Jfrork.          299
the piston moves faster than the water can rise to follow
Jt. Hence we see the great use of contracting the pipe
AD and making the piston play in a large head EKLI, as
by this means we lessen the velocity of the piston and in
crease that of the rising water, whiclr can never be in any
danger of being wire-drawn.
     77. Since in the case of a piston's working in a pipe
ABCD, the difference between 34 feet and the length of
the pipe is always equal to half the length of the pipe, for
 the force to be applied to the greatest advantage ; therefore
 22-6 feet is the greatest height of such a pump, because in
 this case the velocity of the piston by the maximum force,
 and that of the water in the pipe by the air's pressure, are
 equal, viz. to 38 feet per second.
     78. But when the maximum force is applied to the lever,
 the motion of the piston is thereby rendered so slow that
 there will always be a velocity of the water, from the pres
 sure of air, greater than that of the piston at a less height
 than 30 feet.    For admitting the pipe 30 feet high, and the
 air in its lightest state equal to a pressure of 32 feet of
  water, then the difference of two feet will generate an uni
 form velocity of water of more than 1 ] feet per second,
 which is many times more than that of the piston.
     79. Hence it follows, that if two pistons be employed,
  they will not only have water enough,, and to spare, 'but
  also keep that water in a constant uniform motion by their
  alternate action ; but to answer this end, the water must
  rise in but one pipe, and be communicated at the top, by
  two separate valves, to pistons working in two different
  barrels placed in one common cistern EFGH.
      80. To such a pump likewise a double lever MM may
  be applied to the wheel K, so that the pistons may be moved
  in a perpendicular direction on each side: at the two ends of
  this lever the men may stand in the best manner to work
  the pump ; six, eight, or ten, as occasion requires.     And
   thus we have at last arrived to the idea of a sucking-pump,
   which, as far as I am able to judge, will have all the ad
   vantages that such a machine is any ways capable of.
                                                    L1V. Notice

                             [   300  ]
  LlV.     Notice respecting the Expedition to New Holland,
     undertaken   for the Purpose of making Researches into
     Geography    and  Natural History. By A. L. JOSSIEU*.
 .[NATURAL history is indebted for its most valuable collec
 tions and a part of its progress to zealous and enlightened
 travellers, who have abandoned their homes to traverse di
 stant countries, often desert and little known. We preserve
 with gratitude and respect, in the history of science, the
 names of the French naturalists who at different epochs have
 enriched their country with foreign productions, either alive
 and now naturalized to our soil, or forming part of the col
 lections made for public instruction.         Some have written
 and published the fruit of their labours ; others have fallen
 a sacrifice to the fatigue of a long passage, the intemperance
 of different climates, the attacks of savage tribes whom they
 visited with a friendly disposition, and sometimes the ob
jects only collected by them have reached us : sometimes
•fire have lost both the travellers and their collections, or we
 have been left in uncertainty in regard to the fate of both.
 Reverses of this kind have been more frequent than success.
"W-bat interest, therefore, ought to be excited by these
 zealous men, who devote themselves to the dangers of such
enterprises    !
    When government, in the year 8, ordered an expedition
to New Holland, under the command of captain Baudin,
for making researches in geography and natural history,
a commission of the Institute was charged to select co-ope
rators in this great labour, and to give them the necessary
instructions.      Persons well acquainted with each depart
ment, who to great knowledge united a decided taste for
travelling, were made choice of. Every thing gave reason
to expect a successful result ; especially when among these
travellers there were some who had participated, under the
same chief, in the fatigues of a preceding voyage to Ame
rica, and who did not hesitate to embark again under his
auspices.
    These combinations were deranged by some unforeseen
circumstances. Several of these navigators were obliged by
sickness to stop at the Isle of France ; fear of being in want
of provisions, and discontent, made several others remain
behind; and when captain Baudin left that colony he had
   * From Annales du Museum National    d'Hiitoire Natitrellf, No. i,
Year   j.
                                                                  on

        Notice respecting the Expedition to Neiu Holland.     301
on board the two vessels only Messrs. Bernier, the astrono
mer; Boulanger, the geographer; Mauge", Peron, and Le-
villain, zoologists 5 Lescnenaut, botanist ; De Pusch and
Bailly, mineralogists ; Riedle, Sautier, and Guiehenot, gar
deners : Lesueur and Petit, who embarked in no particular
quality, were substitutes for the draftsmen who remained at
the Isle of France.
    The first landings at New Holland, so much desired,
were attended with danger, and had almost become fatal to
several of the navigators.       They were not, however, dis
couraged by       this  unfortunate  commencement, and they
anxiously embraced every opportunity of visiting these un
known shores.        When the ships arrived with their fatigued
crews at Timor, one of the islands of the archipelago of
Asia, in the neighbourhood of the Moluccas, these natu
ralists, tired of being so long inactive, made haste to col
 lect the productions of the place.        Riedle, the gardener,
 though scarcely recovered from an illness with which he
 had been attacked on the passage, employed himself too
 soon in the search of plants, with which he was desirous
 to enrich the garden of Paris ; and he fell a sacrifice to      i
 new relapse, after he had formed a pretty numerous collec
 tion. Mauee1, the zoologist, animated by the same zeal,
 neglected, in like manner, the care of his health in order to
 occupy himself in searching for animals.        He was scarcely
  restored when he was obliged to re -embark to go and visit
  the lands situated to the south of New Holland.          In this
  part  of the  voyage  the navigators obtained more  precise no
  tions in regard to several points of geography, and made
  numerous collections of animals and vegetables ; but it be
  came fatal to the zoologist Levillain and the gardener Sau
  tier, who, like Riedle, fell victims to their zeal. Maugi
  soon followed them, and terminated his career at the Island
  Maria, near to Van Diemen's Land. He had been with Rie
  dle, the companion of captain Baudin, during his first voy
  age to America, and it was to their care united that the Mu
  seum of Natural History, to which they were both attached,
  was indebted for the numerous productions of the Antilles,
  with which its hot- houses and galleries were enriched in
  the year 6 ; and their loss was sensibly felt by all belonging
  to that establishment.
     The two vessels, after passing d'Entrecasteaux's strait,
   on the coast of Van Diemen's Land, and visiting several
   of its ports and islands, were separated, and did not meet
   again till the month of Messidor, year 10, when they reached
   Port Jackson, in New Holland, where they received from
                                                               the

  30i                    Notice respecting tlie
 the directors of that colony every necessary assistance for
 restoring the sick and in regard to a supply of provisions.
     That part of the voyage made by the two vessels in com
 pany here terminates. Captain Baudin, being afraid that
 he should lose in a new voyage the live animals and vege
  tables collected by his own care and that of his fellow-navi
 gators, resolved to put on board the Naturaliste all the col
 lections already made by both ships, and to send them di
 rectly to France under the care of captain Hamelin, who
 Jiad always had the command of that vessel since their de
 parture from Europe.         De Pusch, the mineralogist, whose
 health had been much injured, embraced this opportunity
 of returning to his native country; but, being too weak to
 bear such a long voyage, he was obliged to stop at the Isle
 of France, where he died after languishing a few months.
 Captain Hamelin, on approaching France, was- examined
by an English vessel, which, notwithstanding his pass,
carried him into a port of England ; in consequence of
which delay he lost a great deal of time and many live
vegetables.      He arrived at Havre in the month of Prairial,
year    11 ; his  collection, being put into a boat on the Seine,
reached Paris in safety.                         ,
    Captain Baudin left Port Jackson at the end of Brumaire
the same year with the Gcographe and a small vessel better
calculated for making observations, as it could approach
much nearer to the coast.        He had still on board Bernier
and Boulanger, who assisted the officers in their astrono
mical and geographical labours. Leschenaut, who was the
only botanist, was unwilling, though sick, to abandon the
expedition.      Peron, detained by the same motive, in ordep
to make researches in zoology, which he was the only per
son who could follow, and in which he associated his friend
Lesneur, become, by circumstances, a draftsman and na
turalist; Bailly, who was to be occupied with mineralogy;
Petit, chargea with making drawings of the inhabitants,
their dresses, habitations, and works of arts ; and Guiche-
not, the only gardener, who endeavoured to increase the
herbals, and to collect seeds and living trees.
    This part of the voyage, in which the navigators care
fully expjored the southern coast of New Holland and some
of the adjacent isles, as well as a portion of the western
coasts, was attended with complete success.           Several im
portant    points  of  geography  were   fixed, and a more  consi
derable collection was made than that before dispatched to.
F.urope.     The captain himself had co-operated in the zoo
logical researches, and especially those relating to birds.
                                                             After

                   Expedition to Neiv Holland.               3O3
After a   voyage   of six months he touched again at TimoT, to
take in   a  supply of water, and to wait a favourable oppor
tunity for entering the Gulph of Carpentaria; a minute
examination of which was to conclude the labours of this
expedition.
   During this part of the voyage, 'which was fortunate in
several respects, none of the naturalists died ; but Lesche-
naut, too weak to continue his researches, was obliged to
remain at Timor, from which he proceeded to Batavia, with
a view of remaining there some time and then embracing
an opportunity to return to Europe.       Letters received from
him by his family announce that, his health being restored
by rest, he was enabled to make new botanical researches
at Java, and was preparing to return.
    Baudin, with his fellow-navigators, endeavoured to reach
the gulph which he intended to visit; but after several
fruitless attempts, buffeted by contrary winds, fatigued
with his crew by continual labour ; deprived of his astro
 nomer Bernier, who died universally regretted, having been
 able to make only a few observations     and small collections
 on different points of the northern coast, which is inacces
 sible; finding sickness to prevail in his ship, and being se- •
 vcrely affected himself, he at length determined to proceed
 to the Isle of France, where he arrived in Fructidor, year 11,
 so much broken down that he soon breathed his last.
    Captain Milius was charged to carry the ship to Europe
 with the new collections, increased by some live produc
 tions of the Isle of France.      Having touched at the Cape
 of Good Hope, he took on board some live plants and ani
 mals furnished by the governor.       After a fortunate passage
 the captain was desirous to enter the Loire, from which his
 collections might have easily been conveyed to Paris by
 water ; but bemg opposed by the winds, and fearing that
 his plants might l>e injured by the cold, which already began
 to be felt on approaching the coast, he was obliged to land,
 in the month of Floreal last, at the port of L'Orient, from
 whence his collections were conveyed over land ; but not
 without some loss, either in regard to the live plants or ani
 mals.      One part of these objects, destined for her majesty
 the empress, were carried to Malmaison ; the other was de
  posited in the Museum of Natural History.
     Of all the collections which have reached us from distant
  countries at different periods, that brought by the Natu-
  raliste and the Geographe is certainly the most considera
  ble, especially in regard to the animal kingdom.        That of
  the Museum has been augmented by a great number of new
                                                           species

  3O4                    Notice respecting the
  species collected in the course of the expedition, and the
  science of natural history has gained in the same propor
   tion.    It is our duty to present here a short view of these
  acquisitions, in order to give to government and men of
  science some idea of the advantages arising from an under
  taking which had been considered unfavourable, and in
  order that we may pa)' those laborious men who surmounted
  to many obstacles for the purpose of collecting these scat
  tered objects, that tribute of esteem and gratitude which is
  owing to them by the nation.
      It will not appear astonishing that, in researches /confined
  to coasts for the most part desert or covered with woods,
  which presented neither high mountains nor ravines where
  the different strata could be observed, or where mines could
  be dug, the mineralogists Pusch and Bailly should be abte
  to collect only a small number of minerals, insufficient to
  give an accurate idea of the geology of the country.      What
  they brought home will serve at any rate to convey a general
  notion of the surface of the districts which they visited, and
  to indicate the distinction of the epochs at which the mi
  neral substances found in them were produced.
      In botany, numerous collections, formed with great care,
  of live and dried plants, seeds and fruits, and of specimens
  of wood, were begun by Riedle and Sautier, and continued
 by Guichcnot, who alone remained behind them. Lesche-
'naut rendered important services by collecting, describing,
  and delineating himself more than 600 species which he
 believes to be new, and of which several may constitute new
 genera, and perhaps orders. The most important researches
 were made on the south-west coast of New Holland, and
 in touching at Nuyt's Land, Lewin's Land, Endracht and
 Edel's Land, regions for the most part never visited by the
 English. Seeds carefully collected by the botanist and gar
 dener, which were sown at Malmaison, in the garden of
 the museum at Montpellier,        and other parts in the south
 of France, and most of which have been raised, afford hopes-
 that some productions of that part of the world may be na
 turalized in France.       We shall mention here the flax of
 New Zealand, which unites the brilliancy of silk to the
 strength of hemp ; the casuar'ma wood and the xylomelum,
 superior for cabinet-work to many of those kinds now em
 ployed ; the English cedar ; the eucalyptus, which rises ta
 the height of 150 feet, has a trunk 24 feet in diameter, and
 which produces an odoriferous resin that may become a
 very valuable medicine.       All these new plants, which have
 germinated      in our climate, when habituated to k may in
                                                         demnify

                Expedition to New Holland.                  305
demnify us for the loss of a part of the plants which had
been transplanted and carefully arranged in a hundred boxes,
each of which contained fifteen or sixteen live plants.       In
the last place,   an herbal of 1500 species, the specimens of
which multiplied,     and in good preservation,   afford to bo
tanists the means of enlarging this part of the science.
   The European nation, who inhabit a point of New Hol
land, may, however, rival us in researches respecting the
vegetable kingdom, to which several of our men of science
devoted themselves ; but in general they have neglected the
department of birds, of which at present we possess a very
numerous series, begun by the unfortunate Maug6, en
riched with some articles by Baudin and Levillain, bul for
which we are in particular indebted to the assiduous care of
the young Peron and Lesueur, inseparable friends, who
mutually assisted each other.       The former, who remained
the only zoologist of the expedition, did not attend merely
to physical and anatomical observations, to which he at
first more especially devoted himself; he embraced also
with zeal the other parts of zoology.         Lesueur, charged
only with delineating animals, thought it his duty to add
to this function that of collector : and Peron acknowledges
that he was much indebted to this faithful companion, who
sometimes explored the coasts or penetrated into the coun
try with him ; sometimes remained on board the vessel,
prepared and made drawings of the objects collected by his
friend, to shorten his labour and enable him to engage in
new researches.       The number of animals they brought
home is considerable, and many of them are absolutely
new.     Peron wrote descriptions on the spot of a great
number of them, according to a new and uniform method,
which embraces the organization, manners or habits, names
and usages of the country.       This collection contains some
of those shell-fish which form the principal nourishment of
 some of the inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land ; a nume
rous series of holothuria, .marine animals, which in India
are accounted delicious food, and for that reason are a va
luable article of commerce ; various quadrupeds,          which
might be easily naturalized in France; and in particular
several species of kangoroos, whose fur is good, and their
flesh excellent ; the phascolome, also good to eat, and which
might be easily domesticated ; the cassoary of New Hol
land, alive in the museum, the flesh of which, participating
in that of the turkey and pig, might be agreeable food ; the
black swan, existing in the museum, which, on account of
   Vol.  20. No.  80. V<z/j. 1805.     U                     its

308     Notice respecting the Expedition to New Holland.
its tender flesh and very fine down, might be rendered use
ful in our court-yards, at the same time that it would con
tribute to the ornament of our pieces of water ; the pheasant
with a tail like a lyre, which on account of its form and the
beauty of its plumage might shine alongside our European
peacock. Passing over other useful animals, we shall ter
minate this article by an abridgement of the report of the
professors of the museum, who each in his department
made out a list of this zoological collection, presenting
here, under the form of a table of three columns, the num
ber of individuals brought home, that of the different spe
                                                            '
cies, and an indication of those which arc new :
                                 Number of       Number of      New
     Classes of Animals.        Inciir.dua Is.    Species.     Species.
Mammalia                            125              68     -    32
Birds      -                        912        -   289         144
Quadrupeds and oviparous
   bipeds
                 -                  234        -    60     -    41
Reptiles         -       -   -        53            38          eo
Fish      -        -     -   -      592        - 340           185
Crustacea and arachnides            414        - 153           134
Echinodermata                       6S6        -' 280          241
Testacea         -              10,000         - 1232          640
Worms            -     -'           304             34           28
Insects                           4218         - 1043          ssa
Zoophytes         -                 876        - 335           191
                                1 8,4 1 4         3872        2512
    According to this table, therefore, the zoological collec
tion of the museum has been enriched with 2542 new spe
cies, dnd a great number which were wanting among the
 1330 already described in some works.              Besides, science
has acquired more than 2500 unknown objects, many of                    ,
which will form ftew genera, and perhaps orders. The
considerable number of duplicates will enable us to procure
by exchange objects which may still be wanting in the ge
neral collection, or to augment those which exist in the
 principal cities of the empire.        We shall add, that 960
drawings by young Lesueur still attest his zeal and activity.
                                                           LV.   Che-

                                              [   307        ]
 LV.      Cliemical Researches on Vegetation.   By THEODORE
       DK SAUSSURE.     An Extract read     the French National  in
       Institute    ly       L.      BKRTHOLLET         *.
  .1 HE class charged me to give          verbal account of
                                                        a      work                    a
                             la by
 presented to          Theodore de Smissure, entitled Recherches
                        it
 Chimiques sur         Vegetation; but the important results of
 these researches have induced me to present to           an extract         it
 which may enable          to juds;c of the progress for which the
                                     it
 theory of vegetation        indebted to this author.
                                       is
    Senebier, whose name occurs so often in the history of
the physiology of vegetable*, Gough, Rollo, and Wood-
 house, had observed that seeds could not germinate without
 (he contact of oxvgen gas, and that germination            accom                 is
panied         by
                production
                    a           of carbonic acid.   Saussure  men
                                                                                                '.-
tions the experiments he before published, and which, in
deed, prove that        this effect the volume of the oxygen gas
                                in
is not altered, but that          only changed inio carbonic acid;
                                          it
                                          is
whence       results, that in germination
            it                                  seed loses   part of
                                                                  a               a
its carbon,         by
                means of the oxygen gas which combines with
it retaining the elastic state.
     If
      the seed which has germinated         be afterwards dried,                           it
is found that        loses
                         it    weight very much superior to that
                                          a
which arises from the extraction of the carbon whence                            ;
Saiissurc concludes that there           separated also during the
                                                    is
 desiccation water, or corresponding proportion of hydro
                                      a
 gen and oxygen, which greatly surpasses the weight of the
 carbon which has been disengaged           consequence of this
                                                             :   a
 observation         is,
                   that notwithstanding the loss of the carbon
it  experiences informing carbonic acid, the seed which has
 undergone desiccation after germination        found to have         is                   a
 greater proportion of that element than         had been dried   if   it
 before   itexperienced germination.
    Tho carbonic acid gas, which          product of germina
                                                        is   a
 tion, becomes itself an obstacle to its progress     so that,              ;              if
carbonic acid be mixed with the air which             in contact            is
with the seed, the germination       rendered more feeble than
                                                   is
by   a similar mixture of azotic gas or hydrogen gas.
    Water charged with carbonic acid        equallv contrary to  is
the development of the seeds put to germinate        it; but,               hi             if
they  have   passed the period  of germination  and attained   to
that where vegetation begins, the carbonic acid be.-omes an
         agant, under conditions which, as they have not yet
                         * Ftsm       Annalrs de Cbimie, No. 150.
                                              Us                                       been

308               Researches on Vegetation.
been determined by observations, have produced uncertain-
tics and even contradictions in the consequences deduced
from them. Saussure shows that a twelfth of carbonic acid
gas added to the atmosphere         in which vegetation takes
place, is favourable to its progress  ; that a greater proportion
is prejudicial ; that the substances which can furnish this*
quantity of carbonic acid, by their contact with the atmo
sphere In which the plant lives, produce an advantageous
effect without having an immediate communication with the
plant, and that the benefit arising from the carbonic acid
takes place only when the atmosphere contains a greater or
less proportion of oxygen gas, otherwise it becomes hurtful.
   Atmospheric air which has been deprived, by means of
lime, of the carbonic acid it contained, continues proper
for maintaining vegetation in the sun ; but if lime be placed
in .a receiver filled with atmospheric air, and in which the
plant is exposed to the light, the plant soon perishes, and
the lime has absorbed the carbonic acid.        It is seen, then,
that during vegetation there is formed carbonic acid, but
that this acid ought to serve for maintaining the act of ve
getation ; for if it be absorbed vegetation ceases.      This ef
fect takes place whether the plant be kept in water on whe
ther its root be in the earth ; only in the latter case the ef
fect is less, because a part of the carbonic acid arising froin
the root is more abundant, and is not soon enough absorbed
by the lime. In the shade, the presence of lime instead of
being hurtful is favourable to vegetation, because in the
shade the carbonic acid is as contrary to vegetables as it is
favourable to their development with the aid of light.
    Dr. Priestley discovered that leaves ameliorated air which
had been corrupted by combustion and respiration.           Sene-
bier had shown that this phenomenon arose from the pro
perty which leaves have of decomposing the carbonic acid
by appropriating to themselves its carbon and eliminating
its oxygen. This important discovery required that the ef
fects of the decomposition of the carbonic acid, and the
changes which result from        it,
                                   either in the atmosphere in
which   a  plant is  maintained or in the composition of that
plant, should be more particularly analysed.         Thisis  what
Saussure   has done.
     He shows  that the atmosphere, of which carbonic acid,
forms   a determinate part, and in which    a plant vegetates in
the light, does not generally change its dimensions, though
it sometimes experiences     alittle diminution  ; that the car-,
bonic acid  is destroyed, and    isreplaced byoxygen (fas  ; but
that this replacement   is not total, being equivalent only to
                                                               half

                         Researches on Vegetation.               309
    half thai which formed the carbonic acid ;       that the comple
    ment of the volume is owing to the azotic        gas which is ex
    haled from the plant.
       When the carbonic acid, then, is decomposed, its carbon
.   and a half of its oxygen enter into the composition of the
    plant, from which there is exhaled a variable quantity of
    azotic gas.
       Saussiire, indeed, has confirmed that plants which had
    operated a decomposition of carbonic acid give more carbon
    than before that decomposition; those, on the other hand,
    which are made to vegetate in distilled' water and an atmo
    sphere deprived of carbonic acid, make no acquisition of
     carbon.
       It was experiments, probably, made under this circum
    stance which gave reason to conclude that plants which ve
    getate in pure water and in the open air contain no carbon
    oul that found in the seeds from which they were produced.
    But Saussure has ascertained, by repeated experiments, that
    plants exposed to the open air acquire pure carbon by the
    decomposition of the carbonic acid naturally found in' them.
       It had been observed that vegetation produced under dif
    ferent circumstances a dilatation or contraction of the at
    mosphere in which it is effected.    Saussure shows that the
    leaves absorb oxygen gas in darkness, and that they emit
    an equal quantity when exposed to the light; so that the
    same atmosphere deprived of carbonic acid         is,
                                                     according to
    common language, corrupted in the night and purified
    during the day.     He denotes this alternate phenomenon
    by  the words inspiration and ea-piratimi, and establishes the
    relation of these vegetable functions according to the kind
    of plants and according to the circumstances under which
    they exist.
       The oxygen gas which has been inspire^!      changed into
                                                     is
    carbonic acid  ; the latter  is
                                  decomposed    in the act of ex
    piration, and abandons the half of its oxygen, which resumes
    the elastic state.
        The roots, wood, and petals, perform no inspiration       j
    but they give up carbon to the oxygen gas which sur
    rounds them, and at the same time there is       production
                                                          a
    of water green fruits, however, and the young Dark which
             :
    is  still green, enjoy inspiration, and produce  compound
                                                            a
    effect on the atmospheric air.
    •
        Having examined the relation between the living vegeta
    ble and the atmosphere, water and the carbonic acid, Saus
     sure submits to the same examination vegetable substances
     deprived of life.
                                  U   3                 Extracts

310                     ReseareJies    OH    Vegetation.
   Extracts of vegetables placed in the air gradually deposit
jn  it pellicles less soluble ; during this alteration the oxygen
of   the atmosphere is changed into carbonic acid ; but the
volume of the latter undergoes no change, or experiences
that only which arises from the absorption of the carbonic
acid which is formed ; at the same time a part of the oxygea
and hydrogen which enter into the composition of the ve
getable substance forms a more intimate combination, and
is reduced to water ; so that the extract loses much less of
its weight by this production of water than by the carbon
separated from         it,
                        and there     foundis   greater proportion
                                                         a
of carbon than before this formation of carbonic acid w«                 :
have before remarked other circumstances in which           double a
effect takes place during vegetation.
    Dead wood produces the same effect on the atmosphere,
 and undergoes the same production of water when de          :
 prived,    by  repeated decoctions, of all its soluble part, and
 exposed to the air,        changes the oxygen gas of
                             it                                into     it
 carbonic acid      its own oxygen and hydrogen form water;
                 a ;
it  then gives     new extract in the water in which        boiled,
                                                             it    is
{ind    means of its
       by               successive losses acquires    superabun
                                                             a
dance  of carbon.        had been observed that in the acctifi*-
                             It
cation of wine there         an absorption of oxygen gas, and
                                  is
this oxygen absorbed had been Considered as the cause of
the acidity which            is
                          developed     but Saussure has ascer
                                                 ;
tained that the oxygen gas        merely changed into carbonic
                                       is
acid, and that there       no other absorption than that of the
                              is
carbonic acid formed       the production of acidity can there
                              :
fore arise only from the excess of oxygen which becomes
prevalent when      part of the hydrogen has produced water.
                       a
    The case    not the same with the epoch at which,
                 is                                            the       by
progress of alteration, the vegetable substances placed under
water disengage inflammable cas            they can then absorb
                                                     ;
 pxygen gas, which            in
                           all probability produces water.
    Oils form another exception       they really absorb oxygen
                                                :
 the author was not able to ascertain whether there was                         a i
 production of oxygen, or whether the oxygen combined with
 the oil.   He has not yet cleared up what takes place in the
 transition of oil to the state of resin.
     Azotic gas    not affected
                      is                    by
                                    vegetable substances, except
 by  some oils which absorb       smalfquaiitity of
                                       a                     it,
                                                        but which
 retain it only weakly.
     Vegetables exposed to the action of the air and of water
 are at length reduced to       black substance which Saussure
                                       a
  distinguishes        by
                     the name of tetreau (vegetable mould)                       :
  preceding experiments show that this substance           not the is
                                                                             result

                    ReSearclies on Vegetation,             3 11
 result of the combination of oxygen gas with the dead plant,
 but that it is the residuum of the subtraction of the ele
 ments of the vegetable which have served to the production
 of water and carbonic acid.
    It was of importance to compare the different vegetable
 moulds with each other, and with the substances which had
 not experienced destruction, to establish afterwards in what
 manner they might serve for reproduction.
    Vegetable mould is an uniform substance, which seems
.to difter only by a greater or less proportion of the soluble
 part in water.
    It contains a greater proportion of carbon than the plants
 from which it arises ; and we find here a consequence of
 preceding observations, which show that dead vegetables
 acquire by their action on atmospheric air a greater propor
 tion of carbon, in consequence of the production of water
 which takes place, than they lose by the formation of the
 carbonic acid.
    The pro]K)rtion of carbon, however, in vegetable mould,
 when it attains to a certain point of decomposition, does
 not increase by the continued action of the causes which
 produce it : brought into contact with air, it continues to
Form carbonic acid, and to produce water by the union of
the oxygen and hydrogen it contains : but the latter pro
duction is less considerable than before that epoch ; the
elements which are separated by this ulterior destruction
are in proportions corresponding to those which form the
residuum, so that the vegetable mould continues to be de
stroyed without the residuum changing its nature.
    The vegetable mould retained all the principles which
are found in the ashes of vegetables ; but these substances
resist the proofs to which they are directly subjected : it is
only in the ashes resulting from their combustion that one
can distinguish them : moreover, a semi-vitrificatiou may
prevent the potash from being dissolved by the water; it is
only by more energetic means that it can be separated.
    This scries of researches has induced the author to deter
mine the quantity of carbon furnished by a great number of
vegetable substances : he took the most proper precautions
to obtain uniform carbon, and to fix the proportions: he
was obliged to neglect the part which is disengaged in a
gaseous combination ; but this disengagement       ought not
to occasion any sensible difference between the comparative
quantities of the carbonaceous residuum.
    Having analysed the phenomena of vegetation which
depend on the action of light, or the privation of it, in at-
                               {J 4                mospheric

312          .        Researches on Vegetation.
mospheric air, (he author examines those it exhibits when
green plants are placed in azotic gas, hydrogen gas, and
in vacua.
    Plants provided with their green parts seem to be those
only which can vegetate in mediums deprived of oxygen
gas, because they diffuse through them this gas.           When it
is taken from them, in proportion as they produce it their
 development is checked ; they absorb neither azotic nor hy
drogen gas ; they vegetate in vacua as in azotic gas, pro
vided the experiment is made under shelter from the direct
 action of the sun's rays.        Plants show a great difference in
 these phenomena according to their epochs.
    The author then proceeds to examine a very important
 question in vegetable physiology, that of the fixation and
 decomposition of water.
     He shows that plants appropriate to themselves the oxy
 gen and hydrogen of water by making it lose the liquid
 state; but this assimilation, he says, is not very striking,
 except when they become incorporated at the same time
 with carbon.
     To establish this assertion he placed plants in water, leav
 ing no carbonic acid in their atmosphere ; they acquired a
 very considerable weight, but they lost nearly the whole of
 what they had acquired by desiccation in the open air : on
 the other hand, when the vegetation was assisted by the
 decomposition of the carbonic acid, the weight which they
 retained after desiccation far surpassed that which might
 have arisen from the carbon abandoned by the carbonic
 acid.
     From this observation he concludes that all the oxygen
 gas dispersed throughout the insulated atmosphere when the
 green plants are exposed to the light, arises from the decom
  position or the carbonic acid.
     I shall venture also to defend an opinion which differs
 very little from that of Saussure and Senebier, and which
  appears to me to throw more light on the phenomena of
 vegetation.
      The immediate effect of light is the production of the
  green juice of the leaves, which then undergoes various
  changes in the plant ; but the green part arises from a re
  sinous substance, as has been shown by liouelle: it cannot
  be doubted that a resinous substance contains hydrogen
  which is not in a state of saturation. The water, then,
  must be decomposed in a plant which is supplied with no
  other aliment than the water in the insulated atmospheric
  airj if it acquires  there a green colour.
                                                             During

          *
                  Researches on Vegetation.                  313
  During the desiccation in the open air of plants which
have lived without carbonic acid, there must be formed car
bonic acid, according to the experiments of Saussure, an
abstract of which I have here presented, and water must be
produced at the same time ; since, instead of losing any of
their primitive weight, they make, on the contrary, a small
acquisition ; an increase of the vegetable substance, not
owing to a mere fixation of water, and which is greater
than that announced by the balance, must have taken place
before the desiccation.
    When plants live in the light in atmospheric air, or in
any other gas deprived of carbonic acid, they give out a
little oxygen gas : according to Saussurc, this oxygen gas is
changed during each inspiration into carbonic acid, and is
again decomposed ; but the carbonic acid in its decomposi
tion retains one-half of its oxygen : it thence follows that
in each expiration the proportion of the oxygen gas ought
to decrease, did not the decomposition of the water furnish
a supplement.
   It appears to me, then, that in common vegetation the
water and carbonic acid are decomposed simultaneously by
the action of the light ; that the result of this decomposition
is, on the one hand, an emission of oxygen gas, which can
not be ascribed to the one more than to the other that, on
                                                    ;
the other hand, there  is  formed vegetable substance which
                                     a
is inflammable, because     itcontains an execs? of carbon and
hydrogen   on  account  of  the  emission of the oxygen with
which they were saturated    ;  and that when  a    plant
                                                        is  de
prived of carbonic acid     itmay still be supported, or make;
some progress,    by means of water alone.
   Having insulated the act of vegetation to discover its es
sential conditions, and to deduce from them the principal
results,it   was necessary to examine the circumstances of
common vegetation to determine its particular effects, and
especially to go back to the origin of the substances found
In plants, and which cannot be owing to oxygen, hydro
gen, and the carbonic acid.
   This part of vegetable physiology stood so much the
more in need of being explained, as observations which ex
hibited an imposing appearance of exactness had conducted
to suppositions which could not be reconciled with physical
theories.     "Tull, Van Helmont, and even some modern
naturalists," says Saussure,     " have endeavoured to show
that vegetables do not draw water from vegetable earth, and
that manure acts on the soil only        by
                                         furnishing to plants  a
                                                   maintenance

814              Researc/ies on Vegetation.
maintenance more or less proper for retaining heat and
moisture ; these authors have supposed that the vital force,
both animal and vegetable, might, by decomposing or com
bining in different ways atmospheric air and water, produce
all the substances, and even the salts, earths, and metals,
which are proved, by analysis and incineration, to exist in
vegetables.    This confused idea is not more susceptible of
being proved than that of making gold from substances
which contain none of it. Before we have recourse to un-
intelligible transmutations, miraculous, and in opposition
to all the observations known, we ought to ascertain exactly
that plants do not acquire and find these principles ready
formed in the mediums in which they expand."
   This part of the work contains a great numbei of new
observations and happy comparisons between experiments
and agricultural observations ; but I shall confine myself to
general results.
  Roots and plants absorb salts and extracts, but in a less
proportion than water which holds these salts and extracts
in solution.
   The salts which the roots liave absorbed are found in
plants without any change in their state of nature.
   It is to be wished that the author would extend his re
searches on the formation of the acids which seem to be the
product of vegetation ; such as the oxalic acid, the citric,
and the tartaroug.
   A vegetable does not absorb in the same proportion all
the substances contained at the same time in the same so
lution; it forms particular secretions of them : thus, in a
solution of different salts the roots take up more of one kind
than of another ; in general they absorb in greater quantity
the substances the solutions of which, when separated, art
less viscous.
 . When we compare      the weight of extract which can be
furnished by the most fertile soil with the- weight of the dry
plant which has expanded in      it,   it  fauna that
                                            is       it  could
have derived from  it but very small part of its substance.
                          a
   Saussurc proceeds to examine the ashes which vegetables
leave by  combustion. He proves that all the predominating
principles in ashes are contained in the vegetable mould',
and that its soluble part, which alone penetrates into the
vegetable, contains these principles    ingreater proportion
                                             a
than the insoluble part : their existence in the plant, then,
has nothing natural, as he observes, and their absence in
itwould excite more astonjshuieut.
                                                       Plants

                  Researcftes on Vegetation.             315
    Plants made to vegetate in water and in a confined atmo
sphere, give only the same quantity of ashes which would
have been obtained from their seeds ; but in the open air
they acquire a small quantity, which must proceed from the
bodies floating in the atmosphere.
    Ashes are composed of saline parts soluble in water and
of parts insoluble : the proportions of the insoluble and so
luble part vary according to the soil, according to the cir
cumstances    of vegetation, and in the different parts of 3
plant : ashes are more abundant as the vegetable substance
is more distant from the ligneous state ; but they contain
the more soluble substance as they have been less subjected
to the dissolving action of the water ; so that a vegetable
abandons the soluble salts it contains when exposed to the
action of foreign water : I regret that • the author did not
examine the salts which the water may in this manner take
from vegetable substances, in order to ascertain in what
state of combination is the potash which becomes free during
incineration.
    The author found phosphates in all the vegetables th«
ashes of which he examined : the phosphate ot lime forms
 often the greater part of the insoluble portion; but that
which is soluble contains sometimes phosphate of potash, or
 a triple combination of phosphoric acid, potash, and lime :
 on this occasion he examines that triple combination, which
 may differ by its proportions and by the effects which che*
 inical re-agents produce in it : ashes contain scarcely any
 magnesia arid alumine.    These results, with which several
others are connected, are established by sevent}vnine ex-.
 periments on incineration, to each of which is added a cor*
 responding analysis.     The methods of analysis followed
are carefully described.
    I have been able to give only a short view of this
 immense labour, which must add to the celebrity of the
author.
                                               LVI.   Memoir

                                [    316    ]
  LVI.   Memoir on the Natural History of the Coco-nut Tree
    and the Areca-nut Tree ; ike Cultivation of them accord
    ing to tlie Methods of the Hindoos ; llunr Productions,
    and their Utility in the Arts and for the Purposes of do
    mestic Economy. By M. LE Goux DE FLAIX, an Officer
    of Engineers, and Member of the Asiatic Society at Cal
    cutta *.
  J. HESE interesting vegetables are indigenous in the East
 Indies : they are found also in some parts of Africa, and
 even of America ; but T do not think that they were placed
 there by nature-
    Travellers have given descriptions of these vegetables,
 which are the delight of the natives, and serve to ornament
 their habitations ; but they appear to me to be in many re
 spects incorrect.       I shall therefore describe them as I ob
 served them during a long series of years, and in different
 countries of Hindostan.          I shall begin with the coco-nut
 tree as being the most useful, and shall then speak of that
 which bears the areca-nut.
    It is well known that the coco-nut tree ( Cocos nucifera
 Linn.) is of the genus of the unilobe plants, of the monoe-
cia hexandria, and the family of the palms, to which bo
 tany has given this appellation because instead of boughs
 and branches they bear palms.            The coco-nut tree exhibits
 also as characters a flower-bud or sheath, which is mono-
 phyllous, and a branchy palm winged and exceedingly long,
 its bud is furnished with a very great number of branches
attached to a pedicle exceedingly short.             It presents also a
very great number of flowers about two or three lines in
length, oblong, with a corolla of six equal petals horned,
 convex, rounded at their extremity, of a pale flesh colour,
and having little odour.         These flowers, the males of which
are placed above, have six stamina with sagiltated antherae,
and a pistil which miscarries : the female, which are more
numerous, placed near the former and along the same stalk
at intervals of five or eight, have a round ovarium destitute
of a style, and over it a three-lobed stigma.
    Some of the. flowers before the spatha opens are succeeded
by a drupa, at first exceedingly tender, round, and whitish,
which becomes very large, smooth, coriaceous, and fibrous:
it contains a nut more or less oval, monospermous, exceed
                                                                           '
ingly hard, of a brown colour, sometimes veined, of one
   * prom  the Biblioibcquc Pbysico-Eiconomiqttt, Nos. 5, 6, 7, &c. 1804.
                                                                    piece,

            Natural History of  the Coco-nut  Treejf/c.       31?
piece, marked with sutures which form a ridge sometimes
more and sometimes less prominent : it has in its lower part
a hole called the eye, through which the germ issues : it
exhibits also the figure of two more; which may have made
some naturalists, deceived hy the appearance, imagine that
it has three.
     Tn the East Indies there are known seven different species
of the coco-nut, without comprehending that called, impro
perly, the sea coco-nut, and which naturalists believe to be
indigenous in the archipelago of the Maldives, though it
grows only in the Sechelle isles.        This coco-nut forms a
 particular species very distinct from that cultivated either
 in Hindostan, in the other countries of the East Indies, or
 in the islands of the Asiatic seas. I make use of the word
 species, and not variety, that I may expressly conform to the
 signification of the word received in botany to denote those
 individuals which always retain the same configuration.
      No distinguishing characters between the species here
 mentioned can be drawn either from the palms, the sheaths,
 or the flowers of the vegetable, their figure and form being
  absolutely the same.     These characters can be taken only
  from the configuration of the fruit, which nevtr varies and
  never changes in whatever country or soil the tree may be
  cultivated. As no naturalist who has travelled in that part
  of the world where this useful and beautiful tree grows has
  described these species, I shall supply this deficiency by
  exact descriptions taken from their proper characters afte'r
  a number of observations,     and I shall leave it to masters in
  the science to denominate and designate them in their sy
  nonymies.
      There are three kinds cultivated in Hindostan ; four more
  are cultivated in the isles of the seas which lie adjacent to
   this country, rendered so rich by its productions, by the
   industry of its inhabitants, and by the mildness of its cli
   mate.
       1st, Tlie coco-nut of the coast of Coromandel exhibits a
   husk very smooth and shining, of a reddish yellow colour,
   on which account it is called by the Hindoos the Bramin
   coco^mit, because it approaches near to the colour of the
   skin of the individuals of that cast. The sutures opposite
    to the side on which the eye is placed are more swelled
    towards the base, a part which is also more flattened than
    that opposite to it even when enveloped in its husks •-        •-
       2d, The   coco-nut of Canara,  a country situated between''
    the two branches of the double chain of the Gauts, very
    high mountains which extend through the peninsula of
                                                              India

    •18                Natural History of the Coco-nut                    Tree
    India from south to north, and divide it into three
    In its whole length. This species has for distinguishing
    characters  a form perfectly oval, a ligneous and more solid
   shell, a husk exceedingly green, and filaments remarkably
   hard, all its sutures so fittle prominent that they are sensible
   to the eye but not to the touch.
      3d, That of .the coast of Malalar, which is turbinated ;
   that is to say, larger at the hole which is found under the
   covering that binds and fixes the pedicle of the fruit to its
   bluster.
      4th, The coco-nut of the Maldives, sandy islands, unco-
   yeted, no doubt, by the sea at no very distant period, is very
   small and absolutely spherical ; its sutures are very much
   raised, and far more prominent in the upper part than those
   opposite to its pedicle.
      3th, That of Aehem, a small island situated on the south
   side of those of Sonda and the Moluccas, is distinguished
        fcy
       its ovoid form, its extreme smallness, and the thickness
  «i' its kernel, which            so pulpy that there
                                       it is
                                                                          is
                                                               scarcely any
  vacuity in          it,
                    and that        contains very little liquor.
      6th, The species cultivated in tlw Nicobar Isles, situated
  in the upper part of the Bay of Bengal, which                  the largest   is
  of .-ill the varieties of this fruit. Its external form             trian             is
  gular its husk or fibrous bark
              j                               remarkably thick
                                                   is               the nut         ;
  is  oval, and      little flattened at its two poles, and there
                        a                                                                    is
  sues from the upper pole            sharp point
                                               a        on which account
                                                                 ;
it       called the needle coco-nut,
        is
      7th, T/ic coco-nut           of
                                 Ceylon            is
                                                very elongated spheroid
                                                        a                                     :
it    has its suture corresponding to the orifice or eye of the
 germ, more prominent by                  strong line than those of the
                                               a
 Other oountries.        Such are the characters *hich distinguish
 the different spacks of the coco-nut of the Indies.
     Thd utility of the coco-nut has been so well known                                      irt
 Hindustan sinoo the remotest a«liqitity, that Brahma, of
 whom the Indians call themselves the children, the legis
 lator &f t-h*t country at            very remote period, marks out
                                           a
 «rW of th8 nineteen casts which compose that people for
1h8 pufposs of being exclusively occupied in the cultivation
of this valuable trt'e, and in extracting and preparing tho
different products of it.            This cast       that of the Cbanas
                                                            is                               )
it       oho of the highest and mo-t distinguished, and one
         \3
of those said to be            the fight haild.
                                  of                 Irl word, this iretf
                                                                     &
     so valuable in the oyes of tho Indians that they consider
it isalmost as an unpardonable crime to cut               down accordit         :
ing to     tham       it  Sort
                            itf
                            a   of homicide       An  idea,
                                                        ;   in some rnea-
iurtf,    well fouA&d,      as     Ishall  here   show.     This opinion
                  3                                                       characterizes,

                              and ihe Arcca-nut Tree.
characterizes, more than any thing that could be said, the
mild and humane disposition of the Hindoos.
     The coco-nut tree, indeed, has some resemblance to
man.       Its development does not fake place, like that of
other trees, by ligneous strata placed over each other ; the
trunk is composed of an infinite number of needles of
greater or less length, all united and bound together in bun-1
ales by a tender and spongy pith which surrounds them.
It gro\vs only by the successive development of its palms,
all issuing from the body of the tree, which when the plant
dies is speedily reduced to dust.          This observation, which
is very exact, destroys the assertions of most naturalists,
such as Thunberg, liumphius, &c., who have said that
the wood of the coco-nut tree is hard, and fit for a great
number of domestic purposes.
     I shall now give a short view of the methods of culture em
 ployed by the Hindoos to rear and propagate this useful and
 beautiful palm, and to make it yield that liquor or wine which
 distils from the spatka ; I shall describe the use they make,
 cither for food or in the arts, of the fruit, the leaves, and the
 liquor of this vegetable ; and I shall speak of the different
 processes which ought to be pursued in order to obtain from
 rt its different products ; details as interesting as curious,
 which no traveller has ever yet made known, at least in so
 particular a manner as to satisfy curiosity, and to convey an
 accurate knowledge of this palm to those who may be de
 sirous of cultivating          and of deriving from
                                   it,                          all those.,
                                                                     it
 advantages      it   is
                      capable  of affording.
      The coco-nut tree         called phes.i<ma in the Shamskrit,
                                   is
  the primitive language of the country.                   named tene-
                                                           It   is
 niaron in the idiom of Ceylon, and in- almost all the dialects
  of that part of India called                 by
                                        the Hindoo geographers the
  Decan that           to say, the southern part, described, very
                      by is
        ;
  improperly,          the Europeans as        peninsula, under the
                                                       a
  name of the Peninsula on Ms side the Ganges.
      Of all the great family of the palms            is that which at
                                                           if
  tains to the greatest height.           nas   Itmajestic and agreea
                                                       a
  ble appearance       : generally rises to the altitude of fifty feet,
                              it
  and its common duration            eighty-five years
                                          is                   never ex
                                                                 :   it
   ceeds     century.    Its growth      quicker till      attains to the
                                               it is
        a                                                       it
  age of thirty- five years when   :     reaches that period its deve
  lopment   is  slower: from its fiftieth to its sixtieth year        pro-     it
   duces less;   Us boautilul and verdant crown loses its colour,
   becomes thin, and its development          till its death       almost is
   insensible.    At that age has all die characters of the de
                                         it
   crepitude of man its leaves grow yellow and drop; and
                                                                                    by if
                              ;

  320           Natural History of    t/te Coco-nut Tree
 by any accident       it loses its top, which the Hindoos very
 expressively    call its  head, the roots cease to acquire nou
 rishment, and the trunk is reduced to dust in the course of
 eight or ten days.       It is with reason, therefore, as I have
 already observed, that the Hindoos find some relation be
 tween this tree and animated beings j or, in a word, with
 man.     In this respect it is very different from other large
vegetables the wood of which survives their destruction ;
 and it is for this reason that the anUcnts, like the Hindoos
in regard to this palm, personified trees under the name of
Fauns, Satyrs, and Sylvans.
    The coco-nut tree is reproduced only by the fruit. It
 is planted in nurseries at every season of the year.          The
 soundest fruits, and those which are not cracked, must be
chosen. They must not be stripped of their first fibrous
covering, which the Indians call kaer, and of which they
make excellent ropes. They have found that water and this
substance 'are necessary to facilitate the germination of the
seed, which takes place about the seventeenth or eighteenth
day.
    The nut must be placed lengthwise a little inclined, and
turned in such a manner that the eye from which the germ
issues may be towards the surface of the earth, so that its
rising stem as it shoots up may not incline, and be obliged
to bend itself in order to issue from the earth.
    Immediately after the nursery has been planted, and each
coco-nut has been covered with five or six inches of earth,
which is not trod down, the plantation, which is made of
a square form in order to facilitate irrigation, is watered.
This is the best method of supplying it with moisture.           A
watering-pot would displace the earth, or form it into
masses ; inconveniences which must absolutely be avoided.
The Hindoos continue to water the nursery every two or
three days, according as the.air is more or less dry, during
six weeks or two months. Water, according to the Hindoo
agriculturists, is the only or at least the principal cause of
vegetation : it is indispensably necessary to germination, to
the existence of this palm, to its strength and its preserva
tion, especially in its youth.
    About the eighteenth or nineteenth day the point of the
germ is observed issuing from the earth like the small tooth
of an elephant, and as white and smooth.
    This point of the nascent coco-nut tree, like that of al
most all   th,e  palms, retains this form for a fortnight or three
weeks.      It  is then exceedingly tender, saccharine, of an
agreeable taste, and exceedingly delicate to eat either raw
                                                                or

                         and the Areca-mtt Tree.               321
or roasted in ashes.      It is often presented at the best tables
of  the Europeans. The Hindoos, who are frugivorous, make
ragouts of it under the name of cari.         To this point they
give the name of kzlingue, which signifies the first shoot of
the palms.
    The tirst leaf begins to show itself only on the thirty-
fifth or fortieth day. Tt appears like a bundle of small
ribbons, shaded with pale flesh colour, and bordered with
a band ot beautiful green.
    The roots first begin to be formed in the woody cod, the
second covering of the coco-nut, in filaments, united in
groups, shaped like a very large goose egg, of a yellowish
colour, tender, and saccharine, which are eaten, prepared like
thekelinifues, as well as the young leaves, which we call the
callage of the coco-m/t tree, and which in delicacy of
taste surpasses the finest almonds.       Assisted then by mois
ture and heat, they burst about the thirtieth day, on all
sides, that shell which preserves the fruit for years, which
secures the nascent roots from the attack of destructive
worms, and which, by its great solidity, prevents the eva
poration of the water inclosed in the shell, as well as the
desiccation of the milky juice of the pulp or kernel neces
sary for the development of the germ, and of the roots of
the vegetable.     The roots, when Become strong, about the
third month, penetrate into the earth all around the palm,
and take hold with such force, that the greatest efforts are
necessary    to tear them up.       Hence, a coco-nut tree can
with difficulty be overturned by the most impetuous storm.
    The wood of the coco-nut tree is not hard, but it is ex
ceedingly flexible and pliable during the time that it vegetates
or retains its sap.   It has then such elasticity, that a can
non ball rebounds, and is reflected from it. A military
officer, in the service of the French East India Company,
who in the year 1760 commanded fort Alemparne, the
revetcmens     of which could not have stood ten cannon
shot, endured a siege of ten or twelve days, because M.
Verri, who had the command there, conceived the idea of
causing the faces of the walls to be coveted with coco-nut
trees, suspended from them. Another proof of my assertion,
in regard to the astonishing elasticity of the wood of the
coco-nut tree, occurred during the memorable siege of Pondi-
cherry, in 1778: a ball fired from the place accidentally
struck a coco-nut tree in an avenue opposite to          it,  and
perforated   the body  of  the  tree, which  bent, and suffered it
to pass through       asit,    ifhad gone through
                                     it             a   mattress.
The trunk then closed up, bringing together all the lig-
     Vul.   20.   No.   80.   Jan.   1S05.   X             neous

328            Natural History of            the Coco-nut Tree
neous needles of which it was composed ; and at the time
the place surrendered the wound was perfectly healed.
    I
    mention these facts that advantage may be taken of
them, should urgent circumstances render temporary for
tifications necessary in a country where              coco-nut trees
can be readily obtained.         I was sensible of the utility of
it during the siege of Pondicherry, in 1778, at which time
I  caused the merlons of the ramparts to be covered with it.
    It is not till the end of the fifth month that the first
leaves of the coco-nut tree make their full appearance.
Their alae are still adherent, and all united as if cemented
together*     The case is the same with all those which shoot
out till the twelfth or thirteenth month; they all issue from
the centre, that is, from the head or crown of the foliage,
and are supported by a kind of tissue exceedingly strong.
    If all seasons are propitious to the planting of this tree,
they are all equally suited to it when transplanted to the
place destined for it. Every kind of soil, even the most
sandy, agrees with       it, provided         not suffered to want
                                             it   is
water;   it  even  thrives  better  in  light than in strong soil.
The cultivation of this vegetable proves, in decisive man
                                                        a
ner, the justness of the agricultural principles of the Hin
doos, that water alone contains all the nutritive parts of
plants.     In this respect my observations induce me to
entertain the same opinion;             it founded on
                                             is            number of
                                                            a
trials made during       a   series of years, on more than fifty
species of gramineous plants, shrubs, and trees, which               I
cultivated in Vrater only, keeping them in vessels propor
tioned to their strength. These facts are incontestable, and
can be proved       bymany persons, both French and English,
who were witnesses of them, and came to see them in my
garden at Pondicherry, between the years 1771 and 1784.
    The coco-nut tree is generally transplanted from the age
of eight to fifteen months.            may without any inconve
                                        It
nience be removed at the age of two or three years              but in
                                                                 ;
this case it  requires more caution, to prevent the roots from
being broken, as they would not grow again an accident     ;
which would infallibly cause the plant to die.
    It succeeds equally when planted in groves, in orchards,
or when destined to form avenues, or to ornament walks in
a  garden;    it produces      a beneficent shade      and its roots,
                                                       ;
 which do not extend far, can hurt no vegetable, though
 even so near as almost to touch             nor does
                                             it   ;      injure walls,
                                                           it
 near  which   itmay   be planted.     All  these reasons induce the
 natives of India to place         around thc.ir habitations, and
                                   it
 always   as near  them   as  possible.
                                                                     1(5

                     and the Areca-nul     Tree.          323
   Its numerous palms, which are frqm eighteen to twenty-
four feet in length, become interwoven, and cross the
branches    of other trees in the neighbourhood, without
hurting   them,  or impeding their mutual vegetation. The
sea may wash the bottom of coco-nut trees without injury ;
for, instead of suffering from the salt water, they acquire
more vigour, and produce with more fecundity.      This ob
servation will occur to those who travel along the coast of
Malabar, which is covered by an immense and thick forest
of these palms, and exhibits the most delightful and pic
turesque scenery.
   This observation leads me to speak of a practice fol
lowed by the agriculturists of Hindostan, as well as by
those of China, and of other countries, comprehended un
der the general name of India.      They arc all accustomed,
when near the ocean, to water their rice fields with sea wa
ter ; or, when at a distance from        it,
                                         they besprinkle them
with salt before they are tilled ;  and they generally follow
this practice in the cultivation of all the esculent or legu
minous plants produced in their country.           During my
travels through the interior parts of India, and even the
most northern districts of that vast empire,       I  have seen
immense fields covered with other kinds of gramineous
vegetables, the soil of which had been manurea only with
leaves, salt, and the ashes arising from plants, and the re
mains of the straw of the former crop, preserved for that
purpose, and burnt standing.
   Salt, ashes, and water, then, are the only manure em
ployed  by  the Indian agriculturists to improve their lands;
the remains of plants and noxious weeds being burnt in
this manner,   it    never necessary to suffer the fields to re
                    is
main fallow. These agricultural practices, followed for ages,
by men who are the inventors of all the arts and all the sci-r
ences, and who are the most skilful in agriculture, as       is
proved   by  the perfection to which the cultivation of land
has been carried in Hindostan,      are an evident proof that
dunghills arc not so necessary to the success of crops as
is generally imagined in Europe.     I   shall here add, that
the fields    in all the districts of this immense country,
where this method        isfollowed, never remain fallow, and
produce    two,  three,  and   even four distinct crops in the
course of the year.      I  could not help introducing these
observations in this place, though they do not belong di
rectly to the subject in question.
   The coco-nut, which retains its germ for years, when
preserved from humidity, will germiuate, however, without
                                X2                        being

                                                      '
324         Natural History of    the Coco-nut Tree
being put into the earth. It is sufficient to heap up a cer
tain quantity of therh, and to moisten them, that the husk
may not become dry. It is in this manner they are pre
pared when oil is to be extracted from them by pressure.
     When transplanted, all the pits ire dug- to me^ depth of
from twenty to twenty-two inches, and or an equal breadth ;
the earth is then suffered to dry, and a stratum of salt, five
or six inches in thickness, is put into the bottom of each
pit, and on this is placed the young plant.             Great care
must be taken, when advanced in age, to transplant it with
 all its roots and the earth they retain ; but when trans
planted at a favourable period, that is to say, at the end of
A year or fifteen months, it will be sufficient to dig up the
earth with a hoe around the young plant, to disengage the
roots, with the ligneous covering in which they are inclosed.
It must be placed vertically, that it may not incline as it
 grows, which, without this precaution, would infallibly be
 the case ; and it would thereby lose that majestic appear
 ance which it has when it grows straight.
     The pits, which are made in straight lines, are filled up
 with earth, which is pressed down, as put into the pits, to
 secure the plant the better, and to retain it in its vertical
 position : when this labour is finished, the plants are wa
 tered after sun-set, and they are covered for about twelve
 days, to preserve them from the scorching heat of the solar
 rays: -the irrigations arc continued as often as possible,
 according to the dryness of the atmosphere. An adage of
 the Hindoo agriculturists, respecting the cultivation ot this
 valuable and useful palm, says : — " Water me continually
 during my youth, and I will quench thy thirst abundantly
  during the whole course of my life."
      Besides this care, which cannot be neglected till its
  eighth or its tenth year, when this vegetable begins to re
  turn with interest ihe pains and expense bestowed upon            it,
  thereis   another no less necessary, which must be observed
  during its whole existence  :   it   is,
                                         to cause
                                                it  to be examined
  now and then    by    the cliana or cultivator..
                                                 I    shall here de
  scribe this practice, so necessary to this palm, the only one
  of the family which requires similar attention.
       It well known that most of the palms have very de
       is                                                 a
   licate part, formed  by    the leaves not yet developed      ;this
 pi   ;h or heart, to make use of the expression of the lindoos,
                                                          f
   \\hich the Europeans call the callage        of   the palm, and
    which   isexceedingly savoury     and   sweet, particularly that
   oF the coco-nut, and that even of the date tree, and agree
    able to cat, attracts
                        a   large beetle, armed with two strong
                                                              terebras   :

                     fc
                               and the Areca-nut            Tree.                      325
 terebrae : this insect endeavours to penetrate into the cab
 bage, where it finds abundant nourishment,         of which it
 appears to be fond.
    To get at the heart, which nature has carefully covered,
 as it seems to contain the vital principle of the tree, this
 winged beetle is obliged to pierce one of the petioles of the
 palms, that it may open a passage to the food of which it
is in search : but it cannot perform this operation without
leaving traces behind       which are readily perceived by bare
                                   it,
inspection of the tree. The cliana, as soon as he sees                                   a
hole newly opened, first probes        with an iron dart, barbed
                                                      it
at the point, in order to kill the mischievous insect, and
to extract     from its retreat, where
                    it                     might do injury even
                                                           it
after its death.
    In other respects nature takes charge of the cultivation,
till the moment when the tree produces its first spath, or
the flower-bud     which   ; the case at most in its fifth year,
                                        is
if    has been constantly watered; or towards the end of the
     it
seventh or eighth, when           has been left merely to the
                                             it
rain.
   The laud occupied                    by
                             this useful vegetable not only
yields    more beneficial produce than
           a                                    were applied to if   it
any other kind of agriculture, but the most barren soil                                 is
improved            by
                   shaded it
                           ;             by
                              tha immense palms of this tree,
they  are forced to  produce good grass, and in the course of
a.few years to become fit for cultivation.
   Though the coco-nut tree has produced oval spaths or
buds, which are generally about from twenty-four to twen
ty-eight inches in length, and about two or three inches in
thickness, in the middle    of an elliptical form,
                                        ;            little bent          a
and pointed, inclosing         panicle charged with
                                         a                  great             a
number of small flowers, some of which are succeeded by
fruit of greater or less size, according to the species
               a                                              the                 ;
Hindoos do not immediately endeavour to procure from                                   it
that liquor called catou, from      Tamulic word, which we
                                                  a
have adopted.
     It only at the end of the fifth or sixth month, when
          is
the tree    vigorous or the tenth or twelfth, when
               is
                                                                                       is is
                               ;                                                  it
weak, that this liquor    extracted from it. This practice
                                   is
dictated bv prudence, that the tree may not be enervated;
as   by  different management
          a                         would soon be exhausted.
                                                  it
Strong palms send forth          general nine, ten, and even
                                             in
twelve buds in the year; those on which little care has
been bestowed, and which therefore are feeble, produce
ynly four,, or almost five. This fact confirms all the ob-
                                             X    3                       nervations

326         Natural History of  the Coco-nut Tree
 servations  I  have made, and proves the justness of the
 adage before mentioned.
    Many travellers and celebrated naturalists have given
 descriptions of the coco-nut tree, and its products ; and
have spoken of its vinous liquor with more or less exact
ness and truth ; but none of them, at least as far as        I
know, has described either the method in which the lat
ter is extracted, or the preparatory processes followed by
the clianas of the peninsula of Hindostan, the only part of
India, except the island of Ceylon, where this practice is
in use. I shall therefore describe these processes, as well as
the instruments necessary for succeeding, such as I had an
opportunity of seeing them on the coasts of Malabar and
Coromandel ; and particularly in a plantation of six or
seven hundred coco-nut trees, within the walls of Pondi-
cherry, and which was adjacent to my habitation in that
place.
    At the period judged proper for making the liquor distil
from the spaths of the coco-nut tree, the ckana, to disen
gage it completely, thins or prunes with a large knife the
Eases of the petioles of the lateral palms, in order that
they may be more easily managed : detaching then a piece
of the bark, torn off along its whole length, from the un
der side of one of the palms, to the breadth of about eight
or ten lines, he affixes to it the whole of the spath, begin
ning by its pedicles. He strongly compresses,         and ties
fast by means of knots, each annular mark, distant about
two finger breadths from each other, to prevent the bud
from blowing, either by its efforts in growing, or when it
is cut each time after the calou has been collected ; a la
bour indispensably necessary, and which I shall explain in
the course of this paper.
    Havine thus bound fast the spath along its whole length,
it must oe macerated with a bat made 6f hard wood, of
a conical form, giving it slight blows along its whole
length, and around the bud.          Without this bruising,
•which disposes the liquor to flow, and which I call •macera
tion, translating the word literally from that used by the
Hindoos, the spath, as is fully proved, would not produce
calou.
    This operation, which takes up five or six minutes, must
he repeated regularly every morning and evening for five or
six days, and must be resumed twice or thrice during the
time that the bud produces liquor.     A spath subjected to
 this process gives calou for twenty or thirty days : coco
                                                         nuts

                          and the Areca-nut            Tree.                  327
nuts Cannot be formed in it : all the flowers being com
pressed by the ligature must necessarily produce abortion.
   Between the third and fifth day, according to the season
and the vigour of the plant, the bud is truncated at its ex
tremity by an amputation of about the length of two or
three inches;   this operation is performed with a knife
shaped like a crescent, and well sharpened, that the end
which is cut may be smooth ; it is carefully repeated morn
ing and evening after the calou has been collected.      The
calou docs not begin to issue from the bud till the second
and sometimes the fourth day after the amputation of the
spath j but when it begins to flow with a certain force, it is
received in a vessel which is generally of earthen ware.
The liquor issues drop by drop trom this kind of teat, if I
may use the expression in speaking of vegetables.    The bud
prepared in this manner gives nearly a quart of calou in
twenty-four hours.        This quantity is always proportional
to the force of the tree, and the care taken to water it : the
case is the same with the number of buds in each tree,
which, without exhausting               it,
                                    can be applied to this purpose.
Three or four spaths of        vigorous palm may be made to
                                    a
produce liquor at the same time           but    weak tree
                                                  ;        a    this     by
method would be destroyed.           Frequent irrigation, and salt
sprinkled three or four times in the year around the roots,
are the certain means of strengthening this vegetable, and
of causing  it   to produce abundantly.
    But whatever care may be taken in the culture of the
plantations, calou must not be extracted from all the buds
produced    by   a coco-nut tree in the course of        year; for,  a
however robust         might be,
                      it                would soon be exhausted.
                                              it
On this account, one bud in three, at least, must be left for
fructification.
   This palm, like all those trees of the same species, having
a  very smooth and lofty stem, leaves no hold to enable                        a
person to climb up            it,
                             in order to reach the crown where
the buds are situated, and to prepare them                      by
                                                      the processes
above described for yielding calou.                   It
                                              was therefore neces
sary that this obstacle should be surmounted            and that ;             a
method of getting to the top, without danger to the cfianas,
should be discovered          shall therefore give brief account
                              I
                              ;                                 a
of that adopted for this purpose, which          exceedingly sim
                                                           is
ple,  but  those   who practise     mustit have been  habituated to
it from infancy.
    Furnished with      large leather thonsr, having at one of its
                          a
extremities strong knot, and which
            a                                open at the other end,
                                                      is
the chana puts       round his body, and around the trunk of
                     it
                                        X     4                               the

328        Natural History of       tlie Coco-nut Tree
the tree ; his feet are confined^ and his heels kept together by
a strong elastic ring, made of rushes ; he then places his
feet against the coco-nut tree, and supporting himself by
the thong, which is fastened around his body below the
arm-pits, and rests on the trunk of the tree at about the
height of his head, he prepares to climb, elevating his
feet, and supporting himself by the left hand, applied to
the tree.    The thong is directed by the right hand, and he
raises it as soon as his feet have mounted and taken fast
hold ; he then repeats this operation, till he has reached the
summit : when he arrives there, he lets the thong, which
must be very elastic, glide over his back, and fall down to
his reins. The elasticity of the thong enables him to
manage it easily with one hand, either in climbing up or in
descending : when thus placed at the top of the tree, and
seated on the thong, balancing himself by means of his
body and feet, his arms ace at perfect liberty, so that he
can perform his labour, and collect the calou at his ease.
    When the palms are very large, the chanas employ a
small, light ladder, made of bamboo, by help of which
they raise themselves to the height of six or .eight feet.
By these means they lessen the labour of the method be
fore described, which is attended with great fatigue, how
ever strong, active, or expert, the person may be; espe
cially when it is considered that it is performed twice a day,
and that a chana is obliged to cultivate eighty and some
times a greater number of palms in the course of a year.
   The-other implements of this class of labourers are a
small coffer and a basket.        The former is made of the
spaths of the coco-nut tree, and serves for holding the
knife; the conical instrument with which the chana beats
and bruises the buds, and a box containing the dust of a
kind of mica, which he employs for sharpening his knife.
The basket, formed of the leaves of the loiitarus ingeni
ously interwoven, is so perfectly close that it retains the
calou which is collected in   it,  without suffering    to filter
                                                         it
through.     The small coffer  is  fastened around the body of
the chana, and rests on the left thigh      and, when suspend
                                             ;
ed, he holds the panicr in guch          amanner, that neither
of them can confine his movements, or impede his opera
tions.   Thus accoutred, he climbs up the palm with suoh
velocity, that the eye can scarcely follow him; thirty or
forty seconds are sufficient for him to arrange himself, and to
reach the summit of the highest coco-nut tree.
   Such are the implements and processes employed to ob
tain the liquor of the coco-nut,     avinous substance, useful
                                                              in

                            and the Areca-nut           Tree.
in the arts, in medicine, and for several domestic purposes.
Naturalists have enumerated some of its properties ; but, as
they wrote only from the reports of others, they have
omitted a great number.          I shall therefore endeavour to
supply this deficiency.        In general, every species of this
family produces this liquor ; but that of the coco-nut tree,
and particularly the loutartis, furnishes the greatest number
of articles, either for the arts or for domestic purposes.
     The calou of the coco-nut tree is more saccharine and
more nutritions ; though used to excess, it can do no hurt
 to the animal oeeonomy ; and instead of being injurious to
 the health of man, as all fermented and intoxicating liquors
 are, it is salutary; or, if it intoxicates, it is only for a mo
 ment, and unattended with any danger.
     The calou, drunk before sun-rise, has so sweet a savour
 and taste, that it seems to be the nectar spoken of by Ho
 mer; but it must be received in a new earthen vessel, for
 without this precaution it acquires a disagreeable odour,
 either by negligence, or by the slightest fermentation.
     When it is only six or seven hours old, it is employed,
 without the addition of water, as yeast, in the bakin<r of
 bread.      The bread rises sooner, and is much better;              has          it"
a   taste, lightness, and whiteness, which no other kind of
 leaven could give       in the same degree of perfection. It
                                it                                                       is
  remarked that sea biscuit baked in India keeps longer, and
is   superior in quality to that baked in Europe. These facts
  are well known       every European who has travelled
                            ;                                        that      in
  country can attest them.
      If calou be mixed with small quantity of beer, little
                                           a                                   a
  sugar or syrup, and         an equal volume of water be added
                                     if
  to these three ingredients, the whole will form an agreeable
  and cooling beverage, which may be used at meals.
      This liquor       specific against the scurvy. The Hindoo
                        is
                        a
  physicians employ          for nephritic colics, which they ra
                                     it
  dically  cure,       by
                      making use of       for twenty or thirty days:
                                                   it
  this remedy, which         composedis  with   four ounces of cori
  ander, dissolved in about          quart   ofa new calou, and of
  which    a glassful    given  to
                                is the  patient before meals, three
  or four times      day,
                       a     not nauseous either
                                     is                              by
                                                         its taste or its
  smell the coriander dissolves entirely
          ;                                          this menstruum,
                                                                in
   and colours        though     has    disposition to speedy fer
                    it it
                       :                  it       a
   mentation,       does not become sour.
     It   iswell known that an excellent spirit, less injurious in
   consequence     of its balsamic quality than other kinds of
   spirit,     extracted from this liquor.
               is                                 The calou contains
   such large quantity of alcohol, that
          a                                       gives   it distillation by
                                                                     more

                    Natural History of         the Coco-nut Tree
  more than a fourth of its volume of spirit.                 But what no
  author has ever yet mentioned is, that to free it from the
  nauseous and ernpyreumatic taste which all spirits extracted
  from substances essentially saccharine, such as this and the
 juice of the sugar cane, commonly have, the Hindoos add
  toit, before distillation, water in which they have macerated
 the flowers of the moue, that             isto say,       large shrub of
                                                               a
 the Indies, of which botanists, according to every appear
 ance, have as yet no idea.
    These flowers exhale an aromatic odour of cinnamon mix
 ed with that of anise.           The moue,          shrub unknown in
                                                         a
 Europe, has         pretty appearance, and rises to the height of
                     a
 twelve or thirteen feet its stem ;           cylindric, hard, branchy,
                                               is
 and full of cottony pith its bark    ;          delicate, and of
                                                    is                 red     a
 dish colour, interspersed with black spots                 the leaves arc
                                                               ;
 petiolous,     alittle rough, placed opposite to each other, of                      a
 dark green colour, shaped almost like                   heart, nervous,
                                                              a
 and red on the edge and the nerves                   the flowers, which
                                                         ;
 are of   abeautiful red colour, having each               calyx, velvety
                                                                   a
 on the outside, monophyllous, and with five indentations,
 are disposed in umbelliferous bunches.                A corolla has five
 divisions, five stamina, an ovarium, conical, bearing style
 almost of the length of the stamina, terminated                       two by a
 setaceous and divergent stigmata               these flowers are suc
                                                :
 ceeded by the fruit or berries, of the form of large coffee-
 beans,   alittle turbinated at their lower part, of yellow red        a
 colour, interspersed with red points, pulpy, and containing
 one or two kernels, pointed, enveloped in                  very thin cod,
                                                                   a
 hard, and of         flesh colour; this kernel has the smell of
                      a
 that of the apricot, but            of bitterer taste.
                                      is   a
     This spirit       distilled in various parts of Hindostan, in
                      is
the Decan, and the province of Canara, on the coasts of
Malabar and Coromandcl, and in the island of Ceylon,
where     it   called Columla Arrac.
               is
 I     cannot help here rectifying an error in the French
translation of G. Forster's Travels from Bengal to Peters-
bur,  h,       by
                the way of Cachemir.                     said, in
                                                         It   is      note a
added      by
            the translator        inthe first volume, that the spiritu
ous liquor of India          is made from the liquor of the coco
nut.  I    must here observe, that several kinds of spirit, each
of which has            particular denomination, are distilled iu
                         a
that country.         The    liquor of the coco-nut, though very
sweet,    contains      no    saccharine     or alcoholic particles               ;   it
never undergoes        vinous    or   acetous  fermentation, but only
the putrid, which cannot furnish ardent spirit.                      hope  I
the translator of that work, for whom               entertain the great
                                                     I
                                                                                   est

                      and the Areca-nut Tree.                    331
est esteem, on account of his character and talents, wiH
forgive me for this criticism.        As a friend of truth I have
traversed all the provinces of that immense and industrious
country, in which I made a number of observations on its
arts, sciences, and productions :        I learned seven of its dia
lects, that I might be better able to make myself acquaint
ed with the manners, the religion, and civilization of the
inhabitants ; and I have been employed for more than
twenty-five years on a work which will give an exact ac
count of every thing in it that can excite curiosity, or pre
sent to the philosopher subject for meditation.
    All the authors who have written on this vegetable have
said, that when the calou is concentrated by ebullition, after
the vessels in which it is received when it issues from the
bud have been covered in the inside with a little lime, it
crystallizes by desiccation in the sun into coarse sugar; but
none of them have mentioned the use made of it in the
arts : this deficiency I shall here supply.           Lime, which
dissolves all vegetable substances, and liquefies their juice,
consolidates the one in question to such a degree, that it is
much inspissated before it is boiled ; by the process of
clarification, it is freed from the small quantity of lime,
after which this sugar is employed for different domestic
            ; T have even converted it into coarse sugar candy.
furposes
  t is of great advantage in the art of masonry : works con
structed ><ith cement or mortar, moistened with water, in
about a hundred quarts of which from fifteen to twenty
 pounds of this sugar have been diluted, acquire such so
lidity and tenacity, after complete desiccation, that the bricks
or stones cannot be disunited even by the greatest efforts.          I
mention this fact on the authority of experience; the best and
strongest toolsinperformingthislabourarebroken.             To prove
my    assertion,  I shall mention    the  experiments  I made  in the
year   1 769>  when   the fortifications   of Pondicherry   were  re
paired. The chief engineer being desirous through ceco-
nomy to employ part of the old walls, gave orders That they
should be cut into blocks, to serve as a foundation for the
new ones : this labour occasioned more expense than if
new materials had been purchased, in consequence of the
loss of time, and the number of tools that were broken
during; the operation : as a last proof of this assertion, I
shall mention that I have seen the halves of large arches re
maining suspended, though the other half, had been do
stroyed by the effects of mines employed at the time when
 Pondicherry was destroyed,          in the year 1761.     Immense
fragments of these archts are still to be seen in the house
             3                                                     Of

 332         Natural History of                  the Coco-nut Tree,        &c.
 of  the Jesuits, or in the ruins of the superb government-
 house built by the order of Duplcix.
    The coco-nut tree is one of the most beautiful with
 which \ve are acquainted, and, under whatever point of view
 considered, has an agreeable aspect : its great height ; its
 stem, naturally straight and slender, when it has met with
no accident to render it crooked ; its bushy summit, crown
ed with palms of a rich green colour, so pleasant to the eye,
 ornamented with strong stalks, loaded with enormous
fruit, all form an interesting coup d'ceil. It presents to
the traveller a delicious shade, and the assurance of reliev
ing his most urgent wants, at the same time that its foliage,
the pliable alze of which, long and delicate, sport in the
gentle zephyrs, recreates his imagination with a thousand
agreeable ideas, and makes him bless and admire the Eternal
Power which on his account created so many wonders. Its
properties also useful to the arts, to domestic wants, and
the comforts of man, amply indemnify the cultivator tor
his care, and the proprietor for his expense.    One cannot
refrain from a certain enthusiasm in speaking of this inte
resting vegetable, one of the most valuable gifts of. Provi
dence, and which affords delight even to animals*.
                                 [To      be continued.]
LVII.       An Account of Borneo       ; contained  in a Letter from
    Mr. JOHN JESSE,          to the Court of Directors, from Borneo
    Proper^
As     I    am the first servant            the Company ever had, or even
European,       which     for      a      number of years has visited this
    * All animals seek for tlic shade of this palm.        A very pretty spar-
Tow of Hindostan, known by its attachment, and by its address in going
»o find at the bottom of a well filled with water, and to bring back any
tiling th.it has been thrown into        constructs the nest which
                                           it,                          to receive
                                                                           is
 and shelter its young, at the extremity of the als of the foliage of this
tree.    This nest, interwoven with such art and dexterity, that man may
admire but cannot succeed                              it,
                                  by in
                                    imitating      notwithstanding    the perfec
tion of his organs,  is placed      wonderful foresight at the very extremity
of these alae. Agitated     by the least breeze, like     cradle, the winds are
                                                             a
not able to detach it, nor to throw out the' young.          This sparrow,                by
surprising instinct, suspends its nest        this manner, to secure
                                                  in                       it
                                                                            in all
                                                                           in it,
probability, from the attack of serpents, which cannot reach               conse-
<"ience of the pliability   of the supporters on which           itplaced.
                                                                      is      But
what       more astonishing       the care which this bird takei to light its
                                by is
       is
nest in the night-time,           fixing glow-worms to the inside of                it,   by
means of    a tenacious kind of clay,
f     From the Auntie Annual Register for iSoa.
                                                                                     part

                      An Account qfBm-net).                333
part   of the island of Borneo,  I have presumed to lay before
you every    even  the minutest particular which has occurred
to ray knowledge worthy your observation, that you may
be the better enabled to form a just idea of your connexions
here, and to judge with precision what measures may here
after most readily effect the objects you have had in view,
by an establishment in this quarter.
    The chief and council of Balambangan, in the beginning
of the last year, addressed a letter to the state of Borneo,
informing them of being arrived at Balambangan, and ex
pressing their wishes to enter into alliance with them.      In
consequence of this invitation, an ambassador arrived from
thence in June ; and I had the honour of being appointed
to return with him to open an intercourse there, and to
enter into such engagements as might appear most to the
company's advantage.
    I arrived here in the month of August, and found them
unanimous in their inclination to cultivate the friendship
 and alliance of the honourable company : in consequence
thereof, I made it my first care to discover the motives
 which principally induced them thereto, that I might be
 the better enabled so to frame my treaty as to keep them
 dependent in such particulars as they most essentially stood
 in need of; which I then found to be, and have since been
 confirmed therein, was protection from their piratical neigh
 bours the Sooloos ana Mindanaos, and others, who were
 making continual depredations on their coast by taking ad-
 i-antazc of their natural timidity.    To relieve them, there
 fore, m this particular, and to induce them the more readily
 to consent to my subsequent proposals, T stipulated by one
 of the articles, that (if attacked) the company should pro
 tect them; and having thus gratified them in their principal
 want, in return I demanded for the company, agreeable to
  the tenor of mv instructions, the exclusive trade of the
  pepper, as I well knew it was the grand object they wished
  to attain ; and I therefore also made it my study to be
  thoroughly acquainted with every particular relative thereto.
  I was informed the quantity that year was 4000 peculs,
  cultivated solely by a colony of Chinese settled here, and
  sold to the junks at the rate of 17'2 per pecul, in China
  cloth called eongongs, which, for want of any other specie,
  are become the standard for regulating the price of all other
  commercial commodities at this port. Although T was well
  convinced it could never answer the company's purpose to
  pay so his;h a price for the pepper, especially where the
  quantity was so small, I notwithstanding in the treaty made
                                                         a point

                                                      11
 334                 An Account of Borneo.
  a point of securing to them the exclusive trade of that ar
  ticle, to be paid for in merchandize at such rates as might
 indemnify them at present in the inconvenience of the high
 price, to the end that it might divert the channel of the
 junk trade from this to Balamhangan, (their grand induce
 ment for coming here being thus removed,) which, toge
 ther with my having bound the state to oblige all their de
 pendents to make plantations, whereby the quantity would
 not only be greatly increased, but, from their having no
 other purchasers, the company would be enabled to fix such
 prices as would give ample encouragement to the planters,
 and soon reimburse the expenses which were necessitated
 to be borne at the beginning of the undertaking ; and the
 more so, as in consequence of their industry, becoming
 yearly richer, they would find our protection but the more
  indispensably necessary.
      Things being fixed on this basis, the Englishman and the
 Borneyan becoming thus mutually necessary to each other,
 I   flattered myself the event might have produced a solid
  and real commercial advantage as well to the nation as to
 the company ; and the more so, as from the great probabi
 lity of the hill people being soon induced also to plant, who,
 by receiving cloth as the price of their industry, would na
 turally increase the consumption, and render our manufac
 tures with them a necessary of life ; these being by far the
 most numerous, and the aborigines of the island : another
 advantage accruing therefrom     is, that having once connected
 these people in interest with the company, and familiarized
 them to our customs, the inhabitants of the sea coast would
 be unable, were they inclined, to obstruct or molest the
 prosecution of the company's views. These were the mo
 tives which first induced me to secure to the company, in
 the treaty with the Borneyans, the exclusive trade to the
 pepper, although at that time on seemingly disadvantageous
terms  :     how far may have acted with propriety, remains
                 I
with the company to determine.
 I      now come to say something of the characteristics of
the different sects of the inhabitants.
     The Borncyans who inhabit the sea coast are Mahom-
mcdans, and, as they say, are originally an emigration from
Jehore, but are ignorant of the chronology      :    they extended
their     dominions  over these  coasts,   Palawan,   Manila, and
other parts of the Philipinas ;    and even Sooloo, as Mr. Dal-
ryrnple observes, was formerly     a   part of this empire. From
these extensive conquests, and the unconnected traditions
,1  have had from them,   I    atn inclined to think thev were
                                                         originally

                  An Account of Borneo.
originally a warlike people; but, as most other empires
when arrived at a pitch of grandeur have generally declined
to nearly their original state, from a want of that vigorous
and active government which is so essentially necessary in
supporting all acquisitions obtained merely by force of arms,
so appears to be the case with that of Borneo ; and I am
the more convinced of it from that entire indolence and in
activity I found them immersed in on my arrival, being to
tally degenerated from that courage ana enterprise which
seems to have marked the character of tlieir roving ances
tors, and deprived of their influence in all their former do
minions situated to the northward of Borneo.
     From what I have been led to say relative to this state, it
may be seen they are enervated and unwarlike ; added to
which they seem to be envious of the private property of
each other to a great degree : but, on the other hand,            I
have found them fair in their dealings ; cool and deliberate
 in their resentments, even where The object is in their
 power ; candid in their intentions ; strangers to what we
 call the world, although not deficient in the innate faculty
 of the understanding, as they seem to have in great perfec
 tion such mechanical arts as are met with in these countries,
 particularly in the foundery of brass cannon, wherein they
 excel an* the Asiatics I have seen on this side, or have heard
 of on the other.
     That they are constant in their attachments, I think         I
 may say, from their behaviour subsequent to the unhappy
 capture of Balambangan ; for, although threatened by the
 Sooloos in case they should supply us, and that at a time
  when many of their boats were trading in the verge of the
  Sooloo districts, they set them at defiance, and generously
  afforded such assistance as lay in their power.
     With respect to the Idaan, or Mooroots, as they are called
•here, I cannot give any account of their disposition; but,
  from what I have heard from the Borneyans, they are aban
  doned idolaters : one of their tenets, so strangely inhuman,
  I cannot pass unnoticed, which     is,that their future interest
  depends upon    the number  of their fellow-creatures  they may
  have killed in any engagement       or common disputes, and
  count their degrees of happiness hereafter to depend on the
  number of human skulls in their possession      ;   from which,
  and the wild disorderly life they lead, unrestrained    if by any
  bond of civil society, we ought not to be surprised          they
  are ofa   cruel and vindictive disposition.     They are as yet
  near toa   state of nature, but have     agreat share of innate
  cunning ;   of which
                     I    hada striking  instance in the following
                                                    circumstance  :

                     An Account of Borneo.
 circumstance : — Two of their principal chiefs; induced from
 curiosity, came one day to the factory ; they plainly told
 me they came to see a white man, and should judge of my
 treatment of them then, what inducement they might have
 to cultivate an intercourse with me: pleased with the pro
 spect, however faint, of having thus met with an instrument
 through which I might encompass, in time, what I have
 ever esteemed my capital object, I endeavoured to ingratiate
 myself hy giving them small presents of different assort
 ments of goods, and expressed a desire to see them again :
 one only of them shortly afterwards returned with some
 provisions, which I learnt he had first been endeavouring
 to sell to the junks, and even then demanded of me such
 an exorbitant price as I could not think of complying with.
    They are represented, however, as industrious in culti
 vating their paddy plantations, and in following such other
 employments as are known amongst them ; but having no
 purchaser for their commodity but the Borncyans, who treat
them very indifferently, the intercourse, of consequence, is
 not carried to any extent.
    Their arms are long knives and soompittans, a tube of
 wood, about six feet long, through which they blow small
 arrows, poisoned at one end, having at the other a small
bit of cork wood just big enough to fill up the hollow of
the tube, the least touch ot which, where blood is produced,
is certain death, unless immediately counteracted by the
medicine they make use of.
    Their dress at present is nothing more than a girdle, or
long slip of stuff, made of the bark of a certain tree, which
turns between the thighs to cover their nudities, one end of
which hangs down before, the other behind.
    The civil government of Borneo is vested with a sultaun
and a superior council, which consist of those pangarans
who hold the ereat offices of the state ; such as a bandahara,
in whose hands is lodged the whole executive power; the ga-
dong, or director of the sultaun's household ; the toman-
gong, or commander in chief on their occasional war ; the
pa mancha, or mediator in disputes; and the shabandar :
to assist these are three oran kayos, de gadong, ivattan, and
shabandar.     There are many others who hold the title of
pangarans,    but who are called to council only on particular
matters.
    I cannot better convey an idea of this form of govern
ment than to say it bears a strong resemblance to our an-
tient feudal system ; for although there is more respect paid
to the regal power here than, in any other Malay country     I
                                                         have

                       An Account of Borneo.                  337
   bave been hj„ ffor this obvious reason, that the sultaun has
   entirely the power of appointing the great officers of state,
  ¦and of course    can always influence the public councils,)
   yet, however, each pangaran has the entire sway over his
 particular dependents, whose cause they never fail to espouse
  even where he -may stand in opposition to the sovereign au
 thority.
     They   have no particular -laws against treason; murder is
  capitally punished, except in the case where the master kills
  the slave; polygamy prevails, as in all other Mahommedan
  countries, but 'they seldom intermarry with foreigners? the
  originallaw -in cases of adultery required the parties to be
  instantly strangled ; but for want of it being properly en
 forced, and the difficulty there would be found in punishing
 •such as have a number of adherents, people in power often
  pass with impunity, whilst towards the middle or inferior
  rank of people it is extended with the utmost rigour. Theft,
  according to the degree of the crime, is punished with death,
 or the loss of the right hand. I found in the course of my
  transactions with them, they have as yet no institutions d'f
  a commercial nature ; which may be attributed to the want
 of communication with other nations, the Chinese excepted,
 who make presents to the head men in lieu of duties. Those
-of that nation settled here, reap, without molestation, the
fruits of their industry ; but the casual traders suffer many
"Josses from there being no law which obliges the debtor to
 discharge his debt, and the necessity they srreunder of com
 plying with every unreasonable request of those of any con
 sideration in the place.
     Having thus communicated what I know of the charac
 teristics and policy of the Borneyans, it will not be improper
to -observe, that from the plenty and goodness of the tim
bers found here, the 'Chinese have been induced to adopt
the -scheme of building junks, and have found it by expe
rience turn out to advantage,          although necessitated to
-bring   the workmen   and  many   of the  materials from China.
One of the burthen of 7000 peculs (580 tons) was built this
»yearon the following plan : two nouquedahs of junks, and
the captain of the Chinese residing here, entered into a con
tract, Whereby the latter, on the one part, agreed to provide
 the timber, and the former ftipulatecl to bring the artificers
 and iron-work from Amoy.         The keel was laid in the be
 ginning    of March,  and she  was  launched the 28th of May :
the entire cost and outfit amounting, as I have been in
formed by the contracting parties, to no more thau 8,500
     Vol. 20. No. 80- Jan. 1806.        Y                Spanish

333                  An Account of Borneo.
Spanish dollars ; which, when allowing tor the profits on
their congongs, is not more than 4,250 Spanish dollars.
   From hence it may be inferred, that should it ever be the
company's intentions to establish in these parts a marine
wherein small craft might be wanted, they could be built
on easy and advantageous terms j as I have found, on in
quiry of the nouquedahs, there would be no difficulty in
procuring artificers from China, by the junks, on very
moderate encouragement.
   The river of Borneo is navigable far above the town for
ships of a very considerable burthen j and the only difficulty
lies at the mouth of         it,
                            where the channel    very narrow
                                                      is
for about quarter of mile in length, through which there
                 a         a
is not above seventeen feet at high water however, the bot
                                                  :
tom     soft mud, and the place so completely land-locked
        is
there never can be any surf, and consequently a ship taking
the ground can be attended with no bad consequences.
   My non-acquaintance with marine matters disenables me
from judging with precision as to the expediency of making
docks here but from the temporary ones made
                 ;                                  the Chiby
nese, wherein they build their junks, and out of which they
are floated,   should imagine they might be made with con-
                 I
veniency for vessels of 400 tons    and ; am rather encou
                                                  I
raged in this opinion from the banks of the river being a.
tough clay, and therefore      good foundation, in which
                                   a                                 it
has the preference above Laboan, the shores there being
only    quicksand. The water here flows from eight to nine
        a
feet spring tides.
    Chimerical are the expectations of finding in these coun
tries any people so disinterestd as not to be ready to take an
advantage which chance may throw          their way, where reso
                                             in
lutions are not more biassed       by
                                  dread than attachment; and
how unreasonable         to expect any success in these parts,
                          a is
                     it
unless where there    is  force sufficient to awe as well as to
protect for although the chief and council here seem to
             !
think the iiorneyans have infringed their agreement          notby
giving us the whole of the pepper, yet neither have we, on our
parts, been able to fulfil that of affording them protection,
which they have experienced            the loss of their boats,
                                        by
seized bv our mutual enemy the Sooloos, to the amount of
20,000 Spanish dollars.    This will occasion surprise, as
there  were not only several vessels on the Balambangan
establishment, but likewise two small cruizers, sent from
Bombay, properly adapted to that purpose     of these, one
                                                      :
was upset, being ordered out in tempestuous    weather to
                                                     cruize

                    On the Population of Bengal:                     339
         for the ship Louisa, then expected ; the other sent
 with the same vessel to keep a-head of her all the way to
 China, and which lost her passage in returning, being
obliged to bear away for Malacca, from whence she is this
month arrived.         The public service, therefore, expected to
accrue from them has been rendered totally abortive by being
made subservient         to private convenience ; and the protec
tion due to the company's allies having been thus withdrawn,
the Borneyans cannot, with justice, be accused of want of
faith in not scrupulously fulfilling the engagements on their
part.
LVIII.     On the Population of Bengal.               By a Gentleman
                   now residing in that Country *.
IN   India no bills of mortality, nor registers of births, mar
riages,  and burials, affbrd data for calculation.            The argu
ments by which we are convinced of the great populatioil
of Bengal, arise on the results of various speculations.
   The inhabitants of Bengal are certainly numerous in pro
portion to the tillage and manufactures which employ thc'if
labour.      Former computations carried the population to
«leven millions ; and to these a late publication seems to
allude in mentioning the number of twenty millions for the
inhabitants of our territorial possessions in India; the po
pulations of our dominions in the Deccail being estimated
at nine millions.
   An inquiry, instituted in 1789> requiring from the col
lectors of districts their opinions on the populations of their
respective jurisdictions, founded an estimate of twenty-twrt
millions   f  for Bengal and Bahar.            Sir William Jones has
hinted a higher estimate ; and though he has not mentioned
the grounds of his opinion, it may be admitted that he has
hot hazarded a vague and unfounded estimate.                  We think
with him that twenty-four millions             J is at least the present
number of the native inhabitants of Bengal and Bahar, and
shall subjoin arguments which might lead us to compute the
population at thirty millions.            We cannot, therefore, hesi
tate to state twenty-seven millions for the whole population,
including the zemindary of Benares.
          *  From the Asiatic Annual Register for 1801.
          t  Quoted from memory.
          J  Preface to the translation of the At Sirajiyob.
                                     Y  3                       1st. An

340                   On the Population of Bengal
     1st. An actual ascertainment* found 80,9! 4 ryots hold
ing leases, and 22,324 artificers paying ground rent in
2,784 villages t upon 2,531 square miles. Allowing five
to a family, it gives more than 203 to a square mile ; and
for the whole of the Dewanny provinces, at that proportion,
gives a population of 3O,291,O51,                  or, including Benares,
32,987,500: for the area of Bengal and Bahar is 149,217
square miles, and with Benares not less than 162,500.
     The district in which this ascertainment was made is not
among the most populous of Bengal, but is more populous
than the greatest number.               In some parts of Bengal consi
derable tracts are almost wholly waste ; if a fourth of the
area were excluded on this ground, the proportion of po
pulation on a square mile, resulting from an ascertainment
in the district alluded to, might be taken 'for three-fourths
of Bengal.
     But it must be remembered that many and numerous
classes do hot pay rent, or contribute directly to the reve
nues. Some professions are exempted from ground rent ;
some classes are excused for poverty, others from respect.
The tenants of alienated lands are not included in the ascer
tainment above 'mentioned : yet the free lan'ils are equal to
an eighth of the whole area of the district alluded to ; and
they do not bear a less proportion to the lands of all Bengal.
No city or considerable town was included in'the ascertain
ment ; which, for that further reason, may be acknowledged
moderate. Upon the whole, we may adhere to (lie average
first suggested, of 200 'to a square mile.
     2d. General measurements               are occasionally undertaken
for entire pe'rgimnahs, and for larger districts.                  In the're-
gis'fers of such surveys the land in tillage, the land appro
priated to special 'purposes, the waste and barren lands,
and the ground covered by lakes, are distinguished.                     Many
such surveys        J have been examined, and the following pro
                                                                      portion
    *  The   result of an official inquiry in the province of Pumea.
    •r Mayzas.     In the same mauzn several vilbges of hamlets may stand ;
ami, on the contrary,, the same village will sometimes include several
rnauziis.     The common size ofmau'l'u inay'be judged from the follow-
IHJJ ascertainment.
   'in districts of Bengal, 21,996 mauzas, 18,028 square mMcj.
    Estimates have been attempted from ihc number of inhabitants found
in a few villages, as an argument applicable to the whole' number of
muuzas.       The inquiries have been tou limited to afford strong grounds
of argument.       But the resultt which have come to our knowledge give
 179 inhabitants to each village, 91 males and 87 females.
    £ For specimens
                        of these surveys take the following abstracts from se
                                                                          veral

                       On tlie Population ofBeiigaL.1                        341
portion is grounded on than              ,   r.ml.ing an allowance for great
         Hivi.-rs and I .ikes (an eighth)                                3
        Deeded irreclaimable and barren                 (a sixth)        4^
        Scitc of towns and villages, ways, ponds,
             &c. (a twenty-ibujth)                 -       -
                                                                         \
Free lands (an eighth)                   -                               3
                             Liable for        Revenue.
         In, tillage (three-eighths)                                     9
        Waste (a sixth)             -        -      -      -       -     4
                                                                        24
    If a fourth of the area of Bengal be excluded, as before,
for tracts nearly or wholly waste ; three-eighths of the re
mainder give 45,703 sqqare, miles ; or, omitting Benares,
                                            to 81,238,112 begahs of land
$1*967 square miles, equal
in Mage and liable for revenue; and if half the free lands
be cultivated, the whole tillage is 94,777j797 begahs, or
3^,331,499 acres.
    In some districts, an, inquiry undertaken in 1790 ascer
tained the quantity of land tenanted bv near 70,000 culti
vators ; and it gave an average of less tnan eighteen began*
each in actual tillage : for, the cultivators paying rent for no
more than their actual cultivation, the ascertainment com
prehends no lays or fallows.
    At this proportion the whole tillage of 94,777,797 begahs
must be used by 5,265,432 tenants; and, adding for artifi
cers and manufacturers, &c. at the proportion suggested
by the ascertainment             of 80,914 husbandmen, and 22,324
                                                    ...
veral pcrgunnahs in circars, Shereefabad, Madarum, &c. measured in
 1786, and in circar Tajepoor, measured in 1788 :
   Waste but reclairoable, as well as forest and steril lands         - 449,986
                       - ,          -                        -
                                         ...
                                                 -
                                               ...
   Ponds                                                                  4-1,805
   Free lands              -           -                                 198,275
   Productive, including scite of buildings,                 -      -    524,5109
                              Begahs of So cubits square         -     13,14,975
               Pergunnahs   in circar Tajppoor, measured in 1788 :
   Waste but reclairnable                    -           -         '-
   Barren           -'
   Ponds and roads, tec.
   Free lands                                                       »
   Cultivated               -              r
                                                 Total begaht
   '( ::. v: Measurements are eiciutive of rivers.
                                       Y3

349               On the Population    of Bengal.
artificers in the districts alluded to in another place, we have
6,718,154 persons paying land rent and ground rent.               If
each of these be deemed the head of a family, the popula.-
 tion, at five to a family, might be estimated at 33,590,770.
    Bat several rents are not unfrequently paid by the same
 family ; for this reason, the number of husbandmen may
 be thought over-rated, as in the rent-rolls which were ab
 stracted, tenants holding from more than one landholder,
 or paying two rents to the same proprietor, must unavoida
 bly have stood for two persons.       The excess in the estimate
arising    from  this cause is perhaps not fully balanced by the
various classes not contributing directly to the rental.
    3d. The same objection occurs to an estimate from the
 average rents of tenants ; it may nevertheless be proper to
 view the result of a calculation on this ground.
    On the rent-rolls examined for the quantity of land as
 mentioned above, the payments appeared at 478,020 sicca
 rupees on 68,647 leases to cultivating tenants; or nearly
 seven rupees each.
    In the first year of the permanent settlement the revenue
 realized to government was current rupees 3,06,98,255, or
 sicca rupees 2,64,64,094.       The assessment was calculated
to leave an income to the proprietor equal to a tenth.
          Land revenue         -     -       2,64,64,004
          Proprietor's income        -         26,46,409
                                             2,91,10,503
    Charges of collections and management, as actually ar-<
lowed in some instances, and deemed a very .moderate aU
Jpwance, 20 per centum on the gross produce,             72,77, 62G
 Gross rents, or actual payments by tenants            3,63,86, 12ft
 Add for free lands in the same proportion as
    before, 1 to 6        -       -      '
                                           -       -     60,64,658
 Payments by tenants, sicca rupees              i      4,24,59,817
    At  the rate, already suggested, of seven rupees each, these,
payments arise from 6,064,688 tenants ; and assuming th.ejr
families at five, the population would be 30,323,440.
    As ground rents are of small amount in proportion to the
land rents, the average of seven rupees for each tenant might
have been reduced on this account.           This, with the omis
sion of numerous classes not paying a direct rent, may be,
deemed equivalent for the repetition of names in rent-rolls s
and the near coinciden.ce of 30,323j44Q with the number, pf

                   On the Population of Bengal.               343
 30,291,051, resulting from other' grounds, supports the.
                   '
 computation.
    4th. Remains to compare the estimated population with
the consumption.
   The diet of an Indian is very simple: the diet of one is
the diet of millions ; split pulse, and salt relieving the in
sipidity of plain rice. Two ounces of salt, two pounds of
split pulse, and eight pounds of rice, is the usual daily con
sumption of a family of five persons in easy circumstances ;
whence we have the average consumption of salt in a year
at  gib. a head.
   The annual sales of salt,     an article monopolized by go
vernment, are 35,31,944 maunds of 80 sicca weight; But
the whole quantity is not consumed in Bengal.          A propor
tion not inconsiderable is exported.
    On the other hand, the lower classes in the western pro
vinces seldom taste sea salt : these, and the mountaineers
from Rajemahl to Palamow, use rock salt imported from
western countries, a bitter salt extracted from ashes, or im
pure salt obtained from the mother of nitre.         The latter is
much used by the venders of salt in adulterating sea salt ;
and, generally speaking, no sea salt is allowed to cattle.
    If the substitutes for sea salt be equivalent to the exporta
tion of that salt, it will require a population of 32,228,989
persons to consume 35,31,944 maunds of salt.
   5th. From what has been stated as the daily consumption
of a family, an average of nine maunds a head arises for the
annual consumption of grain.        The use of wheat and barley
m some provinces will not affect the calculation, but millet
and other small grains, which constitute the principal food
of the poor, and which are not equally nourishing with
white corn, will increase the average.
   Several sorts of pulse are grown for cattle, but beai a
small proportion to the general tillage j for the cattle are
mostly supported on pastures and on straw.
   Corn is imported from several of the countries which
border on Bengal ; but the exportation from Bengal exceeds
the import ; we therefore estimate the produce, from the
consumption of the supposed population, at 270 millions
of maunds; and at 300 millions after adding grain for cat
tle ; to this add a seventh for seed reserved, and the whole
produce in grain will be 34,28,57,140 maunds, — a very
moderate produce for the tillage estimated at 9,47,77,797
begahs.
   But the Indian husbandry mixing in the same field with
corn other articles of a very different nature, to compare
                              Y  4                            the

  344                    On the Population          of Bengal.
 the produce to the quantity of land,
                                        every article must bo
 included in the computation, and for that
                                           purpose the grain,
 must be stated at its money value, which we
                                               take from the
 average of many inquiries, in which the cheapest and
                                                       dearest
 provinces have been considered.
       Maunds.
  1.5,00,00,000        of rice, wheat, and barley,            at                Rupees.
     1 2 annas             -             _         _     _                 11   25 00,000
 6,00,00,000 millet, &c. at 8 annau                      -                 3^oo'o0       ooo
 9,00,00,000 pulse, at 10 annas                          -.                5,62,50^000
 4,30,00,000       seed reserved               -              -             2   83'sojooa
                                                                                            1
 «•!         J                                                         22,71,30,000
 ™rf.
 feugar, tobacco, cotton,
                                   jr.
                                   &c,
                                                -
                                                -
                                                              -
                                                              ._
                                                                         12,000000
                                                                         70,000,000
 SuudriCS         "
                                                                            20,000^000
                       Gross produce of land              -                329,130,000,
 which       is more                     *
                              rents, if the rents have been
                        than seven
 well estimated  at
                    rupees 42,452,817, and a produce of
three rupees and a half a begah on the
                                         tillage, estimated at
94,777,797.    In a subsequent inquiry we shall have occa
sion to show this a very moderate produce in
                                                 proportion to.
the expense of husbandry.
    The speculations in which        we have now indulged cannoi
avail to determine         accurately the population of these pro-
    • The
             gross payments of the husbandmen are greater; probably
                                                                                net
less thaft  the fourth of the gross produce:
                                                   which tas considered under
 the latter administration of the native
                                          government as the just due.         An
other occasion will occur of
                                 examining this subject more fully, and ex
plaining the appropriations of the gross collections. The
                                                              difference, thoU£h
it break the consistency of the argument, is in
                                                      favour of
of our estimate It ,s explained by the circumstance of the moderation
                                                              the attainment
before
        quoted, having been made in a district where the net revenue bears
a very large proportion to the
                                  gross collections, and where the husband
men are cst.mated on the rental to
                                       pay a seventh pnly. The net revenue
bears a less proportton to the gross revenue
                                                 in most districts; and in these
the peasants
                pay
                    morethan   i fourth.   This does not affect the computa
tion , for had we used materials obtained
payments were greater in proportion to the net
                                                from districts where the             Ws
                                                        revenue, or had tot in
cluded all the payments not brought on the
                                                  rental, the average payment
of each tenant would be found                                                      The
                                  proportionably higher.      In some        hus
bandmen pay more than      n fourth of their gross produce                 in
                                                                      others they
                                                                       ;
nominally pay more than half.        On the other hand,           in
                                                               frontier districts,
particularly on the estates held upon Ghativali
                                                    tenure, they pay less than
                                                                                 vinceq,

                    On the Pbpulatim     of Bengal*
vinces, but make it probable that it has been under-rated.
It is undoubtedly adequate to undertake greater tillage, and
more numerous and extensive manufactures, than now em
ploy the labour of our Asiatic subjects-; but, wanting a vent
for their produce, they hare no inducement for greater in
dustry.      If more produce were obtained, its market being
barred, mdustry would be unrewarded. The necessaries of
life are cheap, the mode of living simple; and though the
price of labour be low, a subsistence may be earned without
the uninterrupted application of industry.              Often idle, the
peasant    and   manufacturer    may  nevertheless      Subsist.    A few
individuals might indeed acquire wealth by diligent appli
cation ; but the nation at large, doomed to poverty by com
mercial limitations, can apply no more labour than the de
mand of the market is permitted to encourage.                 If industry-
be roused,     the    present population  is  sufficient   to  bring into
tillage the whole of the waste lands in Bengal and Bahar j
and in most districts improvement may b« expected when
ever new channels of trade are opened to take off more or
new produce. In all it may soon follow the event, if Eu
ropeans interest themselves in undertakings for the reclaim
 ing of waste tracts.
     Of this we are convinced, aware, however, that the cul
 ture must require a considerable proportion of labour, for
 in the common husbandry the field yields several crops,
 within the year. But requiring no manure except for some
 articles, and for these manured without labour or expense,
 the same quantity of land should need fewer hands in
 Bengal than in England, since the labours of the husband
 man suffer less interruption from the inclemency of seasons.
     The improvements to be expected from a better and more
 diligent husbandry may be appreciated after reviewing the
 present system of agriculture.
     That  the revenue mostly follows a proportion to the area
 of   the districts, may be shown by a comparison to the re
 venue of 1784, which distant period is taken became di
 stricts having been new modelled, their area under late dis
  tributions is not ascertained.
                                             Square miles
                Districts.                   according to        Revenue
                                                Rennel.          of 1794.
  Beerbhoom              -                     3,838           0,11,331
  Bishenpore             -     -      ».       ),23S           3,88,707
  Chittagong, Islaamabad, and
     Tippcran Lowlands, Tip-
                                                                     perab

 3*6                     Oil the Population             of Bengal.
                                                    Reserved    Square miles
                    ...
                    Districts.                      as nearly   according to Revenue     of
                                                    Waste.        Rcnnel.       '794-
         perah woods, the last nearly
         waste        -         -                     5,250       4,317      6,79,197
 Dacca                                                           15,897     31,62,386
 Dinagepore           -  -                                        3,519     14,60,444
 Kishenagur (Nuddea) -                                            3,115     10,27,427
 Midnapore          -                                             6,102      8,89,941
 Purneah      -       -  -                                        5,119     10,00,479
 Rajemahl and Boglepore ;
   (Curruckpore and Curruck-
   dee,) nearly waste      -                          5,453       5,034      5,4",60O,
 Rajeshahy      -                                                12,909     24,00,000
 Silhet       -                                                   2,861      2,33,624
 Sarun and Bettya          -                                      5,106     13,12,721
 Tirhoot  and   Hajypore   -                                      7,815      7,01,234
 Baha Proper, Rotas, and Sha-
         habad       -        -        -                         12,129    24,59,807
  Burdwan            -                                            5jl74    43,58,026
  Pachete, Chuta, Nagpoor,
     Palamow, and Ramghur                           16,732        5,000      1,61,216,
  Suri.derbunds, Cooch-Behar,
     and" Raugamatty ; nearly
     waste .    .- .  '-     -                      10,114
  Districts the distribution of
     whose area is not ascer-
  V.tained, including the pro-
"
 .'-_•
    .ductivedistricts of 24 per-                                      t
     gunnahs, Hbogly, town
     of" Calcutta,   and Mur-
         shedabad        -        -.                            12,921     61,66,670
                             Total         -    37,549          149,2172,75,59,000
    The cultivated tracts in the districts reserved a» nearly
waste, are fully compensated by the waste tracts in districts
stated as well cultivated     hence the argument, on which
                                       ;                                                a
fourth of the area has been excluded as waste. The average
of revenue on the whole area current rupees 84 per square
                                               is                     1
mile on three-fourths of the area well cultivated
          ;                                                246               it   is
per square mile.       The revenue of most districts compared
to, their area falls between those limits. No ascertainments
have been admitted in the preceding computation, but those
obtained within the districts marked, where the revenue                                 is
nearly 200 current rupees per square mile which circum            ;
                                                        stance

             Dr. Thornton       on P.neumatic     Medicine.          337
glance shows them to be in a middle class between the de
populated and waste, and the populous and highly culti
vated districts.
    In the present distribution of' districts, the dearest and
most productive are Burdvvan, 24 pergunnahs, Nuddea,
and town of Calcutta 5 the cheapest and least productive
are Ramghur, Silhet, Cooch-Behar, and Tipperah.                      We
use no information from these districts in
                                                         computing tlw
prime cost of productions and price of labour*
LIX.     Twentieth Communication             from Dr. THORNTON,
                  relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                             To Mr.    Tdloch,
                                               Jan. 17, 1805.
    DEAR SIRj                    No. i, Hinde Street, Manchester Squat',
X AM happy when I           can employ my pen for the promotion
of   the most valuable of the sciences, discoveries relative to
the removal of disease, and the restoration of health. That
the newly discovered gases deserve the attention of the
 philosophic world at large, and that of the practitioner of
medicine in particular, the several facts I have recorded
seem indeed to warrant, and 1 shall in the progress of your
magazine be able to add considerably to the quantity of
evidence already adduced.
               Case   of  a  lad leg   cured  ly vital hir.
    John Richards,      set. 12, son   of a carpenter in North Row-
Park Street,     NQV.     J,  1803,   was in company with some
b,oys, near a stable, when a lad threw down upon them a
truss of straw from a loft, which pitched upon master
Richards, and he fell to the ground, and considerably
bruised the left leg. This confined him to the house for a
fortnight.    The leg soon became discoloured, and was
much swelled, and discharged a, corrosive humour.                  Vari
ous applications were employed, which unly
                                                             assuaged a
little the pain, but the disease went on increasing, and the
lameness continued ; it looked angry along with the black-,
ness, and showed erysipelatous inflammation*,                  the fore
runner frequently of gangrene .or mortification.                  Under
thesg alarming circumstances, about the latter end of Fe
bruary, he was placed under Mr. Moor, son of the late
   • Mr. Moor
                 explained this to the mother of the child, by calling  it
                                                                     "
St. Anthony's fire.
                                                              celebrated

 345                   On Pneumatic    Medians.       >
celebrated    Dr. Moor,    a surgeon whose intrinsic, merits nee<i
 no commendation from my pen, and the lad was uade*
 his care about a fortnight ; when, with that caprice so often
 seen in the middle stations of life, he w%> brought to me by
 his mother in March, I wrote to My. Moor a letter to apo
 logize for taking from him a patient, especially in surgery     j
but as I was to receive no pecuniary advantage, I felt in this*
 the less reluctant : and after six weeks trial of the oxyge
 nating plan, I had the pleasure of seeing the lad restored to
 the full use of his limb, in health, and spirits.
                       Observations  on this case.
    1. TheWackness seemed to indicate a defective oxygena
 tion of the part j— it had existed from November to March.
    2. The outward applications employed were common
 ointments, and occasionally a very weak solution of lunar
caustic (oxygenated silver). .
    3. Silver, we know, in its pure state is the most inoffen
 sive of metals : but when oxidated imparts the readiest to
 the animal fibre its superabundant oxygen.
    4. The blood was at the same time superoxidated by the
inhalation of vital air, which oxygen imbibed by the blood
it would impart to the limb, as it passed along in the route of
 the circulation : or at any rate there would be determined
more arterial blood to the diseased part, by the increased
stimulus to the heart.
    5. Why, I ask, are bad legs so frequent, and not bad arms,
unless from the greater distance of the lower extremities
from the seal of circulation, the fountain of arterial blood f
    6. But laying all reasoning aside, under this process, the
system being likewise invigorated by bark, as the actions of
life were increased, the patient lost his lameness, and the
limb took on a far more healthy appearance.
    7. His appetite was greatly increased.
    8. He became more lively.
    p. The blackness gradually diminished } and,
    10. After six weeks the left leg had all the freedom of
the other, and looked healthy.
    1 1 . Jan. 1 7, 1 805. The lad is before me, who is sound of
limb, in health, and spirits.
             I have the honour to be, sir,
                         Your obliged faithful servant,
                                    Robert John Thornton.
                                                        LX.    On

                                [  349      3
t
         LX.    On Fumigation.           By Dr. THORNTON.
  A HE calamities occurring in life, even the most prospe
rous, are always great, and mankind, as if callous to these,,
*dd those of war to the afflictions that are unavoidable. In
stead of trading with each other, we see civilized, I cannot
tall such Christian* nations, weltering themselves in human
 blood, and this man, contrary to the command of his
 Creator, lifting up his arm to slay " a brother," against
 whom, in fact, he has no ill will,-^-thus to make mourn k
 wretched widow and disconsolate family.                      To famine,
 usually comes in -league with war dire pestilence, and we
 in this nation have every reason to dread the arrival of this
 impending calamity, which has already desolated America,
 u now ravaging Spaia, has carried oft half our garrison at
 Gibraltar, and is very likely, from our unavoidable inter
 course with Spanish prisoners, to enter this country. -Iscir
 the healthy to avoid infection, and yet maintain intercourse
 with the sick in putrid fever, has been long practised by
 me, as physician to a large public charity, by fumigation^
 and is taught in the following part of my Philosophy of
 Medicine, vol. iv. p. 385. fourth edition, published in 1799.
     "  The commission at Moscow, of which Prince Qrlow
  was at the head, having, in the year 1770, invented a fii~
 migatian-poiuder, which, from several lesser experiments,
  had proved efficacious in preventing the infection of the
  plague; in order more fully to ascertain its virtue in that
  respect, it was determined, towards the end of the year,
  that ten malefactors under sentence of death should, with
  out undergoing any other precautions than dailv fumigations,
  be confined three weeks in a lazaretto, be laid upon thfe
  beds, and dressed in the clothes, which had been used by
  persons sick, dying, and even dead, of the plague in that
  hospital.   The experiment was accordingly tried; and mme
  of' the ten malefactors were then injected, or have been 'since
  ul. The FUMIGATION-POWDER is prepared as follows:
     " Powder of the fast strength. —Take leaves of juniper,
 juniper-berries pounded, ears of wheat, guaiacum-wood
  pounded, of each six pounds ; common saltpetre pounded',
  tight pounds ; sulphur pounded, six pounds; Smyrna tar, or
  myrrh, two. pounds: mix all the above ingredients toge
  ther; which will produce a pood of the powder "of furriiga-
            •
              Chriitiaoiry leashes U5  "  to love one- another.-"
                                      4                              tion,

   350           Experiments and Observations        ort Lad.
   tion of the first strength. [IV. B. A pood is 40 pound*
   Russian, which arc equal to 35 pounds and a half or 36
   pounds English avoirdupoise.]
       " Poivder of the second strength. — Take southern-wood
   cut into smallpieces, four pounds; juniper-berries pound
   ed, three pounds ; common saltpetre pounded, four pounds ;
  gulp/Mr pounded, two pounds and a half ; Symrna tar, or
  myrrh, one pound and a half: mix the above together;
  which will produce half a pood of the powder of fumiga
   tion of the second strength.
      "                           —
         Odoriferous powder. Take the root called kalmus, cut
  into small pieces, three pounds ; leaves of juniper, cut into
  small pieces, four pounds ; frankincense pounded grossly,
  one pound ; storax pounded, and rose flowers, half a
  pound ; yellow amber pounded, one pound ; common salt^
 petre pounded, one pound and a half; sulphur, a Quarter
  of a pound : mix all the above together ; which will pro
  duce nine pounds and three quarters of the odoriferous
  powder.
      " In all these, the acid fumes from the nitre and sulphuf
  form the principal part. The rest appears only useful in
  holding these in a state of longer suspension."
 LXI.     Analytical Experiments and Observations on Lac*
             By CHARLES HATCH ETT, Esq. F.R.S.*
  JL HE    period is uncertain when the substance called Lac,
 so   curious   in its origin and so useful to many arts, was first
 introduced into Europe ; and although it probably was
known to the antients, yet the inaccuracy of their descrip
tions precludes this from being stated as a positive fact.
     The natives of India have long employed it for various
purposes, exclusive of those which cause it to be in request
with Europeans ; but many of the Indian processes are un
 doubtedly as yet unknown to us.
     One of these, of a very useful nature, was some timi
 since obligingly communicated to me by Charles- Wilkins,
Esq. F. K.S., and has been the cause of this inquiry into
 the nature and properties of lac.
     Mr. Wilkins informed me, that the Hindus dissolvfc
shell lac in water, by the mere addition of a little borax ;
and the solution, being then mixed with ivory-black, of
lamp-black, is employed by thetn as an ink, which, when
               • From                Transactions for 1804..
                       Philosophical
                                                              dry,

               Experiments and Qlservations on Lac.                      35  1
dry, is not easily acted upon by damp or water.                        Upon
trial, I found the fact to be exactly as Mr. Wilkins had
stated, and therefore made other experiments ; but the re
sults of these I shall at present omit, as they will occur
with more propriety and perspicuity in the latter part of
this paper.
     In respect to the natural history of lac, we are much in
debted to Mr. Kerr*, Mr. Saundersf, and Dr. Roxburgh                        J;
from whose valuable communications to this Society, we
learn many curious particulars concerning the formation of
this substance, which, from their accounts, and from in
spection, evidently appears to be the nidus or comb of the
insect called coccus or chermes lacca, deposited on branches
 of certain species of mimosa and other plants.
     Lac is distinguished into four kinds ; of which, how
 ever, only three are commonly known in commerce, viz,
 stick lac, seed lac, and shell lac ; the difference of these,
 with that of the fourth, called lump lac, is as follows.
      1 . Stick lac,   is the substance or comb in its natural
 state, incmsting small branches or twigs.
     2. Seed lac, is said to be only the above, which has
 been separated from the twigs, and reduced into small frag
 ments ; but I suspect it to have undergone some other pro
 cess, as I have found the best specimens to be very con
 siderably deprived of the colouring matter §.
      3. Lump lac, is formed from seed lac, liquefied by fire,
 and formed into cakes.           And,
      4. Shell lac, according to Mr. Kerr and Mr. Saundere,
 is prepared from the cells, liquefied, strained, and formed
  into thin transparent laminae, in the following manner.
      " Separate the shells from the branches ; break them
  into small pieces ; throw them into a tub of water, for
  one day ; wash off the red water ;                 dry the cells, and
  with them fill a cylindrical tube of cotton cloth, two feet
  long, and one or two inches in diameter ; tie both ends,
  and turn the bag above a charcoal fire ; as the lac lique-
     * Natural history of the insect which produces the Gum Lacca.
                                                                            By
  Mr.    Jamet Kerr, of Patna.   Phil. Trans, for 1781, p. 374.
      t  Some account of the vegetable and miner »I production: of Boutab
  and Thibet.    By Mr. Robert Sauuders. Phil. Trans, for 1785, p. 107.
      % Chermes Lscca.    By William Roxburgh, M. D. Phil. Trans, for
  1791, p. »z8.
      § Mr, Wilkins informs me that the crude lac, as it is taken from the
   branches and twigs-of the trees, is usually deprived of its- colouring mat
  ter by boiling, having' been previously reduced, by pounding, into small
  fragments.    In Bengal, the silk-dyers are the people who thus produce
   what we call the seed lit., which they do lor the sake of tbe-colour.
                                                                          fies,

 '$&t             £xpcriitoents and Observations on Tat.
 lies, twist the           -bag, and when a sufficient quantity has
  transuded the pores of the cloth, lay it upon a smooth
 junk of the plantain tree, and with a. strip of the plantain
  ileaf draw it into a thin hmella; take h off while flexible,
  for in a minute it-will be hard and brittle*."
      The degree of pressure on the plaintain tree, regulates
   (according to Mr. Saunders) the thickness of the shell :
  and the quality of the hag -determines its fineness and
 transparency.
      Assam furnisnes the greatest quantity of (he whole df
  the lac now in usef.
      Mt. Kerr (speaking of stick lac) observes, that the best
  lac is of a deep red colour ^ for, if it is pale and pierced at
  the top, the value is diminished, because the insects have
 <kift their cells, and consequently these can be of no use as,
  a dye or colour, but probably may be better for varnishes.
     Thefleed lac which I have examined, contained but little
  of the colouring matter, and appeared (as I have already
•observed) to have undergone some process of purification )
 but, of all the varieties, ¦she'll htc contains the least of the
Hinging substance, as may well be expected, when the
 mode of preparing it is considered.
      It is remarkable, that although rac.has been known and
 imported into Europe, during so long a time that .the date
  cannot now be ascertained, yet it lias but little attracted (be
 attention of chemists.
     The first chemist of jeminenee who mentions it, and the
 only one who has subjected it to any thing like a regulaf
¦examination, is the younger Gedffroy, Whose paper is pub
 lished in (he Mim. de V 'Acad, de Parb for the year ifi4X'
Jhi'this paper, Mr. Geoffroy seems to have been dhietiy jn-
 iluced 'to examine it on account of its tinging substance}
tut he nevertheless has nut neglected the substance whui,
 constitutes the cells. "This he considers to vbe a sort of
 wax, very distinct from the pature of gum or jesin- "^Ut
¦kiistto'be observed, (hat he formed '(his opinion, not so
 much upon the results of chemical experiments, .as fifaa
tht cellular construction observed in the stiok.lac, which,
asiifi jusxlj- .remarks, demonstrates it -to be iformed -byin-
maii, after ^ilie manner that*the honeycomb is -formed 'by
fcees ; and 'that it is not therefore, as some-have supposed, a
      •JPhil. Trans.    .1.7.S.1, .p. n-#.       + jBhil. Trans. 17*9. P.T09.
    4  OMrvatians      sur.L    Gominc     Lncquc, <t sur les autres Afatieres ani-
Jiuiles ffti .fcurnisseiu la Xaiiuurc dc i'ouinre. .Tar M.' Geoffrey ic- jeune.
~M: m . tie I'JLaui. vj- 14, jj . jw. 1.
                                                                              gum

               Experiments and Observations          on LOG.           333
gum or resin, which has exuded from vegetables simply
punctured by insects*.
   Geoffrey and Lemery obtained from lac, by distillation,
sonic acid liquor, and a butyraceous substance.                Moreover,
Geoffrey observes, that when stick lac was thus treated,
some ammonia was also obtained, hut not when seed lac
was employed.
   He atso mentions another sort of lac, brought from
Madagascar, and called by the natives Lit-in-l'itiic. This
substance,       he says, is scarcely to be distinguished from
b«*9-wax, which it much resembles in colour and odour ;
and that it is produced by a grayish insect, much larger
than the chermes lacca.                Tt is evident however, from
Geoffrey's description, that this substance is very different
from the common lac; and there can be little doubt, but
that it is the same as that which was a few years, ago exa
mined by Dr. Pearson under the name of white lac, a
substance resembling the P6-la of the Chinesef.
    Geoffroy (as I have stated) considered lac as a sort of
wax ; and since his time it has scarcely, if at all, been
subjected       to chemical examination ; it is not therefore
Surprising, that the opinions of chemists concerning it
have been various. Chaptal adopts the opinion of Geoffroy,
aftd calls- it a kind of waxj; but Gren§ and Fourcroy ||
regard i* a* a true resin.
                                     §   l'
      Effects    of different   menstrua     on the varieties  of lac.
     I. When water is poured on stick lac, which has been
 separated from the vegetable branches, and reduced to a
 coarse powder, it immediately begins to be tinged with
red; and, with the assistance of heat, a deep coloured
crimson solution is formed.
     Repeated operations of this kind reduce stick lac to a
yellowish-brown substance ; and the water no longer re
ceives any colour.
    The portion thus       separated from stick lac has, upon an
.average, amounted        iu my experiments to about 10 per cent.
   * Mr. Kerr
                  observes^that as a red substance is obtained by incision
from the plaso tree, very an»logous to lac, it is probable, that the insect*
have little trouble in animaliaing the sap of these trees, in the formation
of their cells. Phil. Trans. 1781, p. 377.
   t   Phil. Trans. 1794, p. 383.
   J   Chaptal's Elements; English edition, vol. iii. p. 38
   § Principles of modern Chemistry, vol. i. p. 388.
   || Syslcaie des Cimoinances   cbimiviifs, tome T. p. 614.
Vol. so. No. 80. Jan. veox                  Z                           kt

354                 Experiments and Observations on Lac.
but this is not to be regarded as the total quantity, for a
part is obstinately retained by the resin and olher ingre
dients, *o that it cannot be completely separated ; and
moreover, very considerable variations must be expected in
different  samples.
      Fine
         seed lac did not afford more than        or   per cent.               2^-       3
of the colouring substance; and shell lac, when treated in
the same manner,          e. merely with water) did not yield
                                      (i,
more than      per  cent.
                     -J-
   2. Alcohol dissolves        considerable portion of each of
                                              a
the different kinds of lac     and, when heat ;   not employed,                is
the dissolved part      resin, combined with some of the co
                                is
louring matter but,        ;the lac   digested with heated alco
                                         if            is
hol, then the solution       more or let* turbid,
                                            is      consequence                    in
of some of the other ingredients becoming mixed and sus
pended; so that          afterwards extremely difHcult to obtain
                               it   is
it    in late of purity and transparency, either
           a
           t                                           repose or                         by
by     filtration.
      Theresin may be obtained                         by
                                         immediately subjecting the
solution lo evaporation or distillation, or                 previously                  by
pouring       into water with which
                it                           small quantity of muri
                                                            a
atic or acetic acid has been mixed for thus, when the whole ;
is heated, a. curdy precipitate of resin         formed, and may be  is
separated by        filter, after which, the liquor may be evapo
                       a
rated,      order to obtain any resin or other substance, which
               in
niiy   remain    in solution after the first operation.
    The solution formed                           by
                                      digesting stick lac in alcohol,
without    heat,        of is dark   brownish-red
                                      a               colour, and the
insoluble part subsides, in the state of                dark coloured          a
magma;      this   retains  the  greater part of  the  colouring mat
ter, which, as          have already observed,
                           I                         most easily solu     is
ble     water.
       in
    The proportion of resin thus dissolved, when stick lac                                    is
treated with alcohol, has, in my expeeimenls, amounted to
67 or 68 per cent, but this must depend on the quality of
tiie samples.
    The sped lac which examined was very pure, and yield
                                      I
ed to alcohol about 68 per cent, of resin:               contained but         it
little of the colouring matter; and the other substances
subsided, and formed              cloud at the bottom of the glass
                                            a
vessel     .
 '•  Shell lac in smatl fragments,        simple digestion with by
 alcohol, afforded    the first instance nearly 81 per cent. Part
                                irt
 of the resin, however, still remained mixed w ith the resi-
.duum, and could not be separated but         subsequent opera            by
 tions: this part amounted to about 10; so that the total
 .'.»                                                                              ••
                                                    •   quantity

            Experiments and Observations     on  Lac,       355
quantity of resin, in the shell lac which I employed, may
be estimated at 91 per cent.
   When the shell lac was only reduced into small frag
ments, these (after the separation of the first portion of
resin) retained their figure, but were become more bulky,
very elastic, and nearly white. I at first therefore suspected,
that some caoutchouc was present in lac ; but finding that
boiling water destroyed this elasticity, I was induced to
make subsequent experiments, by which I discovered, that
the elasticity of this residuum was principally owing to a
substance which appeared to possess the properties of vege
table gluten.    This, however, I shall more fully notice in
another part of the paper.
   The resin obtained from the varieties of lac is brownish
yellow, and is not so brittle as the generality of other
resinous substances.
    3. Sulphuric ether does not seem to act so powerfully
upon the varieties of lac as alcohol ; 1'or, as a great part of
the resin is protected by the colouring matter, and by the
other ingredients which are insoluble in ether, it naturally
follows, that less of it can be separated by this liquid than
by alcohol.
   The different kinds of lac which have been digested in
ether are considerably softened, although in other respects,
very little alteration is produced. Ether, therefore, is not
the best menstruum for lac ; but, under certain circum
stances, it may be occasionally employed with advantage,
for the purpose of analysis.
   4. Concentrated sulphuric acid acts in the first instance
on the colouring matter of lac ; but, after a short digestion
in a sand-bath, the whole is converted into a reddish- brown
thick liquor, which soon becomes black 5 and the chief
part of the lac is separated,     in an insoluble state, re
sembling coal.
   During the solution of lac in sulphuric acid, a conside
rable quantity of sulphureous acid gas is evolved.
    5. When lac is digested with nitric acid, nitrous gas is
at first produced; the lac swells much, and is converted in
to a deep yellow opaque brittle substance, which, by a suf
ficiency of nitric acid, and continuation of the digestion
during about 48 hours, is dissolved.
   The solution however is turbid, and, when poured into
a large quantity of distilled water, deposits         some yel
lowish ilocculi, which being collected, are found to be a
sort of wax.
                                 ZS                         The

358             Experiments and Olservations on Lac,
     The   filtrated liquor is of a bright golden yellow ; and,
 •when    saturated by ammonia, changes to orange colour,
 but does not yield any precipitate, nor any traces of oxalic
 or malic acid.
      This yellow nitric solution is converted, by evaporation*
  into a deep yellow substance, which burns like resin, but
  is soluble in boiling water.
      The alkalis and lime, being added to this aqueous solu
 tion, do not produce any precipitate, but the yellow colour
 is very considerably deepened ; and, by evaporation, an
  orange-coloured substance is obtained, which is still easily
 soluble in water, and consists of the deep yellow substance
 abovementioned, combined with the alkali or lime.
      6. Muriatic acid dissolves     the colouring matter and
 gluten of lac; but its action on these is feeble, unless the
 resin has been previously separated.
      T. Acetous acid, in its effects, much resembles muriatic
 acid.
      8. Stick lac, seed lac, and shell lac, are partially dis
 solved by acetic acid ; and, if this be heated, a considerable
 portion is taken up.
     The dissolved part consists of the colouring extract, of
 resin, and of gluten; the wax being the only ingredient
 which is insoluble in this menstruum ; but a portion of the
 former substances, being enveloped by the wax, is pro
tected from the action of the acetic acid.
     The acetic solution of lac becomes turbid when cold,
 and deposits part of the resin ; a portion however remains
 in solution, and may be precipitated by water ; after which,
the liquor retains some gluten and colouring extract, which
.may be precipitated by saturating the acid with an alkali,
 and- by subsequent boiling.
     For the reasons above stated, it would be difficult to
effect a complete solution of lac by means of acetic acid ;
but this may nevertheless be advantageously employed in
analytical operations, when alternately used with alcohol.
     !). A saturated    solution of boracic acid in water, dis
solves the colouring extract ; but, as the effect does not
surpass that of water alone, we may conclude that lac is
litlle, if at all, acted upon by boracic acid.
     1(). It has been already stated, that sub-borate of soda,
or borax has a powerful effect on lac, so as to render it so
luble in water $ and, as the preceding experiments prove
that boracic acid alone scarcely acts upon lac, there is every
xcason to believe, that the excess of soda present in borax
                                                              is

             Experiments and Olservations on Lac.                357
b  the active substance ; and this conclusion will be con
firmed, by the results of subsequent experiments made
with the alkalis.
   In order to render lac (especially shell lac) soluble in
water, about -f of borax is necessary ; and this may be pre
viously dissolved in the water, or may be mixed and added
together with the lac.
   The best proportion of water to that of lac is 1 8 or 20
to 1.   So that 20 S.TS. ot borax, and four ounces of water,
are, upon an average, requisite to dissolve 100 grains of
shell lac ; but more water may be occasionally added, to
supply the loss caused by evaporation during the digestion,
which should be made nearly in a boiling heat.
   This solution of shell lac is turbid, and of a reddish-
brown colour : when considerably diluted with water and
agitated, a weak lather is formed ; it is decomposed by
acids, and the he is precipitated in yellow floccuh, which
do not apparently diBer from the lac originally employed.
   The general properties of the solution show, that it is a
saponaceous compound, which, being used as a varnish or
vehicle for colours, becomes (when dry) difficultly soluble
in water, although this was the liquid employed to form the
solution.
   A white thick scum or cream collects on the surface of
this liquid, after it has been suffered to remain tranquil £or
some time, and         found to be produced
                     'is                     by  a sort of wax,
which   I shall more particularly notice when the analyses of
the varieties of lac are described    ;but, in the present case,
this wax appeared in some degree to be converted into an
almost insoluble soap            by
                             the alkali of the borax, and may
be regarded as the principal cause of the turbiduess of the
.solution.
   11. The lixivia  of pure soda and of carbonate of soda
completely dissolve the different kinds of lac     and these
                                                       •,
solutions exactly resemble those formed     means of borax,
                                            by
excepting that they are deeper coloured.
   Rather less than    of carbonate of soda
                           -J-
                                                  is
                                                required to
dissolve shell lac and this solution, when dried,
                  ;                                    sooner
                                                            is
affected    by
             damp or water than the solution prepared by
borax.
    12. Lixivium of pure or caustic potash speedily dissolves
the varieties of lac, and forms saponaceous        solutions,
similar to that       which borax was employed, exclusive
                     in
of the colour, which       deeper, and" more approaching to'
                                 is
purple.
                                      Z
                                      3                     Lixivium

358       Experiments and Observations       on Feathers,
    Lixivium of carbonate of potash extracts a great part of
the colouring matter, but does not form so complete a so
lution of the entire substance of lac, as when pure potash
is employed.
. The above alkaline solutions, by repose, afford the waxen
soap which has been mentioned j and acids, being added to
these solutions, and to that formed by borax, precipitate
the lac in a flocculent state, and of a yellow or buff colour,
which precipitate, when melted, becomes similar to the lao
originally employed.        If however an alkaline solution of
shell lac (prepared, for instance, with soda) be gradually
dropped into a sufficient quantity of muriatic acid diluted
with an equal portion of water, and nearly heated to the
boiling point, and if after boiling the whole for about one
hour the coagulum be separated, and the clear liquor be
carefully saturated with soda, and again made to boil, a
small quantity of a flocculent precipitate is obtained, which
was found to be analogous to precipitated vegetable gluten,
combined with some of the colouring extract.
     13. Pure ammonia and carbonate of ammonia readily
act upon the colouring matter of lac, but do not completely
dissolve the entire substance.
                         [To  be continued.]
        . Experiments and Observations       on Feat/iers, and ike
       Down of domestic Fouis.        By   M.  PAR.MENTIEU,
                     [Continued from page 217.]
                   Swans' Down or Feathers.
AMONG       the wild swans, there are some the plumage of
\\ hich is entirely white, like that of domestic swans : others,
and this is tne case with the greater number, arc rather gray
th;m white ; and this gray is of a darker colour on the head
and hack, so that it appears almost brown.
    Domestic swans are stripped of their feathers twice a year,
in the same manner as geese. They furnish a down much
sought after on account of its softness, and which is em
ployed for stuffing pillows and beds.        It is well known also
tljat the same substance, exceedingly fine, and sorter than
sjljc, is used for powdering-puffs : it is formed also into
beautiful muffs and fur articles, which are both light and
warm.      The feathers of the wings are preferable to those of
the gooae for writing, and for the tubes of painting-brushes.
                                                            Ducks'

                  and the Down      of domestic Fowls.          359
                     Ducks' Down or Feathers.
.  Though the down of common fowls and pigeons is not
neglected in some districts, the palmipedes furnish the prin
cipal part of that consumed in Europe.
   Ducks' feathers arc sufficiently elastic, and sold at a cer
tain price in the ci-dcvaut Normandy, where great numbers
of these birds arc reared. They are used for pillows and
mattresses.
                        Goose Doivn or Feathers.
    The common     goose, and particularly the large species,
which,   since time immemorial, have been subjected to a
state of domesticity, supplies the greater part of the feathers
and down employed in Europe.        It was long believed that
the health of these birds was injured by depriving them of
their feathers ; but if the operation be performed before
moulting, this periodical disease is not followed by any
inconvenience when properly performed, and in such a man
ner as to take from each wing only the down and four or
five feathers.
    When the    youna; birds have attained the age of two
months, they are conducted different times to a piece of
clear water ; thev are then placed on clean straw, in order
that they may become dry ; they are speedily stripped of
their feathers for the firat time, and then a second time at
the commencement of autumn; but with moderation, on
account of the approaching cold, by which they might be
injured.
   Another precaution, which ought always to be known,
is, that when geese arc stripped of their feathers they must
be prevented from goin<; to the water, and made only to
drink, during two days, till their skin becomes firm. They
are then pUickcd      third time, when they are killed, after
                        a
they  have been  fed.  This bird, therefore, which has lived
about nine months, can furnish,        the course of its life,
                                            in
three crops   of
               feathers.
    Theadvantage to be derived from goose feathers       no    is
where to be neglected    they form an important article of
                            :
commerce in Lincolnshire, where they are sold, in down
or in writing-quills, to  considerable amount every year.
                             a
   To neglect the advantage of obtaining once, twice, or
thrice, in the course of year,  a crop of writing quills, and
                                        a
of down for filling beds and pillows, would be to renounce
voluntarily   aconsiderable and certain profit which might
be derived from     numerous breed of geese.
                    a                                It
                                                   estimated
                                                          is
that this product varies with age, and that    mother-goose
                                                   a
                                    Z
                                    4                    gives

360       Experiments and Observations      an Feathers,
gives in general a pound of feathers ; a young one furnishes
always half a pound .
    Geese destined for peopling farm -yards, and which are
what is called old geese, may, indeed, be plucked thrice a
year, without inconvenience, at an interval of seven weeks;
hut young ones before they are subjected to this operation
must have attained to the age of thirteen or fourteen weeks,
and especially those soon destined for the table, because
they would become meagre, and lose their quality.
    The nature of the food contributes very much to the
value of down, and to the strength of feathers : the par
ticular care taken of geese has no less influence.         It has
been remarked, that in places where these birds find a great
deal of water they are not so much subject to vermin, and
 furnish feathers of a better quality.
    There is a sort of maturity in regard to down, which may
be easily discovered, as it then falls of itself : if removed
too soon it will not keep, and is Liable to be attacked by
worms.      Lean geese furnish more than those which are
fat : it is also more esteemed.        Farmers ought never to
suffer feathers to be pulled from geese some time after they
arc dead, for the purpose of being sold ; they generally smell
badly, and become matted : none but those plucked from
living geese, or geese which have been just killed, ought to
be introduced into commerce.        In the fatter case, the geese
must he plucked soon, and in such a manner that the ope
ration may be terminated before they arc entirely cold      : the
feathers arc then much better.
                    Desiccation of   Feathers.
   Whatever he the kind of birds from which feathers are
obtained in the greatest abundance, those principally used
ought to be plucked from a living animal ; and they may
be easily kno%vn, as the barrels, when pressed between the
fingers, emit a bloody liquid. Those plucked after death
are dry, light, and liable to be attacked by insects ; but
feathers and down of the best quality, collected before
moulting, and in the proper season, require, as already ob
served, precautions, in order that they may be preserved in
a good state.    They are always accompanied by a fat lym
phatic  matter,  which   becoming altered would communicate
to   them  an  odour   exceedingly disagreeable.     They must
therefore be subjected to previous desiccation, and exposed
in an oven after the bread has been taken from it. This
desiccation ought even to be carried further when the fea
thers are those of aquatic birds, in consequence of their oily
nature.
                                                           When

                and the Doivn  of domestic Fowls.           361
     When this previous desiccation     has been effected, the
feather*    are conveyed to a dry airy place, where they are
stirred every day. By these means the pith contained in
the barrels is dried ; the greasy and membranous parts of
their surface are dissipated in oust. The quill may then be
kept for centuries : but if these precautions be neglected,
if the quill is not reduced to the state of pure parenchyme,
and if jt contains half-dried juices, it will then become a
prey to insects. In this case it must be bleached in soap
 water, and then washed several times ; a secondary opera
tion, which determines the plastic quality of the quill, and
 occasions a loss.
     What has been said of feathers is applicable to wool : if
 badly scoured, the yolk and fat matters with which it is
 impregnated attract insects; it must then be washed to
 prevent its total destruction, aud be freed from this natural
 fat matter, which is liable to corrupt.
      The matters employed in beds in country houses must
 be put into a hurdle supported by a trestle in the middle of
 a well aired apartment; they must then be stirred and boat
  from time to time with a switch ; exposed often to the open
 air ; to the cold during the fine days of winter, and to the
  sun in the beginning of spring, to remove that kind of in
  sect of the class of the pbalenae which is propagated only
  in the shade, and in a state of repose. Daylight and agita
  tion are means far preferable to the aromatic plants pro
  posed for producing the same effect.
      The process of purification consists in putting into three
   pints of boiling water a pound and a half of alum and as
  much cream ot tartar, which are diluted in twenty-three
   pints more of cold water. The wool is then left immersed in
   this liquor during some days, after which it is washed and
   dried. After this operation it will no longer be subject to
   he attacked by insects.
       The purity of feathers and wool employed for mattresses
   and cushions ought to be considered as a first object of sa
   lubrity.    Animal emanations may, under many circum
   stances, be prejudicial to the health ; but the danger is still
   greater when the wool is impregnated with sweat and the
   excrementitious parts of persons who have experienced putrid
   and contagious diseases. Bed-clothes and the wool or mat
   tresses, therefore, cannot be too often beat, carded, cleaned,
   and washed. This is a caution which cannot be too often
    recommended.
                                                     LXIII.  New

                               [   362   ]
  LXIII.    On rendering Assistance to Persons in Danger           of
                Drowning. By H. LAWSON, Esq.
        MR,
                            To   Mr. Tillock.     '•
   JL AM induced to offer the following remarks by the me
  lancholy circumstance that took place on the 13th instant,
  in consequence of the ice breaking and letting some of the
  ykaiters into the water of the Serpentine river; but more
  especially from the distressing circumstances that attended
  one gentleman, who was ultimately lost, after supporting
  himself near twenty minutes, in the sight of some hundreds
  of spectators, many of whom made -great, though ineffec
  tual, exertions to save him ; in which most probably they
  would have succeeded if they could have procured some
  buoyant body to assist them.
      The above circumstance called up the utmost energies of
  my thought to find if there was no part of a man's dress
  that might be serviceable either to assist the sufferer, or cn»
  able a man of ordinary courage to venture to his relief. In
  deed, even a swimmer will not hastily go near a drowning
  person, let him swim ever so well ; for, with his clothes on,
  he is fully occupied in keeping himself above water, and
 dares not risk being seized in a disadvantageous       position by
 persons   devoid of  all recollection (arising from their  perilous
 situation), and ready to grasp at every thing that comes
 within their reach.      But if the swimmer .could take with
 him into the water any thing that would support from five
 to ten pounds weight, he would be able, perhaps, to render
 assistance without danger to himself.        This desirable object
 seems to me to be attainable by the proper use of a man's
 hat and pocket handkerchief, which (being all the appa
 ratus necessary) is to be used thus : —Spread the handker
 chief on the ground, and place a hat, with the brim down*
 wards, on the middle of the handkerchief; and then tie the
 handkerchief round the hat as you would tie up a bundle,
 keeping the knots as near the centre of the crown of the
 hat as may be. Now by seizing the knots in one hand,
aud keeping the opening of the hat upwards, a person,
without knowing how to swim, may fearlessly plunge into
the water with what may be necessary to save the life of a
fellow-creature.
     The above is the ground-work, and the most ready appli
cation of   the idea ; but, where circumstances and time will
permit,   various  modes may be adopted : as, taking two hats
and tying the two ends of a walking-stick into the knots of
                                                                the

       On rendering Assistance to Persons drowning.          363
the handkerchiefs, and then seizing the stink by the mid
dle ; or, indeed, as many hats may be put on the walking-
stick as it will hold, which will not be less than four, giving
a buoyancy equal to 28 pounds or more, without the risk
Of the hats filling with water.       If, instead of a stick, two
hats were connected together by a handkerchief, the hats
may be used to swim with as boys use cotks.
    As this is the time of year in which most accidents hap
pen of the description which I am trying to avert, I hasten
to give it to the public, that it may get as extensive and
quick a dissemination as possible ; though perhaps, with
more thought, the plan may be capable of improvement.
     One circumstance more I shall beg leave to mention, be
fore I make some general observations. If a person should
 fall out of a boat, or the boat upset by going foul of a cable,
 &c., or he should fall off the quays, or indeed fall into any
 water from which he could not extricate himself, but must
 wait some little time for assistance, had he presence of
 mind enough to whip off his hat and hold it by the brim,
 placing his tinkers within side the crown, and hold it so,
 (top downward!*,)    he would be able by this method to keep
 his mouth well above water till assistance should reach him.
 It often happens that danger is descried long before we are
 involved in the peril, and time enough to prepare some one
 of the afore-mentioned methods ; and a courageous person,
 I am confident, would, ?even instances out of ten, apply
 to them with success ; and travellers in fording rivers at
 unknown fords, or where shallows are deceitful, might
 make use of the first of these methods with advantage.
     By experiments I have made, it appears that a common
  sized hat, such as is now in fashion, will support more than
  ten pounds weight without sinking; but with a weight of
  about seven pounds it would not be liable to fill, even if
  there were a little ripple on the water.      The handkerchief,
  applied as above directed, covering the open part of the hat,
  prevents its being readily filled by the splashing of the water;
  and as it is well known thai the human body is nearly of
  the same specific gravity as water, it must be evident that
  a buoyancy of seven pounds will, if properly managed, keep
  the head sufficiently above the surface till more effectual
  assistance is procured.
 Chancery-lane,
                           l    an», sir, your obedient servant,
   January 15.                                   HENRY LAWSON.
   P. S. Would it not be useful,      if,
                                    at the different receiv-
ing-housef of the Humane   Society,  number of large foot
                                        a
                                                       balls,

           On the Cure  y malignant and epidemical Fevers.
  balls, with a short line and small weight, were kept for
  emergencies, as they might be thrown to a grdat dktancej
  and if one should be caught by the sufferer, it wou!4 be
  fully sufficient to support him til] more effectual assistance
  could be obtained.
      Quere— Have the Humane Society at their receiving-
  houses any marine spencers ? which appear to be better
  adapted for the purpose we have been speaking of, than
  cork jackets.
 LXIV.      Lettrr from   Mr. WILLIAM REID,        Merchant,    in
     Petefhead, in Scotland, respecting a Mode    of  cur'tng ma
     lignant and epidemical Fevers.
 X3v     advice of Mr. James Arbuthnot, in consequence         of
 your answer to my former letter, I shall detail the first dis
covery I made of this new remedy.
     About twenty-seven years ago, a fever, called epidemical,
 was brought into the family by one of my brothers, of which
 he died.     I found I had contracted the fever— so much,
 th.at the veins and arteries of my thighs and legs moved
with violent motion, as do the strings of a harpsichord j
which made me very sick, and almost caused me to faint.
 In farm-houses in the country they have a custom of melt
ing tallow with red-hot tongs to make candles. At the
time above mentioned they were going on with the process;
and the house being small, the smoke reached my bed.             I
found the smell of the burning tallow so grateful to my
senses, that it entirely put a stop to the convulsed state of
my veins, and took away the sickness.        When the process
ceased, I found the complaint returned, though not so vio
lent.     I then rose from my bed, and repeated the process
several times until I found no returns for that night and
next day, and the next day I was able to go some distance
for necessaries for the sick.     It would be too tedious to re
peat all the trials I made; suffice it to say, I never had a
settled fever in my life.    I find that something of this kind
was used in early ages.      If these observations should meet
with your approbation, other particulars shall be sent.
                          I am, with the greatest respect,
                        Your most obedient humble servant,
                                              WILLIAM REID.
                                                    LXV. No-

                                   t    364    3
                LXV.       Notices, respecting new Books.
OIR JOHN SINCLAIR, who                 has long laboured for the benefit
of the community,            has  just issuecf a prospectus of a new
work,      to  be entitled     The    Code of Health and Longevity.
We subjoin a copy of his Sketch of the Plan.
    The medical authors who have hitherto written on health,
have commonly restricted their observations to six general
heads:      l.Air;      2. Diet ; 3. Motion and Rest; 4. Sleeping
and Watching; 5. Retention and Excretion; and, 6. The
Passions of the Mind.              To these they have given the sin
gular name of the six non-naturals, from the idea -that
though, if they were managed with prudence, they might
be entitled to the name of naturals, yet as they are much
oftener abused, and thence are the source of various disor
ders, they are more frequently acting against, than with
nature, and therefore may be properly termed ?ion-nafu-
rals*.       Some authors on health have also gone into the
discussion of what they call non-necessaries^, in which they
include clothing and the professions of life.               But as such a
mode of explaining the doctrines of health and longevity is
in many respects defective and exceptionable, it is not pro
posed to adhere to it upon the present occasion.
     The most natural division of the subject under considera
 tion seems to be, to point out,
      1. The circumstances which necessarily tend to promote
health and longevity, independent of individual attention.
     2. The rules which, if observed by an individual, have
 a tendency to preserve health and existence, even where
these independent circumstances are wanting.                   And,
     3. The regulations by which the general health and safety
of a great community are protected from the various injuries
to which they are likely to be exposed.
                                     PART I.
Circumstances which necessarily tend to promote health and                   •
                                   longevity.
     It will hardly     be disputed,      that   while individuals differ
    *   Lynch's Guide to Health, p. 61 . Mackenzie, in his History of
 Health, Jntrod. p. 4.. gives a different account of the compound word nc,n-
itntitral, which, he says, originated from the jargon of the Peripatetic
 schools.    It was first mentioned by Galen, who divides things relating
to the human body into three classes : Things which are natural to it ;
 Things which are non-natural ; and, Things which are extra-natural
 (Class. 7. lib. de Ocul. Panic, tertia, c. i.) From thjs fanttitical di
 stinction, the epithet non-natural, he says, first arose.
     t Strathcr's &cay on Sickness and Health, p. 44(1
                                                                          «t

  366              Notices respecting new Books.
  so much     from each other tfith regard to a variety of im
  portant particulars, as the climate in which they reside, the
  manner in which they are formed, &c. that there must ne
  cessarily be a material difference with respect to the duration
  of their lives. It is essential therefore, in the first place,
 to ascertain what these particulars are.        It seems to me
 that they may be all comprehended under the following
 general heads :
           1. Form and growth of the individual.
           2. Natural constitution;
           3. Disposition of mind.
          4. Parentage.
          5. Climate.
          6. Education.
           7. Rank in life.
          8. Particular occupation.
          9. Connubial connexion.         And
         10. Sex.
    Where a favourable condition of all, or the greater part'
 of these circumstances occurs, there health and longevity
 may be expected.
    In some particular cases also, it may be proper to remark
 that nature seems to make a fresh effort, and in some mea
 sure to renew the distinctions of youth, and some of the
 circumstances which attend it.
                              PART IT.
      Rules for preserving health and promoting longcrity.
    It is evident, that if men lived uniformly in a healthy
climate, were possessed of strong and vigorous frames>
\veve descended from healthy parents,        were educated in a
hardy and active manner, were possessed of excellent natu
ral dispositions, were placed in respectable situations in life,
were engaged only in healthy occupations, were happily
connected in marriage, &c. &c. there would be little occa
sion tor medical rules. But it is universally known, that
some individuals enjoy only a part of those advantages,
whilst others possess hardly any of them complete. Hence
arises the necessity of attending to those rules which obser
vation and experience have pointed out as l>cing the most
likely to counteract the disadvantages arising from so ma
terial a want as of any of the natural advantages above enu
merated.      These rules relate to
          1.  Air.
         2. Diet.
         3. Digestion,   and its effects.  .
                                                    4. Clothing.
  ^

.
      '   "     '.        Notices respecting      new Books.                 967
              4. Clothing.
f'.     5. Habitation.
        6. Exercise.of the mind.
    K      Exercise of the body.
               7.
        8. Sleep.
        9. Amusements.
       10. Habits.    .-.-
       11. Temper, or disposition.    And
       12. Medicine.
   To which will be. added, several rules of « miscellaneous
nature, concerning the means of alleviating the effects of
the Various accidents to which persons are exposed      toge             ;
ther with observations on the necessity of adhering to Jif-
ftrent rules, according to climate, peculiar occupations, &c.
                                      PART     ITI.
               Regulations for       the health   of   the community.
      It in vain, however, that either nature has formed an
          is
individual tor long life, or that he observes all those rule*
which are necessary for the preservation of health, unless
attention be paid       the government of
                                by              country, lo the
                                                           a
happiness and safety of its subjects. This           point which
                                                             in is
                                                                     a
has seldom been attended to in the manner         which its im
portance deserves.      While the attenlion of lawgivers                      is
unceasingly directed to      variety of less important objects,
                                     a
those regulations on which the safety of the people at large
depends are unfortunately neglected.          Yet what can be
more pernicious than to suffer the climate of country, for       a
instance, to continue noxious to the health of its inhabi
tants, merely for want of drainage, cultivation, and im
provement, when thousands of instances might be adduced
of the advantages which have resulted from the adoption of
 an opposite system       What can be more impolitic than to
                                ?
 permit   unwholesome     provisions  and other articles to be
 sold, without punishing those who thus attempt to injure
 the health, perhaps to destroy the existence, of their fellow-
 creatures      What more dangerous, than to permit public
                I
 amusements of      pernicious nature
                           a              to authorize improper
                                                      ;
 customs      to neglect the education of youth, when the
                ;
 foundation ought to be laid of their future health and
 strength to suffer public institutions to become the semi
                ;
 naries of disease   to disregard the safety of those who are
                            ;
 trained for the public defence; to sanction the sale of noxi
 ous or doubtful medicines       and, above all, to permit the
                                         ;
 least risk of contagious disorders being admitted into                           a
 country,            by
                which its whole population may be affected                    ?

 368     Royal Academy of Belles Lettret, ®c, at Stockholm,
    The police of public health, therefore, is & most impor
tant branch of the proposed inquiry ; and the events which
have recently happened in Spain and at Gibraltar have given
it additional interest. It may be treated of under the fol
 lowing general heads:
           1. Police of climate.
          2. Police of physical education.
          3. Police of diet.
          4. Police of public amusements,
          5. Police of habits and customs.
          6. Police of public institutions.
          7. Police for the health of sailers and soldiers. Aft*V
          8. Police of medicine, and the means of promoting
                its improvement.
                            Conclomon.
    Such is the plan of the intended work, which others might
doubtless have executed with more abilitv, but none with
a more anxious wish that it may prove substantially ser
viceable to the interests of human nature ; or, at any rate,
useful to those who may apply their talents to render the
investigation therein carried on still more complete.
LXVI.       Proceedings   of Learned and Economical Socktirs.
   BOYAL ACADEMY OF BELLES LETTRES, HISTORY, AND
                  ANTIQUITIES, AT STOCKHOLM.
  J. his  academy    has proposed the following as prize subjects
for the year 1*05.
     I. History. —An account of      the administration of the
finances in Sweden during the middle ages. The prize is a
medal    of  26 ducal s.
     II. Inscriptions and emblems. — Sketches for an epitaph;
on king Charles Knutson ; sketches of medals on the in
teresting events which took place in Sweden under the reigns
of Gustavus Adolphus or Charles X. The prize is a gold
medal of the value of 12 ducats.
    III. Antiquities. — A complete collection of the Icelandic
traditions which relate to the history of the north, with an
account of their antiquity and of the authors. The prize is
a gold medal value 15 ducats.
    IV. Philology. —A philosophical comparison between
th« Greek and Roman tragedy and comedy and those of
modem nations.         The prize is a medal of the value of 26
dutats.
                     2                                    BOARD

                       Board of Agriculture.                      369
                     BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.
                 Premiums offered by this Board.
                       [Concluded from p. 275.]
                        Hydraulic Machine.
    A foreign gentleman      offers to give a premium of fifty
          for the plan of a machine, adjudged to be the best
  y the Board of Agriculture, for a supply of water.
fuineas.                                                        It is
proposed    to raise  water continually  from  a rivulet, and effect
its elevation to a hill.
    1 . The rivulet is sixteen feet wide and one foot deep, and
continually flowing a rapid course.
    2. The fall of the rivulet is from a height of twelve feet.
    3. The ascent to which the water must be raised, is 280
feet.
    4. The distance of the fall of the rivulet, from the spot
where the water is intended to be raised, is 1 500 feet.
    5. The drawings exhibited to gain the premium must
be as accurate as possible, with the dimensions set forth,
 in order that the machinery may be constructed therefrom.
Such a drawing of this machine must further have annexed
to it a statement of its mechanic powers, expense of con
 struction, and such other explanations necessary for the
clear comprehension of the whole.
    6. The drawing that gains the premium will be that which
 will prove that its model will, 1st, supply the most water;
 2clly, be of the most simple construction, and not subject
to frequent repairs.
    To be produced on or before the first Tuesday in Febru
 ary, 1805.
    N. B. The first of the general conditions applies to this
premium.
    N. B. In all cases where money is offered, the success
ful candidate may have the value in plate, with a suitable
inscription.
                        General Conditions.
    All candidates are desired to observe that,
    1. The board reserves to itself the power of withholding
any premium, when the communication or communica-,
tions, implement or implements, &c. is, or are, not deemed
sufficiently important to merit the reward.
    2. The MSS. &c. sent in claim of premiums, to remain
the property of the board.
    3. All memoirs, See. sent in claim of premiums, to be
without the name of the author, or any intimation to whom
   Vol. 20. No. 80. Jan. 1805.          2 A                    they

370                      Tavistock Canal.
they belong (except where otherwise directed) , but with a
mark or number, and accompanied by a sealed letter (on
which is to be written the same mark or number), con
taining the name and address of the claimant, and the
certificates ; which sealed Jetter will not be opened, unless
the premium be adjudged       to the MS. &c. bearing that
mark or number. Without the attention of the wnter to
this circumstance, the 'board cannot vote any reward to
such MS. &c.
   Persons sending memoirs, or implemenls, &c. in claim
of premiums, are requested to desire some person to inquire
the determination of the board, within twelve months after
the MS. &c. is delivered.
   In case of no application, the letter, containing the name
and address of the claimant, will be burned.
      LXVII.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                       TAVISTOCK CANAL.
OUCH of our        readers as take an interest in important na
tional works, will not be displeased with some account
which we have procured of the canal lately begun in the
neighbourhood of Tavistock.
    Near this town, and between the river Tavy, which flows
through     it,
              and the Tamar, which forms almost the whole
line of separation between the counties of Devon and Corn
wall,  is
       a     hill called Morwel Down, rising to the height of
about 700 feet above the level of the tide.         Being in the
centre of   a district in which valuable mines both of copper
and tin, but^ principally of the former, have lately been
discovered,     and having on its surface the symptoms of
veins, or, as the Cornish miners call them, lodes, which
will probably yield those metals, plans of piercing through
this mountain have often been proposed       ;  and lately, owing
to the spirited exertions of gentlemen concerned in the
neighbouring mines, seconded          by the concurrence of his
Grace the duke of Bedford, on whose property the whole            is
situated, the scheme has been entered into, and some consi-
oerable progress in its execution already made.
    As the river Tavy    is  not navigable, while the Tamar at
 the foot of the ground proposed to be cut through        isso for
large  vessels,   the idea of opening a  canal from  each   end  of
the proposed tunnel, to make      a   water communication be
tween the interior country and the river, easily sutjeested
        3                                                    itself.

                        Tavistock Canal.                   371
itself.   The undertaking, therefore, embraces two great
objects ; first, to serve the public by forming an easy con
veyance for limestone, coal, ores, slate, and other heavy
articles, which are daily passed along its line ; and, se
condly, to be the means of discovering the treasures at
present concealed in the bowels of this mountain.
    An act of parliament for the navigation was passed in the
summer of 1803, and in the month of August the works
were begun.      From a report of the committee of manage
ment lately made to the general meeting of proprietors,
which has been printed, we find that to complete this un
dertaking, after rising to the proper level from the river
Tamar by an inclined plane, a tunnel about a mile and
three-quarters long must be driven through the hill, and
 that the canal must be carried over a valley at the height of
more than 40 feet; where the navigation will branch off,
 the main part going to the town of Tavistock, and passing
 some copper mines, and the other part reaching to the ex
 tensive slate quarries of Mill Hill.
    Of the great deal of work to be done for the completion
 of this undertaking, the tunnel and the aqueduct are the
 parts attended with the most difficulty.   The former, which
 must be cut through solid rock, can go on only by slow
 degrees ; and the latter will be forwarded nearly in the same
 proportion, as a great part of it will consist of embank
 ment raised with the rubble brought from the tunnel ; the
 excavation of the one thus serving towards the formation
 of ihe other.
    The engineer, Mr. John Taylor, has been able already
 to complete nearly 30O yards of the tunnel ; and by an open
 canal from its northern entrance, he conveys in boats the
 stuff to the valley where he is raising the embankment :
 here, by an inclined railroad, and very simple machinery,
 these boats are made to ascend out of the water over the
 spot where their load is to be thrown, and, being fixed in a
 balanced cradle, the whole is inverted, and thus the rubble
 is instantly discharged into its proper situation.
    The tunnel is worked from each of its ends, and likewise
 from shafts sunk, and which are sinking, upon ils course;
 water from the river Tavy will be turned through the open
 part of the canal, and will be made to fall over very power
 ful wheels for draining the shafts, ventilating the levels,'
 &c. &c.
    The search for minerals has already been attended with
 some success.     The vein or lode worked in a neighbouring
 mine has been traced into the limits of the canal, and near
                              2 A  2                        the

 372.                     Meteoric Stone,
 the end   of the tunnel it has been discovered to contain rich
 copper ore.      The usual means of following this lode are
 employed, and we may doubtless expect to hear that from
 this and the other parts of this curious and interesting un
 dertaking, the proprietors will in time be amply repaid for
  their spirit and enterprise.
                         METEORIC STONE.
     On the 13th of December 1803, between eleven and
 twelve in the forenoon, the inhabitants of the village of
 St. Nicholas, near the small village of Maesing, were
 alarmed by a noise which resembled the report of several
 cannons.      A peasant went out from his house to see what
 was   the   matter ; and looking at the clouds, which became
  dark and.gloomy, he heard a singular hissing in the air,
 and observed something fall on a barn with a loud noise.
  On entering the bam he found a stone which had broken
 the rafters of the roof by its fall, and taking it up found
 that it had the smell of sulphur, and that its heat wasmoce
  than temperate : it weighed three pounds and a quarter.
     There are several instances in Bavaria and Austria of the
 fall of such stones.     On the 20th of November, 1768, one
"fell at Mauerkirchen that weighed 38 pounds : it was of a
  triangular form, and only eight inches in thickness ; it was
 accompanied with the same phenomena in the atmosphere,
  except that it was almost as dark as at midnight, and the
 stone by its fall made a hole in the earth two feet and a half
  in  depth.
     In  the environs of Eichstadt a similar stone fell several
  years ago in the month of January during a severe cold, the
  ground oeing then covered with snow.
     The first-mentioned stone had a thin blackish crust,
  which seemed to be bituminous on the fracture : it was of
  an ash gray colour, earthy, and resembling hardened clay,
  but without any odour. By analysis it contained native
  iron, or iron in the metallic state, which appeared in the
  form of small shining particles ; martial pyrites in small
  bright grains, which when pounded gave a black powder ;
  different flattened masses of a black and dark brown colour,
   which were distinguished by their hardness, and were. ex
   ceedingly bright ; some small grains of a cubical form ;
   and small yellowish transparent leaves or laminaj, with
   glas glanx, which had the appearance of quartz, but which
   was not so hard.      With the microscope there were re
   marked yellowish     white  metallic points, which resembled
   the magnet,    and  which  probably were metallic nickel.
                                                             The

                              Longevity.                       373
    The chemical analysis of 10000 grains         gave
            Iron in the metallic state         -     1800
            Brown oxide of iron                -     2540
            Regulus of nickel       -          -      1350
            Magnesia      -                          3250
            Silex          -                          1000
            The   rest seemed to be sulphur             60
                             LONGEVITY.
    That  instances     of longevity arc not so rare in mo
dern times as is usually imagined, the subjoined list, Col
lected from various sources, is a curious proof, to which          I
beg you may give a place, if you think it will afford any
amusement to your numerous readers.               That I might not
swell it to an inconvenient length, none have been inserted
who have not attained the 130th year, or whose longevity
has not appeared to be well attested.            Many more might,
without doubt, be added, by those who have better oppor
tunities for collecting such accounts. The date affixed to
each name is the year in which each person died, when that
has been ascertained ; or when not, the latest year in which
each is known to have lived.
Year.                         Age.   Year.                     Age.
 1795 David Cameron            130    1772 Mrs. Clum            138
 1 766 John de la Somel        1 30   1 766 Thomas Dobson       1 39
 1 766 George King             130    1785   Mary Cameron       139
 1767 John Taylor              130    1752   William Laland     140
 1 774 William Beatie          130           Countess Desmond 140
 1778 John Watson              130    1770 James Sands         1 40
 1780 Robert Macbride          130    1773  Swarling, a monk 142
 1 780 William Ellis           130    1773   Charles M'Findlay 143
 1 764 Elizabeth Taylor        131    1757  John Effingham      1 44
 1775 Peter Garden             131    1782  Evan Williams      145
 1761 Eliz. Merchant           133    1766  Thomas Winsloe 146
 1772 Mrs. Keith               134    1772  J.C.Drahakenberg    146
 1767 Francis Agne             134   1652   William Mead       148
 1777 John Brookey             1 34  1768 Francis Ccmsir       150
 1 744 Jane Harrison           135   1542 Thomas Newman        152
 1759 James Shcile             136   1635 Thomas Parr          152
 1 768 Catherine Noon          136    1656 James Bowles        152
 1771 Margaret Forster         136          Henry West          162
 1776 John Moriat              136    1648  Thomas Damme       154
 1772          Richardson      13 7   1 762 A Polish peasant   157
 1793          Robertson       137    1797  Joseph Surrington  160
 1757  Wm. Sharpley            138    1668   Wm. Edwards       168
 1768  John M'Donough          138    1670   Henry Jenkins     169
 1770          Fairbrother     138    1782  Louisa Truxo        175
                                 2 A3                            To

374                     Water-Spouts.
    To  these may be added,    a Mulatto man who died in
 1 797,  in Frederick Town, North America, and who was
said to be ISO years old.
    In The County Chronicle, of December 13, 1791j a pa
ragraph was inserted, which stated, that Thomas Cam,
according to the parish register of St. Leonard, Shoreditch,
died the 28th of January, 1588, aged 207 ; but this is an
instance of longevity, so far exceeding any other on record,
that one is disposed to suspect some mistake either in the
register or in the extract.
                       WATER-SPOUTS.
    We are happy in being able to present our readers, in the
present number, with a correct representation of this phae-
 nomenon, copied from nature. As it was not accompanied
 with any circumstances different from what are usual, and
 have often been stated, a particular description is unneces
 sary. It seldom happens, however, that they are seen, as
 in the present instance, by persons competent to make a
 correct drawing.
                                                   METEORO

                                          Meteorology.                                                                              375
                               METEOROLOGICAL             TABLE
                       Bv MB. CAREY,            OF THE              STHAND,
                                     For January        1805.
                         Thermometer.
                                                            DegreesofDrv-
                       ^2 &•          £
                                                                                                    Hygrometer.
                                            Height of
Days of the
                       J-l            O"§) the Barotn.
                                                                                                                         Weather.
                                                            nessby Leslie's
  Month.
                  P      6
                                              Inches.
                               2,     '°'H
                       2*
  Dec. 27               34°    35°    34°    29-59                         4°                                     Cloudy
           28           34     33     30        •72                     6                                         Cloudy-
        89              30     32     25        •92             10                                                Cloudy
           30           34     31     3O     30-18               15                                               Fair
         31             31     32     30     29-94               12                                               Fair
    Jan.                30     32     35        •78                                                               Cloudy
                                                                   6 0 8
        l
                        36     39     36        •88                                                               Rain
           0 5 4 3 2
                        36     38     38     30-02                                                                Cloudy
                        37     42     36     29-98              12                                                Fair
                        39     44     40        •85             10                                                Cloudy
                        4]     45     42                                                                          Small rain
                                                                  4 2 5 8 6 2 4 6 5 O 5 5 3 6 0 4
                                                •98
           7            44     47     40        •78                                                               Rain
                        32     41     31     30-38                                                                Fair
           9 a          34     33     27        •30                                                               Foggy
           10           25     29     28        •05                                                               Foggy
           11           33     32     28     29-66                                                                Cloudy
         13             25     29     37        •4O                                                               Cloudy
         13             39     43.    42     28*98                                                                Fair, with wind
         14             39     43     35     29-16                                                                Fair
         15             33     42     36        •30                                                               Fair
         16             34     45     34        •65                                                               Cloudy
           17           35     46     36        •50                                                               Fair
           18           34     40     34        •72                                                               Fair
           19           38     40     37        •20                                                               Fair
           30           41     45     38     28'96                                                                Rain
           21           32     37     32     29-18                                                                Cloudy, snow
                                                                                                                    at night
         M              33     33     32        •0»                     O                                         Cloudy, snow
                                                                                                                    at night
           23           33     33     33        •28               0                                               Snow-
           84           30     32     31        •61                    5                                          Cloudy
           25           30     35     32        •68               4                                               Cloudy
           £6           29     29     28        •75                    8                                          Cloudy

                                     C    376    ]
                         INDEX         TO   VOL. XX.
 AC4DEMY               of Belles Lettrei,    Bernier,      P. F.    Memoirs of,
      &c. Stockholm,                  368                                       103
 Ac ill, phosphoric. On,              1 60   Berzellus on cerium,               1 54
 Adder stones. On,                      17   Bits of bridles. Patent for, 271
Aerial navigation,                      81   Blasting with gunpowder.          On,
Agriculture.        Board of, 79, 1 78,                                         208
      274, 369; moss lands, 189;            Board of Agriculture,        79, 178,
      Bath Society of,                275                                *74t 369
 Alcohol of sulphur. To prepare,            Books.       New,        78, 1 76, 36;
                                      131   Boring     the earth.    Patent for,
 Alkalii.       Patent for purifying,                                           '91
                                      190   Borneo.        Account of,         332
 Alum.        On,                     269   Botany, 285 ; discoveries in, 304
America. Voyage to the north                Buffingtons patent,                  95
     west coast of,               3, 106
Analysis of cerium,                   155    CaldwtlFs patent,                   95
Analysis of lac,                      350   Canal. Of the Tavistock,           370
Analytical reasoning. On,             193   Carbon.         Affinity of, for clay,
Animals.         Fondness of, for salt,         &c.                  31, 134, 230
                                       98   Carburated sulphur. Properties
Anthropophagi in America,                7      of,                             133
Antiquities,              93, 282, 368      Carey's meteorological table, 96,
Areca-nut trie. On,                  316                            192, 288,375
Arseniate of lead.         Ratio of in      Catoptrical instruments of the an-
     gredients in,                     66      tients.     OR,                   14
Arsenic. To separate, from any              Cement     for building. Indian,   33 1
     metal,                            6y   Ceres.     K. A. and dec. of,      188
Astronomyt                      70, 188     Cerium,     a new metal,
                                                                               155
                                            Chrome.       Pigment from,        266
Barber's patent,                       95   Clasps.       Patent for,          271
Barber on preventing water pipes            Clay. Affinity of, for carbon,
     from freezing,                  209       *'•                  35. «34. *34
Barret's patent,                       95   Clayfidd     s patent,             1 90
Bath Agricultural Society, 275              Cobalt,      To separate from iron
If. IH Jin's
Ban      Hi J voyage,
              »MT*»IT\.J            300
                                    £          and nickel,                       66
Beans, French.           To preserve;       Clouds.       Stones from,        372
                                    220     Coco-nut tree.       On,          316
Bengal. Population of,              339     Concave mirrors described            by
Bennct't patent,                       95      Dee,                              19
                                                                          Copper.

                               INDEX.                                    377
Copper.     To    render hard like     Freezing of •water-pipei.         On
   steel,                        1,9      preventing,                    209
CarreiponJencc.     Patent for, 271    French National Institute,          80
Cow-puck, On, 36, 60, 86, 143,         French Cleans. To preserve,       22O
                                       Fumigatitn.       To prevent the
Cucumbers.      To preserve,    ill
                                236
                                          plague,                        349
Curaudeau     on alum,           269   Furs. Patent for preparing,
Customs     of Indian    nations, 5,                                     271
                                 1 08
                                       Gay-Lussacs aerial voyage from
Dartigues on glass,              259      Paris,                           83
Deaths,                            89  Gealic language.       On,          72
Dtsfontainci on tea,             123   Geography,          3, 93, 185, 279
Dioptrical instruments of tie an-      Germination.      On,             307
    tientt. On,                    14  Ginger. To preserve,              222
Distillation.     Improvement in,      Glass. Antiquity of,         15 ;   on
                           2'9. 329       devitrification of,            259
Dmun. Patent for cleaning, 191;        Glass adders,                       i7
    experiments on,         211,358    Glue.      Patent for making,     191
Drowning persons . To assist,          Godon-Saint-Mcmin on chrome,
                                 362                                     266
Ducki' down.        On,          359    Goose down.      On,             359
                                       Gordon      on   Gealic  and   Greek
 Earthquakes,          89, 184, j8l       languages,                72, 203
Economical So. if ties, 79, 177,        Gregson's    patent,              191
                            373         Gunpowder. On blasting with,
Ed-wards1 s patent,               191                                    208
Eggs.      On preserving,        218    Gupfy's patent,                   271
Eider-down. On,                   2 16
 Electricity of metals.    On,    I2O   Hair. Patent for cleaning,      191   j
 Enamel.     Red, to prepare,   159;       remarks on,                    216
     green,                       268   Harding' s new plantt.     Orbit of,
 Epitabb.      Premium for,       368                                       7°
 E-uerbarft patent,               272   Hatcliett  on lac,
                                                                         350
                                        Hauy on electricity of metals,
 Farey on blasting with gunpow                                            120
     der,                         208   Heathcote'i patent,                95
 Feathers.      Patent for cleaning,    Hcrculaneum     MSS.              179
     191; experiments on, 211,          Herpes cured by vital air,        153
                                        Hindostan      On trees of,       316
                                  35.8
 Fevers, malignant and epidemic.        Hisingcr on cerium,               1
                                                                            54.
     To cure,                     364   History, a prize question,        368
 fire-places. Patent for improv         Hosiery. Patent for,                95
     ing,                         191   Ho-ugbton1! patent,               271
 Flour, to make, without grain.         Hume on ptussiate of copper,
     Patent for,                  27 1                                    142
 Fluids, non-elastu-.     Instrument    Hume's      improved process for
     for equalizing pressure and           making phosphorus,             160
     efflux of,                   289   Hydraulic improvement,              92
                                                                  Hydraulics.

                                   INDEX.
Hydraulics. Patent in, 191 ; pre           Martix't    pomp described, 223 ;
     mium for,                        368     on pump-work,                   2gt
                                           Mathematical studies.         On, 25,
 Icbthyoltgy,                         286                                      '93
 Imperial Academy, Peteriburgh,            Mayer's patent,                     271
                                      276  Mechaiu.      Death of,               89
 Indian custom',                335, 343   Mechanical powers. Patent for,
                          ^
Jnxriftions. Premium for, 368                                                  191
Indium, a new metal,                  164  Medicine,       1 5 3, 2 j6, 2j8, 347
Iran. Mushet on,          ji, 134, 231 ;   Menlz. Society of Arts and Sci
     to separate from cobalt and              ences,                            80
     nickel,                           66  Metals. On electrity of,           1 20
Island.    A   newly discovered, 185       •         New,               154, 162
Ivory. Remarks on,                   217   Meteorology,    96, 191, 281, 288,
Jesse's account of Borneo, 332                                                375
Jussieu's account of a voyage to           Milchill   (Dr.)      on muriate      of
     New Holland,                    300      soda,                             97
                                           Moss land.      To    improve,     189
Knight's improved Woulf's ap              Mouse suckled by a cat,               91
     paratus,                        272  Muriate of sotia. History of, 97
                                           Mushet on iron, &c. 31, 134,
Lot. Experiments on,                 350
Lacroix on mathematics,              193
Lampadius on liquid sulphur,              Nailt. Patent for making,           271
                                     '3»  Natural history, 91, 95;         disco
Language.        Specimen of Indian,         veries in,                       306
     107 ;    on    Gealic, 203 ; on      Navigation.      Notice respecting,
     Greek,                          203                                i8j,  186
Lawson on          assisting   drowning   Nfw     Holland. Voyage to, 300
     persons,                        362  Nitkel. Thenard on,                   63
Learned Societies.          Proceedings   Noon's patent,
                                                                                95
    of>            79> *77>    273. 368
Lectures,                      177, 286   Optics.    Historical     remarks on,
Legumes.       On preserving, 220                                               '4
Uch, salt. Some account of, 98            Osmium,     a new metal,            1 66
Light, a prize question,             276  Oiteoltgy,                          1 11
Lime. Affinity of for carbon,
    &c.                    33, 134,23 1   Pallas.      Table of R. A. and
1,'tuncan   Society,                         dec.                             188
                                     175
Longevity,                     J87,373    Palladium. Wollaston on, 174
                                          Parmeniier on feathers and down,
Malt-kiln.        Improved, 71 ; pa          211, 358 ; on Dutch pro
    tent for,                         95     cesses,                         2 I7
Mammoth bones, where found,               Patquier's patent,                 371
                                     toe  Patents,    List of, 95, 190, 271
Manuscripts. TheHerculaneum,              Pepper trade at     Boinco,        333
                                    179   Philology,     a   prize question,
Manners.        Notice to,          186                                      368
Margrave's patent,                  271   Phosphoric    acid.     On,        160
                                                                          Pba-

                                 INDEX.                                            379
Pbosphorized copper.       To    pre     Silk. Patent for throwing,              spin
  pare,                          159        ning, &c.                271
Phosphorus.      Improved process        Sinclair (Sir jf.) on improving
   to make,                     160         moss lands,              1
                                                                       89
Plague.      Preventive for,    349              <         New work by,
PLititia.    To render malleable,
   76  ;  new  metals in, 162, 168 ;     Small-fox.   Supposed cases of,
   to coat copper vessels with,            after vaccination, 36, 60, 86 ;
                                 a8j       description of, 143 ; compared
Pneumatic     Medicine,   153,   256,      with cow-pock,             236
                         2S8.347         Societies.  Learned, 79, 175,
Pompeia.   Discovery of,      18 1                                i?6i      *73» 368
Poafbkin's process for making            Statistics,                          94, 339
   platina malleable,          76        Steers' s patent,                            191
Printing. Patent for,         a; I       Steevens's instrument              for equa
Prize questions,       276, 368             lizing     pressure    and       efflux    of
Prussiate of copper. On,     142            non-elastic fluids,                       289
Publications, New, 78, 176, 362,         Stoclings.  Patent for,                       95
                                  36S    Stockholm Academy,                           368
Pump-work.       Martin on, 223,         Stones from the clouds,                      372
                                  291    Sulphur, liquid. On,                         131
                                         Surveying. Patent for,                       191
Quillt far -writing.      On,     2 14   Swans' down.    On,                          358
                                         Synthetical     reasoning.      On,          193
Kaine's patent,                   191
Razirs.   Patent for,          95        Tallow,       fumes
                                                                  of,   a    cure for
Reid    on curing epidemic fevers,          fevers,                      364
                                  364    Tanning.        New ingredients for,
Rhinoceros.  On the,              112                                    286
R/jodium, a new metal,            168    Tea.     On,                                 123
          aerial voyage from
Robertson's                              Teeth   of    the rhinoceros       described,
  Riga, 81 ; from Vienna, 82                                                          in
Roman alum,               269            Tennant on new metals found in
Royal Academy,                    373      platina,                162
Royal Institution,                177    Tbenard on nickel,         63
Royal Society,             1 75, 2 73    Thornton   (Dr.) on cow-pock,
Ryan's patent,                    191      36, 143, 236; on pneumatic
                                            medicine,       153,256,258,347;
Sage on hardening copper,         159       on fumigation,                            349
Salt, common.      Effect of, on         Thrashing-machine. Patent for, 95
   cattle,                    10 1       Thread lace. Patent for,       95
Saussure on vegetation,                  Toads    in
                                                   Hones,
                             307                                      95
Scouring. Patent for,        272         Toad- stones,                                7
                                                                                       1
Serpent with two heads,        91        Toplis on mathematical studies,
Sbarpless's patent,           191                                            2S»      '93
Shtep.   Smearing of,         189        Trye on cow-pock,                             60
Sbip-building in India,      337
Silex. Affinity of, for carbon,          Urine.        To   prepare phosphorus
   &c.              3M34»*33               from,                                      161
                                                                               Under

38o                          INDEX.
UnJefJowa's patent,                              'r patent,             271
                                                   glass. Antiquity of,
Vaccination.    On,    36, 60, 86,
                     143, 187, 236      Wollaston on a new metal      found
Vegetation.   Chemical researches         in platina,                    168
   on,                          307    Wool. Patent for cleaning, 191 ;
Viper.   Venom of,          91, 279       remarks on,                   216
Volcanoes.     Eruptions of,    187     Woollen cJotb. Patent for strain
Voyage   of discovery,          300       ing, &c.                        95
Voyage to the north-west coast         Woulfs apparatus improved,
   of America, 3, 1 06; for dis                                         27*
  coveries,                     105     Writing. Patent for,            27 1
                                       Writing quills. On,              2 14
Washing.     Pateat for,        372
Water-proof cloth,               92    Zambeccari's    aerial voyage,     8;
Water-spouts,                   374    Zoology.     Discoveries in,     306
                 END OF THE     TWENTIETH VOLUME.
       Printed ty R. Taylor and Co., Black Hurst Court,  flat Street,

77
   OF


   H bO
"I
«i
>^






i



                      i.rbur.fi.fn.
M*. K.V2SSTH ntTXOTED
                           1,-wty 40,
                              (


   /T Stfcvais's Instrument  jvr c</ua2iun<f
    prftJitrc fr£fflu2~ of iwn-elajtic
So







1993
BOUNd
JUI   3          UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
UMIV. OF MICH.
   LIBRARY     39015035394140

,
