This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com







                                       THE
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
                               COMPREHENDING
         THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                 THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
              AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                                        AND
                                COMMERCE.
                BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY, &C. &C. SfC.
   " Nec aranearum sane ^extus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nec noster
vilior quia cx alienia libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Monk.
                                 VOL.—       XXII. \
                                  L O ND O N:
             Printed by R. Taylor anil Co., 88, Shoe Lan'e, Fleet ,
   And sold by Messrs. Richardson; Cadell and Davies ; Longman,
        Hurst, Rees, and Orme; Stmonds; Murrav; Highlet ;
            Vernor and Hoon ; Harding; London: Bell and
                  Bradfute, Edinburgh; Brash and Reid, and
                        D. NiviN, Glasgow; and Gilbert
                               and Hodges, Dublin.
                                       1805.

  \
227527

                            THE
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
I. Extract of two Letters from Captain Von Krusen-
   Stern, Commander of the Russian Expedition to Japan,
   dated the Harbour of St. Peter and St. Paul, July 19,
   and August 20, 1 804;
Wb arrived here on the 15th of July, and are now ac
tively employed in unlading the ship and taking in ballast;
Agreeably to our original plan, we ought to have proceeded
directly to Japan ; but as it appeared to me impossible that
the business of the embassy could be terminated soon
enough to return in the course of the same year to Kamt-
chatka, as several months would be necessary only for
transporting the presents from Nangasaki to jedo, I re
solved to proceed first to Kamtchatka in order to unload
the vessel there, and then set sail for Japan, where we
otherwise must have remained the whole winter. The dif
ference of two months later could be of little importance
to the embassy j while, on the other hand, if the lading,
respecting the value of which I had formed an improper
idea, as from 1000 to 2000 per cent, may be gained on some
articles, had remained a whole year in the ship, the half
of it at least must have been lost ; for already some of the
articles have been spoiled by dampness. In regard to my
voyage from Brazil to Kamtchatka, which took up five
months and a half, during which, nine days excepted, we
were continually under sail, and which in every respect
was exceedingly fortunate, I intended to have transmitted
to you a complete journal of it ; but as Dr. Espenberg has
told me that he proposes to send you one, and as there is
reason to expect that his information will be more interest
ing than mine, which would contain rather nautical than
historical events, I am happy to think that you will be in
formed by him of every thing that distinguishes our expe
dition from others of a similar kind. The account of our
residence at the island of Nukahivah, respecting the nature
 and inhabitants of which nothing has yet been known in
 Europe, is the only thing new that you can expect. The
   Vol. 22. No. 85. Jtt72i?~1805.    A2            Sandwich!

4                 Russian Expedition to Japan.
'Sandwich islands are too well known for me to regret
 having been prevented by want of time from touching at
 them. The changes, however, which have taken place in
 these islands since the time of Vancouver, and which must
be considerable, will be accurately described by capt. Lisi-
 anski, as he undertook to remain there at least a fortnight.
 It appeared to me of some importance to examine Easter
 Island : the information which Roggewein and La Perouse
 have given us respecting it (for the Spaniards have published
 no account of it) proves that it has experienced great changes.
 I consequently was desirous to ascertain whether the bene
volent views of the French voyage of discovery in regard to
this island had been accomplished, and therefore resolved-
to come to anchor there for some time ; but the strong
north winds rendered this impossible, or at least prevented
us from doing it without considerable loss of time,—a sa-
orifice which in my present situation. I could not venture to
make. Capt. Lisianski, from whom we separated when we
doubled Cape Horn, remained some days in the neighbour
hood of it, hut without coming to anchor, and without
having any communication with the inhabitants, who pro
bably, for want of canoes, of which thev had some in the
time of Cook and of La Perouse, did not come on board.
My passage from this place to Japan will exhibit no variety,
for on account of the lateness of the season I must use as-
much dispatch a3 possible to arrive in proper time at Nan-
gasaki. But, if circumstances permit, I hope that my re
turn from Japan will prove of some benefit to geography.
Journal of the Voyage from Brazil to Kamtchatka ; ex
   tracted from a Letter of Dr. Espenbekg, dated the
   Harbour of Si. Peter and St. Paul, August 24, 1804.
   That we were obliged to remain at the island of St. Ca
tharine from the 21st of December to the 4th of Februaryi
because the Neva stood in need of two masts, is already
known to you. On the 4th of February we hove up ouj
anchors, and as soon as we had got to a sufficient distance,
from the land we directed our course southwards. On the
25th we saw land at a great distance : it proved to be Cape
St. John, the eastern extremity of Staaten Land. This land
is exceedingly high, and in consequence of the great di
stance looked like a cloud. People unacquainted with nau
tical affairs, to which class our naturalists belong, were ex
tremely sorry that the ship did not approach the land. I
myself was at first in the same situation ; but the captain
assured me that ihe winds near the land are very changea

                 Ru&iati Expedition to Japan.                  5
ble, and that gales and calms often take place. In conse
quence of these' calms, vessels are often in danger of being
driven on shore by the currents and breakers, and therefore
it was not advisable without necessity, and merely for the
sake of gratifying curiosity, to run such a hazard. At
Staaten Land the current is remarkably strong. I was told
by the captain of an American ship at St. Catharine, that
he was once carried by the current through the strait of
Le Maire in one night, contrary to his intention, and with
out knowing it. At one time he saw, to his great terror,
the land on both sides ; but not long after he found himself
again in the open sea. If this be true, he was truly for
tunate.
   We did not pass through this strait, but sailed to the
eastward, around Staaten Land. From St. Catharine to
this place nothing remarkable occurred. Between lat. 46°
and 53° south, we saw a great number of whales. One
night the Neva struck against something, which in all pro
bability was a whale. The greatest southern latitude to
which we were obliged to proceed on account of the wind
was 60 degrees. Whether we really doubled Cape Horn,
or not, in the proper sense of the term, I cannot with cer
tainty affirm. On account of the north-west winds, which
blow here so incessantly, and with so much violence, the
captain is of opinion that navigators cannot be sure of con
tinuing their voyage with safety in the ocean till they have
sailed round the whole of Terra del Fuego. It is well known
that capt. Bligh, who advanced so far as 78° west longitude
from Greenwich, was obliged to return and steer for the
Cape of Good Hope, in order to reach the Sandwich islands.
On the 20th of March we were opposite to Cape Victoria
and the Straits of Magellan. Cape Horn is not entirely
undeserving of its bad name : it was stormy enough, and
the land very high. How often we experienced storms I
cannot exactly sav. The eye becomes accustomed to heavy
seas, and, by habit, the howling of the winds ceases to excite
alarm. During these storms the heavens were filled with
clouds ; in the course of one of them we were separated
from the Neva, and did not see her again till we reached
the Marquesas, where she arrived three days after us. The
captain intended to remain some days at anchor at Easter
Island, but the wind prevented us ; and, as we had resolved
to proceed first to Kamtchatka, he was unwilling to lose
time to no purpose. We therefore directed our . course to
the Marquesas.
   On the 6th of May, early in the morning, we saw Hood's
 <U+25BA>                           A3                        Island,

6                Russian Expedition to Japan.
Island, discovered by Cook : towards noon we came in sight
ot the island called by Hergest Rious Island, which belongs
to the group of the New Marquesas, and which Ingrahani,
an American, the first discoverer, called Washington's
Island, and Marchapd, 3 month later, Isle de la Revolu
tion. The largest, of all these islands, that to which we
properly steered, and which by Marchand is called Isle
IBanx, but in the language of the natives Nukahiva, we
 sasv towards evening.
     On the 7th, at noon, we were pretty near to the,sbqre.
 Our expectation was on the stretch as we approached it,
but no canoe appeared ; which was rather a disappointment,
 as, according to the accounts of all navigators, these islan
 ders yenture a great way out to sea. The captain suspected
 that the master of some American ship must have behaved
ill to the natives, and that this might serve to account for
 their timidity. At length two boats were dispatched tp ex
 plore the bay of Anna Maria, so called by Hergest. When
 these boats were about a verst distant from us, we ob
 served a canoe making towards them. Our expectation was
 now at its height : we saw the canoe approach the first boat,
 and in a few minutes both of them rowed off together : our
 boat proceeded forwards, and the canoe, which steered for
 the ship, approached the second boat, We could now plainly
  perceive that all the people in it were naked : one of them,
  who was of a somewhat lighter colour, we took to be their
  phief or kipg ; for we are told by navigators that the higher
  ranks have a whiter colour. This person stepped into our
  boat, and the crew of our ship all exclaimed, (l The king !
  the king !" The boat and the canoe then both rowed to
  wards the ship. We now observed something in the water
  near the canoe, which we at first believed to be an islander
  swimming ; for we knew from hooks of voyages that they
  are very expert at this exercise. " A man swimming ! a
  man swimming !" was repeated both in Russian and Geri
  map. All hurried to the head of the ship, and one climbed
  up on the shoulders of another. On their nearer approach
  we discovered to our regret that the excellent swimmer who
  had afforded us so much satisfaction was an outrigger or
   cross pole placed, over the - canpe, which was not above a
   foot jn breadth, to defend it from being injured by the
   rocks,. When the islanders, got close to the ship, the light-
   coloured person climbed up, and, to our astonishment, ad
   dressed us in English- We soon found that he was an
   Englishman, who had alreadv spent five years in the island;
           ',¦f-. entirelv
   he was almost       , - nake,d,
                            .            W onlv
                                    having                girdle,
                                             : . a narrow V

                   Russian Expediiio?i to Japan.              7
tied Tound his middle, and was tatooed on the breast. The
canoe rowed past the ship, and the men addressed to us a
kind of speech. The index finger of their right hand was
always stretched out, and they moved it towards us nearly
in the same manner as when a person threatens. Mr. Ro
berts, for such was the Englishman's name, informed us
that this motion was an assurance of friendship.
- At length one of the natives in the canoe took courage
 and clambered up the swle of the ship : he was the king's
 brother. He was exceedingly timid : sat down at the Eng
 lishman's feet, grasped one of his legs, looked round with
 great fear, and pressed his face, as if ashamed, against the
 back part of the Englishman's thigh. He was followed by
 another. We endeavoured to inspire him with courage ;
 patted him, and called him our tayo. We firmly believed
 that this word signified friend ; but this is not the case,
 M. Fleurieu, the editpr of Marchand's Voyage, must there
 fore pardon me for suspecting that he copied the following
 passage,— Vbus etes nos amis, et vous nous tuez, from Bou
 gainville. Their attention was much attracted by our fowls,
 and some small papajays from Brazil : they squatted down,
 before them and stared at them with their mouths wide
 open. These people have limbs remarkably pliable. Very
  old men will often sit down on the ground without ever
  assisting themselves in the least with their hands. They
 do not stretch out their legs when they sit, but squat down
  with their knees bent like young children. This may be in
  some measure owing to the frequent use of coco-nut oil,
  with which they besmear their skin to keep it soft and
  pliable.
     Towards noon-we came to anchor in Anna Maria Bay, at
  the distance of about a verst from the nearest shore ; which,
  however, was only a barren rock. The shore on the other
  side, which was about two versts distant, was covered with
  beautiful trees, and exhibited a most charming prospect,
   especially to people who for thirteen weeks had not seen
   land ; for the view of Gape St. John scarcely deserves to
   be mentioned. We now saw two groups which had the
   appearance of water fowl, not far from the inhabited part
   of the coast. As they approached us we perceived them
   to be natives ; and among them were some small children,
   who sometimes laid hold of their stronger neighbours with
   one hand, again let them go, and' continued swimming
   alone.- They surrounded the ship, and their number gra
   dually increased till the whole place swarmed with them,
   They seemed highly gratified, kept continually laughing,
                                A4                          ani

8                Russian Expedition to Japan.
and did ever)' thing in their power, by gestures and tricks
 of every kind, to attract our attention. They threw them
 selves into all sorts of postures, lay sometimes on one side
 and sometimes on their back, elevated their legs, &c. The
 women in this respect did not yield to the men ; and the
 object of their pantomime might easily be comprehended.
 When a piece of a coco-nut was thrown at them from the
 ship, or when any of the sailors spat down upon one of
 them, the astonished savage immediately became an object
 of laughter to the rest. The natives brought us coco-nuts,
 bread-fruit, and bananas. The two latter articles, at this
 season of the year, were scarce. When any of them had
 obtained, as the price of their wares, a small piece of iron,
 or an old nail, they burst out into an immoderate fit of
 laughter; the reason of which, as appeared, was, that they
 thought we had been most egregiously cheated. When
 they received nails from us, they stuck them into the laps
 of their ears, the holes in which were so susceptible of ex
 tension, that they did not seem to be incommoded by a
 large rusty nail. Mr. Roberts told us that there was a
 Frenchman in the island ; but he cautioned us against him,
 as a man of a very bad character.
     While we lay at anchor the king or chief of the bay,
 Tapeka Ketenue, came to us in a canoe, and among his
  retinue was the Frenchman. As I do not understand
 English, I was extremely glad; but this Frenchman had so
  much forgotten his mother tongue, 'that he was become a
  real savage. All that he was able to say was,— Out moi
  leaucoup Frangois, Jimericanish ship, ah' dansons la Car
  magnole ! He would then laugh like a native of Nukahiva,
  to whom he had a great resemblance, as not onlv- his body
  but the greater part of his face was tatooed. He understood
  English pretty well, as he had been accustomed to converse
  with the Englishman in this language. He told us, that
  he had come to the Marquesas in an American ship ; that
  this ship had been on the whale fishery ; and that from the
  whales coco-nut oil was obtained. The person called by
  the Englishman the king, though that title did not seem
  at all suited to him, was a man of about forty or fifty
  years of age, tatooed over his whole body, except on the
  palms of the hands and the soles of the feet : he viewed his
  corpulent person with ereat satisfaction in the captain's
  looking-glass, and was nighly delighted with the presents
  which he received.
     Next day, the 8th, we went on shore : we were all armed ;
  and the sailors, who had muskets, pistols, and sabres, kept
           6                                               the

                .Russian Expedition to Japan.               9
the natives in awe. Having landed with great difficulty,
on account of the strong surf, the people surrounded us
with every token of joy : they ran round us singing and
dancing, while Ketenue's paternal uncle, who, however,
was always called his father, kept them in order with a
long pole, but without ever striking any of them. We
entered Ketenue's house and saw his whole family, con
sisting of his wife and daughters. He then conducted us
into another house adjacent, but as it was iaalooed none
of the natives durst follow' us. The place on which this
house stood was elevated, and paved with stones. We here
remained unmolested, and were regaled with the kernel of
the coco-nut, and had some of the liquor to drink. Ke-
tcnue often paid -us a visit, and always received a present:
but the natives set so much value on their swine that we
could obtain from them only five, which were all of a small
size.
   On the 9th we received information that a ship was in
sight; and on the 10th the Neva arrived. On the 13th a
large body of us, for wc were accompanied by some of the
crew of the' Neva, went on shore well armed ; and after
viewing the morai, which is here called wahitaaboo, we
paid a visit to Roberts and Kctcnue. By an accident I lost
a great many of my papers, among which were three sheets
respecting Nukahiva. This, I know, is no serious loss ;
but I must make an apology for presenting you only with
fragments.                                                ' '
    I cannot comprehend why the beauty of the women of
 the Marquesas has been so much extolled. In regard to
the face in general, 1 shall say nothing; but their persons
 are altogether ugly. They are, small, and of low stature:
 their arms are proportionally thin, and the lower extremities
 thick and clumsy. When a female has aitained to the full
 growth, that is to say, the age of fourteen or fifteen, her
 breasts are quite flaccid, and hang down. Children of the
 age of nine or ten came on hoard our ship, manv of whom
 were married. All those who came on board were quite
 naked. Some of them had a cord tied round their middle,
 from which were suspended two leaves, one before and the
 other behind. On shore we saw several who had fastened
 round them a piece of cloth made from the bark of the paper
 mulberry tree; and others were painted yellow with the
 juice of the Curcuma root. They were not much tatooed,
 and only on the arms and shoulders, with some transverse
 strokes above the lips.
    The males "are very fine men, of a good stature, and have
                                                          well

 IO               Russian Expedition to Japan.
 well proportioned limbs. Though they do not exhibit pro
 minent and athletic muscles, and their arms are rather like
 those of a well made woman, they gave proofs of very great
 strength. They ornament themselves in the most romantic
 manner. Many of them have a circle of feathers around
 their head, or of swine's teeth strung on a cord, on their
 toes and fingers; feathers, or small bunches of human hair,
 and other kinds of ornaments, around their neck. Most of
 them are more or less tatooed. The figures are regular, and
 have each a determinate name r some of them are attended
 with particular privileges; thus, for example, the Englishman
 had a figure on his breast which gave him a right, on certain
 festivals, to form part of Ketenue's suite. Those who have
 not this mark are not entitled to receive any pork. Some
 of the officers and most of the sailors on board our ship
 caused themselves to be tatooed. The natives, for the most
 part, go entirely naked.
   Their chief food is the bread-fruit, which to me did not
 appear to be very savoury : but it was then unripe, and not
in season. The tree has a good deal of similarity to the
 wild chesnut tree. They eat also bananas, coco-nuts, yams,
 pork, fish, and even human flesh. However incredulous
I was in regard to the last point, it is certain that these
people, who according to every appearance are so friendly
and so mild, are real cannibals. The Englishman, and
afterwards the Frenchman, who certainly had not entered
into an agreement to deceive us, concurred fully in their ac
counts of this circumstance. We have several sculls, two
of which I purchased, which were those of enemies whom
they had defeated in battle and afterwards eaten. Some
years, when the bread-fruit is scarce, a famine takes place:
and on such occasions many of them kill their wives or
children, and eat them; others undertake a warlike expedi
tion against the enemy ; that is to say, several of them
creep imperceptibly in the night-time to the neighbourhood
of the houses of the enemy, or conceal themselves behind
trees or among the grass, and as soon as they discover any
of the enemy, whether men, women, or children, they
immediately attack them, carry them oft", and devour them.
Even when there is no scarcity, their expeditions against
the enemy are continued, partly because they delight in
them, and partly because they consider human flesh as a
great delicacy, and prefer it to that of their hogs. They
light also battles in which «ne party is regularly pitched
against another. Their weapons are slings, lances, and
uiubs. The (.wo last are made of casuarino woqd ; one of
          '                                              these

                 Russian Expedition to' Japan.               ¦ 31
these clubs I have in my possession. As soon as a couple
of the enemy have fallen, the battle immediately ceases,
because something: has been obtained to eat. The Enojisb-
man, Roberts, cautioned us not to place any confidence in
these islanders ; to be always on our guard, and, when any
of them offended us, to shoot them immediately : he assured
us that this would produce no bad consequences, and that
the rest would give themselves no trouble about it. Such
are the islanders of the South Seas, so celebrated for their
mildness and humanity ! On the most friendly of these
islands they are no better ; and Cook, after being massa
cred, was publicly eaten by the natives of the Sandwich
isles : nothing is clearer, notwithstanding the pains which
capt. King and M. Fleurieu have taken to contradict it. It
is mere folly to consider the man of nature, as he is called,
as better and more benevolent than the man who has been
civilized. Fortunately we had no disagreeable disputes with
them. They feared us on account of our fire-arms, and
considered us as atuas, or gods. None of them were ever
 struck by our shot, though we sometimes fired muskets or
 some of our cannon in the night-time, to frighten those
 whom we heard swimming around us, and to prevent them
 from injuring our cable.
    These islanders spend their time properly in a state of
 indolence, and employ themselves only in dancing or or
 namenting their persons. When any of them set about
 making tackle for catching fish, a girdle, or club, the work
 js speedily completed. On the whole, none of them, pro
 perly speaking, have any particular occupation. When we
 gave any of them work to perform, it was a kind of festival
 to them. They dragged away for us the wood which wc
 had cut down ; but they were most useful to us in filling
  our water casks. I do not know how other navigators
  could convey, without their assistance, large casks through
  the violent breakers ; but it required five or six of our sailors
  to accomplish what one of these natives could do seemingly
  in sport. When a large wave came and threatened to dash
  the cask and man to pieces on the shore, the latter dived
  into the water, forcing down the cask along with him, so
  that the wave passed over both ; after which the islander
  swam on quietly as before : on the approach of the next
  wave he did the same; and before we could believe it pos
  sible he arrived with the cask at our boat. The piece of
  iron which he obtained as a reward for this service he
  showed with a great deal of laughter to his companions
  .Standing on the shore, who then burst out into loud laughter
             1           ' ,                                   also.

 12               Russian Expedition to Japart.
 also. They are remarkably fond of dancing, which forms
 the principal part of all their festivals. The most essential
 part of their dancing consists in a quivering motion of the
 hands : it is not disagreeable, and has in it something sin
 gular, which to me at least was new. Their music consists
 in beating in time with the right hand on the left arm. The
 sound was much louder than we were able to produce in
 the same manner. When they sing, they clap their hands
 in time in such a manner that the fingers cross each other
 and produce a full lone. A drum made of fish-skin was
 used also on these dancing festivals.
    Their morals are of a piece with the rest. Parents and
 husbands sent their daughters and wives on board our ship
 to display their charms ; and a piece of iron or a nail was
 sufficient to remove all their scruples. Those who have
 wives keep also a fire-maker, because this business is some
 what laborious. This fire-maker is the woman's second
 husband, and he pays great attention to her because his own
interest is interwoven with hers. I was told afterwards by
the Frenchman that the men are very jealous. This seems
to be a contradiction, but it may nevertheless be explained.
   Their expertness in swimming is really wonderful.
Many of them swam off early in the morning to the ship,
with their forenoon's repast, consisting of coco-nuts, which
they ate in the water, and returned on shore late in the
evening. Others had both their hands full of different arti
cles, which they wished to barter with us, or which thev
had procured from us. These they held up, and swam for
several hours merely with their feet. Some of them, for
the greater convenience, had a piece of hoard with them.
This board they held before them, and suffered themselves
to be driven on shore by the surf: however dangerous this
experiment may appear, none of them ever experienced any
hurt by it.
   Taaboo is the magic word here, in which are comprehended
all their religious, political, and moral laws. But a clearer
idea of the importance of this word will be conveyed bv a
few examples. When one says that this or that place is
dedicated to the spirit of his father, the spirit Atua inhabits
the place, and no person dares to pass over it ; it is taaboo.
When a person gives' his name to a tree or to any other
man, the tree or man is taaboo to all others : the spirit
resides in both. In all the houses the place set apart for
eating is taaboo to the women ; and when any of the na
tives have got any thing which thev are desirous to eat un
molested, they sit down iu the place which is taaboo*
                                                       Swine's
                                  \

                 Russian Expedition to Japan.
Swine's flesh is taaboo to the women; but they eat human
flesh when it is given to them. Ketenue and his whole fa
mily were taaboo : those who bore Ketenue's name were'
taaboo. The case was the same with the Englishman ; so
that no one durst do him any hurt. There is a particular
ceremony by which people can make themselves taaboo. It
consists in binding feathers around the head, dancing and
singing, and declaring that they desire to have Ketenue's
name. While this ceremony lasts, they are safe from all
harm. One day it was taaboo for all the islanders to come
on board the ship, those only who brought hogs to the
ship were excepted. Those who break taaboo wilibe eaten
on the first opportunity by the enemy. This they so firmlv
believe, that it keeps them in order. When it is discovered
that any one has broken taaboo, he must make atonement
for his fault by giving presents, such as hogs, &c. which
the priest applies to his own use ; or he is deprived of his
land: if he has nothing, he becomes kikino; he is then
unprotected, and always in danger of being eaten by the
enemy.
   Tapeka Ketenue is said to possess a great deal of land ;
he docs not go to war, but there is nothing to prevent him
if he chooses it. In times of scarcity he maintains a great
many of the natives ; for, as he possesses abundance of bread
fruit trees, he has large pits filled with fermented bread
fruit, which in this state will keep a long time. I cannot
say much in favour of this kind of food ; it has a disgust
ing sour smell, similar to that of fermenting wheat used
for manufacturing starch. He has no power to command
 any person, but he and his family are taaboo ; and as he is
 able to give maintenance to a great many, for the sea be
 longs to him, and all those who fish in it must bring him
 part ofwhat they catch, he is still an important personage.
 He has also several houses. Roberts, who was well esta
 blished, had received from him a house with coco-nut and
 bread-fruit trees.
                         [To be continued.]
                                                     II. Some

II. Some Account of a terrible Hurricane which legan to
   Hie Windward of the Carillee Islands on the 3d of' Sep
   tember 1804, and proceeded North- westwardly over the
   Virgin Islands and Bahamas on the 4th, 5th, and 6tk,
   until it reached Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina, o?i
   the 7th, 8th, and gth ; and of' a furious Gale from the
   North-east which prevailed at the Same time, and pro
   ceeded South-westwardly until it met the former : show
   ing that Storms of the most destructive Violence some
   times arise to Windward, and bear down every Thing be
  fore them in their Passage to Leewardi
                        To Mr. Tilloch.
     DEAR SIR,.                          New York, April 2, 1805.-
X inclose you a copy of my letter to baron Humboldt on
the hurricane of September 1 804. It is intended to furnish
facts for a more satisfactory theory of the American winds
than we possess at present. My situation at Washington,
the seat of our national government, and the great amount
qf ship news contained in our gazettes, have enahled me to
make the collection of facts very extensive.
                           Yours truly and respectfully,
                                     Samuel L. Mitchill.
   Mr. Volney, when he was in North America, sought
information concerning its atmosphere, with an intention
of forming a theory of the winds prevalent in the territory
of the United States. At that time I was not able to furnish
any facts worthy to be communicated to that able observer.
Since his return to Europe I have had an excellent oppor
tunity to collect the facts afforded by a most violent snow
storm from the north-east, on the 21st, 22d, and 23d days
of February 1802. These were published in the first Hex-
ade,. vol. v. p. 465, of the Medical Repository. From that
inquiry it appeared that our most boisterous winter storms,
accompanied with snow and a north-east wind, began to
leeward, and progressed to windward from South Carolina to
Maine, at the rate of about one hundred miles in an hour.
   Since that collection of facts was printed, Mr. Volney
has given to the public " his Picture of the Climate and
Soil of the United States," in two octavo volumes, at Paris,
in 1 803. In the ninth chapter of this work he has ven
tured to give " a system of the winds within the United
States." Herein he has treated of the winds from the
north, north-east, and east; from the south-east and south;
                                                           from

           Account of a Hurricane in the West Indies.        13
  from the south-west ; and from the north-west, in distinct
  sections. But finding there are some considerations in my
  piece on the gale of February 1802 which 'are not contained
  HI his treatise upon our north-east wind, I take the present
  opportunity of inscribing it to you. In his short essay upon
' the south-east wind he closes his observations, for want of
  more facts, not choosing to supply their place by conjec
  ture. I believe that, by reason of a hurricane which lately
  happened in the southern latitudes, bordering on'eountries
  in North and South America which you have visited, it is
  now in my power to communicate to you some additional
  facts on the south-east wind of the western hemisphere,
  and some very important information relative to its north
  east and east winds.
     Between the 3d and 9th of September 1804, there oc
  curred in the Caribbee Islands, in the Bahamas, on the
  ocean to the north-east of these, and on the coasts of Flo
  rida, Georgia, and South Caroliua, one of the most de
  structive storms that had ever faged within the memory of
  man. The agitation of the atmosphere and of the sea was
  so dreadful as to overwhelm and destroy an uncommon
  number of vessels, cargoes, and crews, both on the ocean
  and in port, and also to work great damage on shore. A
  current from the south-east swept all before it in its pro
  gress from the Caribbees. It had, however, various turn
  ings, whirlings, and eddies, blowing in the most opposite
  directions, and veering almost all round the compass. An
  other current from the north-east met the former in about
  the latitude of Charleston or Beaufort, The two streams
  formed for a while an east wind, which continued until the
  south-east gale triumphed by its superior force. This con
  flict of the winds was accompanied by torrents of rain, bv
  a retardation of the Gulf Stream, and by such an accumuV
  lationjof water in the curvature of the coast between Florida
  and North Carolina, as to lay a great portion of the low
  shores and islands of Georgia and South Carolina under
  water. This storm, unlike the former one which I de
  scribed, began to windward, and by violent propulsive force
  worked its way to leeward. I have reduced to something
  like method, the relations and facts as stated by navigators,
  and gathered from cotemporaneous publications.
     A gale or hurricane of this sort happened in September
   1782, as far north as lat. 42° 15', and in long. 48° 55'. It
  began on the 16th, and destroyed many English ships, be
  longing to a fleet of ninety sail, then off the hanks of New
  foundland, and bound homewards from Jamaica. It began
   .: *                                                       at

   16                Account of a Hurricane
  at east-south-east on that day, and prevailed with greater
  violence than was ever before known on that part of the
  ocean, until about three o'clock the next morning, when,
  without the least warning, it shifted in an instant, and blew
  with such fury from north-north-west, that the oldest sea
  man in the fleet had never seen the like. The Ramillies,
  the Centaur, L'Hector, the Ville de Paris, and many other
  ships, the spoils of Rodney's victory in the West Indies,
  all perished.
     The particular accounts will be given under distinct heads,
  classing the occurrences according to their appearance.
     1st, In the Caribbce Islands.—On the 3d of September
 there was a hard gale at Martinique, so as to make vessels
  quit their anchors, drive ashore, Sec. A number of vessels
 were driven ashore at St. Croix. Of thirty-two sail at St.
'Bartholomew's, only two rode it out. At St. Pierre's
  (Martinique), Mr. J. Anderson stated the wind to have been
 from the north-west and west-north-west. At St. Bartho
 lomew's it began from the north-west, then blew from
 north, and at last got round to the south-west. On the
 3d, 4th, and 5th of September, capt. Henry, on a voyage
 from Point-Petre to Philadelphia, was obliged to lie-to under
 Deseada for fifty-six hours., The gale was heavy, with rain
 and thick weather.
    Captain Jones related that at Point-Petre there was, on
 the 4th of September, the most dreadful gale known for
 twenty years. There happened to be no vessels at Basse
 terre. But at Dominique every vessel had been lost.
    On the 4th of September two brigs, commanded by cap
 tains Lovell and Glazier, were driven out of their ports ;
 one at St. Croix, and the other at St. Thomas. The gale
 was so violent as to make them slip their cables with the
 loss of their best bowers. It lasted thirty-six hours, and
 was as severe as any ever recollected. At St. Thomas thirty
 sail were driven on shore.
    Capt. Smith sailed from Demarara on the 21st of Au
gust, bound for New York. He was overtaken by the hur
ricane on the 4th of September. It blew from the south
ward and eastward. After being thrown on his beam ends,
and losing his foremast and bowsprit, she was rendered so
leaky as to be abandoned on the 8th as a wreck.
    Capt. Boardman, on his passage from Guadaloupe to
Newbury Port, experienced the gale from the 4th to the
7th of September. Capt. Day, on his passage from Ber-
feice to the same place, was overtaken by the gale to the
leeward of Tobago.
                                                          Capt.

               in the West Indies in Sept. 1 804.           17
   Capt. Mountfort, from Demarara, gave information that
the hurricane had not been felt there. Capt. Wood declared
the like of Grenada.
   The gale commenced at St. Thomas on the 4th of Sep
tember, in the afternoon, and lasted three days. During
this time it destroyed forty-two sail of vessels. Accounts
from the windward stated that the British packet from Fal
mouth to Barbadoes had been lost. Guadeloupe, St. Bar
tholomew's (where thirty sail were driven on shore), Tor-
tola, St. Kitts, Antigua (four sail driven on shore, a packet
foundered at anchor, and much damage done to estates in
the mountains), Eustatia, St. Martin's ; and, in short, all
the Caribbee Islands experienced a like fate, with the loss
of many vessels, and much other property. There were
four wrecks at Anegado.
    At St. Kitts the hurricane began on the afternoon of the
 3d of September. It blew at first from the north and north- -
west. On the 4th it shifted to the south-west, and changed
frequently to the south, blowing with equal fury in all these
 directions. It was reckoned to be nearly as fatal in its ef
 fects, to shipping and to property on shore, as the ever-
 memorable one in 1 772, and of much longer duration. The
 quantity, of rain which fell was great and sudden, so as al
 most to deluge the mountains.
    2d, In the Bahama Islands.—The gale was experienced
 at Turks Islands on the 4th of September. It prevailed in
 the Bahamas with extreme violence. No severer one was
 ever known. At Turks Islands all the vessels ran ashore
 except two, which put to sea. ^Most of them were totally
 lost. Capt. Rhodes, who put to sea, returned thither on
 the third day after, having sustained no other damage than
 •the loss of one of his boats. The sea had broken into the
  salt-ponds, injured the dykes and canals, and melted large
  parcels of the salt in stacks.
     But capt. Waitc informed us that the gale was severely felt
  at Nassau, in New Providence, on the 5th and Cth of Sep
  tember. About thirty sail .of small craft were driven on
  shore, but not much damage done to square-rigged vessels.
  Capt. Bakus, who was on his passage from Ragged Island
  to New Providence, experienced the gale on the 7th. The
  wind came first from north-east, then hauled to the west,
 'and afterwards blew north-north-west, and then west again.
     3d, On the Atlantic Ocean, to the North-east and North
  of the Bahamas.—Capt. Johnson encountered the gale on
  the 6th of September, in lat. 31° 5', and long. 8,1°. It first
  blew from the north-east, and from that veered- to west-
     Vol. ee. No. 65. June ;8d3.      B                  south

  18                 Account of a Hurricane
  south-west, north-west, and south-west. It was terribly
  furious, so as to damage his figging very much, loosen his
  masts, and render his ship veryleaky.
     Capt. King, from Demarara, was invaded by the gale on
  the evening of the 6th, in lal. 21° 5l', and his vessel waa
 thrown on her beam ends. He was forced to cut away he*
 main-mast.i Lost a man, who waa washed overboard.
     Capt. Messroon took the gale in the Golf Stream, lat.
 20°, on the 6th of September. The wind was then east-
 north-east, and continued so until the 7th, then it shifted
 to south-east. It was very severe, though he escaped with
 out materia] damage.
     In lat. 22°, long. 64", capt. Beard was wrecked m the
 gale. It began on the 3d of September, continued during
 the 4th, anddid not end before the 5th. He and his dew
 were taken off" the wreck on the gih.
    On the 7th, 8th, and gth of September, capt. Jenne,
 bound from Kingston, in Jamaica, to Baltimore, suffered
 a tremendous gale in lat. 33°, long. 74". The wind varied
 between north-east anil south-east.
    Capt. Mood, on a voyage from Alexandria (Virginia),
 to St. Mary's (Georgia), was, on the night of the 7th, in
 the Gulf Stream, to the eastward of Charlston : the wind
 there was east-north-east, and so hard as to throw his vessel
 on her beam ends. She lay several hoars in this situation.
 Several of his crew were washed overboard.
    Capt. Miller, on a Voyage from Martha-Brae, in Jamaica,
oound for Wilmington (North Carolina), experienced the
same gale the same night, on the inner edge of the Gulf
Stream. It was so violent as to heave his vessel on her side
as she was lying-to under her jib, to unstep her masts, and >
to tear up her deck. In this forlorn condition the crew were
fortunate enough to »ave themselves by gettting on board
another vessel.
    Capt. Andrews, on his way from Charlston to Nassau
 (New Providence) , encountered the most formidable part of
the gale on the night of the 7th of September, in lat. 26",
long. 77°- She was thrown on her beam ends, her boom
broken to pieces, her main-topsail and rigging carried away,
and two men washed^ overboard.
    The brig Augusta was on her passage from Savannah to ;
New York when the gale began. She had sailed on the
31st of August, and had progressed no further than the
Frying-pan Shoals, off Cape Fear, on September 7th. Being
there exposed to its vehemence, they stood off shore as long
as she could carry sail j but at half past two P. M. they were
                                                . .    obliged
                            !

               in the West Indies in Sept. 1804.             19
 obliged to lie-to. The weather was turbulent all the night.
 On the morning of the 8th the rage of the storm was ex
 cessive, beyond what any person on board had ever expe
 rienced. It increased until two P. M., and continued all
 night with unabated fury. At day-light on the <Hh she
 was about three and one-half leagues from the breakers on
 the Roman shoals at Cape Carteret. They were lucky
 enough to escape these, and, to arrive about noon at
 Charleston bar, which was one continued breaker, so that
 no pilot could get out. They were forced to cast anchor
on a lee shore, and with the help of two cables and anchors
rode it out until the 10th, when she got into Charleston.
 Capt. Davidson, of this vessel, related, that in the fore part
of the 7th, before the gale began, he plainly saw a brilliant
star in the zenith.
   4th, In the Latitudes South of the Bahamas.—Capt. Jag-
fart, who left Jeremie, in St. Domingo, on the 14th of
  eptember, declared, that the gale was not felt or known
at that place at all. The captain of a Spanish schooner
from Matanzes said, the gale was felt there, but not much
damage done.
   The British armed ships Theseus and L'Hercule took the
gale first in north lat. 22° is', and west long. 63° 44', on
Wednesday, September 5, about eight o'clock P.M. They
were then about -sixty miles north-east of the " Square
Handkerchief," and about one hundred miles north of the
tf Silver Quays." The gale was in the beginning from the
north-east, and by degrees came round to the south-east.
Its violence reduced them to the utmost distress. It lasted
until Friday the 7th, at five P. M. They afterwards got
into Kingston harbour, in the island of Jamaica.
   Capt. Howe, from Porto-Rico, related, that the gale was
experienced there on the 4th of September, and drove ashore
every vessel at the west end.
   Capt. Bennet sailed from St. Thomas on September 3.
On the 6th, about thirty miles southward of Porto-Rico,
he was assailed by a tremendous hurricane. The wind was
south-south-east, but frequently varying. The Jamaica
papers of the 6th contained accounts of considerable da
mage done on the south-east side of that island by the gale
of the 4th. The north side did not feel it.       * ,
   5th, In the Latitudes North of Cape Fear.-r-lt appears
that the gale did not prevail much to the northward of
Wilmington (North Carolina). It was but slightly felt
there. On the Qth, a small schooner and periaga were
driven on shore, but not materially injured,
     . .                     B2                            The

 20                    Account of a Hurricane
     The brig Wilmington packet, from New York, had been
 ashore on the Frying-pan, but, after taking out the cargo/
 was got off. The crops in the neighbourhood of Wil
 mington had not been injured.
      Capt. Tilford, on a voyage from London to Baltimore,-
 felt the gale on the 3d of September in lat. 39°, and long.
 65°; it blew from east-north -east, and continued in the
 form of a strong and favourable wind until the 8th, when
-he made the Capes of Chesapeake. As soon as the gale
 reached land it grew more violent, and seems to have parted
 into two streams. By the assistance of one he then ran up
  the bay to the mouth of Patapsco in twenty' hours. The'-
  other branch turned southward along the land toward Cape .
  Hatteras. ...
      Vessels from Europe, which had not got further south,
  than lat. 3Q°, seemed to have escaped the hurricane.
      6th, On the Continent of North America, and the adjacent
  Islands.— (A) In Florida the sale was excessively hard ; at
  St, Augustine the tide rose to an uncommon height. Of
  nine vessels in the harbour only one rode out the storm.
       (B) In Georgia. At Savannah the gale began on Satur
  day morning the 8th. The wind was from the east, yet
  varying between south-east and north-east incessantly. It
  was more dreadful than any that is recollected to have ever
  happened there. • It commenced by slight wind and rain
  until about.ten A. M., when it .blew with uncommon vio
  lence. It was accompanied by heavy rain, and went on'
  increasing .until between six and seven in the evening. It:
   did not .cease until three o'clock in the morning of the 9th.
  The continuance was seventeen hours. The water rose to
   between eight and ten feet above the level of common spring,
   tides. Houses and- stores, were blown down by the wind,
   and undermined by the water. Fences and trees were pro
   strated. Ships and vessels were stranded, and left high and
   dry upon the tops of the wharves. Great damage was done
   on the island opposite the town, and on Wilmington and
   Skidawa Islands. Fort Green, on Coek6pur Island, was
   completely levelled ; thirteen lives, were lost, and all the
   builartrgs. destroyed. The water was supposed to have risen
    from •fifteen'.to twenty feet above the level of the fort. Thai
    surface" p£- the land was considerably lowered and washed
    away. One of the national gun-boats was carried about
    eight, miles from her moorings, and landed in a corn-field
    upon^Whitemarsh Island. A cannon weighing 4,80*>lb.
    was carried thirty or forty feet from its position. A bar of
    lead of 300 lb. 4vas' carried one hundred feet. Cases" of
    ¦ -»        7                 , ,•' ^                  cannister

                 in tkSWe^ fndi'es'in Sept. h&Oi.          21
cnntiistcr shot were carried from one hundred to two hun
dred feet, and muskets were scattered all over the island. -
¦ Such was the beating of the ocean against the shores, that
at Savannah the rain which fell was of a saiine taste. An
experiment made bv evaporating some of it, proved it to
be highly impregnated with sea salt ; this was probably de
rived from the spray of the sta. The water in the river was
saltish at Savannah, and for fifteen miles above. Sand was
blown into 'he upper stories of houses thirty feet higher
than the surface or the earth.
i At St. Simon's Island great damage was done by inun
dating the crops and drowning the negroes. The like hap
 pened on St. Catharine's, and 'on the other islands along
the coast. At Sunbury the bluff was reduced to a perfect
beach, and almost every chimney was levelled with the
 ground.                                     ' •" • •
    Mr. Isaac Brigos, who was in the interior of Georgia,
 about twenty-three miles from the high shoals of Apalacliy,
 on. his wav to Hawkins's settlement, on Tallapoosa rivef}
 arrived at the house of an Indian trader there on,the 8th of
 September : here he Was detained two days by severed tormy
 weather. In his letter to Mr. Jefferson he remarks, " thai
 sometimes his ear could scarce distinguish, an interval be^
 tween the sound of one falling tree and that of another."
 The wind was north-east.
    The gale was distinctly felt in the upper country as far
 ias it is settled, which is to the distance of three hundred
 miles from the ocean. It was felt there as a strong wind
 which blew down the corn, but was not hard enough to
 prostrate trees. There it blew from the north-east, and
 began Chi the afternoon of Saturday the Sth. The rain did
 not hegin Until in the evening.                           '
 , (C) In South Carolina.— At Charleston the gale was
 more furious and long continued than was ever known
 since the hurricane of 1 752. It prevailed there on the 7th,
 8th, and 9th of September, and exceeded, in violence and
 duration, the great storm of 1783. It began at Charleston
 on the 7th, about eleven P. M., and continued until Sunday
  morning, the 9th, at one. The wind was at first north-east;
  In the course of the morning of the 8th it shifted to the
  east, and in the afternoon to south east. It lasted for
  nearly thirty-six hours. But three or four of the vessels in
  the harbour escaped without injury. Many were much
  damaged, and several wholly lost. The whole of the
  wharves, from Gadsden's, on Cooper River, to the extent
  of South Bay, received considerable damage. Many stores
  i— . ,                       B 3                       were

 22                  Account cf a Hurricane
 were washed or blown down, and much property lost.
 Numerous houses were unroofed, and tiees overturned.
    On Sullivan's Island fifteen or twenty houses were uni
 dennined by the water, and carried away. Fort Johnson*
 which had been long in a tottering condition, was destroyed,
 so as not to admit the mounting a single cannon. The
 breast-work and pallisadoes of Fort Pinckney were washed
 away. From Fort Moultrie, near which the sea made a
 clear breach to the cove, every spot was covered with
 water.
    At Jacksonburgh the crops of corn and cotton were much
 injured. The bridges were carried away between Charleston
 and George Town, and so many trees blown acioss the
 roads as to obstruct the stages for several days.
    At May River all the crops, cotton, and negro houses,
 machines, &c. were completely swept off. The tide rose
 nine feet higher than the highest spring rise. On Hutchin
 son's Island many negroes, and some white people, were
 drowned. The like happened at Dawfousky and Brought
 ton's Islands.
    At Coosahatchie trees were thrown across the roads,
 And bridges carried away, so as to prevent intercourse
 through the country j that village was entirely surrounded
 by sea water. In Prince William's parish, Beaufort di
 strict, the storm was experienced , in an awful manner.
The sea formed a junction through the streams of Pocota-
ligo, Stony Creek, and Huspa rivers, in such a manner as
to turn Scotch Neck into an island. Through the fields,
at Sheldon to Motley, the water covered the plantations
four feet deep on the high road and causeway leading to the
meeting-house, rendering the roads impassable. Great de
struction was made upon the crops of rice and cotton, and
many animals of various kinds were drowned. Nothing
but the high ground was visible on the roads of the Fish'
pond and Horse-shoe savannas.
   The gale began at George Town (South Carolina), he»
tween three and four A. M. on the 8th of September. The
wind was at north-east, and blew with increasing violence
until midnight. It then changed to south-south-east, and
abated little of its fury before the evening of the 9th. The
rain descended in most profuse quantity the greater part of
the time,
   The gale extended to the upper part of the country as far
as the mountains, to a distance of two hundred and fifty
miles. It blew from the north-east, and was so violent at
one hundred miles from the sea board, as to blow down
                                                        forest

                    in the West Indies in Sept. 1804.              '1-           e8
 forest trees in great numbers, so as to render the roads im
 passable for carriages.                                             "•• ''<¦ *-'•*-
                                        '                      ."•.*¦"
    From a consideration of all these details it appears that
the gale extended from beyond the latitude of Tobago, in
 12° north, to the latitude of Wilmington (North Carolina),
northward of lat. 34°, sweeping a tract of ocean at least
twenty-two degrees in extent. It probably exceeded by far
these limits, as capt. Tilford felt it as far north as 39°. It
appears also that it reached from the longitude of the wind
ward islands, in 60° west of Greenwich, to the mauntainrf
and back settlements, travelling over a surface of as many
degrees in that direction. And its prevalence was, in aft
likelihood, much more wide and diffusive than has come
to my knowledge.                                                                   '-
    The gale in the islands blew from north-north-west, and
even from the south-west, but, as it approached the coast,
got round to the eastward, and varied between northreast,
east, and south-east. It arose to windward in both the
north-eastern and south-eastern quarters. In this respect
it widely differed from the great north-east snow storm de
scribed in Med. Rep. Hex. i. vol. 5. p. 465, which began
to leeward *. It seems to have taken about four days for
                                                                              the
   * So did the one which is described in the following account -.—But these
snow storms from the north-east do not seem always to blow the whole length
of the coast between the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Bay of Mexico. The
winter of 1804»5 was the most rigorous that had happened since that of
1779-80. One of the snow storms which occurred during the latter winter,
illustrates at once the fact of their beginning to leeward, and of their limited
extent in certain cases. It also shows that they prevail at different places
with very different degrees of violence. The weather had been intensely cold
during January; the quicksilver had sometimes been as low as 3" above Q,
and frequently down to 11 and 14". After this uncommonly severe weather,
the atmosphere rapidly became warmer, the mercury rose -to 46° in the
course of a few days, and immediately a thick and heavy fog overspread the
ice on the rivers, and the snow on the earth. This continued until the 26th,
when the cold increased again. About four in the afternoon of that. day,
snow fell at Washington, and there was a mingled fall of snow and rain at
George Town (Maryland). This storm was felt at New York city in the
fore part of the evening, and not until eight P. M. by the ship Favourite,"
thill off Boston harbour. At Newbury port the newspapers state it to have
begun on Sunday morning, the 27th. By a comparison of the facts it will be
found that this storm began at least four hours sooner on the Potowmac than
in Boston harbour. The difference of time was no less remarkable on its
cessation j for it had ceased so entirely at Washington on Sunday night, that
the weather had cleared up on Monday morning the i'Sth. In New York
it continued until Tuesday morning, and lasted at Boston until Tuesday
evening. Though the storm was not of long duration at Washington, and
the fall of snow was moderate there, yet it was far otherwise in New York
and Massachusetts. The quantity of snow which fell in both those places
was uncommonly great. Many vessels were wrecked and lost on the coast
 ...... v .                           ,n a . .      \                           ~c

£4        Hurricane in the West Indies in Sept. 1804.
the south-east current (from the 3d to the 7th) to force its
way along from Tobago and Barbadoes to Augustine, Sa
vannah, and Charleston. In like manner, by comparing
the times of its commencement along the Fredish coast, it
is evident that the north-east current blew violentlv near
the FryL.g-pan shoals at half past two P.M. on the 7th }
that il began at Charleston at eleven the same night, and
did not become formidable at Savannah before ten in the
morning of the 8th, consequently it did not begin at
Charleston until eight hours and a half after it began at
the Frying,pan, nor at Savannah sooner th^n the nine
teenth hour and a half subsequent to its commencement
at the same place. Hence, on comparing this storm with
the one before alluded to, it is evident that this, which h id
its rise to windward, was not near so rapid in its progress
as that one which took its origin to leeward.
    From all these facts and considerations there is reason to
believe, that this gale, consisting chiefly, as il advanced
toward the Continent, of currents from the north-east, east,
and south-east, was the trade-wind diverted from it* ordi
nary course, and blowing with a force prodigiously aug
 mented over a tract considerably to the northward of its
usual limits. The two columns of agitated atmosphere
moving obliquely toward each other, appear to have met
 and expended their combined forces upon that bend of the
 coast which forms the front of North Florida, Georgia, and
 South Carolina. At present I know too little of atmo
 spheric movements to determine what was the particular
 rarefying or expanding cause that, on this occasion, put
 the windward air into such destructive commotion, made-
 it rush with such resistless impetuosity to leeward, and
 more particularly determined it to quit the intra-tropical
 regions, and exert its whole strength upon a part of the
 Continent so far to the northward as that which lies be
 tween St. Augutine and Wilmington, betwixt the latitudes
 of 29° and 34° north.
 pf Massachusetts in particular! and in the latter, this snow storm from the
 north-east lasted thrice twenty-four hours, while in Maryland it did not at
•furthest continue more than half the time, and certainly with less by far
 than half the violence.
                                                            III. Tiventy

                                 [    25     ]
III. Twenty-second Communication from. Dr. Thornton
                   relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
   j„.                        To Mr. Tilloch.           V    ""
         Case of Consumption cured by Hydro-azotic Gas.
                                            , .                        : ai
                                                     June i8, 1805,
J, ,                                  No. 1 , Hinde-street, Manchester-square.
  . ohn Hughes, aet. 1 8, helper to Mr. Cozens, livery stable
keeper, City Arms, London-street, had all the marked
symptoms of a decline. He had a very bad cough ; used
in 24 hours to spit up near half a pint of discoloured mat
ter ; had colliquative sweats ; hectic fever ; great debility :
appetite good, and yet reduced in flesh to a mere shadow.
These strong criterions of consumption had "been progres
sively increasing for more than half a year, when he applied
to me for advice. I pursued in this case the same plan as
had saved Mr. Gregory, of Berners-street *, viz. the in
halation of hydro-azotic gas, with tonic medicines ; and in
two months all these alarming symptoms vanished, and the
lad was restored to health.
             Observations on this Case by Dr. Thornton.                       ',
     1 . Consumption is deemed a fatal disease ; and the prac*
 tice universally pursued in England has rendered it, I be-
 heve, still more destructive.
     2. In Dr. Rush's works, the able professor of Medicine
  in Philadelphia, the best plan of treatment is laid -down. '
     3. Bark (at which our practitioners are so alarmed) is re
  commended, with other tonic medicines.
     4. Consumption must be considered either as a defluxion
  of the lungs, or as an abscess, or ulceration thereof.
 - 5. If a defluxion, as in other gleets, bark is advisable:
  if ulceration, the treatment of the constitution should be as
  in other wounds.— Bark is there universally recommended.
      C. Dr. Rush has recorded some cases where persons shot
  through the lungs have recovered. Captain Christie, of
  Liverpool, lately applied to me for advice.' In a sharp en
  gagement with the French, a ball entered the sternum, and
  lodged under the scapula. The wound in the lungs healed,
  and he felt afterwards only debility from the great loss of
  blood sustained.
       7. The objection against bark, myrrh, and wine, is the
   cough. Colds are, I confess, aggravated by such treatment,
          • This cure is recorded In Number 13 of our Magazine, p. 95.
                                                                        7. The

  26                      On the miction of
  and the incipient stage of phthisis } but in the subsequent
  stages the only chance is, I speak from wide experience,
  the practice I have here recommended.
     8. Inflammation of the lungs is prevented by the hydio-
 azotic gas.
    The lad is now before me 3 is fat, looks well, and has
 been cured a twelvemonth.
 IV. On the Action of Platina and Mercury upon each
    other. By Richard Chenevix, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.A.
                                                    Freyberjr, June 3, 1804.
 \Jk the 12th of May 1803, 1 had the honour of presenting
 a paper to the Royal Society, the object of which was to
 discover the nature of palladium, a substance just then an
 nounced to the public as a new simple metal. The experi
 ments which I had made for this purpose led me to conclude
 that palladium was not what it had been stated to be, but
 that it was a compound of platina and mercury.
    It was natural to suppose that a subject so likely to spread
 its influence throughout the whole domain of chemistry,
 and which tended even to the subversion of some of its ele
ments, would awaken the attention of philosophers. We
 find accordingly, that it has become a subject of inquiry in
England, France, and Germany ; but the experiments which
I had recommended as the least likely to fail, have been
found insufficient to insure the principal result ; and I have
had the mortification to learn that they have been generally
unsuccessful. I have even reason to believe that the nature
of palladium is still considered by chemists, at least with a
very few exceptions, as unascertained ; and that the fixation
of mercury by platina is by many regarded as visionary.
    The first doubts were manifested in England j and Dr.
Wollaston very early denied the accuracy of my inquiries.
Put as he has not published his experiments, 1 have had no
opportunity of discussing them. His opinion, however,
roust have such weight in the learned world, that I should
have neglected a material fact in the history of palladium if
I had not mentioned it in this place.
   In France the compound nature of palladium has been
more generally credited. When the National Institute was'
informed of my experiments, a report was ordered to be1
         * From the Transactions of the Royal Socitiy for 1805. • * ' : .
                                                                    made

              Platina and Mercury upon each other.                       6?
made upon them, and M. Guyton was the person appointed
for the purpose. He repeated some of the experiments, and
produced some of his results. His general conclusion was
the same as mine.
    Messrs. Vauquelin and Fourcroy then undertook the sub
ject, and they were led by it to the confirmation of the re
cent discovery of M. Descotils. The existence of a new
metal which that chemist had found in crude platina, re
ceived great sanction from their experiments; and thus the
discussion upon palladium has established a fact which will
be considered as interesting, but which would he much
more so, were we not already overburthened with substances
which our present ignorance obliges us to acknowledge as
fimple.
    No sooner were these celebrated chemists convinced of
the existence of a new metal in platina, than they concluded
that it must play a principal part in the composition of pal
ladium. Shortly after this, in a note to a letter from
M. Proust to M. Vauquelin, in which M. Proust expresses
his astonishment concerning all he has read upon palladium,
Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin further declare, as their
opinion, that this compound metal does not contain mer
cury, but is formed of platina and the new metal. Whe
ther this new substance does or does not play a principal
part in the formation of palladium, could not be ascertained
at the time my experiments were made, because the new
metal itself was not then known. But from all that Messrs.
 Fourcroy and Vauquelin have stated, in such of their dif
ferent memoirs upon this subject as I have seen, the grounds
of their supposition have not appeared. May we not refer
their opimon, then, to that common propensity of the
 mind, against which M. Fourcroy has himself warned us
 with equal justness and eloquence on another occasion,
 namely, a proneness to be allured by novelty beyond the
 bounds of rational belief, and to convert principles which
are new into principles of universal influence.
    Messrs. Rose and Gehlen * were the first among the
 German chemists who instituted experiments upon palla
 dium; and M. Richter has also published a paper on the
 same subject.
    The first attempt of Messrs. Rose and Gehlen to form
 palladium was by the precipitation of a mixed solution of
 platina and mercury by green sulphate of iron. Their re-
   * Neaes Algtmeinei Journal der Chemie herausctgeben von Herinstall, Klap-
 toth, Richter, Scherer, Tromsdorf, und Cehlcu. Ersten bandes fuiiftcs

«8             .- '¦ *• On the Aituxtt hf         ' l
suit was precisely that which I had "observed when my Ope
rations failed altogether, and which of course was the most
frequent. This method was repeated twice. The second
time the precipitate of platina and mercury was boiled with
muriatic acidj in order to free it from iron ; but the latter
trial wxis not more successful than the former.
    Their third experiment was what they have railed a re
petition of that in which I had obtained palladium by pass
ing a current of sulphuretted hvdrogen gas through a mixed
solution of platina and mercury. Their method was the
following::— They dissolved 150 grains of platina with 450
of mercury, and added a solution of hvdro-sulphuret of
potash. Thev obtained a precipitate which, at first, was
black, afterwards sray ; but the whole became black by
being stirred. To be certain that all the metal was preci
pitated, they added an excess of sulphuret of potash, and
perceived that a part of the precipitate was rcdissolved. The
liquor was then filtered, and to that part of it which con-*
tamed the redissolved precipitate an acid was added. From
 this process thev obtained a yellow precipitate weighing 91
 grains; and 50 grains of this, exposed to a strong heat,
 left 3-Sths of a grain of platina. They obtained no palla
 dium from that part of the precipitate which had not been
 redissolved ; and the result of the experiment was corhplete
 failure.                                    . ~. ' ¦; .. ' \
     I shall not make any observation upon the issue of this
 process, since, in this case, the best conducted is but tO(j
 liable to be unsuccessful, and that without any apparent
 fault in the operator. But as it has been given as a repeti
 tion of one of mine, it may not be fruitless to examine how
 far the repetition was exact.            . v , ,: • :: .<    'J
     I had passed a current of sulphuretted hydrogen g3«
 through a mixed solution of platina and mercury, by which
 means they were precipitated together. My object was so* -
 intimately to combine sulphur with these metals, that when
  exposed to heat they might (if I may be allowed the ex
  pression) be in chemical contact with it at the moment of
  their nascent metallic state ; and as a low temperature Suf
  fices, as well to reduce those metals as to combine palla
  dium with sulphur, I hoped that those effects might be
  produced before the total dissipation of the mercury. How
  far my expectation was fulfilled has been stated in my former
  paper.
      I lie sulphuretted hydrogen gas which Messrs, Rose and
  Gehlen presented to those metals was combined with "pot^
  ash. iNow, in the course of docimastic lectures annually
                                                       delivered

             Platina and Mercury upon each other.            2g
delivered by M. Vauquelin at the Ecole des Mines in Pans,
when he was professor at that establishment, it was his
constant custom to exhibit an experiment to prove that
mercury, precipitated from its solution by many of the al
kaline and earthy hydro-iulphurets, was redissolved by-
adding an excess of them.,
  , It is moreover well known that there is a strong affinity
between potash and the oxide of platina, and also that when
 those substances are brought together in solution, a triple
 salt, but little soluble, is the result. It was to avoid these
 difficulties that I had employed uucoiubined sulphuretted-
 hydrogen gas ; for the method adopted by Messrs. Rose
 and Gehlen appearing to nie to be the application of two
 divellent forces, 1 presumed that it would produce a'sepa--
 r.ation. Theresult of their experiment, which, it appears,
 from their paper, they had not anticipated, shows the ne
 cessity of the precaution I had used. The operation which
 they performed to unite platina and mercury was, in fact,-
 nearly the reverse of that which they .supposed they had-
 repeated from me, and might have been applied perhaps
  with a- better prospect of success towards the decomposition
  of palladium, ,< :                                      . . i
     Messes. Rose and Gehlen seem, in many parts of their
  paper,,to question mv having fused platina; and inform
  AS, that although they had exposed this meUt; in the furnace
  of the royal porcelain manufactory of -Berlin, in which
  Wedgewood's pyrometer ceased to mark the degree of heat,
  they could not accomplish its fusion. Many of my friends
  in England have, however, seen the buttons which I ob
  tained, and which were not few in number. The flux which
  I had, used was borax. But no mention is made in any one
  of the operations of Messrs. Rose and Gehlen of borax hav
   ing been employed.
      In many of their attempts they obtained an irregular and
   porous mass, which of course was of a specific gravity much
   inferior to that of platina; and it might be inferred from
   their paper that, the diminution of specific gravity, which I
   bad observed, was owing to the same cause. It is true,
   not only that I had very often obtained such a mass, but
   that I had frequently also observed no diminution whatso
   ever in the specific gravity, of the button which resulted
   from my operations. But all those upon which I had
   founded the conclusions alluded to by Messrs. Rose and
   Gehlen were performed in the following manner, and have
   been repeated since. A Hessian crucible was filled with
   lamp-blackj £n4.jhs oontsnVs. pressed hard together. The
, I ->i ebJb*                                  "      lamp-black

  30                     On the Jetton of      '
  lamp-black was then hollowed out to the shape of the cru
  cible as far as one-third from the bottom, leaving that much'
  filled with the compressed materials ; this limng, which
  adhered strongly to the sides of the crucible, was made ex
  tremely thin in order not to obstruct the passage of caloric.
  A cylindrical piece of wood, as a pencil, was then forced into
  the centre of the thick mass of lamp black at the bottom,
  and the diameter of this rod was determined by the quantity
  of metal to be fused, or varied according to other circum
  stances at pleasure. In general the axis of the cylindrical
  hole was about three or four times the diameter of the basis.
  After withdrawing the rod, the crucible was about half filled
  with borax. Upon this was placed the metal to be fused;
  and if it had been before melted into a cylindrical form, the
  axis of the metallic cylinder was placed horizontally, and
  was of course perpendicular to the axis of the cylindrical
 excavation at the bottom of the cover. More borax was
  then added to cover the piece of metal, and another quan
 tity of lamp-black was presssed hard over the whole in order
 to keep it tight together. An earthen cover was finally
 luted to the crucible, and in this state it was exposed to heat
 in a forge, in w.hich, upon another occasion, I had, in the
 presence of Messrs. Hatchett, Howard, Davy, and others,
 completely melted a Hessian crucible lined and prepared in
 the samp manner. The fuel which I used was the patent
 coke of Messrs. Davey and Sawyer. In the present expe- ..
 riments T moderated the heat so as not materially to injure
 the crucible, and, upon taking it out of the fire, the lining
 was generally found so compact and so firm that it remained
 in a solid mass after the crucible was broken. When the
 metallic cylinder occupied the space at the bottom, it was
 natural to suppose that it had been fused ; because in no
 othrr state but that of liquidity could it have run into the
 mould. Tn order, however, to prevent all objections, I had
 the precaution to make the hole of a different diameter from
 the metallic cylinder, and to observe whether the necessary
 change in the shape of the latter ensued. If, after such a
 test, repeated as often as required, I perceived that the metal
 did not vary in its specific gravity, I thought myself autho
 rized to conclude that it was exempt from air.             . - .
    M. Richter says that he had hoped to have put himself in
possession of a considerable piece of palladium by repeat
ing, with minute accuracy, the process which 1 had recom
mended as the best. He precipitated a mixed solution of
platina and mercury by a solution of green sulphate of iron {
and, after varying the subsequent operations, to which be
                                                      submitted

                Platina and Metcufy upon each other.          31
 submitted the product he had obtained by this method, he
 was led to the following important conclusions, amongst
 others of less consequence:— 1st, That two metals, the se
 parate solutions of which are not acted upon by a third
 body, may be acted upon, and even reduced to the metallic
 state, by that same body when presented to them in one
 and the same solution.
      2dly, That mercury is capable of entering into combina
 tion with platina, so that it cannot afterwards be separated
 by fire. From the first of these conclusions it is evident
 that metals in their metallic state are not incapable of che
 mical action upon each other} and from the second, that
 mercury can be fixed (it is purposely that I use the alche
 mical expression) by platina.
      In addition to the chemists above mentioned, T must
 name two more who in Germany have been occupied by
 palladium. M. TromsdorfF, in a letter to the authors of
 the journal already quoted, mentions his having made some
 fruitless attempts to form this combination ; and M. Klap-
 roth, in a letter to M. Vauquelin, published in the Annates
 de Chimie for Ventose, an 12, likewise says that lie could
 not succeed in producing palladium.
     Messrs. Rose and Gehlen, as well as M. Richter, had
 conceived from my paper a reliance on the success of their
 experiments, which no words of mine had authorized, and
 iiave accused me of enforcing the truth of my results with
 a degree of certainty which their observations do not coun
 tenance. M. Richter supposed that the formation of pal
 ladium was attended with no difficulty ; and in general
 they have laid so much stress upon this charge, that I should
 be inclined to think my paper had not been read by these
 chemists. In referring to it again, I find there is hardly a
 page in which I do not mention some failure ; and no ex
 periment, of the very few which occasionally succeeded, is
 related without my stating at the same time that it was re*
 peatedly unsuccessful. As far as regards palladium, it is
 rather a narration of fruitless attempts than a description ui'
 an infallible process, and more likely to create aversion to
 the pursuit than to inspire a confidence of success. * The
 course of experiments which I had made, as well before.as
 after reading my paper to the society, took me up more '
 than two months, and emploved me from twelve to sixteen
 hours almost every day. I had frequently seven or eight
 operations in the forge to perform daily, and I do not exr
 aggerate the number of attempts I made during this time,
 as well in the dry as in the bumid way, in stating them to
i.. t'      i'-       '            ,                       have

32            ;  ' '    On the jfction of
have been one thousand. Amongst these, I had four suc
cessful operations. I persevered, because, even in my fail
ures, I saw sufficient to convince me that I should quit the
Joad to truth if I desisted. After all my labour and fatigue
I cannot say that I had come nearer to my object, of ob
taining more certainty in my processes. Their success was
Still a hazard on the dice, against which there were many
chances ; but till others had thrown as often as 1 had done,
they had no solid right to deny the existence of such a com
bination. On this foundation none, I believe, have esta
blished such a right. Messrs. Rose and Gehlen do not say
how often their experiments were repeated ; but it is pro
bable that if they had been performed very often, these au
thors would not have neglected to mention it. M. Richter
states his merely as preparatory to more extensive researches ;
and M. Tromsdorff, as well as M. Klaproth, mention littk
more than the fact. If the German chemists have con
 cluded against my results, they have done so without just
grounds, and without having bestowed upon them that
labour and assiduity for which they are usually so remarka
 ble.
    In this state of uncertainty the compound nature of palla
 dium received an indirect, but a verv able, support from "
 some experiments of M. Ritter, the celebrated Galvanist of
 Jena. M. Ritter had ascertained the rank which a great
 number of substances hold in a Galvanic series, arranged
 according to the property they possess of becoming positive
 or negative when in contact with each other. He had
 established the following order, the preceding substance
 being in a minus relation to that which comes next :
 Zinc, lead, tin, iron, bismuth, cobalt, antimony, platina,
 gold, mercury, silver, coal, galena, crystallized tin ore*
 kupfer nickel, sulphur pyrites, copper pyrites, arsenical
 pyrites, graphite, crystallized oxide of manganese. He had
 the goodness to try palladium in my presence, and found it
 to be removed, not onlv from what I believed to be its con
 stituent parts, but altogether from among the metals, and
 to stand between arsenical pyrites and graphite. This in
 sult led M. Ritter into a new and general train of reasoning,
 and-'mduced him to undertake the examination of a great
 number of alloys,' and of a variety of amalgams. He con
 sidered the subject as a philosopher, and his operations were
 those of a consummate experimentalist. It would be doing
 him an injustice to attempt an extract of his ingenious
 paper, which contains a series of the most interesting ex
 periments. I shall merely observe for the present purpose,
                                                           that

         ,   Plat'ma and Mercury ftpon each oilier*           33
 that it very rarely happened that the mixture of two metals
 bore any determinate relation to the same metals when se
parate ; that in every case the smallest variation in the pro
portions produced the most marked effects; and that
M. Ritter has furnished us with an instrument calculated
to detect the presence of such small quantities as have hi
 therto been considered as out of the reach of chemistry.
As palladium presents a very striking instance of the ano
maly, to which all compounds seem to be more or less sub
ject, by being removed altogether from the series of simple
metals, this may serve to support the other proofs of its
 compound nature.
    One of the principal objections of those who dispute the
 truth of my conclusions with respect to palladium, is
grounded upon the repeated failure of all the methods 1
had made use of in forming it ; but this cannot be of very
great weight, when we consider the uncertaintv of many
other operations of chemistry. The most simple are some
times liable to fail ; and the easiest analvses have often given
different products in the hands of different chemists, who
yet enjoy indisputable and equal rights to the title of accu
racy. The progress which we have made in some parts of
the science has not removed the obstacles which impede
our advancement in others. We have no method of pro
ving the truth of an experiment except by repeating it; yet
this often tends 1o show nothing more than contradictory
results, and consequently the fallibility of the art.
    But a recent case has occurred which is perfectly analo
 gous to that of palladium. A few years ago, professor
Lampadius, in distilling some substances which contained
 sulphur and charcoal, obtained a liquid product of a pecu
 liar nature. He repeated h'13 experiments, but in vain ; and,
 after many fruitless attempts, abandoned his researches, and
 confined himself to stating the fact to the chemical world.
 Little notice was taken of it, and not much interest was
 excited by an experiment so likely to fail. Some time after
 this, Messrs. Clement and Desormes obtained the same re
 sult, and attempted to produce the substance a second time.
 They performed a vast number of experiments; but their
 success bore no proportion to -their diligence and zeal.
 They published an account of their process and its conse
 quences, but gained little credit, as no person was fortu
 nate enough to produce the same substaacot Many disbe
 lieved the experiments altogether, and denied the existence
 of such a combination ; whilst others, less inclined to
 doubt, attributed its formation to fortuitous cirewtistances
    Vol^ce. No. S5. June+BOo-           C                  which

34     Action of Platina and Mercury upon each other.
which might never again occur together. In February 1804','
professor Lampadius, in distilling some pyritized wood$
though with a different intent, obtained the same substance.
As he had h now in his power to observe the phaenomen3
that attended it3 formation, he discovered, and has com
municated to the world, a method of producing it which
never fails. Since his late paper upon the subject, as the
necessary precautions can be followed by every chemist,
Messrs. Clement and Desormcs have obtained that credit
to which their experiments had, in truth, always been en
titled ; and the formation of what professor Lampadius
terms his sulphur-alcohol is no longer a result of chance,
or accounted fur by being supposed one of those subterfuges
to which human pride resorts, in order to spare itself the
 confession of human weakness.
    The observation of any new fact becomes a matter of
 general concern, and truly worthy of philosophic contem
 plation, then only when its influence is likely to be extended
bevond the single instance to which it owes its discovery.
Whether water were a simple body or a compound, could
 have been of little importance as an insulated fact ; but,
 connected with the vast chain of reasoning it gave rise to,
it opened a new field for genius to explore. If in the pre
 sent case our researches were to be confined merely to ascer
taining whether palladium were a simple metal or a com
 pound, all the advantages likely to arise from the facts ob
served during the inquiry would be lost ; and an object of
the most comprehensive interest would thus sink into a
 controversy concerning the existence of one more of those
 substances which we have dignified with the name of ele
ments. It was in this point of view that Messrs. Richter and
 Hitter considered the subject as far as thev went, and a few
 facts are stated in my first paper in support of the opinion
 that palladium is but a particular instance of a general truth.
   By taking the reasoning on this subject, then, in its widest
extent, we shall be led, I think, to the following conclu
sion,—that metals may exercise an action upon eat'h other,
even in their metallic state, capable of so altering some of
their principal properties as to render the presence of one
or more of them not to be detected by the usual methods.
In this, is contained the possibility of a compound metal
appearing, to be simple ; but to prove this must be a work
of great time and perseverance, and can only be done by
considering singly and successively the different cases which
it contains, and by instituting experiments upon each.
When an affinity which unites two bodies, and so blends
           4                                               their

           On a mineral Production from Devonshire.                         35
 their different properties as to make them apparently one,
 has taken its full effect, it will not be easy to separate them;;
 and this will be more particularly the case when neither of
those substances is remarkable for exercising a powerful
action upon others. The method of analysis, therefore,
does not promise much success ; and the labour of syn
thesis is sufficient to deter any individual from the under
taking.                                                     '. • ,
                            [To be continued.]                   . j',
V. An Account of some analytical Experiments on a mineral
   Production from Devonshire, consisting principally of
   Alumine and IVater. By Humphry Davv, Esq. F.R.S.
   Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution* .
               : I. Preliminary Observations.
This fossil was found many years ago by Dr. Wavel, in
a quarry near Barnstaple : Mr. Hatchett, who visited the
place in 1796, described it as filling some of the cavities
and veins in a rock of soft argillaceous schist. When first
made known, .it was considered as a zeolite ; Mr. Hatchett,
however, concluded, from its geological position, that it
most probably did not belong to that class of. stones ; and
Dr. Babington,. from its physical characters, and from some
experiments on its solution in acids, made at his request hv
Mr. Stockier, ascertained that it was a mineral body^s .yet
not described, and that it contained a considerable propor
tion of aluminous earth.                                ...
   It. is to Dr. Babington that I am obliged for the opppr- ,
timity of making a general investigation of its chemical
nature; and that gentleman liberally supplied me with spe
cimens for analysis.                    •.j.-.
             II. Sensible Characters of the Fossil.' ">
   The most common appearance of the foss.il is in small
hemispherical groups of crystals, composed of a number of
filaments radiating from a common centre, and inserted on
the surface of the schist ; but in some instances it exists as
a collection of irregularly disposed prisms forming small
veins in the stone : as yet, I believe, no insulated or distinct
crystal has been found. .Its colour is white, in a few cases
With a. tinge of gray or of green, and in some pieces (appa-
          * F-rom the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1805." '       "
                                  C 2                     ,    ,       rently

36       .         Analytical Experiments oft
rently beginning to decompose) of yellow. Its lustre fs
 silky ; some of the specimens possess semi-transparency,
 but in general it is nearly opake. Its texture is loose, but
 small fragments possess great hardness, so as to scratch
 agate.
    It produces no effect on the smell when breathed upon ;
 has no taste; does not become electrical or phosphorescent
 by heat or friction; and does not adhere to the tongue till
 after it has been strongly ignited. It does not decrepitate
 before the flame of the blow-pipe ; but it loses its hardness,
 and becomes quite opake. In consequence of the minute
 ness of the portions in which it is found, few of them ex-
 oeeding the size of a pea, it is very difficult to ascertain its
 specific gravity with any precision ; but from several trials I
 am disposed to believe that it does not exceed 2*70, that of
 water being considered as 1*00. ,
              III. Chemical Characters of the Fossil.
    The perfectly white and semi-transparent specimens of
 the fossil are soluble both in the mineral acids and in fixed
 alkaline lixivia by heat, without sensibly effervescing, and
 without leaving any notable residuum ; but a small part re- (
 mains undissolved when coloured or opake specimens are
 exposed to the alkaline lixivia.
    A small semi-transparent piece, acted on by the highest
 heat of an excellent forge, had its crystalline texture de
 stroyed, and was rendered opake ; but it did not enter into
 fusion. After the experiment it adhered strongly to the
 tongue, and was found to have lost more than a fourth of
 its weight. Water and alcohol, whether hot or cold, had
 no effect on the fossil. When it was acted on by a heat of
 from 212° to 600° Fahrenheit in a glass tube it gave out an
 elastic vapour, which, when condensed, appeared as a clear
  fluid possessing a slight empyreumatic smell, but no taste
  different from that ot pure water.
     The solution of the fos&il in sulphuric acid, when eva
  porated sufficiently, deposited crystals which appeared in
  thin plates, and had all the properties of sulphate of aln-
  mine ; and the solid matter, when redissolved and mixed
  with a little carbonate of potash, slowly deposited octaedral
  crystals of alum. The solid matter precipitated from the
.monition of the white and semi-transparent fossil in muriatic
  acid, was in no manner acted upon by solution of carbo
  nate of ammonia, attd therefore it could not contain any
     -...'.''                                            glucine

            a mineral Producttun from Devonshire.              37
ghicine or ittria ; and its perfect solubility without residuum
in alkaline lixivia showea that it was alumine.
  ' When the opake varieties of the fossil were fully ex
posed to the agency of alkaline lixivia, the residuum never
amounted to more than l-20th part of the weight of the
whole. In the white opake variety it was merely calca
reous earth ; for, when dissolved in muriatic acid, not in
excess, it gave a white precipitate when mixed with solu
tion of oxalate of ammonia, and did not affect solution of
prussiate of potash and iron.
    In the green opake variety calcareous earth was indicated
by solution of oxalate of ammonia : and it contained oxide
of manganese; for it was not precipitated by solution of
ammonia; but was rendered turbid, and of a gray colour,
by solution of prussiate of potash and iron.
    The residuum of the alkaline solution of the yellow va
riety, when dissolved in muriatic acid, produced a small
quantity of white solid matter when mixed with the solu
tion of the oxalate of ammonia, and gave a light yellow
precipitate by exposure to ammonia; but after this, when
neutralized, it did not affect prussiate of potash and iron,
so that its colouring matter, as there is every reason to be
lieve, was oxide of iron.
                  IV. Analysis of the Fossil.
    Eighty grains of the fossil, consisting of the whitest and
most transparent parts that could be obtained, were intro
duced into a small glass tube having a bulb of sufficient
capacity to receive them with great ease. To the end of
this tube a small glass globe, attached to another tube com
municating with a pneumatic mercurial apparatus, wasjoined
by fusion by means of the blow-pipe.
    The bulb of the tube was exposed to the heat of an Ar-
gand lamp, and the globe was preserved cool by being placed
in a vessel of cold water. In consequence of this arrange
ment, the fluid disengaged by the heat became condensed,
and no elastic matter could be lost. The process was con
tinued for half an hour, when the glass tube was quite red..
    A very minute portion only of permanently elastic fluid
passed into the pneumatic apparatus, and when examined
it proved to be common air. The quantity of clear fluid
collected, when poured into another vessel, weighed 19
grains ; but, when the interior of the apparatus had been
carefully wiped and dried, the whole loss indicated was 21
grains. The 19 grains of fluid had a faint smell, similar to
that of burning peat ; it was transparent, and tasted like
                              C3                        distilled

38                 Analytical Experiments on
distilled water; but it slightly reddened litmus paper, ff
produced no cloudiness in solutions of muriate of baryf.es,
of acetite of lead,- of nitrate of silver, or of sulphate of iron.
    The 59 grains of solid matter were dissolved in diluted
sulphurie acid, which left no residuum ; and the solution
was mixed with potash in sufficient quantity to cause the
arurflitfe at first precipitated again to dissolve. What re
mained undissolved by potash, after being collected and
 properly' washed, was heated strongly and weighed; its
 quantity was a^grain and quarter. It was white, caustic to
 the taste, and had all the properties of lime.
     The solution was mixed with nitric acid till it became
 s'our. Solution of carbonate of ammonia was then poured
 into it till the effect of decomposition ceased. The whole
 thrown into a filtrating apparatus left solid matter, Which*
 when carefully washed and dried at the heat of ignition,
 weighed 56 grains. They were pure alumine: hence the
 general results of the experiments, when calculated uponj
 Indicated for 100 parts of this specimen*
             Of alumine        -      -     -      70
             Of lime         - . -          -       1-4'
             Of fluid , - • ±'       .'-    -      26*2 '
             Loss         -        -        -       2*4 * >-.
     The loss I am inclined to attribute to some fluid remain
 ing in the stone after the process of distillation ; for I have
 found, from several experiments, that a red heat is not suf
 ficient to expel all the matter capable of being volatilized*
 "and that the full effect can only be produced by a strong
 white heat. , , •
   • Fifty grains of a very transparent part of the fossil, by
 being exposed in a red heat for 13 minutes, lost 13 grains ;
 but when they were heated to whiteness, the deficiency
 amounted to 1 5 grains ; and the case was ' similar in other
 trials.-
   ¦ Different specimens of the fossil were examined with great
 care, for the purpose of ascertaining whether any minute
 portion of fixed alkali existed in them; but no indications
 of this substance could be observed : the processes were
 fconducted by means of solution of the unaltered fossil in
 hi trie acid; the earths and oxides were precipitated from
 the solution by being boiled with carbonate of ammonia ;
 and after their separation the fluid was evaporated to dry
 ness, and the nitrate of ammonia decomposed by heat, when
 no residuum occurred.
     A comparative analysis of 30 grains of a very pellucid
 specimen was made by solution in lixivium of potash. This
                                                          specimen

              a mineral Production from Devonshire.             39
 specimen lost eight grains by long continued ignition, after
 which it easily dissolved in the lixivium by heat, leaving a
 residuum of a quarter of a grain only, which was red oxide
 of iron. The precipitate from the solution of potash, made
,by means of. muriate of ammonia, weighed, when properly
 -treated, 21 grains. • ^ ¦
, / .Several specimens were distilled in the manner above de
 scribed, and in all cases the water collected had similar pro
 perties. The only test by which the presence of acid matter
 irvit-cwrld be detected was litmus paper ; and in some cases
 the effect upon this substance was barely perceptible.
                     V. General Observations.
      I have made several experiments with the hope of ascer
 taining the nature of the acid matter in the water; but,
 from the impossibility of procuring any considerable quan
 tity of the fossil, they have been wholly unsuccessful. It
  is, however, evident, from the experiments already detailed,
  that it is not one of the known mineral acids.
i. -I am disposed to believe, from the minuteness of its pro
 portion, and from the difference of this proportion in dif
  ferent cases, that it is not essential to the composition of
  the stone ; and that, as well as the oxide of manganese, that
 of iron, and the lime, it is only an accidental ingredient j and
  on this idea the pure matter of the fossil must he considered
  as a chemical combination of about thirty parts of water
  and seventy of alumine.
-T/The experiments of M. Theodore de Saussure on the pre
  cipitation* of alumine from its solutions, have demonstrated
  the affinity of this body for water; but as yet I "believe no
  aluminous stone, except that which I have just described,
  lias been found, containing so large a proportion of . water
  as thirty parts in the hundred.
     . The diaspore, which has been examined by M. Vauque-
il'na, and which loses sixteen or seventeen parts in 'the hun
  dred by ignition, and which contains nearly eighty of alu-
Tjnine, and only three of oxide of iron, is supposed by that
  excellent chemist to be a compound of alumine and water.
  Its physical and chemical characters differ, however, very
i much from those of the new fossil, and other researches are
  wanting to ascertain whether the part of It volatilized by
   heat is of the same kind.
: I have examined a fossil from* near St. Austle, in -Corn
   wall, very similar to the fossil from Bamstapie in all its
                   * Journal de Physique, torn. Hi. p. 280.
.'.                                C4        .              general

40                    Experiments on IPbotx.
general chemical characters ; and I have been informed that
 an analysis of it, made by the Rev. William Gregor some
 month* since, proves that it consists of similar ingredients.-
    Dr. Babincton has proposed to call the fossil from Devon
 shire ffavelute, from Dr. Wavel, the gentleman who dis
 covered it; but if a nime founded upon its chemical com
 position be preferred, it may be denominated hydrargillite,
 from vdcvp water, and afyiAAoj clay.
 VI. Experiments on Wootz.              By Mr, David Mushet*.
  .The Tollowing experiments were made at the request of
 sir Joseph Banks, on five cakes of \vootz, with which he
 supplied me for that purpose. As the cakes, which were
 numbered 1, 2, 3, ,4, . were not all of the same quality,
 it will be proper first to describe the differences observable
 in their extemaj form and appearance.
    No. I- was a deuse solid cake, without any flaw or fungous .
 appearance upon the fiat, or,what I suppose to be, the upper
 side. , The round or under surface was covered with small
 pits or.hollows, two of which were of considerable depth ;
 one. through which the slit or cut had run, and another
 nearly .as Targe towards the edge of the cake. These de
 pressions, .the effects, as I suppose, of a species of crystal-,
 lizatjon in. cooling, were continued rounti the edges, and •
 even approached a little way upon the upper surface of the
 WQOtZ.                                                                    t
    The cike was a quarter of an inch thicker at one extre
 mity of the diameter than that at the other; from which I
 infer, that the pot or crucible in which this cake had been-,
 made had not occupied ihe furnace in a vertical position,:.
 Its convexity, compared to that of the other five, was sc-i,
 cond. Upon breaking the thin fin of steel, which connects .
 the half cakes together, I found it to possess a very small
 dense white grain. This appearance never takes place but .
 with steel of the best quality, and is less frequent in very .
 high steel, though the quality be otherwise good. ..."
    Vpon examimng the break with attention, I perceived
 several laminae and minute cells filled with rust, which in
 working are never expected to unite or shut together. The .
  grain otherwise was uniformly regular in point of colourv
 and, size, and possessed a favourable appearance of steel, -
          ' * Frop the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1805.        *
     '      .                                                      No, 8.

                    Experiments on JVootz.                  41
    No. 2. This cake had two very different aspects 5 one
»ide was dense and regular, the other hollow, spongy, and
protuberant. The under surface was more uniformly honey
combed than No. I ; the convexity in the middle was greater,
but towards the edges, particularly on one side, it became
flatter. The grain exposed by breaking was larger, bluer
in colour, and more sparkling than No. 1. In breaking,
the fracture tore but slightly out, and displayed the same un
connected lamins, with rusty surfaces, as were observed in
No. T. Beside these, two thin fins of malleable iron pro
jected from the unsound side, and seemed incorporated
 with the mass of steel throughout. Towards the centre of
 the break, and near to the excrescence common to al! the
 cakes, groups of malleable grains were distinctly visible.
 The same appearance, though in a slighter degree, mani
 fested itself rn various places throughout the break.
    No. 3. The upper surface of this cake contained several
 deep pits, which seemed to result from the want of proper
 fluidity in fusion. They differed materiallv from those de
 scribed upon the convex sides of No. 1 and 9, and were of
 that kind that would materially affect the steel in forging.
    The under or convex side of this cake presented a few
 crystalline depressions, and those very small ; the convexity
 was greater than that of No. l and 2, the fracture of the fin
 almost smooth, and only in one place exhibited a sniaU
 degree of tenacity in the act of parting. In the middle of
 the break, about half an inch of soft steel was evident; and
 in different spots throughout numerous groups of malleable
 grains and thin lamina; of soft blue tough iron made their
 appearance.
     No. 4. was a thick dense cake possessed of the greatest
 convexity ; the depressions upon the under side were neither
 so large nor so numerous as those in No. l and 2, nor did
 they approach the upper surface of the cake further than
 the acute edge. This surface had the most evident marks
 of hammering to depress the feeder, or fungous part of the
  metal, which in the manufacturing seems the gate or orifice
 by which the metal descends in the act of gravitation.
     The break of this cake, however favourable as to external
 appearance, was far from being solid. Towards the feeder
  it seemed loose and crumbly, and much oxidated. The
 grain divided itself into two distinct strata, one of a dense
 whitish colour, the other large and blueish, containing a
 number of small specks of great brilliancy. Several irre
 gular' lines of malleable iron pervaded the mass in various
            8                                           ptaoas.

   48                   Experiments on Woot%s
   places, which indicated a compound too heterogeneous for
   good steel.      .>'•.,                            - •            <
       5th cake. This was materially different in appearance
   from any of the former. It had received but little ham
   mering, yet was smooth, and free- from depressions, or
   honey-comb on both surfaces. The feeder, instead of being
   an excrescence, presented a deep concave beautifully cryr
   ,Stallized.
   - In breaking, the fracture tore out considerably, but pre
   sented a very irregular qualify o£ grain. That towards the
   Under surface was small. and uniform, but towards the flat
  or upper surface it increased in si$e, and in the blueness of
  its colourj till it passed into the. s^te-of malleable iron. .
  i The break of this steel, though apparently, soft, was the
  Jeast homogeneous of the whole, aad throughout it presented
  a very brilliant arrangement of crystal, which in other steel
  & always viewed with suspicion.            , ,.;.j•,<j ..    '
           ,u    :       '•^bna-al Rerrtarkl '       ** '
 '¦A >'vfit •'-¦-»! vlU. . •,' , - ~i v '.fl     :> Jfl i
  3... ymfcfrmly .ihje grain and density, of the wootz are,hornr>-
   geaeoujS,; ani J^eefrom ijjalleahl^. irop towards thq ,under
 #r .round surface; but always the reverse towards the.fepder
 tiii, vr it- -o v >-' *:^??or^s *" Forging.            , •       ..
 ;Mfcrl^ .-One-half of the cake was heated slowly, by an
 anaealine heat, to a deep red, and put under a sharp broad-
 irtoutheiTchisel with a small degree of taper. '..It-cut with
 jdifSculty, was reheated, and cracked a little towards oac
tnd of the slit or cut originally in the: cake. . '.. , c • • |
       The heat in this trial was so moderate that I was afraid
 tthat the crack had arisen from' a want of tenacity, oocasidxied
*bv the heat being too low.                    •
       The other half was heated a few shades higher,-, and sub
jected to the same mode of cutting : before the chisel had
 half way reached the bottom, the piece parted in- twin the
rdirection of the depression made by the cutting instrument.
-The additional heat in this instance proved, an-injiiry, .while
 the cracking of the steel in both cases, partienlarlv tl*.'.
^former, was a certain proof of the abundance, or rather of
Tthe excess of the steely principle.                   .-¦ i • :?t
j.. The fractures of both half cakes, now obtained for a se-
jcond time, were materially different from i that obtained
-the simple division of the cake. The grain was nearly uai-
-tbr*n, distinctly marked, bat of too gray a colour for ser-
awceabie steel. Two of the quarters being drawn into neat
           ,                                            6      bars

                    Experiments on Woolz.
bars- under hand-hammers at a low heat, one of them con
tained a number of cracks and fissures. The fracture wa*
gray, tore out a little in breaking, but was otherwise yolky
and excessively dense'. A small bar, of penknife size, was
improved greatly in drawing down, and had only one crack
in thirteen inches of length. The grain and fracture were
both highly improved by this additional labour; the tena
 city of the steel was greater, and it stood iirmly under the
 hammer at a bright red heat.
    The other two quarters of this cake were squared a littlej
 and successively put under a tilt hammer, of two hundred
 weight, going at the rate of three hundred blows per mi*
 nute, and drawn into small penknife size. One of the bars
 from an outside piece, always the most solid, was entirely
 free from cracks, and had only one small scale running upon
 one side.
    These bars exhibited a tougher break than those drawn
 by hand ; the colour was whiter, and the grain possessed a
 more regular and silky appearance.
                         Forging No. 2.             .            " .
     One-half of this cake was heated to a scarlet shade, and
  put under the cutting chisel ; it was at first struck lightly,
  then reheated, and cut comparatively soft; but a small crack
  had over-run the progress of the chisel. Its softness in
 cutting was attributed to an evident want of solidity. The
  other half cake felt harder under the hammer, but proved
  afterwards spongy throughout the mass. In the act of cut
  ting, a loose pulverized matter was disengaged from some
  of the cells, possessed of a shining appearance.             .-
     The fractures obtained in consequence of the division o.f
  the half cakes presented a flattish crystallized appearance,
  more resembling very white cast iron than steel capable of
 "being extended under the hammer. One of the middle cuts
  was entirely cellular with crystallized interiors, and inca
  pable of drawing ; the corresponding cut of the other half
  cake was drawn into a straight bar three quarters of an inch
  in breadth and three-eighths thick, but was covered with
  ,cracks and flaws from end to encL The colour of the break
  was one shade lighter than No. l ; if tore less out, was
 equally yolky, and possessed on the whole an aspect very
  unfavourable for good steel.                               •
     The other two outside quarters were also drawn into shape,
  one under the tilt hammer, and the other by hand. These
  were more solid in the fracture, possessed fewer surface-
  cracks, stood a higher degree of heat, tore out more, and
                                                       exhibited

         ,           Experiments on H'ootz..
 exhibited a silky glossy grain, at least two shades lighter
 in the colour than the centre pieces.
                         Forging 3d Cake.
     One-half of this cake, first subjected to be cut, was found
 Softer than any of the preceding, and exhibited no symptom
 of cracking. The other half was cut at three heats, but
 found loose and hollow in the extreme. A considerable
 portion of the same brilliant powder, formerly noticed, was
 litre again disengaged. It was carefully taken up for exa
 mination, and found to be very fine ore of iron in. a" pulve-
 rescent state, very obedient to the magnet, and without any
 doubt an unmetallized portion of that from which woorz is
 made.
    This curious circumstance led me to examine every pore
 and cell throughout the whole fragments. On the upper
 surface of two of them I found small pits containing a por
 tion of the ore, which had been slightly agglutinated in the
 fire, but still highly magnetic. The upper surface of the
 present cake, close by the gate or feeder, contained a large
pit filled with a stratum of semi-fused ore, surmounted by
 a mass of vitrified matter, which bore evident marks of con
taining calcareous earth.
    Those who have devoted sufficient attention to the affi
nities of iron and earths for carbon, will be surprised to find
that, on this particular subject, the rude fabricators of steel
in Hindostan have got the start of our more polished counr
trvmen in the manufacture of steel.
    Two bars of wootz were formed from this cake, and
these, in point of ijuality, inferior to any of those formerly
f>roduced. The appearance of the metal was more varied,
  ess homogeneous, and contained more distinct laminae with
rusty surfaces than either of the two former cakes.
    It appeared highly probable, from the observations that
occurred in forging, and in the examination of the cake,
that the original proportion of mixture was such as would ,
have formed a quality of steel softer than No. I and 2 ; but
as steel of such softness requires a greater heat to fuse it
than when more fully saturated with carbonaceous matter,
it is probable that the furnace had not been sufficiently
powerful to occasion complete fusion of the whole mass, ¦
and generate a steel homogeneous in all its parts.
       ......         . Forging 4/h Cake.
   Both halves of this cake cut pleasantly, and with a degree
of tenacity and resistance, mixed at the same time with soft
                                                            ness

                       Experiments on Wootk. ,                 <fs
ness beyond what was experienced in any of the former
cakes. Two quarters of this cake were drawn under the
tilt hammer, and one by hand. The resulting bars were
nearly perfect. A slight scale was observable upon the bar
from that quarter which contained the figure. The fracture
was solid, though not homogeneous as to quality and co»
 lour, and it appeared pretty evident that a considerable pota
 tion of one side through the whole bar was in the state of
 malleable iron, and of course not capable of being hardened!
 It was a subject of considerable regret that the cake the most
 perfect and the most tenacious of the whole, in the process
 of forging, should get an imperfection which rendered it
  useless for the perfect purposes of steel.
                           Forging 5th Cahe.
      The first half of this cake cut uncommonly soft for wootz,
 but by cracking before the chisel still exhibited a want of
  proper tenacity. The next half cut equally soft, but with
  more tenacity. Two quarters of this cake drew readily out
  under the tilt hammer, and a third was drawn by hand at *
  bright red, sometimes approaching to a faint white heat.
  None of the bars thus obtained were uniformly free from
  cracks and scale, although the fracture exhibited a fair break
  of a light blue colour, and the grain was distinctly marked,
  and free from yolks.
                           General Remarks.
      The formation of wootz appears to me to be in conse
   quence of the fusion of a peculiar ore, perhaps calcareous,,
   or rendered highly so by mixture of calcareous earth along
   with a portion of carbohaceous matter. That this is per
   formed in a clay or other vessel or crucible, is equally pre
   sumable, in which the separated metal is allowed to cool ;
   hence the crystallization that occupies the pits and cells
   found in and upon the under or rounded surface of the
    wootz cakes.
       The want of homogeneity and of real solidity in almost
   'every cake of wootz, appears to me to be a direct conse
    quence of the want of heat sufficiently powerful to effect ft
    perfect reduction ; what strengthens this supposition much
    is, that those cakes that are the hardest, i. e. that contain
    the greatest quantity of carbonaceous matter, and of course
    form the most fusible steel, are always the most solid and
    homogeneous. On the contrary, those. cakes into which
    the cutting chisel most easily finds its way, are in general
                                                          cellular,

                      Experiments on Wootz.
  cellular, replete with laminae, and abound in veins of mal
  leable iron.
     It is probable, had the native of Hindustan the means of
  rendering his cast steel as fluid as water, it would have oc
  curred to him to have run it into moulds, and by this means
  have acquired an article uniform in its quality and conve
 nient for those purposes to which it is applied.
    The hammering, which is evident around the feeder and
  upon the upper surface in general, may thus be accounted
 for :i—When the cake is taken from the pot or crucible, the
 feeder will most probably be slightly elevated, and the top
 of the cake partially covered with small masses of ore ancj
 steel iron, which the paucity of the heat had left either im
 perfectly separated or unfused. These most probably, to
 make the product more marketable, are cut off at a second
 heating, and the whole surface hammered smooth.
    I have observed the same facts and similar appearances
 in operations of a like nature, and can account satisfactorily
 fpr.it as follows :
 i The first portions of metal that are separated in experi
 ments of this nature, contain the largest share of the whole
 carbon introduced into the mixture. It follows, of course,
 that an inferior degree of heat will maintain this portion of
metal in a state of fluidity, but that a much higher tempe
 rature is requisite to reduce the particles of metal, thus for
 a season robbed of their carbon, and bring them into con
 tact with the portion first rendered fluid, to receive their
 proportion of the steelv principle. Where the heat is lan
guid, the descent of the last portions of iron is sluggish,
 the mass below begins to lose its fluidity, while its disposit
 ion for giving out carbon is reduced by the gradual addition
 of more iron. An accumulation takes place of metallic
 masses of various diameters, rising up for half an inch or
 more into the glass that covers the metal ; these are neatly
welded and inserted into each other, and diminish Ln dia.-
 meter as they go up. The length or even the existence of
 this feeder or excrescence depends upon the heat in gene
 ral, and upon its temperature at different periods of the
fame process. If there has been sufficient heat-, the surface
 will' be convex, and uniformly crystalline; but if the heat
has beerl urged, after the feeder has been formed and an
 affinity established between, it and the steelified mass below,
it- will only partially disappear in the latter, and the head
 or part of the upper end of the feeder will be found suspended
 in the glass that covers the steel. . .

                         Experiments m -Wootz'.                       tp
    , The same br similar phaenomena take place in separating
  crude iron from its ores, when highly carbonated, and diffi
  cult, from an excess of carbon, of(being fused.
      The division of the wootz cake by the manufacturers of
  Hindostan, I apprehend, is merely to facilitate its subse
  quent application to the purposes of the artist ; if may serve
  at the same time as a test of. the quality of the steel. . ,
      To ascertain, by direct experiment, whether wootz owed
  its hardness to an extra quantity of carbon, the following
  experiments were performed with variou^ portions of wootz,
  of common cast steel and of white crude iron, premising
  that, in operations with iron and its ores, I have always
  found th§ comparative, measure of carbon best ascertained
  by the quantity of lead wjhjch was reduced from flint glass^.
           Fragments o£woot£ ".-           ¦ -, ¦ -           65 grs.
           Pounded flint-glass three times the weight 195
      This mixture was exposed to a heat of J 60° of Wedge-
  wood, and the wootz fused into a well crystallized spherule
  of steel. A thin crust of revived lead was found below the
   wootz, which weighed 9 grains,-or Virro the weight of the
   wootz.
  '-                             2d Cake. • - •
           Fragments of wootz ' ' -- ¦ ' -                    80 grs.
           Flint glass, same proportion as above - 240
      The fusion of the mixture in this experiment was pro
  ductive of a mass of lead weighing 10 grains, equal to l-8th
  the weight of the wootz.                                  >
                    .        ""' 3d Cake.            . ¦¦
     '¦..]•" . Fragments of wootz          -      -       "5 grsv •*'
        ... >• Flint glass       ,•¦    • -       »• . 225 ' " r • *
       The mass of lead precipitated beneath the steel in this
t experiment^ amounted to 9 grains, or -J^V the weight of
   the wootz employed.                        ¦',
                   ' '     '     4th Cake.
                Fragments of wootz            . .- - .,..^a.gr^., ' f'.
                Flint glass              , - . - ; 279
       Lead obtained, precipitated from the glass by means of
   the c,;irbou of the wootz, 14^- grains; equal to                   the
   weight of the wootz.                \ .                 ".'           .
                                 bth Cake.
                Fragments of wootz         -      -       69 grs.
                 Flint glass         •     -       -     207
   .-: ,•-•.                       ,                                Th«

43                 Experiments on tVooti*
   The lead revived in this experiment amounted to 7 grains*
which is equal to         the weight of the wootz."
   6ih. Cast Steel formed with l-6*0/& Part its weight of
                            Carbon.
            Fragments                            90 gre.
            Crystal glass       -        -      270
   Lead revived      grains, equal to        the weight of the
steel introduced.
     JM. White cast Iron dropt white Fluid into Water.
           Fragments          -        —        103 grs.
           Crystal glass      -        -        309
   The fusion of this precipitated 23^ grains of lead, which
is equal to       the weight of the cast iron.
            Recapitulation of these Experiments.
   1st Cake of wootz revived of lead        •        -139 grs.
   2d       ditto        -                           M25
   3d       ditto        -          -       -        -ISO
   4th      ditto - >               -       -        -156
   5th      ditto        -                           '102
   Steel containing I -60th of its weight of carbon -09 4
   Cast iron        -                                *228    /
   It would appear to result from these experiments, that
wootz contains a greater proportion of carbonaceous matter
than the common qualities of cast steal in this country, and
that some particular cakes approach considerably to the na
ture of cast iron. This circumstance, added to the imper
fect fusion which generally occurs in the formation of
wootz, appears to me to be quite sufficient to account for
its refractory nature, and unhomogeneous texture.
   Notwithstanding the many imperfections with which
wootz is loaded, it certainly possesses the radical principles
of good steel, and impresses us with a high opinion of the
ore from which it is formed.
   The possession of this ore for the fabrication of steel and
bar iron, might to this country be an object of the highest
importance. At present it is a subject of regret that such
a source of wealth cannot be annexed to its capital and ta
lent. Were such an event practicable, then our East India
company might, in their own dominions, supply their stores
with a valuable article, and at a much inferior price to any
they send from this country.
                                                      VII. An ¦

  " VII. An Essay on Medical Entomology. By F. Chau*
                     METON, Physiciati to the Army.
                            [Concluded {torn p. 35L]           *
    Formica—The Ant.-*-These insects, on tHe pedicle of
    their abdomen, have a small vertical scale, a large headj
    sjnall eyes, broken antennae, and strong mandibles. Each
    species consists of three kinds ; males and females, provided
    with long wings, and neutrals' or labourers, who are desti
    tute of them. The -two last kinds have sharp retractile
    stings.
       Ants live like bees in large societies. The government
    of both is founded on injustice, ingratitude, and barbarity*
    There is no difference but in the choice of the victims'; in
    a bee-hive the males are banished or cut in pieces after they
    have given birth to a numerous family ; in an ant-hill the
   females are cruelly expelled as soon as their eggs have been
    deposited*.
       The strong penetrating emanations which escape from an
    ant-hill, have given reason to suspect that the insects which
    inhabit it possess medicinal properties, and this conjecture;
    has "often been verified by experience. A cataplasm of
   bruised ants, with thVif nymphae, commonly called eggs,
   and a portion of their habitation, has been sometimes ap
   plied with success to limbs attacked with rheumatic pains,
   oedema, or palsy. The same epithem has increased the
   energy of the organs of generation. Baths rendered stimu
   lating by the expressed juice of a large quantity of ants, have
   been found very efficacious in similar cases. The desire,
   no doubt, of having at all seasons a medicine proved to be
   so useful, gave rise to the invention of oil of ants< In re
   gard to Hoffman and Kunrath's water of magnanimity, its
   pompous title was never justified by experience. It may be
   readily conceived, that in such compositions the virtue of
   the ants is altered or destroyed, when it is considered that
   it resides essentially in the acid, of which these insects fur
   nish, by mere lixiviation or distillation, a quantity equal .to
   half their weight.
      The formic acid, diluted with water, is agreeable to the
   palate, and with the addition of a little sug£r forms excel
   lent lemonade. Ardrisson and GEhrne have proposed to
   substitute this acid in the room of vinegar for domestic
      * Lam of opinion, however, that these animals die a natural death, like
   the dor.es.
-      Vol. 22. No. 85. June 1805.             D                 purposes,

                      On Medical Entomology.
purposes. Alcohol, with which it perfectly mixes, ought,
as we may say, to give it wings ; to multiply jts virtues, and
in particular, to increase that of rousing the palled organs.
    The formic acid unites so easily with alkalis, that, if a
piece of linen imbibed with these bases be presented to an
ant-hill, you will obtain formiates of soda, potash, or
ammonia. I have strong reasons for believing that these,
two salts are preferable to the acetites of potash and am
monia ; and if the formic acid has a great analogy to the
phosphoric, as Thouvenel thinks, the formiate of soda
would furnish the healing art with a gentle purgative, much
cheaper than the phosphate.
                            ORDER VII.
                                  APTERA.
    Scorpio—The Scorpion.—The scorpion is distinguished
 by characters so striking that it is impossible not to know
 it on the first view. It has a long articulated tail, termi
 nating in a sharp moveable hook, which to this animal is.
 both a defensive and offensive weapon. Under its man
 dibles there are enormous feelers, terminating in pincers^
 like those of crabs. Thes6 feelers, which Spielman calls
 cheliform antennae, are much longer than the feet. The
 latter are eight in number, as well as the eyes. At the
 posterior part of the breast also there are two dentated
 scales in the form of combs, the use of which has not yet
 been discovered*.
     Scorpio Europ^eus.—The European scorpion lives like
  the other species in the warm or very temperate climates.
  It is common in Spain, in Italy, and in the south of
  France. Its length varies from one to two inches : its
  pincers are oval and angular : its combs have sixteen or
  eighteen teeth.
     If the sting of the European scorpion were mortal, as has
  been asserted, it would be a powerful cause of depopulation
  in certain towns, in which I have seen this insect inhabit
  ing without molestation the greater part of the houses, and
  infesting even the beds. We must not, therefore, give
  implicit belief to the tales circulated on this subject. I was
  stung at Lodi by a brown scorpion an inch in length, and
  of the size of a goose quill. The result was only a slight
  pain, and a superficial phlogosis, which was soon dissU
     * It is supposed that they serve as organs of respiration, and that they
  have an analogy to the branchix of the Crustacea, for scorpions in their
  form approach to that order of animals.
                                                                      pated.
               i

                         On Medical Entomology.
 pated*. Several soldiers were also stung in their lodgings,
 and at the military hospital, which swarmed with these
 animals. Some of the patients came to me with the in
  sects still adhering to the part of the body which they had
  wounded : none of them experienced any accident more
  serious than I did. G. Fabbroni of Florence, G. Vasi of
  Rome, and G. L. Targioni of Naples, assured me that the
  sting of the scorpion is scarcely ever accompanied with
  alarming symptoms in these cities, though the temperature
  there is much warmer than in Lombardy. These imaginary
  dangers, however, have given rise to the preparation of od
  of scorpions, which, notwithstanding the present improved
  state of science, is classed in several new works among the'
  alexipharmacs : we must not, however, reject with con
  tempt the testimony of Monardes, who pretends that he
, found benefit in the plague from liniments of this oil, as
  the horrid effects of that terrible scourge have often been
  prevented by frictions with olive oil f.
      The Arabs injected oil of scorpions into the bladder to
  dissolve the stone, and it is needless to add that their at
  tempts were always fruitless. The moderns have severely
   reproached the Arabians for their stupid confidence ; but
  they have not been less credulous or more successful : we
   have seen them extol saponaceous and alkaline preparations,
   lime water, the interior bark of the lime tree, and, in par
   ticular, the trailing arbutus, arbutus uva ursi. This shrub
   has in turns heated the imagination of Barbeyrac, Querj
   Girardi, Murray, de Haen, &c. The last does not hesitate
   to propose it as a real lithontriptic. But no one is igno
   rant that this man, so haughty and so passionately fond of
   fame, has not always impressed his writings with the seal
   of truth. If there exists a solvent of the stone in the
   bladder, it must be discovered by chemistry, and the phi
   lanthropic labours of Fourcroy seem already to hold out a
   consoling prospect. But still our hopes are very feeble,
   and it is much to be apprehended that the resources of me
   dicine will be always confined to one infallible lithontriptic,
   namely cystotomy.
        Cancer—The Crab.—The numerous species which con
   stitute this genus have forms exceedingly various* Their
      * 1 caused myself to be stung at Florence, and with the same result, in-
    the presence of F. Fontana, who had been employed in analysing chemically
    the European Scorpion, and who had found in the juices of that insect an
    acid completely formed, and a gummy viscid matter, analogous to the poison
   of the viper.
       f Desgenette'9 Hist. Med. de 1'Annec d'Orient.
     •,                               D 2                            internal

5j3- ,               On Medical Entomology.
internal and external organization seems to remove, them
from all other insects except the monoculi, to which- they
have a great affinity. On this account several naturalists
have united these two genera under the name of crustaeeg.
But was it necessary to make of them a separate class, and
will naturalists never become sensible of the inconvenience
of those endless divisions which render zoology an inexpli
cable chaos ?
    Crabs have a head and breast confounded in one piece,
which bears five pair of legs, the first of which terminate
generally in pincers. The tail is of greater or less size, and
formed of different articulations : their eyes are compound
ed, and supported by a moveable pedicle : they have for the
most part four antennae formed of threads, sometimes
double or treble : the branchiae are very complex : they
have a muscular heart, from which proceed a great many
vessels ; a stomach supported by an osseous structure, and
containing three hard, stony pieces, which pound their
aliments. The organs of generation are double in each
 sex, and have their exit at the bottom of one of the, pairs
of legs.
    All crabs are aquatic, and change their shell every year :
at the same time also they throw up the stones from their
stomach*.
    The cray-iish (Cancer astacus) is commonly served up at
our tables.
    The great horse crab (Cancer pagurus), the lobster (Can
cer gammaras), the prawn. (Cancer serratus), the white
shrimp (Cancer squilla}, and the spiny lobster (Cancer
hoiliarus), have a more delicate taste. They all furnish an
abundant quantity of gelatine, which renders broth nutritive
and detergent. It is by the first of these, properties that it
acts in phthisis : it develops the second in cutaneous dis
eases, and Pine! recommends it in leprosy f. 1 am of opi
nion with Bichat, that, notwithstandmg the sarcasms
sometimes just thrown out against the humoral medicine, it
rests on a real foundation j and that in a multitude of cases
every thing ought to be referred to a vitiated state of the
humours | .
    At the period when the cray-fish casts its shell, to
assume a new one, there are found on the sides of its
stomach, between the membranes of that viscus, two cal
careous concretions, which are employed as absorbents,
         * Cuvier Tab. Element, de l'Hist. Nat. des Anim. p. 456.
         f NosogT. Philos. deux. edit. n. 858.
         j Anat. Gencr. parti, p. .250',
                                                                  under

                    On Medical Entomology.                 53
under the ridiculous denomination of crab's eyes. A simi
lar virtue is ascribed to the pincers of the larger species,
Cancer pagums, gammarus,/ &c. These inert and hurtful
substances have, however, been long since proscribed by
sound chemistry. Were it proved that a morbific affection
was produced by the presence of an acid in the primary or
secondary passages, pure and not carbonated magnesia
would be the most proper remedy.
   Oniscus—T/ie Wond-lome.—The body of this insect is
oval, and formed of articulated segments, the first seven of
which have each a pair of legs ; their' eyes are compounded
and fixed, and their antennae setaceous.
   THe common wood-louse, Oniscus asetlws, the tail of
which is terminated by two filiform appendages, or the
armadillo, which is indebted for its denomination to the
property it has of folding itself double on the least danger,
is the one chosen for medicinal purposes.
   The trials made by Lister, Neumann, and Cartheuser,
to determine the constituent principles of wood-lice^ were
only rude sketches. Thouvenel threw some light on the
chemical analyses of these insects, and on the use of them
in the art of healing. When distilled alone in a balneum
mariae, they gave a Water sufficiently alkaline to render
syrup of violets- greenish. Being then treated with water
and alcohol, they furnished a fourth part of their weight of
extractive and "cirous matter, which ether separated from
each other, dissolving the latter Without touching the
former. The expressed juice of wood-lice contains muri
ates: of Ikrie and of potash, in which reside the dissolving
and aperient qualities, which caniiot be refused to these
insects. Dioscorides and Entmuller extol the efficacy of
them iit obstructions of the abdominal viscera. Riviere has
 confirmed the utility of th&m in arthritic affections, foul
ulcers, and tumors of the -breasts of. women. They are
killed by the steam of alcohol, and are then dried and pul
verised. This preparation is superfluous, and even preju
dicial, when these insects are employed in disorders of the
breast. 1 have observed the good effects of the juice of
 these insects in two chronic pulmonary catarrhs. The
 preparation I prescribed in spoonfuls was as follows :
   li. Infusion of creeping ivy five ounces.
         Expressed juice of 150 wood-lice, bruised alive.
         Refined sugar, pulverised, one ounce.
       • Syrup of poppies one ounce.
         Ethereous sulphuric alcohol twelve drops,
                                                  VIII. Short

VIII. Short Account of Travels hetween the Tropics, ly
    Messrs. Humboldt and Bonpjand, in 1799, 1800,
     1801, 1802, 1803, and 1804. By J, Cf Dej-ame-
    THERIE. . .
                      [Concluded from p. 362,]
X)ukii?q his residence jtt Quito M. Humboldt received,*
letter from the French National Institute, informing him
that captain Baudin bad set out for New Holland, pursuing
an easterly course by the Cape pf Good Hope, He founa^
it necessary therefore to giye up all idea of joining him,
though oiir travellers had entertained this hope for thirteen,
months, by which means they lost the advantage of an easy
 fassage from the Havannah to Mexjco and the Philippines,
   t had made them travel by sea and by land more than a
 thousand leagues to the south, exposed to every extreme of
 temperature, from summits cpvered with perpetual snow tq
 the bottom of those profound ravines, where the thei-mor
 meter stands night and day between 259 anp* 31° of Reau-
'mur. But, "'customed to disappointments of every kind,
 they readily consoled themselves on account of their fate,
 '1 hey were once more sensible that man must depend only
 on what can be produced by his own energy ; and Baudin'*
 yoyage, or rather the false intelligence of the direction he
 had taken, made them traverse immense countries towards
 which no naturalist perhaps would otherwise have turned
  his researches. M. Humboldt being then resplved to pursue
  his own expedition, proceeded from Quito towards the river
  Amazon and Lima, with a view of making the important
  observation of the transit of Mercury over the sun's disk.
      Our travellers first visited the ruins pf Lactacunga,
  Hambato, and Riobamba, a district convulsed by the
  dreadful earthquake of the year 1797. They passed thtough
  the snows of Asspnay to Cuenca, and thence with great
  difficulty, op account of the carriage of their instruments
  and packages of plants, by the paramo of Saraguro to
  Loxa. It was here, in the forests of Gonzanama and Ma-
  lacates, that they studied the valuable tree which first made
  known to man the febrifuge qualities of cinchona. The
  extent of the territory which their travels embraced, gave
  them an advantage never before enjoyed by any botanist,
  namely, that pf comparing tbe different kinds of cinchona
  pf Santa Fe, Popayan, Cuenca, Loxa, and Jaen, with the
   cuspu and cuspare of Cumana and Rio Caronyt the Jatter
  of which, narhed improperly Cortex angusturts, appears to
                                   \                     bejong

           Account of Travels betiveen tfte Tropics.        55
belong to a new genus of the pentandria monogynia, with
alternate leaves.
    From Loxa they entered Peru by Ayavaca and Gounca-
bamba, traversing the high summit of the Andes, to pro
ceed to the river Amazon. They had to pass thirty-five
times in the course of two days the river Chamaya, some
times on a raft, and sometimes by fording. They saw the
superb remains of the causeway of Ynga, which may be
compared to the most beautiful causeways in France and
Spain, and which proceeds on the porphyritic ridge of the
Andes, from Cusco to Assonay, and is furnished with
tambo (inns) and public fountains. They then embarked
on a raft of ochroma, at the small Indian village of Cha
maya, and descended by the river of the same name, to that
of the Amazons, determining by the culmination of several
stars, and by the difference of time, the astronomical posi
tion of that confluence.
    La Condamine, when he returned from Quito to Para and
to France, embarked on the river Amazon only below
Quebrada de Chucunga ; he therefore observed the longi
tude only at the mouth of the Rio Napo. M. Humboldt
endeavoured to supply this deficiency in the beautiful chart
of the French astronomer, navigating the river Amazon as
far as the cataracts of Rentema, and forming at Tomependa,
the capital of the province of Jaen de Bracamorros, a de
 tailed plan of that unknown part of the Upper Maranon,
both from his own observations and the information ob
tained from Indian travellers. M. Bonpland in the mean
 time made an interesting excursion to the forests around
 the town of Jaen, where he discovered new species of cin
 chona ; and after greatly suffering from the scorching heat
 of these solitary districts, and admiring a vegetation rich in
 new species of Jacquinia, Godoya, Porteria, Bmgainvillea,
 Colletiay and Pisovia, our three travellers crossed for the
 fifth time the cordillera of the Andes by Montan, in order
 to return to Peru.
     They fixed the point where Borda's compass indicated the
 zero of the magnetic inclination, though at 7 degrees of
 south latitude. They examitied the mines of Hualguayoc,
 where native silver is found in large masses at the height of
  2000 toises above the level of the sea, in mines, some
 metalliferous veins of which contain petrified shells, and
 which, with those of Huantajayo, are at present the richest
  of Peru. From Caxamarca, celebrated by its thermal
  waters, and by the ruins of the palace of Atahualpa, they
  descended to Truxillo, in the neighbourhood of which are
                               t> 4                      found

53           Account of Travels between the Tropics.
 found vestiges of the immense Peruvian city of Mansiche,
 ornamented with pyramids, in one of which was discovered,
 in the eighteenth century, hammered gold to the value of
 more than 150,0001. sterling.
    On this western declivity of the Andes our travellers en
joyed, for the first time, the striking view of the Pacific,
 Ocean; and from that long and. narrow valley, the inhabi
 tants of which, are unacquainted with rain or thunder, and
 where, under a happy climate, the most absolute power,
 and that most dangerous to man, theocracy itself, seems
 to - imitate the beneficenof of nature.
     From Truxillo they followed the dry coasts of the South
 Sea, formerly watered and rendered fertile by the canals of
 the Ynga ; nothing, of which remains but melancholy
 ruins. When they arrived, by Santa and Guarmey, at Lima,
 they remained some months in that interesting capital of
 Peru, the inhabitants of which are distinguished by the
 vivacity of their genius and the liberality of their sentiments.
 M. Humboldt ha4 the happiness of observing, in a pretty
 complete manner, at the port of Callao at Lima, the end
 of the transit of Mercury : a circumstance the more fortu
 nate, as the thick fog which prevails at that season often
 prevents the sun's disk from being seen for twenty days.
 He was astonished to find in Peru, at so immense a distance
 from Europe, the newest literary productions in chemistry,
 mathematics, and physiology; and he admired the great
 intellectual activity of a people whom the Europeans accuse
 of indolence and luxury,
     In the month of January 1 603 our travellers embarked in
 the king's corvette La Castora for Guyaquil ; a passage which
 is performed, by the help of the winds and the currents, in
 three or four days, whereas the return from Guyaquil re
 quires as many mouths. In the former p;>rt, situated "on
 the banks of an immense river, the vegetation of which in
 palms, plumeria, tabcrncsmonlana, and sc'itam'mece, is ma
 jestic beyond all description. Thev heard growling everv
 moment the volcano of Catopaxi, which made a dreadful
 explosion on the 6th of January 1803.
    They immediately set out that they might have a nearer
 view of its ravages, and to visit it a second time; but the
 unexpected news of the sudden departure of the Atlanta
 frigate, and the fear of not finding another opportunity fqr
 several months, obliged them to return, after being tor
 mented for seven days by the mosquitoes of Babaoyo and
 Pgibar.
, They had a favourable navigation of thirty days on the
                                                          Pacific

         '   Account of Travels between the Tropics.         5?
  Pacific Ocean to Acapulco, the western port of the king
  dom of New Spain, celebrated by the beauty of its bason,
  which appears to have been cut out in the granite rocks by
  the violence of earthquakes ; celebrated also by the wretch
  edness of its inhabitants, who see there millions of piastres
  embarked for the Philippines and China; and unfortunately
  celebrated by a climate as scorching as mortal.
      M. Humboldt intended at first to stav only a few months
- in Mexico, and to hasten his return to Europe ; his travels
  had already been too long the instruments^ and particularly
  the time-keepers, began to be gradually deranged ; and all
  the efforts he had made to, get new ones had proved fruit
  less. , Besides, the progress of the sciences in Europe is
  so rapid, that in travels of more than four years a traveller
  may see certain phaenomena under points of view which are
  no longer interesting when, his labours are presented to the
  public.
      M. Humboldt nattered himself with the hope, of being
  in England in the months of August or September 1803 ;
  but the attraction of a country so beautiful and so variegated
  as the kingdom of New Spain, the great hospitality of its
  inhabitants, and the dread of the yellow fever at Vera Cruz,
  which cutg off almost all those who between* the months
  of June and October come down from the mountains* in
  duced him to defer his departure till the middle of winter.
  After having occupied his attention with plants, the state
  of the air, the hou*rly variations of the barometer, the pha;-
   nomena of the magnet, and in particular the longitude of
   Acapulco, a port in which two able astronomers, Messrs.
   Espmosa and Galeano, had before made observations, our
   travellers set out for Mexico. They ascended gradually from
   the scorchiifg valleys of Mescala and Papagayo, where the
   thermometer in the shade stood at 32° or Reaumur, 'and
   where thev passed the river on the fruit of the crescenfia
  pinnata, bound together by ropes of -agave, to the" high
   plateaux of Chilpantzingo, Tehuiiotepec and Tasoo. j
      At these heights of six or seven hundred toises above the
   level of the sea, in consequence of the mildness and cool
   ness of the climate, the oak, cypress, fir, and fern, begin
   to be seen, together with the kinds of grain cultivated in
  Europe.
      Having spent some time in the mines of Tasco, the oldest
  and formerly the richest in the kingdom, and having studied
  the nature of those silvery veins which pass from the hard
  calcareous rock to micaceous schist and inclose foliaceous
  gypsum, they ascended, by Cuernaraca and the cold regions

58          Account of Travels belween the Tropics.
of Guchilaqua, to the capital of Mexico. This city, which
has 150,000 inhabitants, and stands on the site of the old
Tenochtitlan, between the lakes of Tezcuco and Xoohimilo,
which have decreased in size since the Spaniards, to lessen
the danger of inundations, have opened the mountains of
Sincoc, is intersected by broad straight streets. Jt stands
in sight of two snowy mountains, one of which is named
Popocatepec ; and of a volcano still burning; and, at the
height of 1 160 toises, enjoys a temperate and agreeable cli
mate : it is surrounded by canals, walks bordered with trees,
a multitude of Indian hamlets, and without doubt may be
compared to the finest cities of Europe. It is distinguished
also by its large scientific establishments, which may vie
with several of the old continent, and to which there are
none similar in the new.
    The botanical garden, directed by that excellent botanist
M. Cervantes ; the expedition of M. Sesse, who is accom
panied by able draftsmen, and whose object is to acquire
a knowledge of the plants of Mexico ; the School of Mines,
 established by the liberality of the corps of miners and by
 the creative genius of M. d'Elhuyar; and the Academy of
 Painting, Engraving, and Sculpture; all tend to diffuse
 taste and knowledge in a country the riches of which
 seem to oppose intellectual culture.
     With instruments taken from the excellent collection of
 the School of Mines, M. Humboldt determined the lon
 gitude of Mexico, in which there was an error of nearly
 two degrees, as has been confirmed by corresponding ob
servations of the satellites made at the Havannah.
     After a stay of some months in that capital, our travellers
 visited the celebrated mines of Moran and Real-del-Monte,
 where the vein of La Biscayna has given millions of piastres
 to the counts De Regla; they examined the obsidian stones
 of Oyamcl, which form strata in the pearl stone and por
 phyry, and served as knives to the antient Mexicans. The
 whole of this country, filled with basaltes, amygdaloids,
 and calcareous and secondary formations, from the large
 cavern of Danto, traversed by a river to the porphyritic
-rocks of Actopan, presents phaenomena interesting to the
 ceologue, which have been already examined by M. del Rio,
 the pupil of Werner, and one of the most learned minera
 logists of the present day.
     On thejr return from their excursion to Moran in July
  1 SQ3, they undertook another to the northern part of the
 kingdom. At first they directed their researches to Hue-
 jiuctoca, where, at the expense of six millions of piastres,
                                                             an

            Account of Travels between the Tropics.          5g
an aperture has been formed in the mountain of Sincoc to
drain off the waters from the valley of Mexico to the rivef
Montezuma. They then passed Oueretaro, by Salamanca
and the fertile plains of Yrapuato, to Guanaxuato, a town
which contains 50,000 inhabitants: it is situated in a narrow
(defile, and celebrated by its mines, which are of far greater
consequence than those of Potosi.
    The mine of count de Valenciana, which has given birth
to a considerable town on a hill which thirty years ago
scarcely afforded pasture to goats, is already 1840 feet in
perpendicular depth. It is the deepest and richest in the
world ; the annual profit of the proprietors having never
been less than three millions of livres, and it sometimes
amounts to five or six.
    After two months employed in measurements and geo
logical researches, and after having examined the thermal
 waters of Comagillas, the temperature of which is 1 1° of
 Reaumur higher than those of the Philippine islands, which
Sonnerat considers as the hottest in the world, our travel
 lers proceeded through the valley of St. Jago, where they
 thought they saw in several lakes at the summits of the ba
 saltic mountains so many craters of burnt-out volcanoes, to
 Valladolid, the capital of the antient kingdom of Michoa-
 can. They thence descended, notwithstanding the con
tinual autumnal rains, by Patzquaro, situated on the margin
 of a very extensive lake towards the coast of the Pacific
 Ocean, to the plains of Jorullo, where in the course of one
 night in 1759j during one of the greatest convulsions which
 the globe ever experienced, there issued from the earth a
 volcano 1494 feet in height, surrounded by more than
 2000 mouths still emitting smoke. They descended into
 the burning crater of the great volcano to the perpendicular
 depth of 258 feet, jumpiug over fissures which exhaled
 flaming sulphurated hydrogen gas. After great danger,
 arising from the brittleness of the basaltic and sienitic lava,
 they reached nearly the bottom of the crater, and analysed
 the air in> it, which was found to be surcharged in an extra
  ordinary manner with carbonic acid.
     From the kingdom of Michoacan, one of the most agree
 able and most fertile countries in the Indies, they returned
  to Mexico by the high plateau of Tolucca, in which they
 measured the snowy mountain of the same name, ascending
 t.o its highest summit, the peak of Fraide, which rises 2364
 toises above the level of the sea : they visited also at Toluc
 ca the famous hand-tree the cheiranthostcemon of M. Cer-
 yantes, a genus which presents a phaenomenon almost
                                                         unique,

 60         Account of Travels between the Tropics.
unique,-—that of there being only one individual ;of it,
 which has existed since the remotest antiquity.
    On their return to the capital of Mexico they remained
there several months, to arrange their herbals, abundant in
 gramineous plants, and their geological collections ; to cal
culate their barometric and trigonometrical measurements
 performed in the course of that year ; and in particular to
make fair drawings of the geological atlas, which M. Hum
 boldt proposes to publish.
    Their return furnished them also with an opportunity of
assisting at the erection of the colossal equestrian statue of
the king,* which one artist, M. Tolsa, overcoming diffi
culties of which a proper idea cannot be formed in Europe,
modelled, cast, and erected on a very high pedestal : it is
wrought in the simplest style, and would be an ornament to
the finest capitals in Europe.
    In January 1804 our travellers left Mexico to, explore the
eastern declivity of the cordillera of New Spain : they mea
sured geometrically the two volcanoes of Puebla, Popoca-
 tepec and Itzaccih.uatl. According to * fabulous tradition,
Diego Ordaz entered the inaccessible crater of the former
 suspended by ropes, in order to collect sulphur, which may
be found every where in the plains.
  . M. Humboldt discovered that the volcano of Popocatcpec,
on which M. Sonnenschmidt, a zealous mineralogist, had
the courage to ascend 2557 toises, is higher than the peak
of Orizaba, which h'as hitherto been considered the highest
colossus of the country of Anahuac : he measured also the
great pyramid of Chohila, a mysterious work constructed
of unbaked brick by the Tultequas, and from the summit
of which there is a most beautiful view over the snowy
summits and smiling plains of Tlaxcala.
    After these researches they descended bv Perote to Xa-
Japa, a town situated at the height of 6/4 toises above the
level of the sea, at a mean height at whjch the inhabitants
enjoy the fruits of all climates, and a temperature equally
mild and beneficial to the health of man. It was here that,
by the kindness of Mr. Thomas Murphy, a respectable'in-
dividual, who to a large fortune adds-a taste K>r the sciences,
our travellers found every facility imaginable for performing
their operations in the neighbouring mountains.
    The level of the horrid road which leads from Xalapa to
Perote, through almost impenetrable forests of oaks and firs,
and which has begun to be converted into a magnificent
causeway, was three times taken with the barometer.
M. Humboldt, notwithstanding the quantity of snow which
        4                          '                    -had

                       Account of Sutton Spa.                        61
bad fallen the everting before, ascended to the summit of
the famous Cofre, which is 162 toises higher than the peak
of Teneriffe, and fixed its position by direct observations.
He measured also trigonometrically the peak of Orizava,
which the Indians call Sitlaltepetr, because the luminous
exhalations of its crater resemble at a distance a falling star,
and respecting the longitude of which .M. Ferrer published
very exact operations.
   After an interesting residence in these countries, where,
under the shade of the liquidambar and amyris, are found
growing the epidendrum vanilla and convolvulus jalappa,
two productions equally valuable for exportation, our tra
vellers descended towards the coast of Vera Cruz, situated
between hills of shifting sand, the reverberation of which
causes a suffocating heat ; but happily escaped the yellow
fevar, which prevailed there at the time.
   They proceeded in a Spanish frigate to the Havannah to
get the collections and herbals left there in 1 800, and, after
a stay of two months, embarked for the United States : but
they were exposed to great danger in the channel of the Ba
hamas from a hurricane which lasted seven days.
   After a passage of thirty -two days they arrived at Phila
delphia; remained in that city and in Washington two
months; and returned to Europe in August 1804 by the
way of Bourdeaux with a great number of drawings, thirty-
five boxes of collections, and 6000 species of plants.
  IX. An Account of Sutton Spa, near Shrewsbury.                  By
                             Dr. Evans*.
Sutton Spa is situated within two miles south of Shrews
bury, on the slope of a gentle eminence, and close to a vil
lage of the same name, the property of the right honourable
lord Berwick. The spring issues from a rocky stratum of
ash-coloured clay, or argillaceous schistus, containing (as
appears by its effervescence with nitrous acid) a small por-.
tion of lime ; and, in its present unimproved state, yields
but a scanty stream. In the neighbourhood are several beds
of soft limestone and coal, the latter mineral accompanying
nearly the whole course of Meole-brook. ' In the Sutton
pits it is mixed with so large a proportion of pyrites, or sul-
phuret of iron, as to be used only for inferior purposes.
  * This is a continuation of Mr. Plymley's Account of the Mineral Pro
ductions of Shropshire.—See our last Number, p. 304,
                                                                 Fresh

62                     Account of Sutton Spa.
    Fresh from the spring, the Sutton water is deaf and co~
lourless, and exhales a slightly sulphureous smell ; which
is most perceptible in rainy weather*. It sparkles little
when -poured into a glass, having no uncombined carbonic
acid in its composition. When first drawn, its strong salt
taste is evidently mixed with a chalybeate flavour ; but the
latter is wholly lost on exposure for a few hours, bubbles of
air separating slowly, and a reddish sediment lining the sides
and bottom of the vessel.
    Its temperature, the thermometer in the open ah stand
ing at about 700, varied from 53° to 55° of Fahrenheit ; but
at another time, the thermometer in the air being at 55°,
sunk as low as 48°.
    The infusions of litmus and red cabbage were not red
dened by it when fresh, nor greened after boiling, or long
 exposure ; showing the absence of any disengaged acid or
 alkali, or of any material portion of earthy carbonate.
     When fresh, it instantly struck a reddish purple with
 tincture of galls ; but no change was produced when it had
 been boiled a few minutes, or exposed some time to the
 atmosphere. The former circumstance Jclearly proves the
 presence of iron, and the latter, that it was wholly held in
 solution by a fugacious acid.
     Mixed with lime water it deposited a reddish sediment
 of the carbonate of lime and iron oxide ; and with caustic
 ammonia, a reddish cloud, formed by the above metal, with
 probably a small portion of magnesia.
     The saccharine or oxalic acid threw down a large and
 immediate precipitate of oxalited lime. With mild kali, a
 copious dirty sediment was instantly formed of earth and
 iron, separated from their acids by the superior affinity of
 the alkali.
     The marine and nitrous acids produced no change, or
 rendered it more transparent; but a few drops of sulphuric
  acid produced instantly a copious deposition of selenite.
     Muriated barytcs did not show the presence of any sul
  phuric compound.
     A solution of acetited lead caused an immediate mitki-
  ness in the water, which, however, became perfectly trans
  parent on the addition of distilled vinegar. This also proves
  the absence of any sulphuric acid, which would have formed
  with the lead an insoluble compound. Characters traced
     • The decomposition of pyrites, and consequent evolution of hepatic air,
  or sulphurated hydrogen gas, being in proportion to the quantity of water
  present.
                                                                         on
                               t

                    Jkcount of Sutton Spa.                  63
on paper with the above solution, and exposed to the vapour
of the fresh water, became visible, of a light brown colour,
by the action of hepatic air or sulphurated hydrogen gas.
Some silver leaf exposed to its vapour became faintly yellow,
and a globule of bright quicksilver was slightly tarnished.
But a solution of nitrated silver produced merely a white
precipitate, turning blue on exposure to light ; the usual
effect of the muriatic acid ; the quantity, therefore, of he
patic air is probably very small.
    A portion of the water, evaporated slowly, formed
beautiful cubic crystals, which, with a drop of sulphuric
acid, gave out the peculiar smell and gray fumes of the mu
 riatic acid.
    From a gallon of the water fresh from the well, were ob
 tained eight ounces, or about 14. **°0 cubic inches of vola
 tile contents, of which about one-eighth part extinguished
 name, precipitated lime water, and was evidently carbonic
 acid. On applying to the remainder (which was not soluble
 in water by repeated agitation) the flame of a candle, a
 slight combustion took place, and afterwards the flame
 burnt nearly as well as in common air. One measure of
 this air, mixed with an equal bulk of nitrous air in an ac
 curate eudiometer, was diminished from 200 to l.-f'^nr,
  while the common air of the room, added to nitrous air in
 the same proportion, was lowered to I .-t^Voj lts purity being
  in a direct ratio to the degree of diminution. It was there
  fore atmospheric air, with a slight mixture of sulphurated
  hydrogen gas, and somewhat more than the usual portion
  of azote, as is always the case with the air of chalybeate
  waters.
     A wine gallon of the fresh water being evaporated to
  dryness, there remained of residuum 2 ounces 3 drachms,
  or 1320 grains ; this, mixed with 12 ounces of cold distilled
  water, left on the filter 12 grains of a reddish brown sedi
  ment.                                       A '
     Caustic ammonia added to the clear solution did not
  precipitate any magnesia worth collecting ; but mild kali
  threw down a copious sediment of aerated lime, which, on
  exsiccation, weighed 206 grains ; and must, according to
  Bergman and Kirwan, have been produced from 226 grains
  of muriated lime, the former containing -fify- parts or pure
  lime, and the latter -ffo of muriatic acid.
     Subtracting this, and the twelve grains of brown resi
  duum, from the whole, there remain in a gallon of the
   water 1082 grains of muriate of soda or common salt. The
   12 grains of residuum, treated with diluted marine acid,
                                  3           y             and

                          Account of Sutton Spa.
  and again precipitated bv caustic ammonia, produced dearly'
  half a grain of iron oxide, which, fused with . charcoal by
  the blowpipe, was strongly attracted by the magnet, and
  assumed some degree of metallic lustre. The remaining'
  U-£ grains, insoluble in the acid, evidently 'consisted of
  clay, mixed, as appeared in a magnifier, with several crystals
  of silex, which were prbbably merely suspended, and not in
  a state of solution, in the water.
                                                                      Grains.
 We have then, in a wine gallon of the Sutton
     water, of muriate of soda                 '-          -         1802 O
 Muriate of lime, with an admixture of muriated
     magnesia              -         -         '-          -          226 r>
  Carbonate of iron               -            -           -             0 5
  Clay and silex               -             -             -           11 5
                                 Total of solid contents            1320      O-
                                                                  Cubic Inches.
 Carbonic acid                -              -                        1 805
"Common air contaminated with azote and sul
    phurated hydrogen gas                   -           -           12    635
                             Total of volatile contents             14 440
                              <U+2713>                                 ¦           !
    This, in common with most mineral waters, varies not
 a little in the quantity and proportions of its ingredients at
 different seasons and in different states of the atmosphere.
 At one time, the caustic ammonia produced no effect on
 the water; at another, it deposited a very considerable por
 tion of magnesia; and the hepatic smell is sometimes not
 in the least perceptible, particularly in dry weather*. But,
 however provoking these variations may be to the accurate
 chemist, they are luckily of little moment to the practical
 physician. A considerable latitude, in (his respect, makes
no material difference in the medicinal effects ; much more
 depending on the ojuantity of the water, as a diluent and
.detergent, than on any other circumstance.
    I am greatly indebted to my ingenious friend Mr. Du-
 gard, house-surgeon to the Salop Infirmary, for his kind
assistance in making the above analysis.
   • In the present exposed state of the opening of the well, this must parti
cularly happen, rainy weather weakening the saline impregnation, and a
warm air exhaling the gases and precipitating the iron. The well known
effect -jf salts in operating more powerfully as they are the more diluted,
*orapeiisates for the diminished strength of the solution.

                         Account of Sutton Spa.
     The Sutton water' has by many been compared with that
 of Cheltenham, and supposed to contain nearly the same
 ingredients. It bears, however, a much closer resemblance
 to sea water, as will be evident from the annexed table*.
     We have accordingly found it most beneficial in those
 cases for which sea water is usually recommended. It
 yields the same salutary stimulus to the stomach in chronic
 weakness of that organ, and obviates, both mildly and ef
 fectually, the habitual costiveness of hypochondriac patients.
Diluted in a large portion of liquid, the saline ingredients
serve to wash out any acrid sordes collected in the first pas
sages, which I believe to be one of the most important uses
of mineral waters. On no other principle can we explain
the uniform good effects produced on the digestive organs
by waters so various in the nature and proportion of their
contents, and in the degree of their impregnation.
     Conveyed by the lacteals into the mass of circulating
 fluids, and thence through the different secretory organs,
 this water has proved highly serviceable in a great variety
 of glandular affections ; and, being disposed to pass off with
 the finer parts of the blood, promotes the excretions of
 urine or perspiration, according to the attendant circum
 stances of clothing, temperature of the air, &c. Absorbed
 by the lymphatics, the acrid muriates stimulate the torpid
vessels, and wash out any acrimony accumulated in conse
quence of that inirritability. We hence may readily explain
their efficacy in those disorders to which the poorer classes
                       Carbo Sele- Muriate Muriate : Muriate Sulphate
                       nate of nite. of Soda. of Lime, i of Mag of Lime
                        Iron.                              nesia. and Mag
                                                                      nesia.
  * In a wine gallon
     of Cheltenham
     water, as ana        5     40       5         0          25       480
     lysed by Dr. Fo-
     thcrgill.
     Sutton water.        i     —      10S2      226     , —           —
  Sea water.taken up
     60 fathoms deep,
     in latitude of the —       45     1928       —          524       -
     Canaries.andan-
     alysed by Berg
     man.
   It must here be observed, that the sea, being more strongly impregnated
with salt in proportion to the warmth of the climate, contains on our coast*
not more than l-30th its weight, instead of l-23d of saline contents.
    Vol. 22^ No. 85. June 1805.              E             -                are

  ¦66                      Account of Sutton Spa,
   are particularly liable, chronic diseases of the skin, and
   scrophula. In the former, which have so improperly been
   termed scorbutic *, this water has been found a very valua-
 • ble remedy, both externally and internally applied.
        In the cure of scrophula, the superior merits of sea water,
    first introduced to publicnotice by Dr.Russel,haveever since
    been uniformly and universally acknowledged f. A simi
    larity of ingredients would naturally lead us to expect si
    milar effects from the Sutton water ; and I am happy to bear
    testimony, that a twenty years' attendance at the Salop In
    firmary, as well as in private practice, has furnished me
    with abundant proofs of its success in the treatment of
    scrophulous affections. Yet I will frankly own, fhat in'
    this deceitful, and, I fear, increasing malady, the effects
    of medicine are frequently but too fallacious. At certain
    seasons of the year, and particular periods of life, the sym
    ptoms will subside spontaneously, and the credit due to
    Nature be given to the remedy last employed.
        In addition to the above properties possessed by the Sut
    ton spring in common with sea water, it enjoys one evi
    dent advantage, in containing iron. Though the minute
    portion of it, in this and many other mineral springs, may
    be thought inadequate to any useful purpose,—experience,
    our surest guide, has amply proved the contrary ; and it is
    now well ascertained, that small and repeated doses of this
   -valuable metal produce far more beneficial and permanent
    effects on the constitution than the much larger ones for
    merly prescribed.
        It has been variously administered, either as a calx or
    oxide, or as already combined with an acid solvent ; but in
    no form has it proved so uniformly efficacious as when pre
    pared by -Nature herself, and existing as a carbonate iir i
    chalybeate springs. Winged, as it were, by its aerial acid,
    it BorvadcS' the remotest vessels and minutest capillaries of
    the system, invigorating every fibre, and rendering evacua
    tion by the saline ingredients both safe and salutary. Of
    the external use of this water as a cc?ld or tepid bath, I caa
    speak. ft        theory alone, no st*jph conveniences having been
       * I say improperly, because the real! scurvyj is connected with a state of"
    the j^'stem the most oppasite of any to the diseases here mentioned.
       f It is worthy of remark, that almost every popular remedy for this com-
' plaint contains the marina aeid in. its dom position. At one time, the muri-
    iiiiiajytcs was in high celebrity, and now the rnuriated lime js rising into
  . eu^ial credit. I hare often prescribed with success, the tinct. fcrr. muriat. as
    combining the tonic powers of iron with the stimulus of the acid; but I
  'ilriirlc r have found the simple marine acid full as efficacious as any of its
    combinations.
         -                                                                       as

                       Account of Sutton Spa±                 67
  as yet provided. But analogy fully warrants us to suppose
  it nearly as powerful as sea water, and applicable to the
  same useful purposes. In cutaneous foulnesses, in scrof-
  phula, in chronic rheumati*m> paralytic affections, and,
  above all,, in the cachexies of young females, attended with
  uterine obstructions, we have every reason to expect the
  greatest advantages from its applications as a warm or tepid
  bath.                     ,
     This being by no means intended as a medical commu
  nication, I have given merely a faint sketch of the virtues
  to be expected from the Sutton water. The outline may be
  readily filled up hereafter, whenever the improved state of
  the Spa shall require a more accurate description of its best
  modes of exhibition^ and the diseases to which it is appli
  cable.
     Though its value has been long felt and acknowledged
  by the immediate neighbourhood, the spring still remains
  in a very rude and negleTted state ; an iron spout attached
  to a piece of wood' stretched across the opening, forming
  the only channel for the water's exit. Entangled in its
  passage to the brook below, it has produced an artificial
  morass, its surface being abundantly covered with ochery
  scum, from the deposition of iron oxide. Some time since,
' it was held in contemplation by the noble proprietor to erect
  baths, &c. for the accommodation of invalids ; but the mi
  litary avocations of the day postponed the truly benevolent
  institution. With the return of ihe blessings of peace, it
  will, I trust, be resumedj and an inestimable benefit thereby
  conferred on an extensive and populous district. The mo-
 TaSs might easily be drained by channels communicating
  with the brook ; and baths erected on this site would have
  both a constant supply from the well, and a regular dis
  charge of the refuse water. '
     While almost every fishing village on the coast is pre
  paring conveniences for sea bathing, how desirable would
  it be to extend similar advantages to the interior parts of ,
  the island, where poverty or infirmity renders it impossible'
  to visit the distant sea ! In this county, abounding in mi
  nerals, whose subterraneous wealth is beyond all calcula
  tion, there is probably scarce a parish that would not supply
  a mineral water for the benefit of the neighbouring poor,
  were the springs properly examined.
  • The air of Sutton, as might be expected from its open
  elevated situation, is dry and wholesome. The site com
  mands a rich and highly variegated prospect ; bounded
  on one side by the magnificent group of Freyddin and
                               E2          '         '    Mod

  68             On the Blight or Mildew of Wheat.
  Moel y Golfa, with a long range of Welsh mountains rising-
  in full majesty beyond them ; and on the other, by their
  no mean rivals, the Wrekin and Stretton hills. The view
  of Shrewsbury, betwixt the branches of the adjoining wood,
  particularly when the setting sun gilds every object with his
  mellowest light, js greatly and most deservedly admired.
  The walk frpm Shrewsbury is pleasant and picturesque; and
  the neighbourhood of a reasonable and abundant market
   can be considered as no trifling object, when compared
   with the extravagant prices and scanty accommodations of
   many of our remote watering places.
              X. On the Blight or Mildew of Wheat*.
   But the most remarkable effect of the seasons of the pre
   sent year (1800) is that of wheat being, in particular
   situations, injured by blight or mildew—in a dry summer.
   In this district (the Vale of Exeter) many fine looking
   crops were, in a manner, cut off by this malady : the straw
   becoming black as soot, and the grain shrivelled and
   light. In one instance which I particularly attended to, it
   was barely worth the labour of thrashing out ; even at the
   present prices ! owing, however,- in some considerable de
   gree, I apprehend, to the imprudence of the grower, who
   suffered it to stand to ripen , after the blight had seized it ;
   while a more judicious manager in this quarter of the
   county t, by cutting his wheat as soon as he perceived it
   to be struck with the disease, preserved it, he believes,
   from material injury. This precaution, however, it is very
   probable, ninety-nine growers in a hundred did not take :
   and the country may have lost, in the most alarming hour
   of scarcity, some hundred thousand quarters of wheat by
   this one defect in English agriculture % !
       1804. A similar, but more universal effect took place this
 . summer, which has likewise been characterized by dryness,
   at least in those parts of the island in which my observa-
 . tions have been made.
      On my return from South Wales to London, early in this
 , September, wheat crops evidently appeared, by the dark
     * From Mr. Marshall's new edition pf the Rural Economy of the West of
   England.
     f Mr. Smith, of Axminster.
     % Seethe Rural Economy of Gloucestershire, for remarks on this im
   portant point of management.
* .                                                                  hue

                On the Blight or Milieu of Wheat,                     69
hue of their straw, or their stubbles, to have been more or
less blighted ; excepting in a few instances in Gloucester
shire, and others in Oxfordshire, in which instances only
strong, yellow, healthy stubbles were observable.
   The cause of the disease in the county in which I had
the best opportunity of observing it (Caermarthenshire),
appeared, very evidently, to proceed from some cold rains
which fell about the middle of August. Before that time
wheat crops in general looked healthy, and were beginning
to change to a bright colour. But presently after a few cold
wet clays the malady became obvious to the naked eye. The
straw lost its smooth varnished surface, being occupied
by innumerable specks, which changed in a few days, in
less than a week, to a dark or blackish colour, giving the
straw a dusky appearance*.
   A gentleman of Caermarthenshire, who is attentive to
agricultural concerns, is of opinion that this destructive
disease may be prevented by sowing old seed ; namely,
wheat of the preceding year's growth, instead of new wheat,
agreeably to the practice of the Cotswold Hills of Glouces
tershire. I am much inclined to think, that by sowing
early, agreeably to that practice (see Gloucestershire," II.
51 .), this fatal disease might frequently be avoided, early
ripe crops being, from, all the observations that I have
hitherto made, the least subject to its baleful effect. Corn
which ripens under the hot summer sun of July, is not so
liable to cold chilling rains as that which remains unmatured
until the sun begins to lose its power, and the nights to
increase-in length and coolness.
   A certain preventive of this disaster would be a disco
very worth millions to the country. Until this be made,
let the grower of wheat not only endeavour to sow early,
but let him look narrowly to his crop during the critical
time of the filling of the grain ; and whenever he may per
ceive it to be smitten with the disease,-let him lose no time
in cutting it, suffering it to lie on the stubble until the
straw be firm and crisp enough to be set up in sheaves,
without adhering ir* the binding places;—allowing it to
remain in the field, until the grain shall have received the
nutriment which the straw may be able to impart. Where
wheat has been grown on " lammas land," and the ground
  * Devonshire had its rains in the ripening season of 1800. A third in
stance of the blight of wheat succeeding rain, was 'observed in the same
county, in 1794. And a fourth was equally obvious, in 1785, in the Mid
land Counties, as may be seen in the Rural Economy of that department,
minute 74,                                    •
                                  E3                            obliged

7»              On the Blight or Mildew of Wheqt*
obliged to be cleared by the first of August, crops have been
known to be cut " as green as grass," and to be carried off
and spread. upon grass land to dry. Yet the grain has been
found to mature, and always to afford a fine-skinned beau
tiful sample. Raygrass that is cut even while in blossom,
is well known to mature its seeds with the sap that is lodged
in. the stems. Hence there is nothing to fear from cutting
wheat or other corn hefore the straw be ripe. ,
      1805. April. That the operation of this disease is car
 ried on by the fungus tribe, evidently appears from the
 ingenious and persevering labours of botanists*. But
 fungi, it is equally evident, are an effect, not the cause of
 the disease. T hey are the vermin of the more perfect ve
 getables ; and fasten on them, whether in a dead or in a,
 diseased state ; but seldom, I believe, while they are in full
 health and vigour. Their minute and volatile seeds may be
 said to be every where present—ready to produce their kind
 wherever they may find a genial matrix. Such at least ap?
 pears to be the nature of the fungus, or fungi, of wheat ;
 for it may be liable to the attack of more than one species.
 In a dry warm summer, which is well known to be favour
 able to the health, vigour, and productiveness of the wheat
 crop, the seeds of fungi are harmless, so long as the fine
 weather continues. On the contrary, in a cold wet season,
 which gives languor and weakness to the wheat plants, few-
 crops escape entirely their destructive effects.. A standing
 crop not unfrequently escapes, while plots that are lodged
 in the same field, especially in pits and hollow places, be
  come liable to their attack. And by the facta above stated,
  we plainly see, that even strong healthy crops may, in a
  few days, or perhaps in a few hours, be rendered liable to.
  be assailed—not progressively, as by an infectious disease,
  but at once, as by a blast or blight. In the state of the
  atmosphere we are to look for the cause of the disease in a
  standing crop ; and nothing is so likely to bring on the
  fatal predisposition of the plants as a succession of cold
  rains while the grain is forming- The coolness necessarily
  gives a check to the rich saccharine juices which are then,
  rising towards the ear; and the moisture may, at the same
  time, assist the seeds of the fungi to germinate and take
  root. Thus reason and facts concur in pointing out the
  cause and the operation of the diseasef. The natural event
                                                                               is
     * As they are set forth in a paper just published by Sir Joseph Banks,
     ,f There appear to be reasons why corn which happens to be struck with
 this disease in a dry warm sunimer is exposed to excessive injury, as. facts
   j                                                                   ' ; pretty

            On Stones that havefallenfrom the Atmospliere. . JTi .
  is too well known, and it is the business of art to endeavour
   to prevent it.
       If by cutting down the crop, as soon as it is found to be
, diseased, the operation can be stopped—as experience, in
  different instances, has shown that it may—the remedy is
  easy *.
       A probable means of prevention is that of inducing early
  ripeness (for reasons above offered), either by sowing earlv,
  or by forcing manures, or by selecting and establishing
  early varieties—of wheat most especially ;—as early varieties
  of pease and other esculent plants are raised by gardeners :
  a work which only requires ordinary attention, and which
  it is hoped will, without delay, be set about and encou
  raged by every attentive grower of wheat, and every pro
  moter of rural improvements in the united kingdom.
       For the method of raising and improving varieties of
  wheat, see the Rural Economy of Yorkshire, vol. ii. p. 4.
  XI. On the Origin of Stones that have fallen from the
       Atmosphere. By Chaules Hutton, L.L.D. and
       F.R.S.                               ~
  The following observations are copied from a note by
  Dr. Hutton on Dr. Halley's Paper on Extraordinary Mc-
  pretty evidently show that it is. The habits of the plants render them more
  susceptible of injury, their rich juices more liable to be checked, and the
  seeds of fungi, it is probable,' are more widely, if not more plentifully,
  distributed, by such a state of the air, than they are by a cool moist
  atmosphere. '                                                   . • ,
     * It may be asked in what manner the remedy is thus effected. But to,
  the practical farmer the fact is all that is required. To him it is equally as
  indifferent to know the operation of the remedy as the operation of the
  disease. Those who have profited by the remedy here recommended, be
  lieve that it " kills the mildew." (See Gloucestershire, vol.ii. p. 54.) And
  if it shall appear that the fungus of wheat requires a free supply of air to
  keep it alive, or in a state of health and vigour, the effect of cutting down
  the crop will be explained. It will perhaps be found, by experience, that
  the closer it is allowed to lie upon the ground^ and the sooner it is bound
  up in sheaves (provided the natural ascent of the sap to the ear be not
  thereby interrupted), the more effectual and complete will be the remedv.
      Further, it may be suggested, on the evidence of attentive observation,
  that if wheat which has been attacked by this disease be suffered to remain
  in the field with the ears exposed, until it may have received the arnelio-
  rating influence of dews or moderate rain (to soften, relax, and assist the
  natural rise of the sap), the more productive it will probably become. See;
  Minutes of Agriculture, in Surrey, No. 4,
     And ir may be still further added, that grain which is cut whits' under
  ripe, is less liable to be injured in the field by moist weather, than that
  wiich has.stopd untii it be fully or over ripe.
   t                                     E4                               teors,

72                   On the Origin of Stones
teors, given in the sixth volume of the Abridgment of the-
Philosophical Transactions, now publishing.
    Dr. Halky takes it for granted that the luminous bodies
sometimes seen in the atmosphere are merely unkindlerl
vapours. Dr. Hutton observes, that " the difficulty, not
to say impossibility of conceiving how any exhalations
could be raised so high, ought to have hinted the idea of
 some other origin," and then proceeds as follows :
     C£ Later observations have induced a belief that these
 luminous appearances are allied to, if not the same as, the
 stones which have frequently been known to fall from the
 atmosphere, at different times, and in all parts of the earth.
 Several of the phaenomena are common to both. These
 luminous bodies are seen to move with very great velocities,
 in oblique directions descending ; commonly with a loud
 hissing noise, resembling that of a mortar shell, or cannon
  ball, or rather that of an irregular hard mass projected
 violently through the air ; surrounded by a blaze or flame,
 tapering off to a narrow stream in the hinder part of it ; are
 heard to explode or burst, and seen to fly in pieces, the
 larger parts going foremost, and the' Smaller following in
 succession ; are thus seen to fall on the earth, and strike it
 ¦with great violence^ that on examining the place of the
 fall, the parts are found scattered about, being still consi
  derably warm, and most of them entered the earth several
  inches deep. After so many facts and concurring circum
  stances, it is difficult to refuse assent to the identity of the
  two phaenomena ; indeed it seems now not to be doubted,
  but generally acquiesced in. And hence it is concluded,
  that every such meteor-like appearance is attended by the
  fall of a stone, or of stones, though we do not always see
  the place of the fall, nor discover the stones.
      " This conclusion, however, has contributed nothing
  towards discovering the origin of the phenomenon, at least
  as to its generation in the atmosphere : on the contrary, it
  seems still more difficult to account for the production of
  stones, than gaseous meteors, in the atmosphere, as well
  as to inflame and give them such violent motion. In
  fact, it seems concluded as a thing impossible to be done
  or conceived ; and philosophers have given up the idea
  as hopeless. This circumstance has induced them to
  endeavour to discover some other lause or origin for these
  phaenomena. But no idea that is probable, or even
  possible, has yet been started, excepting one, by the
 very celebrated mathematician Laplace, and that of so
  extraordinary a nature, as to astonish us with its novelty,.
        ' ,•                                                  and

             tHat havefallen from the Atmosphere.            73
 and boldness of conception. This is no less than the
-conjecture that these stony masses are projected from
 the noon ! a conjecture which none but an astronomer
 could have- made, or at least have shown to be probable,
 or even possible. Any ordinary person might at random
 utter the vague expression of a thing coming -from- the
 moon ; but no one, except the philosopher, could propose
 'the conjecture seriously, and prove its possibility. This
 M. Laplace has been enabled to do by strict mathematical
 calculation. He has proved that a mass, if projected by a
 volcano from the moon, with a certain velocity, of about a
 mile and half per second (which is possible to be done), it
 will thence be thrown beyond the sphere of the moon's
 attraction, and into the confines of the earth's ; the conse
 quence of which is, that the mass must presently fall to the
 earth, and become a part of it.
     " To prepare" the way for a calculation, and a comparison
  of this supposed cause with the phaenomena, it will be
  useful here to premise a short account of the late and b«st
 observed circumstances in the appearance of fireballs, and
  the fall of stonv masses from the atmosphere, extracted
  from the last published accounts of some of the more re
  markable cases.
     [The greater part of the facts adduced by Dr. Hutton
  having- already appeared in the Philosophical Magazine, we
  omit them here, and confine ourselves to the remarks he
  has subjoined to them .]
     ** Having now given a summary of the facts and evi
  dence, as well with regard to the circumstances attending
  these singular bodies, as the ingredients thev are composed
  of, and their outward appearance and structure, we are now
  to consider what inferences respecting their probable origin
  may be drawn from this mass of information. And indeed
   we may safely conclude, as it has been inferred from the
   whole, by the philosophers best qualified to judge of the
   circumstances, as follow, viz. that the bodies in question
   have fallen on the surface of the earth ; but that they were
   not projected by any terrestrial volcanoes ; and that we have
   no right, from the known laws of nature, to suppose that
   they were formed in the upper regions of the atmosphere.
   Such a negative conclusion has been thought all that we
   are, in the present state of our knowledge, entitled to
   draw.
      *e In this embarrassing predicament, the total want of
   any other possible way of accounting for the origin of those
   bodies^ an idea has been started, perhaps at first merely at
                                                        random,

 74                 On the Origin of Stories
random, that since there is no other possible manner of
accounting for them, then they must have dropped from
the moon. Ar.d, indeed, this singular thought has now-
advanced into a serious hypothesis, which it must be
allowed is unincumbered with any of the foregoing difficul
ties; having \X least possibility in its favour, which no other
hypothesis yet proposed can claim.
    " As the attraction of gravitation extends through the
whole planetary system, a body placed at the surface of the
moon is affected chiefly by two forces, one drawing it
toward the centre of the earth, and another drawing it to
ward that of the moon. The latter of these forces how
ever, near the moon's surface, is incomparably the greater.
But as we recede from the moon, and apjiroach toward the
 earth, this force decreases, while the other augments, till
 at length a point of station is found between the two
 planets, where these forces are exactly equal ; so that a body
•placed there must remain at rest : but if it be removed still
nearer to the earth, then this planet would have the superior
 attraction, and the body must fall towards it. If a body
then be projected from the moon towards the earth, with a
force sufficient to carry it beyond this point of equal attrac
tion, it must necessarily fall on the earth. Such then is
the idea of the manner in which the bodies must be made
to pass from the moon to the earth, if that can be done,
the possibility of which is now necessary to be considered.
    " Now supposing a mass to be projected from the moon,
in a direct line towards the earth, by a volcano, or by the
production of steam by subterranean heat, and supposing
for the present those two planets to remain at rest, then it
has been demonstrated, on the Newtonian estimation of
the moon's mass, that a force projecting the body with a
 velocity of I 2,000 feet in a second, would be sufficient to
 carry it bevond the point of equal attraction. But this
 estimate of the moon's mass is now allowed to be much
 above the truth; and on M. Laplace's calculation it appears
that a force of fitile more than half the above power would
be sufficient to produce the effect, that is, a force capable of
projecting a body with a velocity of less than a mile and a
half per second. But we have known cannon balls pro
jected by the force of gunpowder, with a velocity of 2500
feet per second, or upwards, that is, about half a mile. It
 follows therefore, that a projectile force, communicating a
veloeity about three times that of a cannon ball, would be
sufficient to throw the body from the moon beyond the
point of equal attraction, and cause it to reach the earths
                                                           Now

             that havefallenfrom the Atmosphere.              75
Now therp can be little doubt that a force equal to that Is
exerted by volcanoes on the earth, as well as by the pro
duction of" steam from subterranean heat, when we consider
the huge masses of rock, so many times larger than cannon
balls, thrown on such occasions to heights also so much
greater. We may easily imagine too such cause.of motion
to exist in the moon as well as in the earth, and that in a
superior degree, if we may judge from the supposed sym
ptoms of volcanoes recently observed in the moon, by the
powerful tubes of Dr. Herschel ; and still more, if we con
 sider that all projections from the earth suffer an enormous
resistance and diminution, by the dense atmosphere of this
 planet, while it has been rendered probable, from optical
 considerations, that the moon has little or no atmosphere
 at all, to give any such resistance to projectiles.
        Thus then we are fullv authorised in concluding, that
 the case of possibility is completely made out ; that a known
power exists in nature, capable of producing the foregoing
 effect, of detaching amass of matter from the moon, and
 transferring it to the earth, in the form of a flaming meteor
 o-r burning stone ; at the same time we are utterly ignorant
 of any otlier process in nature by which the same phaeno
 menon can be produced. Having thus discovered a way in
 which it is possible to produce those appearances, we shall
 now endeavour to show, from all the concomitant circum
 stances, that these accord exceedingly well with the natural
 effects of the supposed cause, and thence give it a very high
 degree of probability.
     f This important desideratum will perhaps be best attained
 by examining the consequences of a substance supposed to
 be projected by a volcano from the moon, into the sphere of
 the earth's superior attraction ; and then> comparing those
 with the known and visible. phaenomena of the blazing me
 teors or burning stories that fall through the air on the earth.
 And if in this comparison a striking coincidence or resem
 blance shall always or mostlv be found, it will be difficult
 for the human mind to resist the persuasion that the assumed;
 cause involves a degree of probability but little short of
 certainty itself. Now the chief phaenomena attending these
 blazing meteors, or burning stones, are these : 1 . That
 they appear or blaze out suddenly. 2. That they move
 with a surprising rapid motion, nearly horizontal, but a
 little inclined downwards. 3. That they move in several'
 different directions, with respect to the points of the com
 pass. 4. That in their flight they yield a loud whizzing
 sound. 5. That they commonly burst with a violent ex
                                                         plosion

    76                On the Origin of Stones
   plosion and report. 6. That they fall on the earth with
   great force in a sloping direction. 7- That they are very
   hot at first, remain hot a considerable time, and exhibit
   visible tokens of fusion on thetr surface. 8. That the fallen
   stony masses have all the same external appearance and
   contexture, as well as internally the same nature and com
   position. 9. That they are totally different from all our
  terrestrial bodies, both natural and artificial.
      " Now these phaenomena will naturally compare with
  the circumstances of a substance projected by a lunar vol
  cano, and in the order in which they are here enumerated.
  And first with respect to the leading circumstance, that of
  a sudden blazing meteoric appearance, which is not that of a
  small bright spark, first seen at immense distance, and then
  gradually increasing with the diminution of its distance.
  And this circumstance appears very naturally to result from
  the assumed cause. For the body being projected from a
  lunar volcano, may well- be supposed in an ignited state,
  like inflamed matter thrown up by our terrestrial volcanoes,
 which passing through the comparatively vacuum, in the
  spate between the moon and the earth's sensible atmo
  sphere, it will probably enter the superior parts of this
 atmosphere with but little diminution of its original heat;
 from which circumstance, united with that of its violent
 motion, this being 10 or 12 times that of a cannon ball,
 and through a part of the atmosphere probably consisting
 chiefly of the inflammable gas, rising from the earth to the
 top of the atmosphere, the body may well be supposed to
 become suddenly inflamed, as the natural effect of these
 circumstances ; indeed it would be surprising if it did not.
 From whence it appears that the sudden inflammation of
 the body, on entering the earth's atmosphere, is exactly
 what might be expected to happen.
     " 2. Secondly, to trace the body through the earth's
atmosphere, we are to observe that it enters the top of it,
with the great velocity acquired by descending from . the
point of equal attraction, which is such as. would carry the
bodv to the earth's surface in a very few additional seconds
of time, if it met with no obstruction. But as- it enters
deeper in the atmosphere, it meets with still more and
more resistance from the increasing density of the air ; by
which the great velocity of 6 miles per second must soon be
greatly reduced to one that will be uniform, and only a
small part of its former great velocity. This remaining .
part of its motion will be various in different bodies, 'being
mor>; or less as the body is larger or smaller, and as it. is
                                                         more

            that havefallenfrom the Atmospliere.            77
more or less specifically heavy ; but, for a particular in
stance, if the body were a globe of 12 inches diameter, and
of the same gravity as the atmospheric stones, the motion
would decrease so, as to be little more than a quarter of a
mile per second of perpendicular descent. Now while the %
b«dy is thus descending, the earth itself is affected by a
two-fold motion, both the diurnal and the annual one, with
both of which the descent of the body is to be compounded.
The earth's motion of rotation at the equator is about 17
miles in a minute, or -ir of a mile in a second ; but in the
middle latitudes of Europe little more than the half of that,
or little above half a quarter of a mile in a second : and if
we compound this motion with that of the descending body,
as in mechanics, this may cause the body to appear to
descend obliquely, though but a little, the motion being
nearer the perpendicular than the horizontal direction. But
the other motion of the earth, or that in its annual course,
is about 20 miles in a second, which is SO times greater
 than tlte perpendicular descent in the instance above men
tioned; so that, if this motion be compounded with the
descending one of the body, it must necessarily give it the
appearance of a very rapid motion, in a direction nearly
parallel to the horizon, but a little declining downwards.
A circumstance which exactly agrees with the usual appear
 ances of these meteoric bodies, as stated in the 2d article of
the enumerated phaenomena.
   *' 3. Again, with regard to the apparent direction of the
 body, this will evidently be various, being that com
 pounded of the body's descent and the direction of the
 earth's annual motion at the time of the fall, which is itself
 various in the different seasons of the year, according to the
 direction of the several points of the ecliptic to the earth's
 meridian or axis. Usually, however, from ihe great excess
 of the earth's motion above that of the falling hodv, the
 direction of jhis must appear to be nearly opposite to that of
 the former. And in fact this exactly agrees with a remark
 made by Dr. Halley, in his account ot the meteors in his
 paper above given, where he says that the direction of the
 meteor's motion was exactly opposite to that of the earth in
 her orbit. And if this shall generally be found to be the
 case, it will prove a powerful confirmation of this theory qf
 the lunar substances. Unfortunately, however, the ob
 servations on this point are very few and mostly inaccurate:
 the angle or direction of the- fallen stones has not been
 recorded; and that of the flyingmeteor commonly mistaken,
 all the various observers giving it a different qpurse, 9ome
                      7                                    even

  78     On Stones that havefallenfrom the Atmosphere.
  even directly the reverse of others. In future, it will be
  very advisable that the observers of fallen stones observe
  and record the direction or bearing of the perforation made
  by the body in the earth, which will give us perhaps the
  course of the path nearer than any other observation.
     " 4. In the flight of these meteoric stones, it is com-
  nionly observed that they yield a loud whizzing sound.
  Indeed it would be surprising if they did not. For if the
  like sound be given by the smooth and regularly formed
  cannon ball, and heard at a considerable distance, how ex
 ceedingly great must be that of a body so much larger,
 which is of an irregular form and surface too, and striking
 the air with 50 or 100 times the velocity.
     " 5. That they commonly burst and fly in pieces in,
 their rapid flight, is a circumstance exceeding likely to
 happen, both from the violent state of fusion on their sur
 face, and from the ext. erne rapidity of their motion through
 the air. If a grinding stone, from its quick rotation, be
 sometimes burst and fly in pieces, and if the sanle thing
 happens to cannon balls, when made of stone, and dis
 charged with considerable velocity, merely by the friction
 and resistance of the air, how much more is the same to be
 expected to happen to the atmospheric stones, moving with
 more than 50 times the velocity, and when their surface
 may well be supposed to be partly loosened or dissolved by
 the extremity of the heat there.
    "'6. That the stones strike the ground,with a great force,
and penetrate to a considerable depth, as is usually ob
served, is a circumstance only, to be expected, from the
 extreme rapidity of their motion, and their great weight,
when we consider that a cannon ball, or a mortar shell,
will often bury itself many inches, or even some feet in the
earth.
    " 7. That these stones, when soon sought after and
found, are hot, and exhibit the marks of recent fusion, are
also the natural consequences of the extreme degree of in
flammation in which their surface had been put during their'
flight through the air.                           .• •
    " 8. That these stony masses have all the same external
appearance and contexture, as well as internally the same
nature and composition, are circumstauces that strongly
point out an identity of origin, whatever may be the cause
to which they owe so generally uniform a conformation.
And when it is considered, 9thly, that in those respects-
they differ totally from all terrestrial compositions hitherto
known or discovered, they "lead the mind strongly to
                                                       ascribe

                      Description of & Plo2igh-ear.                          ^9
ascribe them to some other origin than the earth we in
habit; and none so likely as coming from our neighbouring
planet.
      " Upon the whole then it appears highly probable, that
the flaming meteors, and the burning stones that fall on
the earth, are one and the same thing. It also appears im
possible, or in the extremest degree improbable, to ascribe
these, either to a formation in the superior parts of the
atmosphere, or to the irruptions of terrestrial volcanoes, or
to the generation by lightning striking the earth. But, on
the other hand, that it is possible for such masses to be
projected from the moon so as to reach the earth ; and that
all the phaenomena of these meteors or falling stones, having
a surprising conformity with the circumstances of masses
that may be expelled from the moon by natural causes, unite
in forming a body of strong evidence, that this is in all pro
bability and actually the case."                 , >,-.
XII; Destription of a Plough-ear ivkich offers the least
      possible Resistance, and which may be easily constructed*
      By Mr. Jefferson, President of the United States of
      America*'.
 3. he body of a plough ought not only to be the continua
 tion of the wing of the sock, beginning at its posterior edge,
 but it must also be in the same plane. Its first function is
 to receive horizontally from the sock the earth, to laise it
 to the height'proper for being turned over ; to present in
 its passage the least possible resistance, and consequently to
 require only the minimum of moving power. Were its
 functions confined to this, the wedge would present, no
 doubt, the properest form for practice t j but the object is
 also to turn over the sod of earth. One of the edges of the
 ear ought then to have no elevation to avoid an useless
 wasting of feree; the other edge ought on the contrary to
     * From Jlnwiitida Museum National d'Hls'oire Nrturelle, so. 4. 1802.
     f r am sensible ^hat if the object were merely to. raise the sod of earth f4
 st given height by a' determinate length of earjj without turning it over, the
 form which w^uld-give the least resistance Would not be exactly that of a
 wedge with, two plane ftces ; but the upper face ought to be curvilinear,
 according to the laws of the solid of least resistance described bv mathema
 ticians. But in this case the difference between the effect of the wedge with
 a curved face, and that of a wedge with a plane face, is so small, and it
 would be so difficult fur workmen to construct the former, that the wedge,
 with a plane face ought to be preferred in practice as the fast element of
 tar method of construction. (iWe 'of the Auruoa.)
 **•'          1                                                              f?0

 80               Description of a Plough-ear.
 go on ascending until it has passed the perpendicular, in
 order that the sod may be inverted by its own weight ; and
 to obtain this effect with the least possible resistance, the
 inclination of the ear must increase gradually from the mo
 ment that it has received the sod.
    In this second function the ear acts then like a wedge
 situated in an oblique direction or ascending, the point of
 which recedes horizontally on the earth, while the other
 end continues to rise till it passes the perpendicular. Or,
 to consider it under another point of view, let us place oi»
 the ground a wedge, the breadth of which is equal to that of
the sock of tne plough, and which in length is equal to the
sock from the wing to the posterior extremity, and the
height of the heel is equal to the thickness of the sock :
draw i diagonal on the upper surface from the left angle of
the point to the angle on the right of the upper part of the
heel ; slope the face by making it bevel from the diagonal
to the right edge which touches the earth : this half will'
evidently be the properest form for discharging the required
functions, namely, to remove and turn over gradually the
sod, and with the least force possible. If the left of the
diagonal be sloped in the same manner, that- is to say, if
we suppose a straight line, the length of which is equal at
least to that of the wedge, applied on the face already sloped,
and moving backwards on that face, parallel to itself, and
to the two ends of the wedge, at the same time that its
lower end keeps itself always along the lower end of the
right face, the result will be a curved surface, the essential
character of which is, that it will be a combination of the
principle of the wedge, considered according to two di
rections, which cross each other, and will give what we
require, a plough-ear presenting the least possible re
sistance.
   This ear, besides, is attended with the valuable advantage
that it can be made by any common workman by a process
so exact that its form will not vary the thickness of a hair.
One of the great faults of this essential part of the plough is
the want of precision, because, workmen having no other
guide than the eye, scarcely two of them are similar.
   It is easier, indeed,' to construct with precision the
plough-ear in question when one has seen the method which
furmshes tlje means once put in practice, than to describe
the method by the aid of language, or to represent it by
figures. I shall, however, try to give a description of it.
   Let the proposed breadth and depth of the furrow, as well
as the length of the head, of the plough, from its junction
                                                          with

                     Description of a Plough-ear. .' '          81
   with the wing to its posterior end, be given, for these data
   will determine the dimensions of the block from which the
   ear of the plough must be cut. Let us suppose the bieadih
   of the furrow to be 9 inches, the depth 6, and the length
  of the head two feet : the block then (Plate I. fig. 1.) must
  be 9 inches in breadth at its base b c, and 1 3-i. inches at its
  summit ad; for, if it had at the top only the breadth ae
  equal to that of the base, the sod, raised in a perpendicular
  direction, would by its own elasticity fall back into the
  furrow. The experience which I have acquired in my own
  land, has proved to me that in a height of 12 inches the
  elevation of the ear ought to go beyond the perpendicular
  4Jr inches, which gives an angle of about 20^-°, in order
  that the weight of the sod may in all cases overcome its
  elasticity. The block must be 12 inches in height, because,
 if the height of the ear were not equal to twice the depth of
 the furrow, when friable and sandy earth is tilled it would
  pass the ear, rising up like waves. It must be in length
  3 feet, one of which will serve to form the tail that fixes the
 ear to the stilt of the plough.
     The first operation consists informing this tail by sawing
 the block (fig. 2.) across from a to b on its left side, and
  at the distance of 12 inches from the end fg: then con
  tinue the notch perpendicularly along b c till within , an
 inch and a half of its right side ; then taking di and e h,
  each equal 1-J- inch, make a mark with the saw along the
 line de, parallel to the right side. The piece abcdefg
 will fall of itself, and leave the tail cdehik, an inch and a
  half in thickness. It is of the anterior part abcklmn of
 the block that the ear must be formed.
     By means of a square trace out on all the faces of the
 block lines at an inch distance from each other, of which
 there will necessarily be 23 : then draw the diagonals km.
 (fig. 3.) on the upper face, and k o on that which is situated
 on the right ; make the saw enter at the point m, directing
 it towards k, and making it descend along the line mi
 until it mark out a straight line between k and I (fig. 5.) ;
'then make the saw enter at the point o, and, preserving the
 direction o k, make it descend along the line o I until it
 me,et with the central diagonal kl, which - had been formed
 by <jje first cut: the pyramid k mriot (fig. 4,.) will fall of
 itself^ and leave the block in the form represented by fig. 5.
     It is here to be observed, that in the last operation, in
 stead of stopping the saw at the central diagonal k I, if we
 had continued to notch the block, keeping on the same
 plane, the wedge Imnokb (fig. 3.) would have hfigtk taken
     Vol. 22. No. 85. June 1805.         F                 »way>

 62                    description of a PloUgh-eat.                    \
  away, and there would have remained another wedge
  loklar, which, as I observed before, in speaking of the
  principle in regard to the construction tif the ear, would
  exhibit the most perfect form, were the only object to raise
  the sod ; but as it mn3t also be turned over, the left half of
  the upper wedge has been preserved, in order to continue,on
  the same side, the bevel to be formed on the right half of
  the lower wedge.
     Let us now proceed to the means of producing this bevel,
 in order to obtain which we had the precaution to trace out
  lines around the block before we removed the pyramid
  (fig. 4.). Care must be taken not to confound these lines,
  now that they are separated by the vacuity left by the sup
  pression of that pyramid (fig. 3.). Make the saw enter in
  the two points of the first line, situated at the places where
  the latter is interrupted, and which are the two points
  where it is intersected by the external diagonals ok and m k,
  continuing the stroke on that first line till it reach on the
  one hand the central diagonal k I, and on the other the lower
  right edge oh of the block (fig. 5.) : the posterior end of
  the saw will come out at some point situated on the upper
  trace in a straight line with the corresponding points of the
  edge and the central diagonal. Continue to do the same
  thing on all the points formed by the intersection of the
  exterior diagonals and lines traced out around the block,
  taking always the central diagonal, and the edge o h as the
  term, and the traces as directors : the result will be, that
  when you have formed several cuts with the saw, the end
  of that instrument, which came out before at the upper
  face of the block, will come out at the face situated on the
  left of the latter ; and all these ilifferent cuts of the saw will
  have marked out as many straight lines, which extending
  from the lower edge oh of the block, will proceed to cut
  the central diagonal. Now by the help of any proper tool
  remove the sawn parts, taking care to leave visible the traces
  of the saw, and this face of the ear will be finished*. The
                                                                          traces
  i • The figures 9 and 10, which we have added here to those which ac-.
  company Mr. Jefferson's memoir, were drawn in perspective by M. Valcn-
  cienne, assistant naturalist belonging to the museum, and may serve to give
, a better idea of the result of the operation here described. Let us suppose
  that the saw cuts the lines mk, ok (fig. 9.) in the points x and t, taken in
 ,the traces x { and ts situated in the same plane parallel to hare, and the
; prolongation* of which on the triangles m k I and o k I are the lines x z and
  .ts; the saw must then penetrate the block remaining in the plane in ques
  tion until its edge has arrived at the point s, and at the same time touch th«
 ,,ppintii of the central diagonal A t The same edge of the saw will come out
  at some point y of the face in k f, so that the three points s, z,y, will be ir»
 T". "- .                          ... ,                  « '•-« . x ¦ .' the.

                     description of a Plough-eaft . . ....               . f$
traces will serve to show how the wedge which is at the
right angle rises gradually on the direct or lower face of the
wedge, the inclination of which is preserved in the central
diagonal; One may easily conceive and render sensible the
manner in which the sod is raised on the ear, which we
have described, by tracing out on the ground a parallelogram
two feet long and nine inches broad, as abed (fig 6) : then
placing in the point b the end of a stick 27-1- inches in length,
and raising the other end 12 inches above the point e: (the
line de, equal to 4-i- inches, represents the quantity which
the height of the ear exceeds the perpendicular). When
this is done, take another stick 12 inches in length, and,
placing it on ab, make it move backwards, and parallel to
itself from ab to cd, taking care to keep one of its end3 al
ways on the line ac?j while the other end moves along the
Stick be, which here represents the central'diagpnal. The
motion of this stick of 12 inches in length will be that of
Our ascending wedge, and will show how each transverse
line of the sod is carried from its first horizontal position
until it be raised to a height which exceeds the perpendicular
so much as to make it fall inverted by its own weight.
    But. to return to our operation : —it remains to construct
the lower part of the ear. Invert the block and make the
saw enter at the points where the line al (fig. 9.) meets
with the traces, and continue your stroke along these traces
Until both ends of the saw,approach within an inch, or any
Dther convenient thickness, of the opposite face of the ear.
When the cuts are finished, remove, as before, the sawn
pieces, and the ear will be finished*.
                                                                              It
the same straight line. But if this operation be repeated in different placet
of the lines mk, okb from k to a certain height, the points of the face m k I,
at which the saw comes out, will form a curve k y n. Beyond this height
the saw, always directed in such a manner that at the end of its motion it
shall touch at the same time the edge 0 h and the central diagonal kl, wilt
come out at other points situated on the posterior face ah ml, and the series
of these points will form a second curve n I, which will meet the first in the
point n. These two curves being traced out, let us suppose straight linej
drawn to the places where the saw stopped each time that it touched the
diagonal k and Of which one, as already said, passes through the pointj
f, z, y\ and let us conceive a surface touching all these straight lines, and
whose limits, on the one hand, shall be the curves kyn, nl, and on the other
the edge oh, this surface, which must be uncovered by sections made with
a proper instrument, will farm one of the faces of the ear. The latter ii re
presented fig. 10, and the face in question is that which appears before, and
which is indicated by inlor. It will be remarked that the angle situated to
wards A (fig. 9) on the part kedieh of the block has aiso been cutajFby a
section made from d to. r, agreeably to what will be Aid hereafter.—Xbtt
(U Jtynrh fCdilor.
 , * We shsjl here add to this description an illustration similar to that giyen
                      -               12                                      is

  84                     Description of a Plough-ear.
      It is fixed to the plough by morticing the fore part o I
   (fig. 5 and 10.) into the posterior edge of the sock, which
  niust be made double, like the case of a comb, that it may
  receive and secure this- fore part of the ear. A screw-nail
  is then made to pass through the ear and the handle of the
  sock at the place of their contact, and two other screw-nails
  pass through the tail of the ear and the right handle of the
  plough. The part of the tail which passes beyond the han
  dle must be cut diagonally, and the work will be finished.
      In describing this operation I have followed the simplest
  course, that it may be more easily conceived ; but I have
  been taught by practice, that it requires some useful modi
  fications. Thus, instead of beginning to form the block as
  represented abed (fig. 7-), where ab is 12 inches in length
  and the angle at b is a right one, I cut off towards the bot
  tom^ and along-the whole length Ic of the block, a wedge
  Ice, the line I being equal to the thickness of the bar of the;
  sock (which I suppose to be 1^- inch) ; for, as the'face of the
  wing inclines from the bar to the ground, if the block were
  placed on the sock, without taking into the account this
  inclination, the side ab would lose its perpendicular direc
  tion, and the side ad would cease to be horiaantal. Be
  sides, instead of leaving at the top of' the block a breadth
  of 13i inches from m to n (fig. ,8.), t remove from the
  right side a kind of wedge' nkicpn of 1£ inch in thickness;
  because experience has shown me that the tail, which by
 these means has become more oblique, as c i instead of ki,
  fits more conveniently to the side of the handle. The dia-
 in regard to the anterior face of the ear. The thickness of the latter being
 determined by that of the part A* cdie h (fig. 9.), or, what amounts to the
 same thing, by the length of the lines c k, dir eb, let us first conceive that
 there has been traced out, proceeding from the point r, the curve cup pa
 rallel tokyn, and then, proceeding from the point /j, the curve p 5 parallel
 to In. Let us next suppose that the saw cuts the edge a I of the face a.bml
 in the point 5, situated in the same plane as x J and ts, which plane has been
 taken for example in regard to the anterior face of the ear. The saw must
 be directed along the traces i J and is in such a manner that its motion shall
 stop at the term where its edge on the one hand shall touch the curve cp in
 the point i< situated on the trace x z, and on the other shall be situated pa
 rallel to the line szy at which the saw stopped on the other side of the car.
 The edge of the saw will then cut the face a lor in some point s, so situated
 (hat the straight line drawn through that point and the point u shall be pa
rallel to the straight line which passes through the point s", z, y. If you con
tinue in the same manner cutting with the saw different points of the edge a I,
those by which it comes out will form on the face a I or a curve i /w-&; and
if through these points and those corresponding to them in the lines cp, p§,
there be drawn straight lines, such as that which passes through the points
f, u, and Which we have taken as an example, the surface touching these
straight lines, and uncovered by means of'any sharp instrument, will form
with the remainder ehold^t of the plane alor, the posterior face of the ear,
such, .as is 'represented .fig. 10.—Note of the Frenth Editor.

                         London Institution.                   Br,
 gonal of the upper face is consequently removed back from
  k to c; and we have mc instead of mk, as above. These
 modifications may be easily comprehended by those ac->
 -quainted with the general principle.
     In the different experiments to which ears have been sub
 jected .to determine the quantity by which the right upper
 side of the block passes beyond the perpendicular, and to
 fix the relation between the height and the depth of the
 furrow, they were made only of wood ; but since my ex-
   eriments have convinced me, that for a furrow 9 inches
   road and 6 in depth, the dimensions I have given are the
 best, I propose in future to have these ears made of cast
 iron.
    I am sensible that this description may appear already too
 long and too minute for a subject which has hitherto been
 considered as unworthy of furnishing matter of application
 to science; but, if the plough is really the implement most
 useful to man, the improvement of it can never be thought
 a vain speculation. However, the combination of a theory
 satisfactory to the learned, with a practice which falls within
 the reach of the most unlettered labourer, must meet with
 a favourable reception from two classes of men who render
 most service to society.
            XIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                   THE LONDON INSTITUTION.
At a very numerous and respectable meeting at the Lon
don Tavern, May 23, 1805, Sir F. Baring, M.P. in the
chair, the following, resolutions were unanimously adopted :
    1. That it is expedient to establish an institution upon a
liberal and extensive scJkle, in some central situation in the
city of London, the object of which shall be to provide—
       1. A library, to contain works of intrinsic value.
   * 2. Lectures for the diffusion of useful knowledge.
      3. Reading-rooms for the daily papers, periodical pub
         lications, interesting pamphlets, and foreign journals,
   g. That this institution shall consist of a limited number
of proprietors, and of life and annual subscribers.
   3. That the interest of the proprietors shall be equal,
permanent, transferable, and hereditary, 'and shall extend
to the absolute property of the whole establishment j they
shall be entitled to such extraordinary privileges as may be
                           -- F 3                     consistent

66                     London Institution,
consistent with general convenience, and upon them shall
devolve the exclusive right of the management of the insti
tution-
    4. That the Ijfe and annual subscribers shall have the
same use of, and access to, the institution as the proprier
tors.                                                I
    5. That the qualification of a proprietor be fixed for the
present at seventy-five guineas.
    6. That the subscription far life be for the present twenty-
 five guineas.
    7. That ladies shall be received as subscribers to the lec-s
 tures, under such regulations and upon such terms as may
 hereafter be determined.
     8. That as soon as one hundred persons have declared
 their intention to become proprietors, a general meeting of
 all such persons shall be convened, who shall proceed as
 they see occasion, to carry the plan into effect, to appoint;
 a committee to draw up regulations for the institution, and
 to submit the same to a general meeting of the proprietors
 for their approbation. -
     9. That this institution be denominated the London In~
 stitution, for the Advancement of Literature and the Dif
 fusion of useful Knoivledge.
      10. That the following persons be a committee to receive
  the names of such gentlemen as may desire to become pro
  prietors or life subscribers, and to conduct the progress of
  the proposed establishment, until a general meeting of the
  proprietors can be held :
      Sir F. Baring, bart. M, P.    John Smith, esq. M. P.
     J. J. Angerstein, esq.         Robert Wigram jun, esq.
      Richard Sharp, esq.           Samue} Woods, esq.
      George Hibbert, esq.
      J l. That one-third of the sums subscribed be paid on or
  before the 10th of June, one-third on or before the 1st of
  October next, and the remaining third on or before the 1st
  of January next.
         Resolved unanimously,
      That the thanks of this meeting be giv> n to those gentle^
  men with whom this design originated.
       That the thanks of this meeting be given to G. Hibbert,
   esg. and R. Sharp, esq. for moving and seconding the fore
   going resolutions.
                                          F. Baring, Chairman.
       The chairman having left the chair,
          Resolved unanimously,
       That the thanks of this meeting be given to sir F. Baring^
                                     •"8                     bart.

                        London Institution.                    87
hatt. for taking the chair, and for the ability and impartia
lity with which he has conducted the business of this day. ,
    The subscription having proceeded with unexpected ra
pidity, a general meeting of the proprietors will be held on ¦
Tuesday next, at the London Tavern, when the chair will
be taken at one o'clock precisely,                                :
                                      London TaVern, May 28, 1805.
    At a meeting of the proprietors of the London Institur
tion, Sir F. Baring, Bart. M. P. in the chair,
       Resolved,                       ' ,              *
    That the subscription for the names of proprietors be aow
 closed.              ,                               •   '
    That before any measures are taken for carrying the plan
 into execution, a petition be presented to his majesty, pray
 ing that he would be graciously pleased to grant a charter
 to the institution.
    That an outline of the plan be laid before the right ho
 nourable the secretary of state for the home department. .
    That for these purposes it is expedient to elect a com
 mittee of managers to continue till a charter shall be ob»
 gained.
     That the following proprietors be now elected as tempo- .
 rary managers of this institution :
 Sir Francis Baring, bart.        William Manning,esq.M.P,
     M. P. president '            William Heseltiue Pepys,
  John Julius Angerstein, esq.       esq.
  Thomas Baring, esq.       .     Sir Charles Price, bart, M.P.
  Thomas Bodlev, esq.                alderman
  Harvey Christian Combe,         Job Matthew Raikes, esq.
     esq. M. P. alderman          John Rennie, esq.
  Richard Clarke, F. R. S,        Matthew Raine, D? BL
     chamberlain               , Richard Sharp, esq. F. A.S.
  George Hibbert, esq.            John Smith, esq. M. P.
  Benjamin Harrison, esq.          Henry Thornton, esq. M. P.
  Henry Hoare, esq.                Samuel Woods, esq.
  Sir Hugh Ingliss, bart. M. P. Robert Wigram jun. esq.
  Beeston Long, esq.            . . .           '.^\>. •
     That the plan, after it has received the approbation of a
  general meeting of proprietors, Le laid before his majesty's
  secretary of state, for the purpose of soliciting a charter for
  the institution.                      W
      That the subsequent proceedings of the managers be laid
  before a general meeting of the proprietors for their appro
  bation ; and that, in the mean time, the committee of ma
   nagers are hereby authorized to adopt such measures and
                               F4                                to

 IS    .' British Institution for promoting the Fine Arts.
 to defray such expense as may be necessary for the esta
 blishment of this institution,             i
     That sir William Curtis; bart. be appointed treasurer, to
 this institution ; and that those gentlemen who have de
 clared their intention to become proprietors and life sub
 scribers be requested to pay one-third of their subscriptions
 into- the banking-house of Robarts, Curtis, and Co. on
 account of the -said treasurer.
     That any person neglecting to pay the first or succeeding
 instalments on his subscription within fourteen days after
 the date fixed by the eleventh resolution of the general meet
 ing, shall forfeit his right to any share or privilege in this
 institution.
     That the foregoing resolutions be printed, together with
 those adopted at the general meeting of the 23d instant,
 ami transmitted to everv proprietor.
     That the thanks of this meeting be given to sir F. Baring,
 bart. M. P. for his conduct in the chair.
  BRITISH INSTITUTION FOR PROMOTING THE FINE ARTS.
    At a meeting of subscribers to the plan for a British In
 stitution for promoting the Fine Arts in the united king
 dom, held at the Thatched House Tavern, the 4th of June
 1S05, present,
               The Earl of Dartmouth in the chair,
 The earl' of Aylesford            Henry Hope, esq.
 John Julius Angerstein, esq. Thomas Hope, esq.
The duke of Bedford                Lord viscount Lowther
 Sir George Beaumont, bart. Edward L, Loveden, esq.
Thomas Bernard, esq.               Samuel Lyssons, esq.
 Et. hon. Isaac Corry, M.P. Philip Metcalfe, esq. M.P.
Rev. William Carr                  William Morland, esq. M.P.
James Christie, esq.               Lord Northwick
The bishop of Durham               Lord Henry Petty, M. P.
Lord De Dunstanyille               William Smith, esq. M.P,
 Charles Duncombe, esq,            Richard Troward, esq,
  ' M. P.                          Samuel Whitbread, esq.
Sir Wm. Elford, bart. M.P.           M. P.
Sir Abraham Hume, bart,            Caleb Whitejford, esq.
    It was moved by lord viscount Lowther, and seconded
by the duke of Bedford, and unanimously resolved,
    That the British Institution for promoting the Fine Arts
in the United Kingdom, under his majesty's most gracious
patronage, do commence and take place this day, being
his majesty's birth-day,
                                                             It

                 New Institutions in America.
    It was moved by the right honourable Isaac Corry, and
seconded by John Julius Angerstein, esq. and resolved,
    That the earl of Dartmouth, lord viscount Lowther, the
right honourable Charles Long, sir George Beaumont, bart.
 sir Abraham Hume, bart. sir Francis Baring, bart. Thomas
Hope, esq. William Smith, esq. and Thomas Bernard, esq.
be a select committee to prepare- a draft of regulations for
the British Institution, to inquire after a local situation for
it, and to make their report to an adjourned meeting of
subscribers of fifty guineas or upwards, to be held at the
Thatched House Tavern, on Tuesday next, at half past
 twelve o'clock : the chair to be taken at one o'clock pre
 cisely.
    It was moved by the earl of Aylesford, and seconded by
Henry Hope, esq. and resolved,
    That subscribers of one guinea a year, or of ten guineas
in one sum, have personal admission to the rooms of exhi
bition.: that subscribers of three guineas a year, or of thirty
guineas in one sum, have personal admission, and the right
of introducing a friend each day : that subscribers of five
guineas a year have the same personal admission, together
with the right of introducing two friends each day : that
subscribers of fifty guineas have the same privileges for life,
and be governors of the institution : that subscribers of one
hundred guineas or upwards have the same privileges in per
petuity, and be governors of the institution, their rights to
be transmissible on death, subject to the regulations here
after to be adopted ; and that the institution be under the
government of a committee of directors, consisting of the
president, four vice-presidents, and twelve other persons,
from time to time to be elected by and out of the governors.
                                   Dartmouth, Chairman,
    And the earl of Dartmouth having quitted the chair,
    Resolved unanimously, That the thanks of the meeting
be presented to his lordship for his great attention to the
business of the day.
    Persons disposed to promote the Institution are requested
to address themselves, by letter, to any of the select com
mittee; or to send their names to Mr. Hatchard's, No. 190,
Piccadilly, where the books of subscriptions are left.
              NEW INSTITUTIONS IN AMERICA.
   A lettter from New York, dated April 1st, says:—
" Among the numerous institutions » hich have been
.formed in this country in the course of 1804, there are
three in particular in which the public take a warm interest.
           7                                              The

90             Society of the Sciences at' Flushing.
   The first is a Society of Agriculture established at Wash-*
ington under the special protection of government. The
president of the United States, the chiefs of administration,
the senators and deputies to congress, are members of it ipf
right of their situation. The society have already acquired
a convenient edifice, with a field of thirty acres ; the com
mencement of a library, and that excellent collection of
ploughs and other agricultural implements which formerly
belonged to general Washington. The form of its admi
nistration, the capital which it can possess (specified in
bushels of wheat), and its whole organization have been
fixed by its charter of incorporation, which constitutes the
society into a political body, and ensures the existence . of
jt for ever. The answers to the numerous questions which
it sent, soon after its formation, to the societies of different
 countries, form, it is said, an interesting work, which will
 be published.
    The second institution is a Botanical Garden in the neigh
bourhood of New York, for which the subscribers have ob
 tained also a charter. As soon as the large green-house is
 completed, the most curious productions of the southern
 provinces will be sent to it.
    The third institution is an Academy of Fine Arts. The
 first idea of this establishment originated with Mr. Living
 ston, the American minister at Paris ; and the public were
 so sensible of its importance, that long before the arrival of
 the plaster casts, which that gentleman presented to it, the
 subscribers, of twenty-five piastres each, amounted to 180.
 Mr. Vandeline, a native of America, who has resided se
 veral years at Paris, where he has become an eminent
  painter, has sent to the academy some fine paintings.
     The president, by the support of the friends to this in-    ,
  stitution, has purchased for it that beautiful edifice which
  forms the centre of the circus lately built on Hudson's river,
  the large hall of which is lighted by a rotunda of cast iron
  entirely filled with panes of glass. It is here that Mr. Li
  vingston's plaster casts, among which there is one of the
  celebrated Laocoon, have been deposited : and seventeen
  pupils are already employed in making drawings from these,
  fine models.
            SOCIETY OF THE SCIENCES AT FLUSHING.
     In the meeting of November 2, last year, at the Museum
  in Middleburgh, the society proposed again the two follow
  ing questions, announced in the year J 803, and to which
  no answers had been received,
                                                        I. What
                                 (

               'Society of the Sciences at Flushing.           91
      I. What are the natural causes that the hottom of tha
  harbours in fyliddleburgh and the Welzinge channel has
  been so perceptibly raised, during a series of years, by au
  accumulation of the mud? What are the simplest, most
  effectual, and least expensive means of remedying this evil?
  and is it possible to give a sufficient depth to these harbours
  and channel, and to maintain them in that state?
      II, A history of the influx of the current of the sea ac
  cording to fixed laws, and in a determinate line ? What are
  these laws ? Is the course of these currents prejudicial to
  our dykes and to the strand, and in what degree? What
  are the practicable means of giving to this prejudicial cur
  rent another direction, and of conducting it to other places,
  so as to obviate its destructive effect ?
       The prize is a gold medal ; and the answers must be sent
  in before the 1st of January 1806.
       The two following questions also, announced last year,
   are again proposed for the same reason as the preceding :
  ihe first for a year, the second for an indefinite time.
       I. As the utility of pouring out oil and other fat sub
   stances during storms at sea, is established by sufficient
   proofs; but as the objection, that this mean may be preju
   dicial to ships which follow, has not been entirely obviated,
   fhe society requires to know : What is the physical prin
   ciple of calming the waves by pouring out fat substances ?
   and, Can the above objection be entirely done away by an
   explanation of this point ?
     - II. What was the geographical state of Zeeland in re
   gard, in particular, to rivers and streams, from the earliest
   periods to the commencement of the government of Counts ?
   What changes took place in it between the latter period and
. the end of the fourteenth century ? Has it continued the
* same, or have evident alterations taken place ? and what are
    these alterations ?                                           ,
       The society has proposed also three new questions, the
    prize for which is a gold medal ; the first to be answered
    before the 1 si of August 1 605, the other two before the
    1st of January 1806.
        I. As we have no general history of the sciences and fine
    arts in thjs country, which would be both agreeable and
    useful; and as such a history is not to be expected until
    histories of each branch be composed, the society has re
    solved to turn its attention to this object, and to announce
    one part annually as the subject of a prize question, with a^
    view that materials may be collected for a general history,
     and that our countrymen may in the mean time enjoy the
                                                            benefit

   92             , Society of the Sciences at Flushing.
   benefit of particular histories. But as it appears necessary
   to the society that the compass of this fertile subject should
  be treated in methodical order, for,the purpose of avoiding
  confusion and needless prolixity, and that not only a proper
  distinction should be made between the sciences and fine
  arts, but that a proper distribution of them should be pre
  viously established, according to tohich the society may
  propose its annual questions : and as it appears also that
  several men of letters who have written on the division of
  literature, science, and the fine arts, which, according to
  the opinion of the antients, are so ^intimately connected
  with each other, evidently differ, the society considers it
  necessary first to propose the following question :—Is there
  any connection between the sciences and the fine arts ? Is
  it possible to separate them from each other, and to distri
  bute and arrange both in a regular series ? What is the best
  order, and at the same time the best adapted to make the
  literary history of the various branches of the sciences and
  fine arts serve as materials for prize questions ?
      II. As the Pythagorean philosopher, Apollonius of Ty-
  ana, has, by many of the pagan and other writers, been
  placed in the same rank with our blessed Saviour. Jesys
  Christ, the society requires to know ; j« What real or pro
 bable information is to be obtained in regard to this man ?
 And \yhat proofs of the truth of the evangelical writings can
 be deduced from a comparison of the accounts -given us of
 Apollonius by Philostratus and others, and of Jesus Christ
 by the evangelists ; together with a comparison of the ex
 ternal relation of these writers?
     I I I . As the bloody feuds known under the name of Hoekseh
 and Kabeljaauwseh form the principal part of the early history
 of this country, and.as different opinions have been enter
 tained in regard to various circumstances relating to them>
 the society wishes for a more satisfactory account of the
 origin of these two parties. Was it not earlier than the
 destructive qu,arrel between Margaret of Hennegau and her
son William V? What gave occasion to the appellations
Hoekseh and Kabeljaauwseh ? Is the real etymology of these
words established, and what was the principal object of these
parties from their origin to the time when they became ex
tinct ?
    The answers, written in the Dutch, Latin, or French
languages, but in a legible hand, must be transmitted,
scaled up in the usual manner, to A. Dryfhoqt, the se
cretary, at JMiddleburgh, before the periods above an
nounced,                                                    ' >
 t                                                       XIV. In

                            C    93  ]
          XIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles,
                      PRIZE QUESTIONS.
The king of Prussia has proposed the following prize
question in regard to the yellow fever :—" Are there suffi
cient grounds, founded on indubitable facts, for believing
that the contagion of the yellow fever can convey its infec
tion to substances destitute of life, without losing any of its
force, and in such a manner that the contact of these sub
stances can communicate the infection to sound persons,
and by these means convey the fever to other countries ?
   The prize for. the besj. answer is £00 ducats, and for the
second best 100 ducats. The answers must be written in
Latin, German, or French ; and transmitted to the Supe
rior College of Medicine before the 1st of January 1507.
                          NEW METAL.
   Dr. Richter, of Berlin, has discovered in the cobalt ore
of the Saxon mines a new metal which has properties com
mon to cobalt and nickel, but which differs from both. He
has given it the name of niccolun. A particular account of
this metal has been published in Gehler's Journal of Che
mistry. '
                          ASTRONOMY.
   A table of the right ascension and declination of Geres
and Pallas.
                     Ceres.                    Pallas.
                 AR.        Decl N.         AR.      Decl.S.
        1805  h  .»>    8      o        h tn      S 0     f
   July 28    3  24     8    21     S 3 48 52         o  20
          31  3  99     0     21 11 3. 53 24 2 42
   Aug. 3     3  33    52     21 19 ff 37 56 3            4
           6  5  38    40    21 27 . 4        2 24 •3 29
           9  *  43    28    21 31 4- 6 48 3 65
          la  5  48     6    21 41      4 11      8 4 ' 22
          15  3       48      21 47 4 15 20 4 52
          18  5  57 24       21 53 4 18 22 5 23
          21  6    2    O    21 50 4 23 36 5 56
      ." 24   6    6 32      22     4 4 27 40 6 31
          2Z  0  11     4    22     8 4 31 36 -j% , 8
          30  6  15 28       22 13 * 35 -28 7 47
                    Juno is  not yet visible,
i   *                                                    THE

  04                    The Tides.,—Deatki
                >           THE TIDES.
     A correspondent remarks, that from the peculiar posit iort
  of the two grand luminaries, the sun and the moon, on the
  10th day of August next, a great increase of tide may be
  expected on the three following days; and that a very good
  opportunity will then offer to ascertain the moon's influ
  ence over the ocean, by observing the height of the tide at
  the principal maritime ports, particularly at Chepstow, the
  Bristol channel, and at London bridge.
                              DEATH.
 • , On the 9th of March last, at the age of about 76, the
  celebrated Felix Fontana, director of the Royal Museum at
  Florence. " He died," says Fabbroni, " full of glory."
  Being attacked twenty-seven days before by an apoplexy,
, he was assisted during the fit by the duke De Bonelli, who
  was accidentally passing at the time. After this accident
  his mental faculties were so weakened that he was scarcely
  able to make the necessary disposition of his property in
  favour of his relations, friends, and domestics. *
     The physical sciences have lost in Fontana a man by
   whom they were cultivated with unremitting ardour. Italy,
   in particular, regrets in him one of its brightest ornaments.
   He possessed the rare talent of an observer. He had great
   boldness of conception, uncommon strength of judgment,
   and an obstinate perseverance in every thing he undertook.
   The numerous and laborious experiments he made on the
   poison of the viper are a proof of it, as well as those by
   which he threw great light on the animal ceconomy. The
   cabinet of Florence is indebted to his persevering courage,
   thwarted by difficulties and obstacles, for the immense and
   valuable collection, to which there is nothing equal in Eu
   rope, of wax models of every kind executed under his assi
   duous and minute direction. It is also indebted to him for
   two w:ooden statues which can be taken to pieces : Due of
   them could not be finished in his lifetime, and perhaps
   will never be completed after his death. The reader will
   be astonished to learn that it consists of six thousand dif
   ferent pieces, and is destined to show in its decomposition
   the whole system, the bowels and membranes of the human
  body.
      These labours, though assiduous, left him sufficient time
   to cultivate the other branches of the physical sciences, on
   which he has left works written both in Italian and in
   Ertnch. His style is perspicuous and elegant, valuable
   .{                                                   qualities^

              List of Patents fw^New Inventions.            Si
qualities, in which he participated with his brother Gregory
Fontana.
     His obsequies were celebrated with great solemnity in his
parish : his body was opened before the most celebrated
professors, and the features of his face were taken off by a
plaster cast. His remains were deposited in a leaden coffin,
with the principal circumstances of his life written on parch
ment inclosed in a metal tube closely soldered. This coffin,
put into another of fir, was interred three days after under
 the public chapel of the noviciate of the minor conventual
 brothers of Sainte-Croix, close to the ashes of Galileo and
 Viviani, Michael Angclo and Machiavel. One of his ex
 ecutors, M. Petter Ferroni, a celebrated mathematican, will
 make known to the republic of letters the valuable manu
 scripts left by this eminent philosopher, as well as those of
 Gregory Fontana, found among his philosophical collec
  tions.
          LIST OF PATENT'S FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     Richard Jubb, of Bridge-row, in the parish of St. George,
 Hanover-square, in the county of Middlesex, whitesmith ;
  for improvements in making and tuning the musical instru
 ment called the pedal harp, by which the half-quarter note
  is produced thereon with peculiar sweetness and harmony;
 and the further addition of an harmonic stop made thereto ;
  and also certain improvements in tuning the violin and other
  stringed instruments.
     Barrodall Robert Dodd, of Change-alley, in the city of
 London, civil engineer; for various improvements in the
 construction of fire-places, and adapting stoves and grates
  thereto.
 ; Joseph Bramah, of Pimlico, in the county of Middlesex,
  engineer; for sundry improvements in the art of making
  paper.
      Thomas Rowntree, of the parish of Christ Church, in
  the county of Surrey, engine- maker ; for an axletree and
  box for carriages on an improved plan.
      Charles Hobson, of Sheffield, in the county of York,
  plater, and Charles Silvester, of the same place, chemist:
  for a method of manufacturing the metal called zinc into
  wire, and into vessels and utensils for culinary and othef
  purposes.-                           ,                      J
                                                       -:../••
                                                      METEOR-

                                         Meteorology.
                               meteorological table
                                   . Carev, -of the Strand,
                                      For June 1805.
-                  Thermometer. -                       -f ff>
                                       J               Q',i t
Davsofthe o'•clock, Mor .ing. a —o Md the   Height of oj|
                                                Barom. <U >, c         Weather.
  Month.                        oo
                               z, "c fc-      Inches.   fc  co  Eg
                                                       lit
  May 27 52°                   64°     49°   30-00         45°     Fair
      , 28 50                  60      45       •15        32      Fair
        29 51                  64      52       •18        72      Fair
        30 56                  70      50       •10        48      Fair
      , 31 53                  61      44       •23        49      Fair
   June 1 46                   56      44       •30        51      Fair
         2 47                  57      46       •28        44      Fair
         3 50                  69      55       •02        35      Fair
         4 46                  56      46    29-98         34      Cloudy
         5 47                  57      49       •92        30      Cloudy
         6 51                  68     .50       •80        6O      Fair
         7 52                  68      55    30-01         63      Fair
         8 56                  70      56       •01        58      Fair
         9 56                  75      60    29-82         50      Fair
        10 61                 -66      55        •52       20      Rain
        11 56                  64      54        •48        19     Showery
        12 55                  59      52        '96       28      Showery
        13 54                  68      54    30-12         45      Showery
        14 52                  54      51    29-80            0    Rain
        15 50                  58      54        •88       35      Cloudy
        16 54                  64      56        •96       38      Cloudy
        17 58                  68      54        •92       54      Fair
        18 56                  63      55        •73        50     Fair
        19 54                  61      51        •96       38      Showery
        20 50                  51      50        •95        10     Showery
        21 '49                 54      49    30 02          25     Cloudy
        22 50                  58      50        •10       35      ?ry          .
        23 54                  68      56    29*90         43
        24 60                   73     60        •82        60      Fair
        25 58                  59      49       •¦60        15     Showery
        26 51                  66                •85        51      Cloudy
           N. B. The barometer's height is taken at noo?.

                                 C    97   ]
XV. Letter to M. Lacepede, of Paris, on the Natural
    History of North America.                By Benjamin Smith
    Barton, M. D. Professor of Materia Medica, Natural
    History, and Botany, in the University of Pennsyl
    vania *.
It is a long time since I have received a letter from you.
I have anxiously expected one, as I am very desirous to
know what progress you have made in your workf on
Fishes. I should, indeed, have been very glad if my leisure
had permitted me to have transcribed for your use a very
considerable number of facts relative to the fishes of North
America, especially of the United States. These facts will,
however, be published in two works in which I am en-,
gaged, viz. my Fragments of the Natural History of Penn
sylvania,' and my Travels' through various Parts of the
United States. I shall only observe at present, that many
of our fishes are undescribed by the different writers whom
I have had an opportunity of consulting ; and I believe I
may assert that much very interesting matter relative to the
manners, the migrations, &c. of various American species
is entirely unnoticed.
    I exceedingly rejoice to find, by the French and other
foreign publications, that all the branches of natural history
are making so much progress in your country. On this
side of the Atlantic we also are doing something ; as much,
perhaps, as could be expected from us. The museum,
founded by our countryman Mr. C. W. Peale, is very re
spectable, both for the number and value of the artiqles
which it contains. Within the last three or four vears se
veral new species of quadruped*, or mammalia, have been
discovered, and our knowledge concerning other species
has been greatly extended. You are, doubtless,, well in
formed that two pretty complete skeletons of the mammoth
 (as it has long been called) have bc&i discovered. One of
these has been sent to Europe, and it is probable that you
will have an opportunity of seeing it at Paris J. 1 think you
will have no hesitation in agreeing with me, that this mon
strous animal must be referred to the genus elephas. As
far as we are enabled to judge from the bony fabric of the
animal, (and I take this to be an excellent foundation upon
which to construct generic characters,) the American mam-
   * Communicated by the Autkor.          f This has been published.
   \ Mr. Pc:ile junior, after exhibiting the mammoth here spoken of in
London, returned with it for America without' visiting the Con:inent of
JJurope.—Edit.
    Vol. 22. No.. S€. July 1S05.             G                       inoth

98             On the Natural History of North America,
 moth was a true elephant. If in the form of his grinder?,
  in the curvature of his defences or tusks, and in several
  other circumstances, he differed considerably from the living
  elephants that are now known to us, those differences do no
  more than assure us that the American animal constituted
  a species distinct from the (living) elephants of Asia and
  Africa. The American species is unquestionably lost; for
  nature, it would seem, is much less anxious to preserve the
  whole of her created species than some illustrious naturalists
  have supposed. The skeletons or bones of some other large
  animals, more or less allied to the family of elephants, have
  also been discovered in different parts of North America.
  Among these I recognize the grinders of a species which,
  if not the same as the elephant of Asia, must have been (as
  to the form of its grinders at least) more nearly allied to
  that species than is the mammoth. The bones of another
  large animal have been discovered. These appear to have
  belonged to a species of tricheckus ; perhaps to the tricheclvus
  rosmarus, or morse. We occasionally find the bones of
  some of the largest of the cetacea in situations very remote
  from those in which the living animals are at present to be
   seem The scapula of a species of whale has been found at
   a considerable distance beneath the surface of the earth
   within the limits of the city of Philadelphia. Several years
   ago, the tooth of the monodon, or narwhal, was found at
   the distance of a few miles from the city. These last-men
   tioned facts, however, need not excite much surprise, since
   very extensive portion? of the present dry country, exhibit
   the most unequivocal proofs of an antient covering by the
   sea. I mav add, that within the memory of our history
   whales were not uncommon in some of our bays and rivers,
   where they are no longer seen *.
        You have, I suppose, heard of the large bones which
   have been found, in a nitrous cave, in the back "parts of
   Virginia. Mr. Jefferson, the president of the United States,
  "has given an interesting memoir on the subject of these
   bones in the fourth volume of the Transactions of the Ame- ,
   rican Philosophical Society. He supposes them to have
   belonged to a large animal of the genus fells. But these
   remains must be referred to a very different family of ani
   mals ; to some one of the genera in the order tardigrada :
 .the brula of Linneeus., I have little doubt that they and
   the bones found near the Plata, in South America, belong
      * Since she above was written a whale {balana musculo.*) about thirty-
   fiv.e feet in le ;<jth,was cnught in the river Delaware, at the distance of se
   veral miles below Philadelphia.
.; i                             • >                                           to
•

          On the Natural History of North' America:         99
to the same species : at all events, to an animal of the same
genus ; the megatherium of your countryman M. Cuvier.
Many similar discoveries may be expected from the coun
tries of the United States when it shall be our lot to possess
men of more leisure than we do at present ; or even when
our labourers shall more generally know that subjects of
this kind are interesting to philosophers both here and
abroad.
   In the fourth volume of the Transactions of the American
Philosophical Society, I have given an account of a new
species of dipus or jerboa, which I call dipus Americanus.
I have discovered some other species of this genuS, parti
cularly one, which I call dipus mellivorus. It is very de
structive to our bee-hives, eating the honey : hence the
specific name. Wc are very rich in small animals of the
order glires of LinnaeuA. There has lately been discovered
a species of mus, somewhat larger than the common house-
mouse, which has some of the singular habits of the opos
sum tribe. This animal is a native of Virginia and other
parts of the United States. You have seen Dr. Shaw's ac
count of the mus bursarius, or Canada rat. Either this
species (which was discovered in Canada), or another very
nearly allied to it, is common in the state of Georgia and
other southern parts of the United States. In Georgia it is
known by the ridiculous name of salamander. I take it to
be the tozan or tuza of Clavigero. If the Canada and
Mexican animal be the same species,, its range through the
continent is very great. But T have long since discovered
that- the quadrupeds of America have a very extended geo
graphical range. I may say the same of the trees and other
vegetables of this portion of the world.
   I must now return to some of our large animals. The
animal best known in the United States bv the name of elk
is essentially different from the reruns alces, or moos, and
has not hitherto been described by any of your systematic
naturalists. I call it cervus wapiti (wapiti being one of its
Indian names), and shall give a pretty ample account of it
in my Fragments, part ii., now in the press. This is not
the only North American cervus with which the naturalists
of Europe appear to be unacquainted. But what will you
say, when I inform you that there has lately been disco
vered an American species of sheep ! You know that some
of the missionary jesuits, who visited California towards the
end of the 1 7th century, inform us that they found in that
country two sorts of deer, which they call sheep, from their
resemblance, in make, to the sheep of Europe. The first
   ¦>                        G 2                     . - sort

100           On the Natural Histoty of North America.
 sort is said to be as large as a calf of one or two years old %
 its head is much like that of a stag', and its horns like those
 of a ram. Both its tail and hair are speckled, and shorter
 than a stag's. Its hoof is large,- round, and cleft like that
 of an ox. The flesh of this animal is said to be very tender
 and delicious. The second soFt differs less from the sheep
 of Europe. Some of them aire white, and ethers black.
 They are larger than the common sheep, have much more
  wool, which is very good, and easy to be spun and wrought**
  In the History of California, by Venegas, there is a figure
  of one of these animals, which the Monqui Indians, inha
  biting that country, call taj/cf. Mr. Zimmennann seems
  to entertain no doubt that the tayc (or tage, as he calls it,)
  is the same animal as the argali, or, wild sheep, which in
  habits the north-east parts of Asia and the country of
  Kamtschatka J. Mr. Pennant, though less positive, is of
  the same opinion §. 1 his, however, appears to me to be a
  doubtful point. Venegas's figure rather forbids the idea
  that the Asiatic and American animal are the same. The
  horns of the former are less incurvated than those of the
  latter. The abbe Clavigero says the taye is " unques
  tionably the ibex of Pliny, described by count de Bufibr*
  under the name of lauquetin jf." This cannot be ; judging
  by the figure of the Califomian animal, it appears to be most
  essentially different from the bouquetin, which is the eapra
  ibex of Linnaeus.
        I have lately received some additional information con
  cerning the existence of a large homed animal, probably
  the taye, in the country adjacent to the river Missouri, the
  great western branch of the Mississippi. This animal is a
  native of the Stony mountains, about the head waters of the
  Missouri. It is nearly of the size of an elk, and of the
  colour of a fallow deer. Its horns resemble those of a ram,
  but are turned, in a spiral form, like a trumpet, and are of
  an enormous size, some of thorn measuring eight (French)
  inches in diameter. The animal is said not to live longer
  than ten or twelve years, because its horns, advancing for-
  \vard in proportion as 4he creature grows, finallv pass the
  mouth in such a manner as to prevent it from eating grass,
  upon which alone it lives ; and thus it falls a victim to its
' hunger. The Indians of the country make of the horns
    *    Philosophical Transactions abridged, &c. vol. v. part 2 p. 194.
    f    Noticia de la California, Sac. tomo primero, p. 43, 44. Madrid -1757.
     *   Specimen Zoologist Geographies, &e. p. 6'32, 633. x
     5   Arctic Zoology, vol. i. p. 13, 14.
     ii  The History of Mexico, Sec. vol. ti. p. 324.
                                                                         spoons

           ,0?t the Natural History of North America.                  101
*poons and cups, some of the last of which are large enough
 to contain a sufficiency of food for the breakfast or dinner
 of four men.                                                    .       - .
    I have been well assured that a small species of goat,
spotted black and white, inhabits the country beyond the
Mississippi, to the south of the Missouri. They are said
to be numerous. They have also been seen, but less plen
tifully, about the mouth of the Arkansaw river, which emp
 ties itself into the Mississippi nearly in the latitude of 33°
 50'. They are said to be much smaller than the common
kind of goat, and extremely wild. This is possibly a va
riety of the common goat ; but it is more probable that it
is a distinct species, or perhaps a species of the genus an
 telope. Francis Ximenez, in his Account of New Spain,
of which the country that is watered by the Arkansaw is a
part, says there are in this country great numbers of rock
•goats, which the savages call mazmtf*. These rock goats
mav be the same animal as the small pied goat which I have
mentioned. But this is conjecture, I must add that I have
received the most undoubted information of the existence
of great herds of a small horned animal in that part of New
Spain which is watered by the Red river, a considerable
western branch of the Mississippi f. From the description
which has been communicated to me, I think there can be
little doubt that the animal is either a species of goat or
antelope, and very probably the maxatl of Ximenez. Cla-i
vigero's confident assertion, that the tayc of the Monqni In
dians is the bouquetin oreflpra ibex, renders it probable that
ibis last-mentioned animal is actually a native of the western
parts of North America. In that case, perhaps the mazatl
and the Red river animal arc no other than the ibex. Cer
tain 1 am, that the taye cannot be the same as the ibex.
    The urms maritimus, or polar bear (ours de mtr of Muf-
fon), is said to be a common animal in the country adja
cent to a river called the Plata, which empties itself into
 the Missouri about four hundred leagues above the junction
 of this latter river with the Mississippi. As the Missouri,
 from its source to its mouth, pursues a course nearly due .
 east, we find that the white hear is common twelve hun
 dred miles west of the Mississippi, nearly in the latitude of
 40°; this being about the latitude of the mouth of the Mis
 souri. To the north of this the animal is much more
    • Francis Ximenez, as quoted by De Laet, in his Novus Orbis, p. 232.
    f The mouth of this river k nearly in latitude 31c.
                                   G 3                   ' ' common.

1 02      On the Natural History of North Americd.
common. I have seen a number of the claws of one of
 these animals from the Plata, and they appeared to me to
 be the claws of the great polar bear.
, If the (animal which I have just mentioned should prove
 to be the ursus maritimus, we shall be obliged to assign to
 this species, in a geographical view of animals, a much
 more southern climate than it is supposed to exist "m. And
 we should not forget that manv .facts conspire to render it
 probable that various species of quadrupeds were once more
 extensively diffused over the earth than they are at present.
 With respect to. the very animal of which I am/ speaking,
 it would appear to have been formerly an inhabitant of se
 veral countries in which it ' is at present unknown. Tt is
 not certain, however, that the white bear of the river Plata
 is the ursus markimus'. Porhavs, it will prove to be a new
 species. The claws which 1 have seen lead me to suppose
 that the anima! to which they belonged could not be infe
 rior in size to the large white bear of the pole.
    Permit me in this place to give you some account of the
 travels of aa intelligent Indian who lately returned from a
 very ^ng journey many hundred miles to-the north-west of
 Detroit. Thjs Indian had left his countrymen (the Mo
 hawks) for the pvrpose of hunting, but was not inattentive
 to many of ihe objects of natural history about him. Pie
 reports, that the game of the country which he visited was
 the buffaloe (bos America>ms), black bear (ursus Americaiius),
 white bear (ursus maritimus?), the latter much larger than
 the former, with a remarkably broad foot furnished with
 nails or claws as long as a man's finger : moos (cervns
 dices), elk (my cervus wapiti), " goats which climb up tht
 rocks ;" a kind of " sheep with a hairy back, much like
 a deer, but furnished with long wool over the belly, and
 with large horns," one of which he saw that weighed seven
 pounds ; a kind of deer which the French' in some parts of
 America call capree; the fisher (I believe a species of mus-
 tela), the otter, the beaver, and a species of fox. Pfe met
 with various kinds of birds which he had never seen before.
 The country which he passed through is covered with ex
 tensive plains, or praires (as they are frequentlv called in
 the United States), and has very few trees. Those which
 he saw were principally aspen (popultis tremuloides f) , birch
  (betula), and a species of pinus, or pine. During two
 winters that he resided in this remote part of our continent,
 it never rained once. The rains of the summer are very
 uncertain. Those which do fall are precipitatecf in heavy
                                                          gusts.

        Action of Platina and Mercury upon each other.       103
 gusts. Our philosophical Indian travelled in a canoe, but
 met with no less than seventy-six carrying-places in the
course of his long journey.
                          [To be continued.]
XVI. On the Action of Platina and Mercury upon each
   other. By Richard Chenevix, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I. A.
 ¦ &c.        "
                       [Concluded from p. 3/>.]
It is my intention now to exhibit one example of my po-j
sition,and to prove that platina and mercury act upon each
other in, such a manner as to disguise the properties of both.
} shall therefore waive -for. the present all consideration of
palladium, which is in fact but a subordinate instance of
the case before us.
    When a solution of green sulphate of iron is poured into
a solution of platina, no precipitate nor any other sensible
change ensues. This I had already observed, and it has
since been confirmed by all who have written upon the
subject. But, if a solution of silver or of mercury be added,
a copious precipitate takes place. This precipitate contain?
metallic platina and metallic silver or mercury; some mu
riate of one or other of the latter metals is also present, as
it is not. easy to free the solution of platina from all super
fluous muriatic acid. But these salts are of no importance
in the experiment, and can be separated by such methods
as a knowledge of their chemical properties will easily sug
gest. The proper object of consideration is the reduction
of the platina to the metallic state, which does not happen
when it is alone. I have tried to produce the same effect
with' other metals and platina, but I have not observed any
thing similar. It is therefore fair to conclude, that when
a solution of platina is precipitated in a metallic state by *a
solution of green sulphate of iron, either silver or mercury
is present.                  . :
   The precipitation of a mixed solution of platina and silver
requires no further caution than to free the salt of platina
as much as possible from muriatic acid ; for, as I observed
in my former paper, the effect of nitrate of silver poured
into muriate of platina, is to produce a precipitate, not of
muriate of silver, but of a triple muriate of platina and
silver, It was by this experiment that I then proved the
affinity of these two metals ; for, when silver is not present,
                               G4                       muriate

                         On the Action of
muriate of platina is among the most soluble salts. The
best method of presenting the three solutions of platina,
 silver, and green sulphate of iron to each other, is first to
 pour the filtered solution of the last into the solution of
 platina, and then, after mixing them, thoroughly together,
 to add the solution of silver by degrees, and to stir them
constantly. In this, as in all similar operations, the pre
 sence of all acids, salts, &c. excepting those necessary for
 the operation, should be avoided ; and if proper proportions
 have been used, and all circumstances attended to, the pre
 cipitation of these two metals will be very complete.
     But the precipitation by a solution of mercury requires
 to be further considered, as the state of oxidizement of this
 metal, as well as the acid in which it is dissolved, produces
 a considerable modification in the result. In the first place,
 the oxide, at the minimum of oxidizement, dissolved in
  muriatic acid, is unfit for the experiment ; and even the red
  oxide dissolved in the same acid, or corrosive sublimate,is not
  the most advantageous. When a warm solution of the latter
  is poured into a mixed solution of platina and green sulphate
  of iron also warm, as in the case of silver, these substances
  are brought intq contact under the most favourable circum
  stances. Yet even thus the. precipitation is slowly and im
  perfectly formed, often not till several hours have elapsed ;
  and sometimes a very great deficiency of weight is observed
  between the quantities used and those recovered directly by
'this method. If a solution of nitrate of mercury be used,
  the effect is produced more rapidly, and the precipitate is
  more abundant. The precipitation of muriate of platina by
   nitrate of silver, and the combination which ensues from it,
   suggested to me an experiment which I must state at length,
   as from the result of it consequences are deduced which
   modify some of the experiments of my former paper.
      It occurred to me that a method of uniting platina and
   mercury without the intervention of any other metal, of of
   any substance but the solvents of these metals, might be
   accomplished as in the case of silver and platina. I there-
   lore poured a solution of nitrate of mercury, which solu
   tion, being at the minimum of oxidizement, consequently
   formed an insoluble muriate with muriatic acid, into a so
   lution of muriate of platina. The result was a triple salt
   of platina and mercury, which, when the mercury was com
   pletely and totally at the minimum of oxidizement, was
   nearly insoluble. To procure it in this state it is sufficient
   to put more metallic mercury into dilute nitric acid than the
   nitric acid pah dissolve, and to boil them together. . Thi»

             Platina and Mercury upon each other. ¦            105
triple salt of platina and mercury shall be presently exa
mined. From this it is evident that to produce the union
of platina and mercury, the latter being at its minimum
of oxidizement in nitric acid^ the addition of green sulphate
t>f iron is superfluous.
    But if mercury be raised to its maximum of oxidizement
in nitric acid the case is different, for jio precipitation occurs
till the green sulphate of iron is added. The most advan
tageous method for precipitating platina and mercurv bv
green sulphate of iron is, I believe, the following. Mix a
•solution of platina with a solution of green sulphate of iron,
 both warm, and add to them a solution of nitrate of mer
cury at the maximum of oxidizement, also warm. It is
 necessary to avoid excess of acid, salt, &.C. in this as in all
 such cases. With due care the precipitation of both metals
will then be complete.
    By comparing the experiments made with mercury and
platina with those made with silver and platina, a striking
 resemblance will be found. This induced me to pursue the
 analogy, and to examine whether, independently of the ac-,
tion of platina, mercury had not the same property of being
 precipitated by green sulphate of iron as silver. - Nitrate of
 silver is precipitated bv green sulphate of iron, but muriate
 of silver is not sensibly acted upon by the same reagent.
 The insolubility of muriate of silver might be alleged as the
 cause of this, if I had not tried the experiment bv pouring
 nitrate of silver into green muriate of iron, in which ease
 all the substances were presented to each other in solution.
 The result was not reduction, but muriate of silver and ni
 trate of iron. This fact rests upon a much more extensive
 basis than mere mechanical circumstances ; and, if pursued
 with the attention it deserves, it would lead us into the
 wide expanse of complicated affinities and their relations.
 From reasoning alone we should be disposed to think that
 an acid, so easily decomposed as the nitric, would be suf
 ficient to prevent the reduction of a metal which it can dis
 solve. But on the one hand it can spend its oxygen upon
 a part of the oxide of the green sulphate of iron, while on
  the other its affinity for oxide of silver is not powerful
  enough to retain it, when there is another part of the oxide
  of iron present to deprive it of oxygen. But the affinity of
  muriatic acid for oxide of silver, one of the strongest at pie-
  sent known, is sufficient to counterbalance all the other
  forces. There are many other instances of the same kind.
     If then a solution of green sulphate of iron be brought
 into contact with either soluble or insoluble muriate of
                                                          mercury,

  106                     On the Action of
  mercury, no reduction takes place ; but if mercury, -whe-
  ther al the maximum or the minimum of oxidizement, be
  dissolved in nitric acid, and green sulphate of iron be added,
  the mercury is precipitated in the metallic state.
     These experiments are much stronger examples than the
  former of the effects produced by complicated affinities.
  They are of importance not onlv as objects of general con
  sideration, but in their application to the present subject.
  They most materially modify and are indispensable to the
  accuracy of the results I formerly stated ; but 1 was not
  aware of them at the time I first engaged in the investiga
  tion of this subject. I can also now explain a verv material
  difference between some proportions observed by M. Richter
  and myself in an experiment which that chemist had made
  as a repetition of one of mine.
      I had poured a solution of green sulphate of iron into a
  solution of 100 parts of gold and 1200 of mercury, and had
  obtained a precipitate consisting of 100 of gold and 774 of
  mercury. M. Richter repeated, as he terms it, this expe
  riment; that is, he used 100 of gold and 300 of mercury,
  and obtained a precipitate weighing 102. He is surprised
  at the difference of weight between our results, which might
 be owing to his method of repeating the experiment; but
 the real cause of this difference lies, as 1 suppose, in my
 having accidentallv used nitrate instead of muriate of mer
 cury. 1 had never observed that with mercury and silver
 this operation had tailed, and it must have been, because,
 on account of the known effect of muriatic salts upon those
 of silver, 1 had naturally avoided using a muriate of mer
 cury.                                .-
     IJut the state of the nitrate of mercurv which is used with
 a solution of gold is not indifferent. As green sulphate of
 iron reduces mercury when dissolved in nitric acid as well
 as gold, - it is necessary to mix the solutions of those metalg
 before the green sulphate of- iron is added, in order that
 both mav be acted upon together. If the nitrate be at
 the minimum of oxidizement, a precipitate is immediately
 formed upon mixing the solutions of gold and mercury.
 Calomel is produced by the muriatic acid of the solution of
 gold and the oxide of mercury ; whilst the gold is reduced
 to the metallic state by a portion of the oxide of mercury
 becoming more oxidized, and.forming the soluble muriate.
 The precipitate consists of calomel, of metallic gold, and
 of a very small portion of mercury, which I believe to be
 in the same state ; mv reason for thinking so is, that I have
'¦often observed, that a glass vessel, in which I had sublimed
           - ,                                             some

            Platina and Mercury upon each other.            107
some of it, was lined with a thin gray metallic coat. If, on
the contrary, a nitrate of mercury be highly oxidized, no
precipitate nor reduction of gold takes place until the green
sulphate of iron is added. But at any rate the precipitation
of gold and mercury, or of silver and mercury, bv green
sulphate of iron, cannot be adduced as an argument to sup
port the affinity of these metals, since the effect is the same
whether they are separate or united.
   These preliminary considerations were. necessary, as well
for the rectification of my former experiments, as for the
pursuit of my present object : and now to return to platina.
   Exp. I. If a solution of highly oxidized nitrate of mer
cury be poured into a mixed solution of platina and green
sulphate of iron, the first action which takes place passes
between the muriatic acid of the solution of platina and the
oxide of mercury, bv which a muriate of mercury is formed,
but retained in solution. This effect makes it advantageous
to use a greater quantity of the solution of mercury than is
merely capable of drawing down the given quantity of pla
 tina along wiih itself in the form of a metallic precipitate.
 When this precipitate is washed and dried, it will be found
 to weigh much more than the original quantity of platina ;
 and the augmentation of weight has no limit but those of
 the mercurv and the green sulphate of iron employed. But
 even after nitric acid has been boiled for a long time and
 in great quantities upon this precipitate, until it no longer
 dissolves any part of it, there stiirremains more undissolved
 matter than the original weight of the platina used in the
 experiment. By exposure to heat, little more is left in ge
 neral than the original platina; and sometimes even a dr*
 minution mav be observed ; for, as the experiment is not
 attended with uniform success, it does not always happen
 that the whole of the platina is precipitated, but a portion
 of it will sometimes resist the action of the green sulphate
 of iron, even when sufficient mercury has been used. Be^
 fore the precipitate has been exposed to heat it is dissolved
 more easily than platina by nitro-muriatic acid ; and the
 solution, when nearly in a neutral state, gives a copious
 metallic precipitate (yet not equal to the quantity employed)
 when boiled with a solution of green sulphate of iron.
    Exp. 1. When a mixed solution of platina and mercury
 is precipitated by metallic iron, a quantity equal to the sum
 of the former metals is generallv obtained. After nitric
 acid has been boiled for a long time upon the precipitate so
 formed, the original weight of platina, together with a con
 siderable increase, remains behind, nor can nitric acid sen-:.

  108                     On the Action of
  $iblv diminish it. It yields more easilv than platina to the
  action of nitro-muriatic acid, and its solution in that acid,
  when neutralized, gives a* precipitate, as in the ..former ex
  periment, hy green sulphate of iron. If this precipitate be
  exposed to a strong heat after it has been boiled with .nitric
  acid, ii loses a great part of its weight, and the platina alone
  will generallv be found to remain.
     Exp. 3. When a quantity of ammoniacal muriate of pla
 tina is treated according to the method of count Mussin
 Pushkin to form an amalgam, and, after being rubbed for
 a considerable time with mercury, is exposed in a crucible
 to a heat graduallv increased till it becomes violent, a me
 tallic powder remains in the crucible. This powder is acted
 upon by nitro-muriatic acid, and when the solution is neu
 tralized a copious precipitate is formed upon the addition
 of green sulphate of iron. This effect takes place even after
 the metal has been fused in the manner described in the
 former part of this paper.
    Exp. 4. If sulphur be added to the ingredients recom
 mended by count Mussin Pushkin, and the whole treated
 as in the last experiment, the quantity of precipitate caused
 by green sulphate of iron in the nitro-muriatic solution of
 the button which results from the operation is generallv
 more considerable.
    Exp. 5. If sulphur be rubbed for some time with ammo
niacal muriate of platina, and the mixture be introduced
into a small Florence flask, it can be melted on a sand-bath.
If mercury be then thrown into it, and the whole be well
stirred together and heated, it may afterwards be exposed
to a very strong fire and melted into a button. If this be
dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid, it will give a precipitate,
as in the former cases, by green sulphate of iron.
    Exp. 6. If a current of sulphuretted hydrogen gas be
sent through a mixed solution of platina and mercury, and
the precipitate which ensues be collected, the metal may be
reduced by heat ; and with the addition of borax it may be
melted into a button which will not contain any sulphur.
Green sulphate of iron causes a precipitate in the solution
of this metal also.
    Exp. 7. If to a mixed solution of platina and mercury
phosphate of ammonia be added, a precipitate takes place.
If this he collected and reduced, it will be acted upon by
$rreen sulphate of iron poured into its solution, in the same
manner as the metallic buttons in the preceding examples.
    Exp. 8. I have already mentioned that when a solution
of nitrate of mercury, at the minimum of oxidizement, is
                                                          poured

             Platina and Mercury upon each other.            109
poured into a solution of muriate of platina, a mercurial
muriate of platina is precipitated. The supernatant liquor
may be decanted and the residuum washed ; if this be re
duced and afterwards dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid, it
will yield a precipitate with green sulphate of iron. This
method appears to me to be the neatest for combining pla
tina and mercury) as the action which takes place is inde
pendent of every substance except the metals themselves.
    Exp. Q. One of the most delicate tests that I have ob
served in chemistry is recent muriate of tin, which' detects
the presence of the smallest portion of mercury. When
a single drop of a saturate solution of neutralized nitrate or
muriate of mercury is put into 500 grains of water, and a
 few drops of a saturate solution of recent muriate of tin are
 added, the liquor becomes a little turbid, and of a smoke-
gray colour. If these 500 grains of liquid be diluted with
 ten times their weight of water, the effect is of course di
 minished, but still it is perceptible. . I had on a,former oc
 casion observed the action of recent muriate of tin upon a
 solution of platina. If a solution of recent muriate of tin
 be poured into a mixed solution of platina and mercury,
 not too concentrated, it can hardly be distinguished from a
 simple solution of platina. But if too much mercury be
 present, the excess is acted upon as mercury ; and the liquor
 assumes a darker colour than with platina alone.
     From all these experiments it is evident that mercury can
 act upon plalina, and confer upon it the property of being
 precipitated in a metallic state by green sulphate of iron.
 By Experiments 1 and 2, it is proved, 1st, That platina can
  protect a considerable quantity of mercury from the action
  of nitric acid : and, 2dly, That mercury can increase the
  action of nitro-muriatic acid upon platina. From Experi
 ments 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, it appears that mercury can com
  bine with platina in such a manner as not to be separated
  by the degree of heat necessary to fuse the compound, since
  after the fusion it retains that property, which is essentially
  characteristic of the presence of mercury in a solution of
  platina. The eighth Experiment proves that the action of
  mercury upon platina is not confined to the metallic state;
  but that these metals can combine and form an insoluble
  triple salt with an- acid which produces a very soluble com
  pound with platina alone. The ninth Experiment shows
  that platina can retain in solution a certain quantitv of mer
  cury, and prevent its reduction by a substance which acts
  most powerfully to that effect, when platina is not present.
  That part of the general position, therefore, which is the
              3         ^                                  object

  no                    On the Action of
 object of this paper is proved, if these experiments, upon
  being repeated by other chemists, shall be found to be ac
  curate.                                       > •
     One or two of the above experiments seem to be in con
  tradiction to some that 1 have stated in my paper upon pal
  ladium ; for in the present examples platina protects mer
  cury against the action of nitric acid ; whereas in palladium
  the mercury is not only acted upon itself, but it conduces
  to the solution of platina in the same acid. I am well aware
 of this objection ; but, confining myself to my present ob
 ject, I shall waive ail further discussion of it till another
 opportunity. In the mean time, however, it may be laid
 down as an axiom in chemistry, that the strongest affinities
 are those which produce in any substance the greatest de
 viation from its usual properties.
    When a button of the alloy of platina and mercury, as
 prepared by any of the above methods, is dissolved in nitro-
 muriatic acid, and afterwards precipitated by green sulphate
 of iron, the entire quantity of the alloy used is seldom ob
 tained. A considerable portion of platina resists the action
 of green sulphate of iron, and remains in solution. This
 may be looked upon as the excess of platina, and can be
 recovered by a plate of iron. Hence it appears that less
 mercury is fixed than can determine the precipitation of
 the entire quantity of platina ; yet in this state it can draw
 down a greater quantity of the latter than when it is merely
 poured into a mixed solution of platina, not before so treated.
 Indeed the whole of these experiments tend, not only to
 show that these two metals exercise a very powerful action
 upon each other, but that they are capable of great varia
 tion in the state of their combination; and also, that sub
 stances posse-sing different properties have resulted from
 my attempts to combine platina with mercury.
    This observation furnished me with a method of ascer
 taining, or at least of approaching to the knowledge of, the
 quantitv of mercury thus fixed by platina, and in combina
 tion with it. The experiment, however, having been seldom
 attended with full success, I mention the result with the
 entire consciousness of the uncertainty to which it is sub
 ject. I observed the increase of weight, which the original
 quahtity of platina had acquired in some cases after it had
 been treated with mercury, and fused into a button. I
 counted that augmentation as the quantity of mercury fixed.
 I then determined how much was precipitated by green sulr-
 phate of iron from a solution of this alloy, and supposed it
 to contain the whole quantity of mercury found as above.
: > .                                                      But,

            Plalina and Merfury upon each other.          Ill
But,.even if attended with complete success, there is a che
mical reason which must make us refuse our assent to this
estimate. It is possible, and not unlikely, that a portion
of mercury may be retained in solution by the platina, as
well as that a portion of the platina may be precipitated by
means of the mercury. The mean result, however, was
that the precipitate by green sulphate of iron consisted of
about 17 of mercury and 83 of platina,' when the specific;
gravity was about 1 6.
    With regard to palladium, lest it should he supposed that
either my own observations or those of others have given
me cause to alter my opinion, I will add, that I have as
yet seen no arguments of sufficient weight to convince me,
in opposition to experiment, that palladium is a simple sub
 stance. Repeated failure in the attempt to form it, I am
too well accustomed to, not to believe that it mav happen
in well conducted operations ; but four successful trials,
 which were not performed in secret, are in my mind a suf
 ficient answer to that objection. Bv determining the pre
sent question we may overcome the prepossession conceived
by many against the ' possibility of rendering mercury as
fixed, at an elevated temperature, as other metals; we -mav
be led to see no greater miracle in this compound than in
a metallic oxide, or in water, and be compelled to take a
middle path, between the visions of alchemv on the one
hand, and the equally unphilosophical prejudices on the
other, which they are likely to create. In the course of
experiments just now related, I have seen nothing but what
tends to confirm my former results; yet the only means
which I can, after all, prescribe for succeeding, is perse
verance.                                              .     ...
    To ascertain whether the opinion of Messrs. Fourcroy
 and Vauquelin, that the new metal was the principal in
 gredient in palladium, had any just foundation, 1 observed
 the methods they have recommended for obtaining pure
 platina; but I did not perceive any difference in the facility
 with which either kind of platina combined with mercury./
    I might have added some more experiments .to corrobo
 rate the evidence I have adduced to prove my assertion of
 the fixation of mercury by platina ; but Messrs. Vauquelin
 and Fourcroy have promised the Institute of France a con
 tinuation of their researches, and M. Richter concludes his.
 paper with saying that he will return to the subject. From
  the labours of such persons some great and important fact
  must issue, and 1 hope that the present subject will not be
  excluded from their consideration. The facts contained in
           ;7                                         '    this

  J 12     '      On the polishing of Glass, and on
  this paper cannot be submitted to too severe a scrutiny ;
 and no judge can be more rigid or more competent than the'
 very person who was the first to doubt my former expert
 Dients. But it is necessary to be observed by whoever shall
 think them worth the trouble of verifying, that even these
 experiments are liable to fail, unless proper precautions afe
 used ; that I have never operated upon less than one hun
dred grains ; and that the results which I have stated, how
 ever simple they may appear, have been the constant labour
 of some weeks.
                               POSTSCRIPT.
    Since this paper was written, Dr. Wollaston has pub
lished some experiments Upon platina. lie has found that
 palladium is contained in very small quantities in crude
p'atina. This fact was mentioned to me more than a year
ago by Dr. Wollaston. I have not yet seen a copy of his
 paper; but I shall merely observe here, that, whatever be
the quantity of palladium found in a natural state, no con
clusion can be drawn as to its being simple or compound.
Nothing is more probable than that nature may have formed
this alloy, and formed it much better than we can do. At
all events the amalgamation to which platina is submitted
before it reaches Europe, is sufficient to account for a small
 portion of palladium.
XVII. Observations on the polishing of Glass, and on the
 Amalgam used for silvering Mirrors. By B. G. Sage*.
Having been consulted in regard to the bad effects of
some calces or red oxides of iron, which alter the surface
of glass by rendering it dull and yellowish," I analysed these
calces of iron, and found out the cause on which this defect
depends. Red calx or oxide of iron, called eolevthar, is
employed with water for giving the last polish to glass in
tended for mirrors.
    Were not the oxide or calx of tin, commonlv known by
the name of putty, so dear, it would be far preferable to red
calx or oxide of iron, obtained by the decomposition of mar
tial vitriol, either by calcining it in a fire proper for disen
gaging the acid or decomposing the sulphate of iron by
marine salt. In the latter case, the red oxide or calx of
iron retains* a little of that salt, which is of no hurt in the
      •      • From the Journal de Physique, Tiiernudor, an 12.
                                                                polishing

            the Amalgam used far silvering Mirrors.            113
 polishing of glass : but the case is not the same if the col-
 eothar or red oxide of iron retains martial vitriol. This
 salt, when dissolved in water, is decomposed, and the
 yellow ochre which results from it penetrates the glass,
 forms a crust on it, and renders it greasy, dull, and yel
 lowish ; a tint which is communicated to the image of the
 object presented to the mirror.
    Glass when smoothed and polished does not acquire the
 property of reflecting objects till it has been silvered (as it
 is called), an operation effected by means of an amalgam.
The tin leaf employed must be of the size of the glaSs, be
 cause, when pieces of that metal are, united by means of
 mercury, they exhibit the appearance of lines. Tin is one
of those metallic substances which become soonest oxi
dated by the means of mercury. If there remains a portion
of that calx, of a blackish gray colour, on the leaf of tin, it
produces a spot or stain in the mirror, arid the part where
it is cannot reflect objects presented to it : great care, there
fore, is taken in silvering glass to remove the calx of tin
from the surface of the amalgam.
    The process is as follows :—The leaf of tin is laid on a
very smooth stone table, and mercury being poured over
the metal, it is extended over the surface of it by means of
a rubber made of bits of cloth. At the same moment the
surface of the leaf of tin becomes covered with blackish
oxide, which is removed with the rubber. More mercury
is then poured over the tin, where it remains at a level to
the thickness of more than a line, without running off. The
glass is applied in a horizontal direction to the table at one
of its extremities, and being pushed forwards it drives be
fore it the oxide of tin which is at the surface of the amal
gam. A number of weights are then placed on the glass
which floats on the amalgam, in order to press it down.
Without this precaution the glass would exhibit the inter
stices of the crystals resulting from the amalgam. These
crystals have the form of large square laminse irregularly
disposed.
    To obtain leaves of tin, which are sometimes six or seven
feet in length, with a proportionate breadth, they are not
rolled but hammered. The prepared tin is first cast between
two plates of polished iron, or between two smooth stone*
not of a porous nature, such as thunder stone. Twelve of
these plates are placed over each other ; and they are then
beat on a stone mass with heavy hammers, one side of
which is plain and the other rounded. The plates joined
together are first beaten with the latter : when they become
   Vol. 22. No. 86. July 1805. JtL                     'extended

           Observations on- the polishing of Glass, 6^c.   '
extended the number of the plates is doubled, so that thejf.
amount sometimes to eighty or more. They are then,
smoothed with the flat side of .the hammer, and are beat
tjll they acquire the length of six or seven feet, and the
breadth of four or five. The small block of tin from which
they are formed is at Jirst ten inches long, six in breadth,
and a line and a quarter in thickness.
    When the leaves are of less extent, and thin, from eighty
to a hundred of them are smoothed together.
    Tin extracted from the amalgam which has been em
ployed for silvering glass, exhibits a remarkable peculiarity.
When fused in an iron pan, its whole surface becomes co
vered with a multitude of tetraedral prismatic crvstals two
pr three lines in length and a quarter of a line in thickness.
The interior of these pieces pf tin* when cut with a chi
sel, hive a grayer lint than pure tin, which is as white as
silver. The latter crystallizes also by cooling; but it re
quires care. When it begins to be fixed, decant the part
which is still in fusion, and there will remain at the bottom
of the crucible beautiful crystals of a dull white colour,
which appeared to me to be cubes or parallelopipcdons.
    The peculiar and constant' crystallization of tin taken,
from the amalgam of mirrors, the leaden gray colour which
 the mass of this meta.1 had, and the mystery made of the
 preparation of this tin, induced me to try whether I could
not discover by analysis the substance mixed with 1%.
    Having calcined this tin in a test, it was reduced to a
 powder of a delicate red colour, and increased in its weight
 l-25th. The magnet attracted particles' of iron, the result
 pf the hammering. It appears that this metal concurs to
 produce the crystallization of the tin, and the singularity
 exhibited by the solution of its oxide in nitric acid. At
 first, nothing is manifested but a slight effervescence, which
 soon subsides ; but four or five minutes after, the mixtures
 become very hot, and a. stronger effervescence takes place,
 accompanied with a great deal of nitrous gas, which is dis
 engaged with an explosion, and there remains in the glass
 a magma of a pale l'cd colour. •
 - The white oxide of tin, mixed also with nitric acid at 32°,
 exhibits neither effervescence nor disengagement of nitrous
 gas.
     I fused this reddish calx of tin with three parts of black
 flux and a little charcoal powder, and extracted from it'ltj
 pounds of tin per quintal. This metal was brittle, a pro
 perty arising from the lead, which contributes also to at
 tenuate the colour of the tin. If the lead is found there in
             i                                             larger

                  Russian Expedition {o Japanr              115 .
larger quantity, it is because there are four-fifths of tin ab
sorbed by the alkaline flux.
, To determine the quantity of lead contained in. the tin
extracted from the amalgam of mirrors, I decomposed a
hundred parts of it by four hundred parts of nitric acid at
 32°. A great deal of nitrous gas was disengaged, and there
 remained at the bottom of the matrass a white magma. I'
 washed it with distilled water, And evaporated the lev, which,
produced a twenty-fifth of nitrous ammoniacal salt mixed
 with nitrate of lead, which predominates, and forms nearly
 two-thirds of the saline residuum; a proportion which
 would indicate that the tin employed for silvering mirrors
 contains three pounds of lead per quintal.
    I now return to "the mercury extracted by distillation from
 this amalgam. It volatilizes a portion of tin, which remains
 there so intimately combined that it cannot be separated by
 a second distillation of the mercury. I was able to disengage
 from it the tin by shaking the mercury with nitric acid.
 Which attacks and oxidates the tin. I washed the mercury
 and strained it through a piece of linen. In this state it
 may be employed for gilding, but when it contains the
 smallest quantity of tin it stains the articles.
     What I have related in this memoir shows that red oxide
 of iron, known under the name'of colcothar, is not proper
 for polishing glass when it contains vitriol ; that the tin
 employed for silvering mirrors contains lead and iron ; that
 when this tin is separated from the mercury by distillation
 this metal crystallizes with the greatest facility and without
 any precaution ; and, in the last place, it is shown that a
 portion of tin is volatilized by the mercury during the di
  stillation of the amalgam, and that it cannot be separated
 but by the nitric acid.
  XVIII. Extract ,of tivo Letters from Captain Von Krv-
     sexstern, Commander of the Russian Expedition to
     Japan, dated the Harhour of St. Peter and St. Paul,
     July 19, and August 20, 1804.
                        [Concluded from p. 13.]
  1 he Ffenchmah is now at Kamtchatka. I shall mention
  hereafter by what accident he remained on board the ship.
  This man is a singular phaenomenon : he had forgotten his
  own name, those of his father and mother, and that of the
  place from which he came. He sung to us some patriotic
                                H 2                       songs,

   1 16            Russian Expedition to Japan.
   songs, which he, however, mutilated very much. He at '
   length recovered his French ; and then remembered that he'
   came from Bourdeaux, that his father was named John
   Cabrit or Joseph Cabrit ; but instead of Cabrit he some
   times said Cadiche; and Roberts called him John. As lie
   now saw that he could no more get back from the ship to
   his dear Nukahivah, he exhibited a wonderful mixture of
   melancholy and levity. Sometimes he would fall a-laugh-
   ing, and afterwards say in a whining tone : Moi leaucoup
   iriste la tnadame, la mademoiselle. He had a wife who
   had brought him a son or a daughter; and his father-in-
   law had given him a house with coco-nnt and bread-fruit
   trees. It was curious to observe in what manner his ideas
   were expanded. One time, recollecting some of his joyful
   scenes at Bourdeaux, he suddenly exclaimed, as if he had
   seen a vision,—Beaucoup de chandelles, leaucoup de violons,
   leaucoup de musique, les madames, les mademoiselles f As
   may be readily supposed, we did not know what this meant;
   but we at length conceived that he might remember his hav
   ing been at the play. He still thought of Nukahivah, and
   he has not yet given up the idea of returning thither. He
   soon recovered his French, and made use of expressions
. which he could not have learnt from us, as we were not ac
   quainted with them, such as the names of the different
   sails, &c. He often afforded us subject of laughter. Hav
   ing asked him in what the natives of Nukahivah showed
  acr.teness, he replied,—Beaucoup d'esprit, ill ne couchera
  pas avec sa soeur, tin autre laisera sa soeur et il couchera
   avec un autre fille, beaucoup d'esprit ! I here quote his own
   words. From these expressions it is seen that certain de
  grees of consanguinity are in that island forbidden. I once
  gave him a good new shirt, but he immediatelv bartered it
  with one of the sailors for a red flannel jacket. When I
  told him that he had suffered himself to be cheated, he
  would not listen to me. As soon as he went on shore he,
  put on the jacket, and with feathers on his head and a
  lance in his hand danced on an eminence, capering and
  jumping in a most extraordinary manner. Several of the
  natives then wished to accompany him, in order that they
  might go to war. He now showed them how they would
  creep along and conceal themselves behind bushes or among
  the grass, and In what manner, when they fell in with any
 .of the enemy, they would beat them and carry them off.
  He seemed to be inspired with an enthusiastic spirit of war
 fare, and extolled what gives these people so much pleasure.
 When asktd whether he would himself eat any of the flesh

                  Russian Expedition to Japan.              1 17
©f their enemies, he replied " No, I have never done so :"
he added, that the sight of others eating it had made him
sick : he had killed three enemies, but had exchanged them
fbr'swine. The latter circumstance was confirmed by the
Englishman. From this it appears that war among these
people is a kind of amusement, as hunting is among us.
Ketenue is very averse to it, but is not able to prevent it.
When I asked him why he did not prevent it, Joseph an
swered, When five or six seize an enemy and put him to
death, they carry him into the woods and there devour him.
How then can Ketenue prevent it? Having spoken so much
of their enemies, I must now mention who they are. All
the islands in the South Seas are exceedingly mountainous,
as is the case with the Marquesas and Nukahivah : the fer
tile and inhabited valleys are separated by high, steep, and
barren mountains. Tapeka Ketenue was the chief man at
the Bay of Tayohoae, where we lay at anchor; and other
vallevs are in the possession of other chiefs. With the in
habitants of many of these valleys the former are in a state
of warfare. These are their euemies. The hostile parties
are alwavs separated by high mountains, and at each expe
dition these must be clambered up. They have few war
canoes, for the purpose of undertaking expeditions by water.
Ketenue's daughter was married to the chief of another bay,
and, as she was conveyed thither by sea, it was agreed that
during her life no war should be carried on at sea with the
inhabitants of that bay. Should she come to Tayohoae on
a visit and die, her spirit would remain there, and no naval
battle could be fought between the two bays. Hogs are
killed on all their festivals and occasions of solemnity.
When any one dies a banquet must be given ; and therefore
it is so difficult to procure any of these animals.
   Their god Atua is the body of their deceased priest. The
body is first besmeared with coco-nut oil, -and toasted in the
sun till it becomes hard and dry : it is then wrapped up in
a piece of cloth, and being suspended in the priest's house,
in ihe morai or wahitaabo, becomes their god. Sometimes
it is consulted as an oracle; and Joseph is still convinced
that the answers it gives are infallible. Roberts firmly be
lieves that the natives here are well acquainted with the art
of witchcraft. Joseph considers himself as an adept in it,
and asserts that bv means of certain knots he can make a
sick person so ill that he must die. 1 had the courage to
suffer him to trv the experiment on myself ; but unfortu
nately there is here no morai, where the string with the
knots upon it must be buried. When the priest dies, war
                              H 3                  immediately

118               Russian Expedition io Japan.
immediately ensues ; and they then endeavour to find out
some enemies, who are either eaten or merely hung up, T do
not exactlv know which, in honour of the deceased. When
the priest dreams that he hag eaten human flesh, -he tells'
whether the person was tatooed or not, and gives nearly a
correct description of him. A state of war now ensues;
that is to say, some of them creep towards the enemy to
endeavour to find a person answering this description, and,
according to their opinion, the person of whom the priest
 dreams, will always fall into their hands : the person is al
 ways a kiki/w, that is, one who has broken taaboo. The
 Frenchman had been in several of the Marquesa islands ;
 first' in Santa Christina. The people, manners, and cus
 toms, are in all the same.
     On the 18th of May we took advantage of a light breeze
 to get out of Anna Maria or Tayohoae Bay. On this oc=
 casion the Frenchman remained on board, We had for
 gotten to send him on shore. When we were out in the
  ppen sea, the wind was so strong and so fresh, that, though
 an excellent swimmer, he would not venture to swim back
  to the shore. Our passage to the Sandwich islands, as is
  always the case between the tropics, was pleasant and agree
  able, the weather being always fine.
      On the 8th of June," in the afternoon, u-e were opposite
  to the south-east coast of the island of O-why-he, at the
  distance of about three or four Italian miles. The natives
  brought off to us a dish of sweet potatoes and a small hog ;
  one of the women also came on board the ship. Towards
  night we stood off" from the land, and next dav were at the
  southern extremity at about the same distance as the pre
  ceding day. We purchased a -small hog; a larger one they
  carried back with thejn because we could give them no
   cloth, of which they wanted a large quantity. A frock
   which we offered them was too small for them. On knives,
   axes, and mirrors, they set no value ; and therefore we sup
   posed that they must have been supplied with all these arti
   cles by the English and the Americans. Several of them
   spoke a little English : a woman who was among them held
   out her hand to us, and kept continually repeating,—-'' liovy
   do you dp ? Very well."
       On the 10th we were opposite to the western coast. We
   here saw the large mountain Momo Roa, which is said to
   be as high as the Peak of Teneriffe. As the summit of it is
   very broade it does not appear to have the same elevation,
   We were a great way from the shore, and no boats came
    Off tO US.       .                         .
                                                            We

                 Russian 'Expedition to Japan.              11 9
  '•We now parted from, the Neva and proceeded south
west, while the Neva determined to come to anchor in
Karakakua Bay, where the celebrated Cook was killed.
The natives of the Sandwich isles are more industrious than
those of the Marquesas. Their canoes are exceedingly
neat, and fully secured from being overset, by outriggers
applied to them. The sea was very rough at the time- when
they visited us; but they suffered no damage. The cloth
which they make of the bark of the paper-mulberry is
very beautiful, and of bright colours. The broad girdle
worn by the woman was of a lively red colour. The men
are smaller than those of the Marquesas, and seem to be
 artful and deceitfuj people. In most of them the incisor
teeth are wanting. These they are very careful to knock
 out. The women are larger and more elegantly made than
 those of the Marquesas. Both sexes have a darker colour
than the natives of the Marquesas, though the climate in
 the latter is much warmer. Many of them also are tatoqed,
 but not so strongly : some of them had several figures on
 their legs; and one had the figure of a musket and bayonet
 on the arm. This is nearly the whole of the intercourse.
 we had with them. When we return from Kodjak we shall
 pay them another visit.
    To be sure of the trade wind we again approached the
 equator, and proceeded west on the parallel of 17°. The
 weather was fine, and the wind as favourable as possible;
 so that we advanced more than two degrees every day. As
 we turned towards the north we began to be sensible of the
 effects of custom ; the temperature of 18° of Reaumur was
 somewhat disagreeable to us. I asked Joseph whether it
  was ever so cold in Nukahivah. " Jamais, jamais?' re,*
  plied he In the latitude of 36° north, and longitude 191°
  west from Greenwich, we proceeded some degrees towards
  the west, but saw nothing of the Silver Islands.
     On the evening of July 13 we saw the high mountains
  of Kamtchatka. On the 15th we entered the harbour of
  St. Peter and St. Paul, and came to anchor. When we
  saw the fine prospect which here presented itself, we could
  not believe our own eyes : there was still a little snow to be
  seen on the summits of the highest mountains, but the
  lower ones were covered with beautiful verdure; and the
  smell of the birch-trees was perceived on board the ship.
  The only scorbutic patient in the ship was sent on shore,
  where he soon recovered. We were extremely fortunate,
  when it ia considered that we were five months at sea, and
  for the last four months had lived entirely on salted provi-
                               H4                          sions.

 1 20             Russian Expedition to Japan.
 sions. Our sour crout had become spoilt at St. Cathe
 rine's, and was thrown overboard. A pthisicky German
 cook, who would not remain in Brazil though every kind
 of support was oifered to him, died three days after we had
 crossed the line. The heat of Nukahivah had entirely ex
 hausted him. He would certainly have died in Europe,
 but perhaps some months later.
    The arrival of the Nadeshda was a very fortunate circum
 stance for this country. The beneficial effects of it are al
 ready felt by all Kamtchatka. Many necessary articles could
 no longer be obtained, and others had risen to a most ex
 orbitant price. This evil has been remedied. Brandy, for
 example, at certain times had been sold for fifty rubles per
 can : from eighteen to twenty rubles *was the common
 price; and at present it is six rubles : all other things were
 in the same proportion. The ambassador Resanof, and
 general Koschelef, a fine young man, settle the price, and
 superintend all public transactions.
    In regard to the Kamtchatdales I have little to say ; few
 of them now remain. All those in Paratunka have become
 extinct. Those left have, in a great measure, lost their
 originality of' character : the only thing by which they are
 at present distinguished is, that they are excellent bear-
 hunters. There are here a great many bears, which feed
 on fish. I was told that above forty of them were seen
 round a whale lately cast on shore : this, perhaps, may be
 exaggeration, but it is nevertheless certain thaf they are
very numerous.
    I lately was present at an original Kamtchatdale dance :
it represents the courtship of a bear. The bear, animated
by the passion of Jove, gesticulates with great violence;
emits wild tones, which die away almost in the throat:
the female, by no means insensible to these strong indica
tions of tenderness, answers with a kind of growling and
snarling ; her motions, however, were much more mode
rate. The whole was exceedingly disgusting, and a re
main, no doubt, of the antient Schamans, as well as the
dance of birds.
    We lately received a visit on board ship from two of the
natives. As we gave them a good reception they were
highjy pleased, and praised us much ; telling us that we
were very good men, just like. the Kamtchatdales. ,
   All the houses here, without exception, smell like stock
fish. The degree of the smell is determined by the greater
Or less cleanliness of the inhabitants. The' people eat
scarcely any thing but fish. The howling of the dogs,
                                                         which

                  Russian Expedition to Japan.                 Itl
   which are a kind of shepherds' dogs, is heard here almost
   every evening. They are very numerous ; hu"t tanje, and
   never hurt any one. This harmlessness of disposition arises
   from their being fed by all the inhabitants ; for every person
. who catches fish, as soon as the nets are drawn, throws a,
   few to the dogs, which are accidentally present, and there
   fore they are fond of frequenting the sea shore. In winter
   they are chained up.
      Captain Clark's grave is below an old birch tree. The
   epitaph La Perouse caused to be engraved .on a plate of
   copper, and under it was inscribed,—" By the order of
   Count de la Perouse, chef d'escadre," &c. The copper pdate
  was fixed up with nails, but was nevertheless stolen. After
  this circumstance a voice was heard every night demanding
  it back and it was at length restored. It is not nailed up
  at present, yet no person touches it.
     The ship Slava Rossic, in which Billings performed his
  voyage, lies here sunk in the harbour.
     Great complaint havino- been made here that there was
  no establishment for taking care of the sick, and that many
  perished for want of proper assistance, general Koschelef
  proposed a subscription, which was seconded by the am
  bassador; and each having subscribed JOOO rubles, the sum
  of 4000 was collecied in the course of less than ah hour.
  On its being remarked that- this circumstance would give
  great satisfaction to the emperor, the enthusiasm became
  general. All this was done on board the ship, and it is
  not improbable that something has been collected on shore,
  I shall send you a further account of Kamtchatka when I
  return from Japan.
     Our water continued sweet, and never became corrupted :
  for this we were indebted to the care of the captain, who
  always caused the casks to be charred. When at Copen
  hagen he had read in a journal, edited by PfafTand Fried-
  lander, that water would keep a long time uncorrupted in
  charred casks; and this we have found perfectly conlirmed.
     The following trait will serve to sho* Joseph's way of
  thinking, and what he considered allowable in Nukahivah.
 When the ship was unloaded here, it was found that a great
 deal of mischief had been done by the rats ; they had emp
  tied several pipes of wing, or at least gnawed the casks in
 such a manner that the wine had run out. As the whole
 almost of our provisions were on shore, tbev became very
 restless, and appeared in great numbers. I recollected that
 J had among my medicines nux vomica, some of which I
                                                           piixc<J

1 &2              Russian Expedition to Japan.
mixed with dough. , When Joseph heard that this would
destrowrats, he asked if it would kill men also. Having
answered in the affirmative, he requested- me to give him
some of it. On asking him what he meant to do with it,
he replied, that when he returned to Nukahivah and ate with
any of the natives, he would mix it privatelv with the food,
so that the person should die. When I represented to him
the atrocity of this idea, and told him that he might perhaps
poison us also, he replied, that it would be highly criminal
to poison us, but that in Nukahivah it was nothing ; the
natives, he said, bewitched each other in such a manner
that they must die, and poisoning was not worse.
    It is mentioned in Cook's Voyages that he frequently
interchanged names with some of the kings or chiefs. Cook,
in all probability, was taabooed by assuming the king's
name; and the king took Cook's name in order to be
taabooed against the English. But Cook, perhaps, laboured
under a mistake; for Ketenuc gave his name to captain
 Krusenstcrn, but assumed none in return. The same cus
tom prevails in almost all the islands of the South Sea : it is
 to be supposed that Cook and other' navigators must neces
 sarily have fallen into many mistakes ; for of this circum
 stance we should have been cntirelv ignorant, had it not
 been for the information given to us by Joseph and Roberts.
    There have been English missionaries at Otaheite, Santa
 Christina, and even in Nukahivah. The one who was in
 Nukahivah was called Crook} and had the name of Kete-
nue's son : he was not able, however, to convert any of the
natives, and soon quitted the island. These missionaries
 will have it in their power to communicate- the most certain
 information respecting the natives of the islands in the
 South Sea, for some of the accounts given by others are
 contradictory.
     I have had an opportunity of making a very droll observa
 tion. Wherever wc touched where we did not understand
 the language, each person endeavoured to remedy that de
 fect by the language of which he understood the least. One
 of our naturalists spoke Russian to the inhabitants of Nu
 kahivah ; the sailors spoke Portuguese : but in lirasil thev
 had spoken English and Danish. A droll fellow, of the
 name of Kurganon, endeavoured to make his way with
 German, of which he understood only two words; IVollen
 sie ? Will you ?
    The Kamtehatdales of Paratunka are said to have had the
 yellow fever. The under surgeon here called it Febris Ame
                                                        ricana

     On-the manufacturing of some Oxides of Mercury.              123
ricana flava. In inquiring the symptoms' I committed a
fault ; lor, instead of waiting for his answer, I said;, " Were
they not so and so ?" And all his answers were in the af
firmative. I need hardly remark, that on our arrival here
we differed one day in our reckoning : to us on board the
ship it was Sunday; on shore it was Monday.
XTX. Extract from a Memoir of M. Patsse, principal
    Preparer of Medicines ' at the Camp of Utrecht, on the
    manufacturing, on a large Scale, of' some Oxides of
    Mercury. By M. Parmentiek *.
 M . Paysse, to whom we are indebted for the following
 information, in regard to the manner in which the Dutch
 prepare, on a large scale, red sulphurated oxide of mercury
 and red oxide or mercury by nitric acid, does not rose a
 moment to take advantage of his stay in Batavia. He seizes
 every opportunity of visiting the manufactories, so nume
 rous in that country, as well as the cabinets of the curious,
 which may contribute towards his instruction. The diffi
 culties of every kind which he encountered before he could
 get admission to these manufactories are a sufficient proof
 of his ardent 2eal for the arts and sciences ; but amidst the
 disappointments which the traveller experiences oti his route
 while making researches, he often obtains an indemnity for
 the care he takes, and the sacrifices he makes, when he is so
  happy as to meet with any objects proper for seconding the
 desire he has to add to his knowledge, and to en/icn his
  country with the discoveries of the industrious nations he
  is so fortunate as to visit. Such is the advantageous situa
  tion of M. Paysse, who has already procured us detached
  information in regard to many interesting objects. The
  reader will easily form an opinion of them from the follow
  ing extract from the last memoir addressed to me by this
  chemist.
         Red sulphurated Oxide of Mercury {Cinnabar) .
 ; This matter is prepared only in two manufactories at
  Amsterdam. The most considerable is that which belonged
  to the late M. Brand. M. Paysse assisted at an operation
  in which 800 pounds were prepared, divided into two por
  tions. He observed all the details with every possible at-
                  ? From the Annu!es de Gktihic, No. 152. . : . '
                                                               tention J

  124       On the manufacturing, on a large Scale, .
 tention ; and, after comparing them with those published
  by M. Tuckert in the fourth volume of ihzAnnales de Chi-
 mie, for the year 1790, he found only a very slight differ
 ence ; so that the description of the chemist of Amsterdam
 may be considered as nearly exact. The following is what
 he has omitted. He does not speak of the duration of the
 flame, nor of its colour, which arises from the combustion
 of the union of the sulphur and mercury previously pre
 pared and introduced into the apparatus. This flame, the
 disengagement of which is exceedingly rapid,' exhibits the
 most various colours ; first of a bright dazzling white, rising
 at least twelve decimetres above the dome of the %rnace j
 then yellow and white orange yellow ; blue and yellow, giv
 ing birth to the green and violet shades, and at last to blue
 and to green. Its disengagement is overcome towards the
 end by a sort of register of iron plate, when it no longer
 rises but to the height of some centimetres, and its colour
 becomes indigo or sky blue. The apparatus is then her
metically sealed, and luted on the outside with a mixture
 of clay and sand.
    There is no doubt, from the loss experienced in the result,
 of the operation, that the shades so various" of this flame,
 the disengagement of which lasts about half an hour with
 200 kilogrammes of matter, arise from the union of the
 sulphur with varied proportion of mercury at different de
grees of oxygenation. The 400 kilogrammes, or about SOO
pounds of red sulphurated oxide of mercury, were reduced
to 379 or 322 kilogrammes, or between 738 and 745
pounds, which form a loss of from 27 to 31 kilogrammes.
    In speaking of the vessels- employed in this operation
M. Tuckert forgot also to describe exactly their form. The
principal vessel is not a jar, but a kind of crucible, round
"which the heat circulates, and which has over it an iron
dome, through the summit of which the matter is intro
duced after the crucible has been brought to a red heat.
The success, of the operation depends in an essential manner
on the management of the fire during the sublimation. The
fuel employed is turf, and, according to M. Paysse's ob
servation, "none is better calculated for the purpose when
a constant and moderate heat is required. This uniformity
of temperature during the thirty hours of heat maintained
in the furnace is, no doubt, one of the causes which contri
butes most to the success of the operation. Besides, expe
rience, according to the acknowledgment of the workmen,
speaks in -favour of this opinion.
   When red sulphurated oxide of mercury is j rcpared, a
                                                           very

                  of some Oxides of Mercury*        '       125
  tcry large quantity of it is pulverized to be converted irito
  vermilion. This preparation is still a. secret among the
  Dutch. In every work of chemistry, however, the process
  for obtaining it is described. They merely say that the
  cinnabar is to be reduced to powder, then washed in water
  and dried. This method, which M. Paysse often employed,
  gave him always, indeed, for product a very beautiful red
  powder ; but it must be allowed that it is inferior in beauty
  and the splendour of its colour to that manufactured in
  Holland.
     China furnishes painting with a kind of red sulphurated
 oxide 0/ mercury in powder' (vermilion), much more
 esteemed than that of the Dutch. It is of a beautiful red
 colour, with a shade, the splendour of which nothing can
 equal. For some years, therefore, the Dutch have endea
 voured to imitate it. M. Paysse saw some prepared in the
 manufactories of that country, the process of which is an
 other mystery. This oxide rivals in beauty that of the
 Chinese. He is of opinion that in a little time it will at
 tain to the same degree of perfection.
    As he was not able to obtain any information in regard
 to the means employed to imitate this particular preparation,
 and suspecting that the splendour of the Chinese sulphurated
 oxide of mercury could arise only from the state of oxygena
 tion, more or less advanced, in which the mercury may be
 in that combination, he made the following trial :—He took
 a hundred parts of Dutch red sulphurated oxide of mercury,
 and having pulverized them, put them into a glass capsule
 sheltered from the impression bf^ the solar rays, and covered
this powder with some cubic centimetres of pure water,
taking care to stir the mixture for a month with a glass
tube. At the end of seven or eight days he saw the oxide
sensibly change, and assume a very agreeable shade. During
about twenty-five days the splendour of the red increased
gradually and acquired the utmost beauty. Having ob
served that the matter remained in the same state, and that
it no longer underwent,any apparent change, he decanted
the water, and dried in the shade and in a gentle tempera
ture the red sulphurated oxide of mercury. He compared
it in this state, and when very dry, with that of the Chi
nese and that of the Dutch manufactories prepared by their
secret process, but did not find any sensible difference in
the splendour or beauty of the red ; so that this very simple
experiment puts us in possession of a process advantageous
to the arts, and particularly that of painting, and which
tfie Dutch will long keep a secret.
                                                         Being

 1 2(7         On the manufacturing} on a large Scale,
     Being desirous to ascertain whether the air and light alone
 might produce a similar effect on this sulphurated oxide,
fyl. Paysse put a hundred parts of the same substance, in
 powder, into a vessel of the same kind, and exposed then*
.to the action of a strong light for more than a month. He
 took care, as before, to renew the surfaces very frequently
 by stirring the matter, in order to multiply the points of
 contact of the sulphurated oxide with the air which served
 it as an atmosphere ; but instead of acquiring a more agree
 able red, it assumed a brick colour inclining to brown. After
 this experiment, there can be no doubt that light has a sen
 sible influence on this substance, and tends to reduce the
 sulphurated oxide of mercury by taking from it a portioi*
 of oxygen, as it does from most matters of this kind exposed
 to immediate contact. 1
   Bed Oxide of Mercury by Nitric Acid (Red Precipitate).
     This oxide, so generally known in commerce by-its bril
 liancy and its beautiful colour, was also one of the prepara
 tions which M. Paysse had the curidsitv to see made in
 Holland, in order that he might learn the means emploved
 by the manufacturers to obtain always a brilliant red of a
  crystalline appearance, similar to that manufactured in Ger
 many, and which comes to us in particular from Nurem
 berg, Franconia, Bale in Swisseiland, and from Trieste.
      Every work on chemistry gives a process for preparing
 this oxide ; but few of them agree in regard to the means
 of obtaining a beautiful, lively, and brilliant red. Some,
 after dissolving the mercury in nitric acid, evaporate the
  liquor and expose the matter to a prettv violent heat for
  some hours, in order to decompose the nitrate of mercury
  and convert it into red oxide: others pour a certain quantity
  of nitric acid over the first solution when dried and distilled.
 By repeating this operation several times M. Chaptal ob
  tained red precipitate very beautiful and crystallized *,
  Some also, after having dried the nitrate of mercury, in
  corporate with it a new quantity of fluid mercury; and ex
  pose the mixture, when well formed, to a brisk heat of a dark
  red colour, between two crucibles luted together. Van
  Mons asserts, that in this manner he obtained, with great
  ease, red oxide of mercury perfectly crystallized \. ' "
      All these processes, though exactly described, are not
     * F.lemers de Chimie, art. Mermrr.
    ,f- Journal de Physique et de Chimie de Van Mons; Memoires de
  Fischer et Lichtenberg, 15 Pluviose, an 10, p. Sill ; et IS Brumaire, an 1*2,
  p. 178.
                                                                   sufficient

                 of some Oxides of Mercury.                  1 27
sufficient to the chemist who is desirous of undertaking
operations on a large scale, or who wishes to apply che
mistry to the arts which depend on it. Unless one has ac
quired experience in extensive manufactories, and been ha
bituated to the operations used in large laboratories, it will
be impossible to. succeed, even after many expensive and
discouraging attempts.
   M. Paysse has often employed the different methods here
spoken of, and proceeded with all the care of one desirous
to succeed ; yet he never obtained results so satisfactory as
he wished. He, however, adds, that the means proposed
by M. Chaptal are those which were attended with the
most constant success, though it was not complete. He
varied his processes, employing nitric acid in different
proportions, and of a different density and, purity: but,
notwithstanding the quantity of crystallized oxide which
he obtained, it was not possible for him to account exactly
for the phaenomena which occasion so many variations in
the results of this operation, which is apparently nothing,
and which, however, is not performed without great diffi
culty. So much care is required in the application of the
heat necessary to be employed, that in two operations where
every thing is arranged in the same manner, and where all
the circumstances appear to be absolutely similar, his re
 sults were almost always different. Sometimes one of- the
 vessels contained a crystallized portion of oxide, while the
 other part was a red ponder of a brick colour; sometimes
 the whole of the oxide in one of die vessels was converted
into a beautiful crystalline precipitate (red oxide of mercury),'
 and that in the next vessel, which had been treated the
 same, exhibited only a mass half yellow and red, without
 any appearance of crystallization; sometimes both vessels
exhibited this oxide converted, in part, into a brilliant ox
 ide, and the rest of a disagreeable red ; and sometimes this
 oxide exhibited three very distinct colours, bright red, red
 inclining to brown, and orange red.
    The second vessel exhibited only an oxide with two co
 lours very distinct, orange and brick red without brilliancy.
 " Where (says M. Paysse) shall wc serMc for the cause of
 these anomalies but in the manner of evaporating the solu
 tion, and particularly in that of decomposing the metallic
 nitrate during the whole course of the operation?" We
 shall' see, however, that the pUrity of the nitric acid con
 tributes also very strongly to render difficult the conversion
 of the mercury into crystallized red oxide, and that the
 muriatic acid, with which the former is constantly mixed in
                                                               the

 128         On the manufacturing, on a large Scale,
 the shops, presents a powerful obstacle when in too strong
 proportions.
    By dissolving mercury in nitric acid mixed with muriatic
acid there is almost always formed a white precipitate, which
is the more abundant as the quantity of that acid is greater.
Without attempting at present to determine the real nature
of this precipitate, M. Paysse considers only the part which
this combined substance performs in the oxidation proposed
to be given to the mercury by decomposing the nitrate of
that basis by the action of heat.
   If crystallized nitrate of mercury, arising from a solution
of that metal in nitric acid mixed with muriatic acid, be
exposed to heat, this salt first begins to lose its water of
Crystallization ; it is then decomposed, suffering to escape.
a portion of acid which it-contained in excess, and which
may be collected by means of a proper apparatus, because
it has experienced no alteration. This disengagement is
succeeded by that of gaseous nitrous acid, which is mani
fested bv very elastic red vapours. This acid gas is almost
always mixed with oxide of azote, or the latter follows the
disengagement ,of the former. These two gases indicate
the decomposition of the nitric acid, which gives a portion
of its oxygen to the mercury, and is thereby brought to the
nitrous state, or to that of oxide of azote. By continuing
 the heat, the last portions of the nitric acid abandon the
mercury, and the latter is converted into an oxide more or
less saturated with oxygen; indeed, its production seems to
depend on the quantity of caloric which is accumulated
on that substance during its passage to the state 6f red
oxide.
   When the vapours of the nitrous gas cease, the oxide
changes its colour, passing successively from white to yel
low, frpm yellow to orange, and from orange to red, more
or less intense. It is generally when the red is very bright
and beautiful that the vessel is taken from the fire, and the
mass is then preserved as it is, or reduced to powder.
   It would seem, on the first view, that an operation con
ducted as above ought to give, for constant product, an
oxide well crystallized. This, indeed, is the case, 1st, When
the nitric acid is free from muriatic acid, or when the latter
is in very small quantity ; 2d, When its density is equal to
34 or 38 degrees; 3d, When the desiccation and decompo
sition of the metallic: nitrate have been effected slowly and
in an uniform manner ; 4lh, And when the heat employed
towards the end of the operation, and while the last por
tions of the acid disunite, has been graduated and main-
           s                      ,                     -taintd

                  of some Oxides of Mercury.                  129
 tained nearly at the same degree : for if, as many chemists
 are used to do, and as sometimes happened to M. Paysse,
 the oxide be exposed to too sudden a heat at the moment
when it acquires its beautiful colour as well as its brilliancy,
it loses not only its crystalline appearance, but it assumes
also a disagreeable shade of reddish brown : if the heat were
carried further, it would evert be partially or completely de-
oxygenated, and the mercury in this case would assume its
primitive form, as the author, on several occasions, had an
opportunity of observing.
    If the quantity of muriatic acid with which the nitric acid
may be mixed is too great, and if it rise to several hundredth
parts of the dose employed, the particular combination re
sulting from its union with the oxide of mercury assumes
not the characters of a simple hyper-oxygenated muriate,
as might at first be presumed, but that of a new compound,
which dissolves only in \fery small quantity in water, and
the latter must even be boiling ; which becomes sublimed
alone in close vessels, taking or rather retaining its parti
cular colour ; which is brownish red, without an appearance
of crystallization ; and which M. Paysse considers as a mu
riate of mercury with excess of oxide, according to the re
sults it gave when subjected to some experiments.
    When this compound is found in too large proportion
in the oxide of mercury which has been prepared, it always
opposes the formation of the crystallized red oxide, as he
several times remarked in his experiments. On the other
hand, if the proportion be small it may be neglected, and
it even insulates itself from the rest of the oxide in the vessel
in which it is prepared : it occupies a line, and forms a se
parate stratum towards the upper part of the mercurial mass.
   What M. Paysse has here mentioned in regard to the
advantage there is in the preparation of the red oxide of
mercury by nitric acid—that an acid, as free as possible
from muriatic acid, should be employed—he had remarked
in the experiments which he made every year in his course
of chemical lectures ; but not being able to form a very just
opinion as to the results of some trials made on a small
scale, and almost always uncertain, he was desirous, before
he developed it, to observe with attention what takes place
in the large operations performed in manufactories where
considerable masses are used at one time. Now that all his
doubts on this subject are removed, and since he knows the
phaenomena which take place when several hundreds of
kilogrammes of mercurial oxide are treated in one opera-
   Vol. 22. No. 86. July 1805.         I                    tion,

130           On the mamifacturing, on a large Settle,
tion, what is the quality of the nitric acid employed, and
the process to be followed in the application of heat during
the whole time of the operation, the author can with cer
tainty indicate a process for obtaining this oxide provided
with all the qualities required in it, and which are sought
 for in manufactories.
    Take mercury, free from every other metallic matter, 3»
 kilogrammes ; nitric acid, deprived as much as possible of
muriatic acid *, and of from 34 to 38 degrees, 70 kilo
 grammes ; dissolve the metal in the acid, and assist their
 reciprocal action by a gentle heat in a sand-bath f; evaporate
 by distillation, ami take the receiver from the retort when
 the vapours of the nitrous gas begin to manifest themselves,
 as they announce the decomposition of the mercurial ni
 trate. The point here is to employ a constant and mode
 rate temperature, if you wish to ensure success to the ope
 ration J: it is raised a little towards the end, that is to say,
 when the disengagement of the gaseous nitrous acid is no
 longer manifested, but in a manner not very sensible : the
 vessel must be exposed to this degree of heat till it is ob
 served that the mass of red mercurial oxide is of a bright
 and brilliant red colour in all its parts. Eight hours of heat
 are in general sufficient for 200 kilogrammes of this sub
 stance.
    * It may be tried by nitrate of silver, and if the quantity of muriatic acid
 appears weak it is neglected. It sometimes happens, however, and particu
 larly when the nitric acid is too weak, or when the quantity is not sufficient,
 that the mercury is precipitated in a white oxide in proportion as it is formed,
 because it cannot be held in solution either by the water or by the remaining
 acid, and that the unoxidated mercury besides continually exercises a che
 mical attraction on one of the principles of the acid, and that the latter tends
 rather to be decomposed than to dissolve the mercury, already saturated with
 oxygen to a certain degree; so that care must be taken not to. confound this
 property with that of the muriatic acid : moreover the precipitate, which is
 not the effect of the oxidation of the mercury, dissolves entirely in the heated
 nitric acid, while the other can dissolve only in very small quantity : this
 property alone would be sufficient to distinguish it. I might have dispensed
 with making this observation, since in my process I require a very pure and
 highly concentrated acid r but as it often happens that acid sufficiently strong
 cannot be procured, this deficiency may be supplied by quantity, and my
  remark in this case cannot be here misplaced,—Note of M-Payssi:
    | This solution must be made in a glass retort, the bottom of which is
 broad. This vessel is preferable to the matrasses employed in Holland, be
 cause the only question here is to adapt to it a receiver, and to distil in order
 to collect the acid which is not decomposed on the metal. This object is by
 no means to be neglected in operations on a large scale.—Note oJ'M. Paysse.
    f The author wished to have been able to determine in a precise manner
 the degree of heat which ought to be applied to the oxide of merdury to give
 it the red colour as well as brilliancy ; but this was impossible, because he
 was not provided with a pyrometer.
                                                                                It

                         I
                   of some Oxides of Mercury.                131
    It has been already said that the turf employed in the
 manufactories of this country has some advantages over the
 other kinds of fuel ; and this remark is true, for an equal
 heat may be easily and for a long time obtained, because
 this matter burns slowly and in a Very uniform manner.
    As charcoal, or the coals found in the bowels of the
 earth, are the two combustibles employed most commonly
 in France, none of the circumstances here mentioned must
 be neglected when they are used.                        ' . "•
    By strictly observing all the precautions here indicated,
one will rarely fail to obtain oxide of mercury by nitric acid
 of a brilliant red colour and well crystallized.
    If the mercurial mass, notwithstanding all the care taken,
 be not brilliant, or does not exhibit the crystalline aspect
 required, it must be reduced to coarse powder and again
 put into a new-earthen vessel, at the bottom of which have
been placed some cubic centimetres of mtric acid only, in
 order that the whole of the oxide which is not briniant may
be slightly impregnated by heating it in a sand-bath. -One
or two hours' exposure to heat under this apparatus will be
sufficient to convert the oxide into crystallized precipitate.
    Resuming what has been said on the method of preparing
red oxide of mercury by nitric acid, we see that the condi
tions absolutely necessary for obtaining it constantly bril
liant and crystallized are :
    1 st, To make choice of nitric acid without mixture of
muriatic acid.
    2d, To employ this acid at the degree of concentration
 already indicated.
    3d, To evaporate the metallic solution in a moderate
heat.
   4th, To employ a vessel, the bottom of which is suf
ficiently broad to make the oxidated mass of mercury pre
sent a great deal of surface, and that it may be equally
heated with the greater ease in every point at the same time,
that the nitrate may be uniformly decomposed and may
pass as speedily as possible to the state of red oxide.
   5th, That the heat may be gradually increased, and in
proportion as the decomposition of the nitrate advances.
   6th, That this temperature may be maintained the same
during the whole time of the operation, that is to say, during
the passage of the yellow to the red oxide required.
    " I am very far," says M. Paysse, " according to my
experiments and those I have seen performed on a large
scale, from believing that crystallized red oxide of mercury
is indebted for this brilliant appearance to a state of semi-
                             I 2                  vitrification,

i32         On the manufacturing, on a large Scale,
vitrification, as- M. Van Mons- thinks*; for it would fol
low, if this oxide were really half vitrified by this ope
ration, that a higher temperature would be .capable and
ought necessarily to convert it into glass : but nothing of
the kind takes place ; for I have exposed to a very strong
heat, and at several times, four grammes of this- oxide, well
crystallized, in two crucibles luted together, and, instead of
vitrifying, it lost not only its brilliancy but also its fine red
colour, and acquired one of a disagreeable brick red. Ex
posing it to a still greater heat, a great part of it was reduced,
and the rest of the oxide acquired a dark brown colour.
    " I know, however, that there are bodies which are not
 susceptible of passing to complete vitrification, and which
 nevertheless experience, at a certain degree of heat,, a paste-
 like fusion which is called semi-vitriform j but by heating
 the oxide of mercury in transparent vessels nothing similar
 is seen to take place, not the least vestige of a partial or
 general softening of the mass is observed- Besides, I have
 strong reasons for believing that the crystalline state of the
 mercury oxidated by nitric acid arises only from the degree
 of the oxygenation of that metal, and the uniform manner
 in which the oxidating principle combines with the mer
 cury during the decomposition of the nitrate of that base,
 and its conversion into red oxide."
 XX. Second Extract front a Memoir of M. Pavsse, prin
     cipal Preparer of Medicines at the Camp of Utrecht, on
     the Method of manufacturing, on a large Scale, some'
     Oxides of Mercury. By M. ParmentierIt.
  JNothtng remains, in order to make known the memoir
  of M. Paysse on the oxides of mercury, but to give a short
  view of the other experiments he made in regard to the red5
  oxide of mercury by nitric acid (red precipitate) : they form
  the complement of his process given in the preceding ar
  ticle. If this process be followed, it will remove all the un
  certainty of manufacturers who hitherto- have not been able
  to prepare this substance as is done in Holland. Every
  thing is easy in theory ; but in the arts facts speak much
  better than the most brilliant reasoning.
     To ascertain that the crystalline state of the red oxide of
    * Journal de Physique et de Chimie, annees 10 et 12, pages 178 et 211.
    f From the Journal -U Chimie, No. 154.
                                                                 mercury

                   ,of some Oxides of Mercury*                133
  mercury does not arise from a semi-vitrification, as M. Van
  Mons asserts, M. Paysse made a solution of mercury in
  nitric acid mixed with some hundredths of muriatic acid.
  Having evaporated the solution to dryness, he treated this
  matter with the same care and caution as the former ; and
  when the operation was finished the mercurial oxide exhi
  bited a red aspect, sufficiently beautiful in some parts and
  dull in others, but without any appearance of brilliancy or
  crystallization. This mass was pulverized, and again in
  troduced into another glass vessel, into the bottom of which
  he took the precaution of pouring a small quantity of nitric
  acid, that the mercurial powder might be slightly impreg
  nated. He then proceeded as before, exposing the vessel
  to a gentle and graduated heat. But, notwithstanding all
  the precautions he observed during the operation, the oxide
  which was the result of them had passed to red without
  exhibiting the least v-estige of crystallization or brilliancy.
, This experiment was repeated three times, but with no
  better success. It is evident, however, that if the red oxide
  of mercury is indebted for its brilliancy only to the semi-
  vitrified state it experiences when heated, there is no reason
  why this matter should not be constantly in the same state
  every time it is prepared, since nothing is necessary, ac
  cording to Van Mons, but to apply to it a violent heat be
  tween two crucibles luted together.
     In preparing crystallized red oxide of mercury, M. Paysse
  made observations which gave him reason to suspect that
  the brilliant state of this substance is owing rather to the
  constant degree of the oxygenatioif in which the mercury
 is, than to any other cause, ami that the presence of the
  muriatic acid in the nitric acid is an obstacle to the forma
 tion of that brilliant state by the new combinations to which
 it gives birth during the operation. What he supposed is
 now become certainty, as the following experiments will
 show.                  ,
     He took a hundred parts of red oxide of mercury, brilliant,
 and prepared by nitric acid mixed with muriatic acid ; and,
 having introduced them into a long-necked matrass fur
  nished with a bent glass tube communicating with a pneu
 matic apparatus, they were gradually heated till the bottom
 of the vessel became red. He suffered to escape the whole
 of the atmospheric air contained in the apparatus, that he
 might obtain, free from mixture, the oxygen gas furnished
  by the oxide. Having exposed the matrass to heat for a
  sufficient time, and waited for the complete reduction of
                                13                           the

134     On the manufacturing some Oxides of Mercury.
the mercurial oxide, he suffered the whole to cool, and
diluted it. He then decanted the mercury, and collected the
whole which adhered to the neck of the matrass : its total
weight was 0*81. The receiver which had served to collect
 the oxygen gas was obscure, and indicated that a small
 quantity of mercury taken from the gaseous state was con
 densed on its interior sides. To force the oxygen gas to
 abandon all the metallic particles which it might contain,
 he surrounded the receiver with pounded ice; and when the
 receiver had cooled for an hour ^he conveyed the gas into
 another vessel, and collected with cave the whole of the mer--
 curial oxide which lined the inside of the vessel. Slight
 friction with the finger against the glass was sufficient to
 effect the reduction of it, and to collect it in globules in a
 brilliant state. Its weight was 0-02, which with the 0r81
 found iu the matrass gave 0*83. The neck of the latter
 vessel exhibited small white crystals, which he collected
 with care: their weight amounted to about 0*01 ; and their
 taste and other chemical properties convinced him that they
 were hyper-oxygenated muriate of mercury. A reddish
 powder inclining to brown lined also a part of the dome of
 the matrass, which it was necessary to break before it could
 be collected. When carefully examined he found in it the
 characters and properties of this new combination, already
 mentioned in the beginning of this memoir, and which he
  calls muriate of mercury with excess of oxide: its weight
 was 0*03. By these results it is seen that the quantity of
 oxygen was 0*13. The same experiments being repeated
 several ' times in succession, the results were always the
 same as the preceding.
     A hundred parts of red oxide of mercury, very brilliant
  and well crystallized, and prepared with nitric acid free
  from muriatic acid, were treated in the same manner as in
  the preceding experiments : the reduction of the oxide was
  complete, and the products were exactly 0*82 of mercury
  and 0-18 of oxygen. •
     M. Paysse treated in the same manner red oxides of mer
  cury prepared in the Dutch manufactories and those he ob
  tained by his own trials : the proportions of the principles
  which constituted these oxides, all very brilliant, exhibited
  variations very little sensible. They amounted only to nearly
  a hundredth part ; so that it may be considered as certain
  that crystallized red oxides of mercury are indebted for this
  state to a combination of oxygen with the mercury, the
  proportions of the former being always between 1 8 and 1 9,
                                                          while

               On a nondescript Aquatic Animal.            , 135
 while those of the oxides which have not brilliancy contain
 at most from 1 3 to 14 of that principle.
    Two incontestable advantages result, then, from the pre
 paration of crystallized red oxide of mercury.
    1st, An increase of the product of that oxide, the mean
term of which is five per cent, more than when it is not
brilliant.
    2d, The impossibility or at least great difficulty which
avarice may experience in adulterating this product of art
by red oxide of lead.
  XXI. Facts relative to a nondescript Aquatic Animal.
               By Mr. John Snart, Optician.
                        To Mr. Tilloch. '
      SIR,
Herewith I send you the exact drawing of a very sin
gular aquatic creature 1 have lately discovered residing in
ponds in which the frog, &c. is generated from the first
rudiments or spawn of the parent and brought forth in the
tadpole state; in which stage of being it becomes the prey
of the said creature ; without the persecution of which, I
am persuaded frogs would infinitely more abound than at
present.
   The creature in question is of a most curious construc
tion ; having six legs, with the Jeet armed with talons, two
palpi or feelers, and four antennae with a bifurcated plu-
mated tail. The body is divided into ten semi-crustaceous
lobes somewhat like the armadillo (exclusive of the head
and neck, which form two more), by means of the joints of
which he is enabled to inflect himself into almost any posture.
The head is flatted like the scollop, and broad ; the mouth
is of the whole width of the head ; and proceeding from the
sides of the superior mandible or upper jaw spring two ten.-
tacula-like forceps, which it opens or closes at pleasure ;
these are curved and pointed like those of. the forficula or
common earwig, and with these it seizes its prey, of which
the tadpole seems to be the principal favourite. Though
tadpoles are frequently found much larger than it, yet it
pursues them with the greatest confidence. When it over
takes them it punctures their skin with its forceps, and,
after lacerating them so as to fetch blood, drags them
towards its mouth, into which it receives the effusion.
                              I 4                     .So

136          On a nondescript Aquatic Animal.
So insatiably voracious is this little water dragon (if I may
use an appropriate epithet for want of a name), that in the
space of a few hours (and that in the night), out of about
eighteen, it had killed, and withal much maimed, no less
than eight or ten tadpoles, most of which were bigger than
itself; and could it have made the same rapid progress in
the water which tadpoles do, I have no doubt they would
all have fallen a sacrifice to this little sanguinary tyrant,
who (with short intervals of rest after a full meal) is inces
santly roving in search of blood !
 ' At first sight it appeared to be of the binocular class ; but
talking a good magnifier, I observed the eyes to be com
posed of two annular clusters, not reticulated, but each
containing six distinct, roundish, bright, black orbs, at
small distances from each other ; the intermediate spaces,
as well as more considerable ones, in the centre of each
cluster, being of a piece with the colour and texture of the
skin of the other parts of the body, which, with some little
variegated exceptions on the back of the head, is of a co
lour resembling the mud of the Thames water, of the tex
ture of that of a common shrimp, and like it (when alive)
of a semi-transparent nature. Indeed the divisions of the
whole body are more like this than any other creature I
have yet seen. But its conformation in all other respects
is quite as dissimilar as I have stated.
   When it seizes its prey, if exceedingly vulnerable like
the tadpole, it' lacerates it so deep as to make the forceps
meet and even cross in the punctures, when it amuses and
gratifies itself by working them in and out until the blood
flows from the wounds, at which time they are alternately
withdrawn and applied to the mouth, as if to taste the gore
with the one, while the captive is detained by the other;
which if it approves, the poor struggling victim is drawn
there too; but if otherwise, it contents itself by repeated
lacerations until its imaginary enemy is dead, as was the
case with a common earth-worm I threw into the water,
and several flies, which were never drawn towards the
mouth at all ; while the tadpoles are exhausted of their
blood until they become a mere skin with a small propor
tion of gelatinous matter left in it ; for their adversary seems
not tp have convenient organs for entire deglutition, or he
would no doubt quickly destroy the whole subject: but
owing to the narrowness of the neck, and its crustaceous
texture, the oesophagus is incapable of expansion to any
considerable degree ; yet this incapacity on his part is no
           6                                             security

              On a nondescript Aquatic Animal.            137
security to the other, seeing they are almost cut in two by
their being brought into so close contact with the mouth of
their destroyer, and quite drained of their very vitals*
    Thus nature, as if to counteract her wonted profuse fe
cundity in this diminutive scale of beings on the one hand,
seems on the other to have made this formidable nonde
script adversary to thin the race. So tenacious is he of his
prev, that, having once fastened on, he will bear to be
drawn quite out of the water, and held for some minutes
suspended by the hold . he has taken by the forceps ere he
will let go his victim ; and so determinately undaunted as
to bear to be lashed with a small twig, which he has the
hardiness to endure. The opening of his forceps seems to
fascinate his victims; they become, as it were, transfixed
by torpor, and riveted to the spot, though naturally capable
of swimming much faster than their enemy.
    One particular more which I observed may not he amiss
to notice, which is, the ebbing and flowing of the blood,
which does not appear to circulate through all the parts, but
by a kind of unduldtory motion, or rather pulsation, pro
ceeds and recedes towards and from the head to about hajf
 way down the body in one entire mass. Though without
doubt the whole frame is visited by this vital principle, yet
 it is in such small quantities as to elude the most minute
 inspection I could bestow upon it; and if the quantities
 were not, indeed, very minute, it could not but be visible
 through the semi-transparency of the body ; for it is not
 limpid like water, but of so sanguine a tint as to give the
 middle part of the body a black appearance.
    Notwithstanding these minute particulars which I have
 made myself acquainted with, I shall not venture to deter
 mine what class it ranks in, because it seems to participate
 of several, or at least to possess members and faculties in
.common with two or three; and as I could not gain any
 information on thishead from my books, though there seems
 somewhat- very characteristic in this creature, I thought it
 might not be impertinent or displeasing to someof your read
 ers to have the best information I could extract from strict
 observation of its functions and amusements. And although
 it comes without the minuteness and accuracy of zoological
 classification, yet I believe I am perfectly correct in everv
 particular stated, in which if I meet your concurrence it is
 very much at the service of your readers.
          Description of the Drawing. (See Plate II.)
     Fig. r. View of the back parts, magnified.
                                                          Fig.

                                                            «
  138 ,                      On Elasticity.
    Fig. 2. The animal of its natural size, the belly upwards.
    Fig. 3. Under part of the head as seen in a strong light,
 by means of which not oidy the outward but also the in
 ward direction of its members is discernible : thus we sec
 the roots of the antennae join together and communicate
 with the two great canals aa, which carry the blood to all
 the parts ; and I am persuaded the forceps join issue there
 too; but the parts are too glandular to allow of this being
 distinctly seen.
    Besides, upon the creature eating some mackrel liver, a
 great quantity of blood was discharged from the under fis
 sures near the tips of these forceps a great number of times.
 Meeting with a medium of nearly the same density as it
 self (i. e. the water), it diffuses itself in the form of a thick
 smoke issuing from a furnace chimney when fresh fuel is
 added ; after which the forceps became so close that no
 magnifier I could use upon him would enable me to see
 them ; yet this affords a presumption that they are each a
 kind of proboscis. Some blood was discharged from the
 mouth at the same time.
    Fig. 4. The eye of its natural size.
    Fig. 5. The same magnified.
 London, 215, Tooley-street,
       20th June 1805.
 XXII. On Elasticity. By Alexander Tilloch. An
    Essay read before the Askesian Society in llie Session
    1802-3.
It is not my intention in the present paper to enter upon
any inquiry respecting the laws by which elasticity acts, as
they have often been investigated already, and are well
known to every one acquainted with the first elements of
mechanics. I mean merely to confine myself to a few
thoughts on the physical cause of elasticity, or that pro
perty of bodies which enables them, after any external pres
sure, to restore themselves to their former figure.
   The cause of elasticity has been proposed to be accounted
for in various ways. The Cartesians held that it was a ne
cessary consequence of their materia subtilis, or matter of
the second element, making an effort to pass through pores
too narrow for it. Thus, when a straight elastic body is
bent by any force, the pores become contracted on the con
cave side, and, if they w^e before spherical, become for
instance elliptical, or of soipe other form; and the materia
                                                         subtilis,

                          On Elasticity.                      139
subtilis, hindered in its attempt to pass, makes an effort
to restore the body to its first state. In this theory there is
something like the effort of a strong mind when first seizing
upon a new truth, and endeavouring to reduce it to a de
pendence on and connection with known or admitted facts;
but the defects in the reasoning ought to have convinced
its supporters, that a more satisfactory way of accounting
for the phaenomenon was still a desideratum. It must be
obvious to any person who will take the trouble to ana
lyse the argument, that if the materia subtilis in a spherical
cavity could by pressure (being hindered at the same time
from passing off) accommodate itself to the same cavity
 rendered elliptical, that in doing so it has in fact become
 smaller in volume than it was before. The materia subtilis
 is thus assumed to be compressible ; and, as it makes an
 effort to restore the body, or, in other words, its cavities, to
 the first form, it is assumed to be expansive. But what
 does this amount to ? Merely that a body is elastic because
 it contains elastic matter.
     Other philosophers, disliking the materia subtilis of the
 Cartesians, have adopted an ethereal medium. Their mode
 of reasoning, however, is so similar to that of the former,
 that they leave the mind as unsatisfied as before. Indeed,
 the mere change of a name can throw no new light upon
  the subject.
     Some account for elasticity by supposing that when an
 elastic body is bent or compressed a number of little vacui
 ties are formed in it, and that on removing the force the
  pressure of the atmosphere, endeavouring to destroy the
 vacuities thus formed, restores the body to its first figure.
 This doctrine, however plausible, is inadmissible, if for no
  other, for this one reason :—Many bodies require a greater
  force to bend them to any given degree than can be found
  by multiplying the number of square inches in their surface
  by 14 pounds, the force exerted by the atmosphere on a
  square inch ; besides, the phaenomena of elasticity manifest
  themselves in vacuo.
     Others assume that all bodies contain air in their vacui
  ties, and ascribe their elastic property to that of the air in
  closed in them. This is little more than a substitution of
  air' for the materia subtilis, and the etlier assumed by others.
  But whence has air itself the property of elasticity ? This
  is a part of the general inquiry, and as necessary to be
  solved as the source whence other bodies derive the same
  property.                           4
     Others account for elasticity from the law of attraction,
                                                           applied

  I AO                    On Elasticity.
 applied with so much success, since the time of Newton,
 to the solution of many other of the phaenomena of nature ;
 and we are inclined to think that the more this subject is
 investigated the more will it appear that it acts an important
 part in producing those effects ascribed to elasticity. Ac
cording to this theory, when an elastic body is struck or
bent so that the component parts, or portions of them, are
 moved a little from each other, but not beyond their spheres
 of attraction, they must, on file cessation of the applied
force, spring back to their natural, stale.
     Repulsion also has been held to be the cause of elasticity
in the case of aeriform fluids, and this repulsion is ascribed
to the presence of heat. In this case repulsion is not made
use of as the last term of our knowledge, but merely as
expressive of a certain state of action ascribed to another
cause. Some, however, make use of the expression with
out so defining it, and, if they mean any thing at all, use
it to express an abstract property of which they know not
the cause. We may therefore observe, in passing, that
this term should be used as seldom as possible in philoso
phical subjects, and never unless the author has defined the
sense in which he employs it.                                , •
     Another theory has been proposed, which has been ad
mitted by many as sufficient to account for all the phaeno-
mena, not of the elasticity of bodies only, but of matter in
general. This theory, which has the celebrated Boscovich
for its author, supposes that the whole matter of the uni
verse consists of a great but finite number of simple, indi
visible, inextended atoms, endued with repulsive and at*
tractive forces, which vary and change from the one to the
other according to circumstances pointed out in his System
of Natural Philosophy, ofwhich a good account may be seen
in the Supplement to the Encyclopcedia Britannica, under
Boscovich. The most singular part of the system is, that
his atoms, in their least and innermost distances, repel each
other, and this power of repulsion increases as the distances
are diminished : in sensible distances they attract each other,
and this power decreases as the squares of the distances in
crease, constituting universal gravity : between the inner
most repulsive force and the outermost attractive one, in
the insensible distances, many varieties occur ; at a certain
distance the repulsive force vanishes—increase that distance,
and attraction begins, increases, lessens, and vanishes, till,
at a certain increase of distance, the force becomes rqml-
sive; and so on alternately, always changing from the one
to the other with the increased distances ; sometimes more
                                                        slowly,

                         On Elasticity.                      141
slowly, sometimes more rapidly, and sometimes one of the
forces may come to nothing and then return, back to the
same kind without passing to the other. And for all this,
it seems, there is full room in the distances that are in
sensible to us, seeing the least part of space is divisible
in infinitum.
    Assuming all this, and exhibiting a curve and other ne
cessary appendages to assist the mind in comprehending his
theory, the author applies it to explain all the phaenomena
of the material universe, assuming also in his progress such
 forms and arrangements as are required to make the system
 apply to the properties possessed by matter in those modi
fications which distinguish and divide it into classes : thus
solid bodies are formed of parallclopipides, fibres, and of ir
 regular figures, occasioning a greater cohesion than in fluids,
 and preventing the motion of the parts round one another ;
 so that when one part is moved the rest follow. Those
 bodies whose particles are placed in limits which have strong
 repulsive arches within them are harder ; those are softer
 Whose particles have those arches of repulsion weaker.
 When the particles are placed in limits that have weak
 arches of repulsion and attraction on each side, the body is-
 flexible ; and, if those arches are short, the particles may
 come to new limits of cohesion, and remain bent : but if
 the arches are longer the repulsion and attraction may act,
  and restore the body to its former position ; nay, in doing
  this with an accelerated velocity, the parts will pass their
  former limits, and then vibrating backwards and forwards
  exhibit that effect which is called elasticity.
     On this theory we shall only observe, that whatever con
  viction it may carry to minds habituated to profound ma
  thematical investigations, it can convey but little informa
  tion to a man who merely aims at a knowledge of the pro
  perties of matter, as consisting, not of inextended atoms,
  but of such moleculae as occupy sensible space. What the
  wiser is such a man for being told that certain forces exist,
  and that some idea may be formed of their mode of ope
  rating by conceiving them to act in the directions of certain
  eurves,and with powers varying; according to circumstances ?
  He may assent to this ; but as his weak mind can conceive
  nothing of matter inextended, either in itself or in its atoms,
   he cannot consider his difficulties as solved bv merely hav
   ing them stated to him in a new form; for to him the whole
   of this system appears to be no more at best but a regular
   mathematical statement of those operations of matter, the
   causes of which he still wishes to explore.
                                                       C. Barruel

 142                     On Elasticity,
    C. Barruel has proposed a theory different in Some re
 spects from any of those I have mentioned,—-more in ap
 pearance, however, than in reality. He contends that ca
loric acts a great share in the phaenomena of elasticitv, and
maintains that it is itself clastic in consequenee of the pro
perty which the moleculae of this fluid have of repelling each-
other : a property, he says, the more probable as it is ob
served in the electric fluid, with which caloric has so great
an analogy. " In a word," says Barruel, e* we may be
satisfied with admitting its elasticity as a fact from which
we may set out as from an incontestable principle." To
enter at great length into this theory, an account of which
may be seen in the sixth volume of the Philosophical Ma
gazine, p. 52, would encroach too much on our present
time. The author presents, in his memoir' on this subject,
some curious thoughts, and well worthy of a perusal. It
is only necessary here, however, to state in few words the
substance of his reasoning. 1st, Every body in nature is
porous, and these pores are proportioned to the density of
the substance : 2d, These pores are filled with different
fluids, and principally with caloric. But caloric possesses
a strong repulsive force ; from which it follows, that, when
an elastic body is compressed, the caloric in its pores drives
back, by its repulsive power, the displaced parts, and brings
them to their former state.
   On this theory it may be observed, that however true it
may be that caloric acts a distinguishing part in the phae
nomena of elasticity, the author seems to have made hardly
any other use of the fact than to put that substance in the
place of the materia sultilis and ether of the earlier philo
sophers. He assumes too that it necessarily possesses elas
ticity ; but he ought either to have first proved it, or at
least to have demonstrated, that if that property be not in
herent in caloric, there could be no elasticity in other mat
ter. In short, were it even proved that caloric is naturally
and essentially elastic, and the cause of elasticity in other
matter, still the main question would remain unsolved,
which would then be—What is' the physical cause of elas
ticity in caloric ?
   Libes makes elasticity to depend on caloric interposed
either between the moleculae of bodies or combined with
them, and at the same time on the attractive force of these
moleculae. " This being premised," says he, " I say that
the restoration of solid bodies after compression is a com
bined effect, which depends in part on the repulsive force
which their integral molecuke have received from ca
                                                         loric,

                          On Elasticity.                      143
loric, and in part from the attractive force of these mo-
leculae."
   I should have been glad to have been able to have given
something more of Lioes's theory than this short notice,
especially as this little seems to approach nearer to my idea*
of the true thebry than any thing I have yet noticed ; but
I know not-in what work it is given. This notice is from
the Journal de Physique, vol. 1. p. lO. an 8.
   Thus have I given a short account of all the theories that
have been advanced to account for the phaenomena of elas
ticity ; or, at least, of all I recollect worthy of notice. Some
of them, we have seen, in passing, fall entirely short of the
object they aim at, and are therefore unworthy of further
notice. In others, however, the mode of argument is so
well managed, that had their authors attended to a single
fact or two, which they have overlooked, it is probable that
the subject would, before this time, have received that full
elucidation of which I believe it is capable.
   Like those who have gone before me, I may fail in the
task I have imposed upon myself ; but I hope to avoid in
consistency or unfair assumptions. It does not appear neces
sary to admit even that elasticity belongs to matter consi
dered simply. Indeed, I think the contrary is the fact. But
that my meaning may not be mistaken, I shall explain in
as few words as possible this part, which mav be considered
as fundamental, of the doctrine I mean to propose. Bv
simple matter I mean the primitive moleculae, or atoms, of
which bodies are formed. However complex may be the
state in which we find bodies, they consist of elementary
principles, which principles themselves are formed perhaps
of others, but ultimately of inelastic atoms of simple mat
ter. Let us, for example, take some matter considered a9
 simple and elementary', say caloric, I would affirm of it that
it is not necessarily elastic ; and so of any other simple
matter.
    But if elasticity be not essentially necessary to matter
 considered simply, whence do bodies derive that property ?
 I answer, From the same source whence they derive almost
 every other quality that belongs to them—from their com
 position and internal arrangement.
    I would have said all their qualities, instead of limiting
 the expression to almost all of them, but that they possess
 one property which may, and probably does, depend on some
 other cause, I mean that of attraction. Of the cause of
 this we know nothing; but its existence and the laws bv
 which it acts being known, philosophers do not fail to avail
                                                        themselves

   144                     On Elasticity.
  themselve3 of them in explaining those phaenomena into
  which they enter.
      In our present inquiry, then, I mean to derive from at
  traction the help it offers in explaining the cause of elasti
  city ; and I hope to make it evident, by a due considera
  tion of attraction as common to all matter, and of the laws
  by which caloric constantly endeavours to maintain an equi
  librium, not only among systems of bodies, but throughout
  each individual mass, that the efforts of these two, to main
  tain their respective powers over matter, and, in doing so,
  acting according to known and invariable laws, produce all
  those phaenomena to which the term elastic has been applied,
  whether in solid or in aeriform substances.
     I would say, then, that attraction, which pervades all mat
 ter, and caloric, which also pervades all matter, by their pre
 sence, and by an action in which both participate, occasion
 elasticity wherever it exists. Not that elasticity must follow
 as a necessary consequence of their presence, for then every
 substance in nature would be elastic, which many are not
 in the common sense of the word. Certain other conditions
 are necessary to elasticity ; but without these two it could
 not exist.
    It is admitted by all that attraction is the cause of the
 aggregation of the moleculae of bodies. When the state of
 aggregation is such, that on the application of a given degree
 of mechanical force to the body the attraction of the mole
 cular is overcome (or the body broken), it is called brittle :
 if the attraction is only partially deranged, the body will be
 found to have changed its form, and is then called flexible :
 when the body springs back, or, after certain vibrations,
 recovers its form, it is called elastic.
    Many metallic bodies which are flexible in the sense just
mentioned, may however by hammering be rendered elastic)
that is, by merely bringing their moleculae into more inti
mate union, or by bringing them reciprocally more within
the spheres of each other's attraction. This is a circum
stance which ought not to be lost sight of. Let us for a
moment then inquire what takes place in the process, be
sides bringing the particles of the body more nearly into
contact, or more of them into actual contact than were in
that state before ? When a bar of metal is hammered thin
ner than it was before, a quantity of caloric equal in volume
to the diminution of volume imposed upon the bar has been
expelled or driven out of it. I need not, however, insist
on its being exactly equal in volume, as my present argu
ment only requires that a certain, quantity of caloric should

                          On Elasticity.                   145
be driven out of the mass by the operation ; and I believe
in the present state of our knowledge that few will be in
clined to dispute it. As it is, however, of some importance
to establish this point, I shall, before proceeding further
with the main argument, briefly point out some of the cir
cumstances which seem to prove the escape of caloric : The
bar becomes heated bv the operation, and where heat ma
nifests itself, it must be either passing off from or into the
body. If the capacity of the body be diminished at the
same time, and the chemical properties of the body remain
unaltered, which in the instance under consideration's the
case, how can we mistake the direction in which the caloric
moves ?
    I am aware of what has been advanced respecting friction
by men whose names stand high in the philosophical world,
and that hammering is a species of friction : but names and
opinions should never be substituted for facts ; for, if it be
true, which I deny not, but maintain that hammering is a
species of friction, it would not be difficult to show that it
is equally true that friction is a species of hammering. But
if by hammering such a quantity of heat may be driven
from the interior to the surface of a bar as will produce
effects similar to those of a combustible body in a state of
ignition, the caloric in this as in every other case must be
something else than mere motion. It is subject to certain
laws of motion, like every other species of matter ; and like
every other species of matter too, when moved from its
place by any force, putting other matter in the spare or
spaces before occupied by it, it must take up another resi
dence. To produce an accumulation of heat by hammer
ing, repeated and a long continued succession of strokes
are not necessary : proportion the mass of metal to the im
pulse to be applied, and with one stroke you may produce
such a heat as will make the part of the metal where it is
accumulated visible in the dark—hot enough to set fire to
a combustible body.
    It may here be also observed that heat is propagated even
through what is usually called a vacuum, that is, through
spaces absolutely void of every othe» species of matter,
which could not possibly take place if caloric were not sub
stantial ; for motion is a non-entity when we attempt to con
 ceive of it as distinct from matter—it is an accident of mat
 ter, and when we speak of its existence the presence of
 matter is always implied. This is an argument in proof of
 the substantiality of caloric which no powers of argument
 can overturn ; for, whatever semblance of truth may attach
     Vol. 22. No. 86. July 1805.        K              '     to

146                      On Elasticity.
to reasonings on motion as connected with matter, it var
nishes entirely when the continuity of matter is broken, as
in the case we have stated. But if in the case of the trans
mission of caloric through a vacuum, caloric is proved to
exist independently of motion, why in any other case should
the two be confounded ?
    But to return.—A bar of metal by being hammered has a
 quantity of caloric expressed from it by mere mechanical
 means, without undergoing any chemical change. In other
 words, its capacity for holding caloric has been abridged,
 without its affinity for that substance being lessened; and
 the aggregation of the mass has been increased in a ratio
 bearing some proportion to the diminution of its capacity
for caloric.
    When the hammer is first applied to the metal, the latter
is, comparatively speaking, plastic, and gives but little re
 sistance ; but as the parts are brought into a closer state of
 aggregation the resistance increases, and the hammer recoils
 in proportion to the force with which it is applied and the
 degree of aggregation the mass has acquired : in other
words, the metal has acquired a degree cf elasticity propor
tioned to the time it has been subjected to the mechanical
 process. It appears then that by diminishing the capacity
 of the metal for heat, while its natural affinity remains un
 altered, it acquires the property of being elastic.
    Let us attend a little to the case before us. When the
metal has received a certain degree of compression from the
hammer, it refuses to receive more, and the hammer recoils ;
that is, by mechanical means a certain degree of caloric may
be expressed from the metal, but as its affinity for caloric
 cannot be destroyed, the last portions of it cannot be ex
 pelled by any such process ; and even a portion of what
 may be expelled can only be momentarily separated, viz.
 only during the continuance of the impulse. It is this last
 circumstance that occasions in the instance under examina
 tion an exhibition of what is called elasticity. That I may
 be the better enabled to convey my ideas on this point, E
 shall here call in the assistance of a figure to illustrate my
 meaning.             •
    Let ABCD (Plate II. fig. 6.) be a mass of metal that
 has received all the density of which it is susceptible by
 hammering, or let it be a mass (as an anvil) hardened by
 any other process, in such a manner that it can receive no
more permanent compression from the action of a hammer.
If a stroke of a hammer be applied on the surface ABC,
a momentary depression of the surface will take place, pro
                                                      portioned

                          On Elasticity.                      147
portioned to the force that has been applied. Say that the
curved line AaC represents this depression, and the area
AB Ca its quantity : a quantity of caloric equal to the space
ABCa is momentarily displaced by the blow.
   But in this case an attempt is made to separate, by me
chanical means, a portion, of that caloric which the mass
demands by its affinity ; and this law, exerting itself to re*
store the equilibrium, takes back the quantity thus violently
attempted to. be taken away, and with such rapidity that
the hammer is no sooner at a than it is instantly pushed
out by the reimbibed caloric. Nor is this all : caloric, being
matter, must, when put in motion, obey the same laws
that other matter would in similar circumstances. The re
servoir that furnishes the supply (viz. the surrounding at
mosphere) being inexhaustible, instead of the caloric ceasing
to operate when it has brought the surface again to coincide
with ABC, it carries it to I, a distance as far above B, or
nearly so, as a was below it ; and it is not till after repeated
vibrations between these points that the surface at last comes
to rest in its first position. Any one may. satisfy himself
of this fact by letting a hammer fall upon an anvil while
he holds the handle easily in his hand ; it will not give one
but several strokes, proportioned to the force employed.
   When the recoil of the stroke, as it is called, has carried
the surface to I, why does not the mass retain the caloric
(represented by the space AZ>CB) which it has received by
the effort thus made by its affinity for caloric ? —Because the
affinity of aggregation of the mass forbids it. The two af
finities—that of the whole mass for caloric, and that of the
moleculae for each other—find their powers balanced when
the surface comes to rest in the line ABC.
   From what has been stated respecting the effect produced
by the blow of a hammer on a hardened mass of metal, it
will not be difficult to trace the effect that will follow if a
soft bar of metal be interposed. We have seen that a quan
tity of caloric is momentarily expelled from a hardened mass
of metal when struck by a hammer, and as quickly reimbibed
with an increase of quantity. When such a bar is struck
on an anvil with a hammer, there is a displacement of the
caloric from the part struck ; and at the same time an in
crease in the aggregation of the molecular in the same part,
that is, an increase of its elasticity. The quick return of
caloric into the part makes the hammer recoil ; but the mo
leculae having been brought closer together by the blow, the
caloric finds less lodging-room than before, and of course
an increase of temperature follows ; for the affinity of the
, . .                          K 2                          mass

                          On Elasticity.
mass for caloric is lessened as its moleculae are brought
closer together. A second blow is followed by a like effect,
which is in like manner increased by succeeding blows. It
is necessary, however, that these be given in such quick
succession that the bar may not have time between to give
oft its caloric to surrounding bodies. If this be attended to,
an accumulation of caloric must take place in the bar ; for
by the second blow a larger quantity of heat is displaced
than by the first, and consequently a larger quantity is im
bibed to be affected by the third blow ; the quantity dis
placed by each blow being proportioned to that which was
before present, and the quantity newly imbibed being pro
portioned to what was displaced by the last blow. This
fact, with some latitude, will always be found to hold true.
Need we wonder then at seeing a dexterous artisan lighting
 his forge without any other heat than what he can furnish
 to himself by means of his hammer and an iron rod ?
    In the case which we have just examined the phaenome-
 non appears to depend on the displacement of caloric in a
 bod-: by an external force, while the affinity of aggregation
 endeavours to retain it. Will this be found to hqld in other
 cases ?—Yes, making allowance for the difference of cir
 cumstances.
    Let AB (fig. 7-) represent a spring of steel or any other
 metal. . By any external force let it be bent into the form
 CD. It is plain that one side of the spring has been elon
 gated and the other shortened.
    But the spring before flexure had its moleculae respec
 tively at those distances or in that arrangement in which
 they best balanced each other ; that is, the mutual effort of
 all was to keep the spring in the state it exhibited before
 any external force was applied ; and the quantity of caloric
 resident in the mass was distributed throughout in propor
 tion to the affinity of all the parts.
    Let the proportion of caloric proper to any part of the
 mass in any common temperature be represented by the
 space comprehended between the two parallel lines ab and
 cd.
    When the bar is bent, the lines ab and cd are made to
 approach each other, as at e on the concave side, and to re
 cede on the convex side, suppose to /.and g, so that they
 no longer remain parallel. In other words, a quantity of
 caloric has been displaced from the one side, and has found
 lodging-room in the other side of the bar ; and what is said
 of this is understood of every other part of ^the spring. But
 the affinity of all the parts for caloric having undergone no
          ' J                                           change^

                    ,      On Elasticity.                     149
 change, it is plain that when the external force is removed
 it must resume its first position in the mass, and, by doing
 so, restore it to its former figure, in effecting which the af
 finity of aggregation co-operates ; for we have been sup
 posing such a force only applied as could change the form,
 while applied, without overcoming the aggregation of the
 mass.
    The vibrations which follow, if the spring be left quite
 free after force has been applied, may be explained in a way
 perfectly similar to what we have already laid clown when
speaking of a bar struck by a hammer. The caloric being-
put in motion, a larger quantity of it runs from the plus
side to the side that was minus than the affinity of the latter
demands, and is therefore driven back again, and so alter
nately, till by little and little it ceases its motion as equili
brium comes to be established.
    After the bar A B has by any applied force been brought
into the form CD, the caloric, which in the natural state
of the bar resided between b and d, having been forced to
find lodging-room towards ac on the side now rendered
convex, and the lines ab and cd, or the portions of metal
which they represent, being brought into contact in the
point e; or, if the possibility of the perfect contact of the
moleculae be denied, as nearly into contact as possible in
the point e ; then the said point e (and so of any other point
of the concave surface) becomes a fulcrum over which the
bar may be broken if an increased force be applied ; for
all the caloric that can be removed by mechanical means
from the concave side having been transferred to some more
.convex part of the bar, it must follow, as a consequence,
that any attempt to make the metallic matter enter spaces
already occupied by metallic matter must be vain, and can
only operate to draw the moleculae on the convex side to
such a distance from each other as to admit foreign matter
between them, viz. the atmosphere or other surrounding
medium, after which it will be impossible for them to coa
lesce again.
    In this way would we account for that effect which has
hitherto been ascribed to the molecula; being removed to
such a distance from each other as to place them, beyond
each others sphere of attraction. It is true they are brought
into such a situation that their attractive affimty cannot
again unite them as an aggregate ; but we think their attrac
tion is not annihilated, as the common mode of expression
may suggest to those who do not properly examine the
matter. There is only a new affinity brought into plav,
                               K3          '      "      ' via,.

1.50                      On Elasticity.
viz. that of the metallic moleculae for the newly interposed
body ; for, could that new affinity be destroved, or, in other
words, could the interposed substance be entirely removed,
it is probable the affinity of the moleculae would again be
 exerted. Of this some idea may be formed by attending to
what takes place when two spheres of lead, a little flattened*
 are pressed together. In proportion as the air has been ex
cluded will be the adherence of the two balls.
    We would not wish, however, to be understood to assert
 that in every case a disjoined mass would unite but for the
 newly interposed substance, for several conditions are re
 quisite to this effect which can rarely exist. Among these
 may be mentioned, that there should be no new arrange
 ment of portions of the broken surfaces by the metal having
by its tenacity drawn itself out into fibrous ligaments and
protrusions ; for in that case the points of contact upon
joining the masses are so limited that the very weight of
either part, that is, its gravity for the common centre of
 attraction, will act as a sufficient force to destroy the affinity
which exerts itself to keep them united. We may also here
remark, that in the confused crystallization of melted masses
of metal, some of the portions may always be conceived to
be under some restraint, as it were, and this must hold also
after the metal has been hammered. Therefore on breaking
the mass some of these will always protrude, or in some
way or other change their position a little, so as to produce
an effect similar to that before described—reducing to a
comparatively small number the points that can be brought
into contact. Therefore what we mean to suggest is only
this—that if every interposed substance could be entirely
removed, and it were possible to bring the original number
of points into contact, the affinity of aggregation would act
to unite the parts of the mass.
    I might apply the reasoning employed in the case of the
 spring AB to other cases of solid bodies ; but, from what I
 have said, I think any person may apply my reasoning in
 the same way as I would myself, whether he be convinced
 of its truth or not ; to enlarge further appears therefore un
 necessary. It is proper, however, that I should endeavour
 to show how the same doctrine applies to aeriform fluids.
    When air is compressed, on removing the force it regains
 its (list volume. This, however, is conditional. If the
 compressed air be of a given temperature, say 80°, and if
it be afterwards reduced to a lower temperature, say 32°, it
may so happen that the diminution of volume by reduction
of temperature may more than counterbalance the com
                                                         pressing

                            On Elasticity.                    151
  pressing force that was employed. In this case, then, a
  mere abstraction of caloric annihilates a certain quantity
  of elastic force which belongs to the air when the common
  temperature is higher.
     Again : Inclose a given quantity of air, not compressed,
  in any proper vessel, when the common temperature is 30°>
  and it will be found when the temperature becomes high,
  say 80°, that it has acquired an elastic force which it had
  not before.
    The cause is obvious. The air inclosed at 30° has as
  strong an affinity for caloric when the common temperature
 comes #to 80° as the air not inclosed, but is prevented by
  want of room from satisfying itself to the extent of its affi
 nity. On opening the vessel, however, the caloric finds an
 easy admission ; the volume of the mass becomes increased,
 and a quantity equal to this increase discharges itself.
    But when by force we compress air which is to be again
 liberated without waiting for any remarkable change of tem
 perature, we only accomplish by mechanical means what
 nature effects by a mere change of temperature. We ex
 press a certain quantity of caloric from the air, while its
 affinity for that substance remains undiminished. Remove
 the restraint, and, the affinity exerting itself, a sudden in
 crease of volume takes place, exhibiting that phaenomenon
 which is usually called elastic force.
    Again : When, a foot-ball is struck (and so of similar
cases) there is a displacement of caloric proportioned to the
 force applied and the nature of the covering. But this is
 only momentary; forxthe affinity of the air for caloric re
maining unaltered, a quantity of the latter, more than equ'al
to what was displaced by the blow, is, for the reason before
pointed out, instantly taken in by the air, and with such
rapidity as to cause the ball to recoil from the foot in the
,same manner as a hammer, does when struck on an anvil,
 bat in a much more remarkable degree ; for the recoil will
always be proportioned to the force employed, compared
with the affinity of the bodies for caloric.
   Before concluding, we may observe generally, that every
body in nature may be considered as in some measure
elastic, though many of them cannot manifest that property
to the extent which those bodies usually called elastic can :
that is, a certain force may be applied to all of them with
out destroying their form, and by the application of that
force a certain quantity of caloric may be first accumulated
in and then given otF from them. In every case of this
kind (and they include every species of friction) caloric is
                               K4                          first

152                On the Production of Muriates
first expressed from, and then imbibed, with a surplus
quantity, into the parts of the body which undergo the
mechanical action, and it is this circumstance which has
so much puzzled some philosophers in certain experiments
on friction. But as we may possiblv lay before the society
at a future period a few thoughts confined principally to this
object, we forbear entering further into it at present.
 XXIII. Qn the Production of Muriates ly tlie Galvanic
    Decomposition of Water : with a second Letter on tfie
     Subject from Mr. W. Peel, . of Cambridge.
 In our last volume, page 279, we laid before our readers
 a letter from Mr, Peel, of Cambridge, announcing the pro
 duction of muriate of soda by the Galvanic decomposition
 of water. That communication we considered as extremely
 important, and we suggested that such experiments as Mr.
 Peel was engaged in, might possibly lead to some know
 ledge of the composition of soda and the base of the mu
 riatic acid.
     The letter alluded to was dated the 23d of April last, and
  published in our number for that month. We have been,
  not a little gratified since in finding that our suspicion has
  been in some degree confirmed by M. Cuvier's report of the
  labours of the Class of the Mathematical and Physical Sci
  ences of the French National Institute from the 20th of
  June 1804 to the 20th of June 1805, published on the 25th
  of the last-mentioned month *. One of the articles of this
  report states, that M. Pacchiani, of Pisa, has discovered
  the radical of the acid in question, which he states to be
  hydrogen. By taking from water, by means of the Gal
  vanic pile, a portion of its oxygen, he asserts that the water
   was converted into oxymuriatic acid ; and that, conse
  quently, " muriatic acid is hydrogen at its minimum of
  oxidation f; the oxymuriatic acid, hydrogen in the middje
   state ; and water, hydrogen at its maximum of oxidation."
      The following letter was intended for our last number,
   but did not reach us in time. It will be found a,s interest
   ing to our philosophical readers as Mr. Peel's former com
   munication. The result of his new experiment, sp far
     * Part of this report is given in our present Number.
     f In our 6th vol. p. 153, we announced that Girtanner maintained hydro
  gen to be the radical of the muriatic acid, and that this. acid contained less
  exygen than water. '
                                                                           the

          ly the Galvanic Decomposition of Water.                  153
the muriatic acid is concerned, is the same as that before
communicated ; but in this instance he has obtained a dif
ferent alkali,—a kind of proof that the alkalis, as has for
some time been suspected, are not essentially very different
from each other.
                                               Cambridge, June 4, 1805.
       " SIR,
    " Acccording to my promise I send you another letter,
which I hope will be as favourablv received as my last.
Permit me to sav, I feel myself much indebted to vou for
your suggestions *, which have led me to the discovery I
now send you.
    " Having proceeded to the formation of water from its
elements, with which to repeat my former experiment, I
found, when the oxygen and hydrogen gases were quite
pure and exactly in due proportion, that no residuum of
air was left, and that the water formed was not in the
slightest degree acidulous.' When the process was not
conducted with great accuracy, or any precaution to have
 it accurate was omitted, I then found the water acidulous,
 and the acid that caused this acidity to be the nitric acid.
     " The acidulous water thus obtained I neutralized with
 lime^ from which I distilled the water, and this water I de
 composed by the Galvanic process, as in the experiment
 detailed in my former letter.
     " I did not imagine the using water so obtained could
 make the least difference on the result of the experiment ;
 but as you had expressed a wish to have the trial made, I
  again undertook that interesting but very tedious labour.
     ** When I came to examine the residuum, to my great
  astonishment I found that not muriate of soda but muriate
  of potash ivas produced !
        1 must own I feel myself entirely at a loss how to ac
  count for this, nor shall I attempt it. All I can say is,
  that this, as well as my former experiment, was conducted
  with the greatest care and accuracy that I could bestow.
  Perhaps your, or some of your readers', superior sagacity
  may furnish some hint that may lead to a satisfactory ex
  planation of the phaenomena. I am, Sec.
      " To Mr, Tilloch.                                " W, Peel."
      Our readers, we are persuaded, will agree with Mr. Peel
   in thinking the result, indeed, very singular. Some may,
  perhaps, be inclined to believe there must have been some
                      * See Note, vol. xxi. p. 280.
                                                               mistake

    1 54             On the Production of Muriates.
   mistake in the experiment detailed in this or in the former-
   letter ; but till some person possessed of as much ingenuity
   and patience as Mr. Peel shall prove his experiments to be
   erroneous, we shall not question their accuracy *. Indeed,
   we had a suspicion that the result might possibly be affected
   by using water obtained from different sources, or distilled
   from different substances, and it was this suspicion that
   induced us to recommend to Mr. Peel a repetition of the
   experiment under new circumstances..
       We may remark here, that Guyton suspects potash to
  be composed of lime and 'hydrogen. In the present expe
  riment lime was employed to neutralize the acid in the
  water made use of; and though the water was distilled
  from- the lime, it does not appear to us impossible that a
  smart portion of it might be carried over. Indeed, if Guy-
  ton's opinion be well founded, it is very probable this was
  the case. Hydrogen the • water would furnish by its de
  composition.
      We have not been informed of the nature of the residuum
  left by distilling the water made use of in Mr. Peel's first
  experiment ; that is, what substances were held in solution
 by it—if spring water. It would be a curious circumstance
 if it should prove to have been combined with a little mag
 nesia, as it would go some length in proving the truth of
 another opinion of Guyton, that soda is composed of mag
 nesia and hydrogen : for it would only be necessary to sup
 pose that in the distillation of the water there was carried
 over some of the magnesia, a very minute portion of which,
 other circumstances coinciding, might be all that was wanted
 to determine the kind of alkali to be formed.
      Could the result depend at all on the circumstance of
 nitric acid having been previously in mixture with the
 water ? In the production of nitre (nitrate of potash) from
 the corruption of animal and vegetable substances, possibly
 the previous formation of the acid from its elements has
 some share in determining the formation of that alkali for
 which it has the greatest affinity.
     If the acidulous water employed in the last experiment
had been distilled per se, or from some other substance
than lime, would the result have been different ? From Mr.
Peel's experiments it seems extremely probable that very
small and seemingly inappreciable differences in the way of
   * We wish Mr. Peel bad mentioned the tests and methods he made
use of to ascertain the nature of the products he obtained. We are certaia
such information, in addition to what he has already given, would prove ac
ceptable to our philosophical readers.
                                                              conducting

        Facts applicable to the Theory of'the Earth.                   155
conducting such labours may determine the production of
very different substances.
   In short, it seems probable that some of those substances
which in the present state of our knowledge we are obliged
to consider as- the most simple elements, such as oxygen,
hydrogen, and azote, are, in fact, compounds; and if so,
the formation of one or more of these may take place under
circumstances in which we should not expect them to be
present, and may produce such results as those now under
consideration.
   This subject is extremely interesting, and we hope Mr.
Peel and other philosophers will continue to give it that
attention which its importance seems to demand. —A. T.
XXIV. Memoir on some zoological Facts applicable to the
   Theory of the Earth. Read in the Physical and Mathe
  matical Class of the French National Institute on the 22d
   of October 1804. By M. Peron, Naturalist to the Ex
  pedition for making Discoveries in Australasia *.
                        Colles exire videntur ;
          Surget humus; crescunt loca, decrescentibus undis.
                                                Ovid. Met. lib. i. ver. 342.
If excursions confined to the countries of Europe can fur
nish matter for so many useful works and for so many va
luable comparisons, and if slight differences in the physical
constitution of the soil, in its temperature, and in its pro
ductions, could give rise in all ages to grand ideas and im
portant theories, how fertile in the most valuable results of
every kind must be distant navigations !
   The traveller in voyages of this kind, transported, as we
may say, on the wings of the wind, traverses in a few
months the most different climates ; distances vanish, and
small differences disappear along with them. The large
masses alone can strike him ; and they are every where re
produced with an opposition, and contrasts so great and so
numerous, that the coldest imagination cannot fail to be
interested in such a spectacle. In one place, the summit
of the Peak of Teneriffe, which has been rendered celebrated
by the valuable researches of M. Humboldt, seems to un
fold before him the history of the grand catastrophes of na
ture, and of their effects ; while in another he sees rising at
           * From the Journal dc Physimtc, Frimaire, an 13.
                                                                        the
            i

    j 56              On some zoological Facts
   the extremities of the Austral world those bulwarks of gra
   nite which she seems desirous of opposing to the fury of
   the boundless ocean. He soon arrives on the barren coasts
   of the west and north-west side of New Hollainl, where
   the phaenomenon of the acquisitions made by the land pre
   sents itself with all the interest of which it is susceptible.
   In vain does he pass along coasts of two or three hundred
   leagues in extent ; he every where observes eternal downs
   of white sand, which extend into the country as far as one
   can penetrate. The numerous islands he meets with exhibit
   to him a similar constitution ; and the banks of sand, so
  frequent in these dangerous seas, have no other* But the
  fertile mountains of Timor already begin to appear; ait
  eternal vegetation every where covers them with its rich
  productions : they are continued in large gradations, which
  rise more and more towards the interior ot the land. Every
  thing is new in its aspect : he no longer sees those lacerated
  forms, those blackened peaks, and those threatening craters
  of Teneriffc, and of the Tsles of France and of Bourbon ;
  those striking and majestic masses of South Cape, Cape
  Pele, and Cape Frederick- Henderick in Van Diemen's
  Land ; much less that monotonous and tiresome aspect of
  the sandy coasts of New Holland. None of these pictures
  are applicable to the mountains of Timor. Their forms,
  though large, are softened ; their prolongations are regular j
  their summits are broad, and sink down gradually by slight
 undulations, which disappear on the sea shore: in a word,
 every thing announces here the tranquillity of the tropics,
  and the peaceful action of nature and of time.
      Amidst objects so grand, with terms of comparison so
 prodigious, the study of nature then more striking, is also
 more easy : all the petty objects of detail, the modern effects
 of a multitude of secondary causes, disappear, as we may
 say, before the grand ensemble of nature, and cease to oc
 cupy in our annals the too important part which they
 hare been so many times made to perform. But we may '
 safely affirm, that we shall have no real theory of the earth
 till the glorious period when the sciences can reckon among
 their votaries men desirous of emulating Humboldt. What
 he has done in regard to America ought to be done in re
gard to many distant countries and so many archipelagos
still unknown. At the head of the latter appears New
Holland, an immense country, hitherto little explored, but
worthy of the attention of the governments much more than.
,the naturalists of Europe.
                                                      Section

            applicable to the Theory of lite Earth.        15?
                          Section I.
Zoulbgical Observations which may excUe Doubts in regard
   to the primitive Union of New Holland a/id Fan Diemea's
   Land.
   Of all the observations which may be made in proceeding
from Van Diemen's Land to New Holland, the easiest, no
doubt the most important, and perhaps also the most in
explicable, is, the absolute difference of the two races who
inhabit these two lands. If we except, indeed, the meagre-
ness of the extremities, which is observed equally among
both people, they have scarcely anything common in their
manners and customs, in their rude arts, *n their imple
ments for hunting or fishing, in their habitations or piro-
guas, in their arms or language, in the whole of their phy
sical constitution, in the form of the cranium, or in the
proportions of the face. This absolute dissimilarity appears
also in the colour : the inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land
being browner than those of New Holland ; it appears also
in a character hitherto considered as exclusive, namely, the
nature of the hair. That of the inhabitants of Van Die-
men's Land is short, woolly, and curled ; that of the New
Hollanders straight, lank, and stiff.
    Now how can it be conceived that an island of 60 leagues
 in extent at most, so near to an immense continent, situ
 ated also at the extremities of the Austral world, and sepa
 rated from" everv other known land by the enormous di
 stances of five, eight, twelve, and even fifteen hundred
 leagues, should have a race of men altogether different from
 that of the neighbouring continent ? How can we conceive
 this exclusion of all relation, so contrary to our ideas in
 regard to the communication and transmigration of nations''?
 How can we account for the darker colour, and curled
 woolly hair, in a country much colder? It appears to ma
 difficult, I confess, to assign a satisfactory reason for these
 anomalies. All these curious facts, which will be detailed'
 in the general account of our long voyage, will be new
  proofs of the imperfection of our theories, which arc always
  suited to the state of the knowledge of the age which gave
 birth to them. At present I must be contented with de
 ducing from this first part of my observations the important
  consequence, that the separation of Van Diemen's Land
  from New Holland is not one of the modern operations of
  nature; for it is probable that if these two countries had
  been formerly joined they would liave had the same race
  for inhabitants, and it would no doubt have been that which
                                                       pecugies,

  158        .'¦   On some zoological Facts
 occupies, with its ferocious tribes, the whole pf the im
 mense coasts of New Holland, from Cape Wilson to. the
burning coasts of the land of Arnheim and the great gulf
 of Carpentaria.
    Anpther zoological fact tends still further to confirm this
distinction, if not primitive at least very old, between New
Holland and Van Diemen's Land. The dog, that animal
so valuable to man, the faithful companion of his misfor
tunes, his travels, and dangers, the indefatigable instrument
of his distant hunting excursions, every where so common,
on the continent, and which we found on all its coasts with
the different hordes we had an opportunity of seeing, does
not exist in Van Diemen's Land ; at least we could observe
no traces of this animal. We never saw any of them with
the inhabitants, notwithstanding our daily intercourse with
them. The case was the same with M. Labillardiere during
Dentrccasteaux's voyage ; and it does not appear that any
other traveller ever saw any. The English whale fishers,
whom I consulted on the subject, confirmed this circum
stance, that the dog is not found in Van Diemen's Land.
                         Section II.
Zoological Observations which seem to indicate that the
 . Summits of the Mountains of Van Diemen's Land, New
    Holland, and Timor, ivere formerly covered by the Sea.
    One of the noblest and at the same time most incontest
able results of modem geological researches is, the certainty
of the sea having once stood at very considerable elevations
above its present level. In almost every point of the old
continent the proofs of this fact are as numerous as they are
evident. They appear with interest in different parts of the
new world ; and M. Humboldt has lately communicated to
us a very curious circumstance of this kind. In this point
of view, as well as in many others, New Holland and Van
Diemen's Land remained to be examined ; as they might
have formed an exception of sufficient importance to induce
a very rigorous philosopher to deny the universality of the
anticnt domination of the ocean, however favourable reason
ing and analogy might be to it. Fortunately this deficiency
was one of those which, depending only on the existence of
a.fact, could be easilv supplied : it appears to me that it is
completely so at present. On Van Diemen's Land indeed,
on several points of New Holland, and on the summits of
the mountains of Timor, I every where met with those va
luable remains, which may be considered as irrefragable tes
timonies of the revolutions of nature.
                                                            In

            applkable to the Theory of the Earth.
    In the rapid view which I am going to take of my results
in this respect, I shall treat in succession of what relates to
fossil shells and zoophiles. One of the principal reasons
of this distinction, the importance of which I shall soon
have occasion to prove, is the almost absolute exclusion of
every large kind of solid zoophites after the 34th degree of
south latitude, beyond which I observed only the difficult
and orbicole tribes of the sponges, the alcyons, flustres, and
some millepores.
                       A. Petrified Shells.
    It would be top tedious and useless to enter here into the
details of all my observations on this subject : it will be
sufficient for me to give an account only of the principal
results.
   ,At Van Diemen's Land, towards the bottom of the
North River, I observed, at the height of six or seven
hundred feet above the level of the sea, large masses of
petrified shells, all belonging to the lime genus of Lamarck,
and constituting a species to which I could find none living
analogous in the same places.
    On several points of the east coast of the island Maria-
there are seen regular horizontal strata, consisting of a
kind of whitish shelly freestone resting on granitic rocks,
at the height of four or five hundred feet above the level of
the sea.
    At Kangaroo Island, those of St. Peter and St. Francis,
and that portion of the continent situated behind them, I
made similar observations : I found always some remains
of petrified shells, at a greater or. less distance, in the in
terior of the country, and at heights more or less consi
derable.
    Vancouver and Mainzies had before observed some in
 Port King George, and in that point also I myself collected
 several specimens. '
    During the interesting excursion which my friend M.
Bailly made into the interior of New Holland, ascending
Swan's River for about twenty leagues, he found every
where, as he told me, the ground covered with quartzy
 sand mixed with the remains of shells.
    At the Bay of Seals this phaenomenon occurs with more
 decisive characters. The whole substance of the barren
 isles of Dorre and that of Dirk-Hartog consist of freestone,
 sometimes reddish and sometimes, whitish, filled with
 shells of different kinds.
    This composition becomes still more striking at Timor.
 , ' . .    7                                      ~        On

 160               On some zoological Facts
On the summit of those mountains, already mentioned,
there is found, at the height of more than J 5 or 1600 feet
above the level of the sea, a great number of shells incrusted
in the middle of the madreporic masses which they form.
The most of these shells are in the siliceous state : some of
them, still in the calcareous state, are more or less altered
and friable. There are some monstrous ones among them.
I have seen several individuals, and every person belonging
to the expedition might have seen them also, which were
not less than four or five feet in length. All these large
shells evidently belonged to the genera luppope and tridacne
of Lamarck ; and, what is more important, the fossil in
dividuals have such a resemblance to those of the same
genus found alive on the sea shore at the bottom of the
mountains, that I have thought proper to consider them as
the same in my General Topograpny of the Bay of Cou-
pang. Even the gigantic proportions of the fossil tridacnes
are found in the living ones. I myself saw a valve which
served daily as a trough to five or six hogs. In the Dutch
fort there is another in which the soldiers of the garrison
wash their linen. The absolute want of colour, common
to the fossil and living tridacnes, is another reason for
their identity. The case was the same with several kinds
of zoophites, which, existing still on the coasts, seem to
be so identic with some of those forming the mountains of.
that part of the island, that I made no hesitation in con
sidering them as such. Since my return to Europe, how
ever, having had occasion, in examining the beautiful col
lection of M. Defrance, to remark how easy it is to be
mistaken in this respect, I must freely confess that I can
no longer venture to warrant this identity, however pro
bable it may appear, as my observations were not made
with that minute attention which the subject deserves, and
as whole specimens arc not to be found in our collections.
While I regret that I suffered so valuable an observation
to escape me, I must mark Timor as the place most proper
for determining the delicate and interesting question in
regard .to analogous living individuals, at least in the last
classes of the animal-kingdom.
   Before I terminate what relates to petrified shells, it
seems to me indispensably necessary to say a word of in-
crusted shells, which are too often confounded with the
former.
                                                        B. 0/

             applicable to the Theory ofthe Earth.          161
B. Of Incrustations of different Kinds, and particularly the
  incrusted S/wlls found in different Parts of New Holland,
    One of the particular advantages of extensive navigations
and long voyages is, that the theatre of observation is so
much varied, and objects So multiplied, that nothing is
often wanting but a sound judgment to make the most
difficult comparisons, and to deduce from them important
consequences. What man, for example, can see, with
indifference, around him that succession of beautiful in*'
crustations so frequent on the shores of Kangaroo Island,
on those of the Archipelago, of St. Peter and St. Francis,
and on the shores of the immense Bay of Seals ? In one
place whole trunks of shrubs are entirely covered with a
mixed stratum of freestone and calcareous matter, and in
others are accumulated branches of trees, roots, shells^
zoophites, the bones of animals, and excrements of qua
drupeds, concealed under the same covering.             '' One
might be tempted to believe," said the unfortunate Riche,
** that a new Perseus carried the head of Medusa over these
distant coasts."
    On the sight of so many striking singularities, how can
 we forbear inquiring into the cause, and how is it' possible
 that it should not be discovered in the particular nature of
 the sand on these shores ? The numerous shells, indeed,
 produced in these seas being continually rolled by the
 action of the waves on the neighbouring shore, are thus
 reduced to very small fragments, which being afterwards
 mixed with the quartzy sand, soon form with it a calcareous
 cement of a superior quality. In carefully examining its
 materials one might be tempted to believe that Dr. Higgins,
 in his ingenious Essay on Calcareous Cements, had stolen
 the secret of nature. The proportions, indeed, which he
 indicates as susceptible of forming the most solid combina
 tion, that is, one part of lime and seven of quartzy sand>
 are those which nature seems to have adopted for her ce
 ment. But whatever this composition may be, it is the
 only agent of those remarkable incrustations of which I
  have spoken. On the shore it soon incrusts every body
  thrown upon it; testacea, zoophites, galets, are all agglu
  tinated by it. The observer sees, as we say, formed before
 his eyes, the breches and puddingstones of which the neigh
  bouring rocks are composed. Transported by the winds,
  this active matter deposits itself on the nearest shrubs. At
  first it is only a light kind of dust, which soon becomes
  solid arourfd the stem which it embraces. From that mo-
  . Vol. 22, No. 86. July 1805.        L                   menl;

  162     '         On some zoological Pacts
 ment the mode of the nutrition of the vegetable become*
 changed ; it soon languishes, and, though still alive, it
 seems to h?ve undergone a kind of general petrification.
 I have brought home a great manv fine specimens of this
 sort, and the difficulty of transporting them alone prevented
 me from bringing back a more considerable number.
    What is most singular in this operation of nature is,
 the speed with which this kind of metamorphosis is effected.
 I have reason, indeed, to believe, from my own observations,
 that a shell, a month after its being cast on the shore, can
 no longer be distinguished. The force of the solar rays,
 the vivacity of the light reflected by the white sand of the
 coast, are sufficient in a few days, with the sea water, to
 deprive it of its colour, and to disorganize it in such a
 manner, that in the middle of the calcareous stratum which
 has already seized it, the most experienced eye might mis
 take it, and range it in the class of the oldest petrified shells.
 One may judge of these alterations by the different speci
 mens—how easily this mistake may be committed, and how
 impossible it would be to assign to the most of these shells
 a character proper to distinguish them from real fossils.
 C. Of' Zoophiles observed at great Heights above the pre~
                     sent Level of' the Seu.
    I have now concluded what relates to petrified shells, or
 those merely incrusted : it is seen, that from the most
 southern extremity of the eastern hemisphere to the middle
of the equatorial regions they are found in greater or less
numbers, and at greater or less heights. The case is not the
same with solid zoophites : as already said, I could not find
large species beyond the 34th degree of south latitude ; and
it does not appear that any other traveller observed any con
siderable number of these animals beyond the same point,
either in the northern or the southern hemisphere. Driven,
as we mav say, from the one extremity of the world to the
other, it is in the bosom of the warmest seas that this in
numerable family of ahimals seem to have fixed their habi
tation and their empire : it is the latter zone in particular
which gives birth exclusively to those formidable reefs,
those numerous islands, those vast archipelagos, prodigious
monuments of their power. All the Society Isles, Maitea,
Tongataboo, Eona, Anamooka, Turtle Island in the Pa
cific Ocean, New Caledonia, Chain Islands, Tethuroa,
Tioukea, Palliser's Isles, Tupai, Moopehea, the Isle of
Cocos and that of Pines, Norfolk Island, How's Island,
Palmcrston Isles, several of the New Hebrides, Mallicolo,
                                                               the

              appllcable to the Theory of the Earth.         1 63
  the archipelago of the Low Friendly Isles, Bougainville's
  Island, several points of New Guinea, all the islands scat
  tered on the eastern side of New Holland, and in particular
  the formidable labyrinth which had like to have proved so
  fatal to the vessels of Bougainville and captain Cook ; in
 a word, almost all those innumerable islands dispersed
  throughout the great equinoctial ocean, seem some of
 them entirely, and others only -in part^ to be the work of
 these feeble animals. The accounts of all the navigators
 who have traversed these seas are filled with expressions of
 the terror inspired bv their labours. All of them, almost,
 were exposed to the greatest dangers in the midst of the
 reefs which thev raise up from the bottom of the ocean to
 its surface, and no doubt the unfortunate navigator, the
 loss of whom France as well as all Europe deplores, was
 one of their numerous victims. ....
     " The danger they present," says M. Labillardiere with
 great reason, " is the more to be apprehended as they form
 rugged rocks covered by the waves, and which cannot be
 perceived but at very short distances. If a calm Comes on,
 and the ship is driven towards them by a current, her loss is
 almost inevitable : in vain would the crew attempt to save'
 her by dropping their anchor; it would not reach the bottom
 even quite close to these walls of coral, which rise in a
perpendicular .direction from the bottom of the waters.
These polypiers, the continual increase of which obstructs
more and more the bason of the seas, are capable of
frightening navigators ; and many shallows, which at pre
sent afford a passage, will soon form shoals exceedingly
dangerous."
    Though less common in the seas which we traversed,
these animals furnished me nevertheless with subject of
observations the more valuable, as the general consequences
deduced from them may be applied with more interest and
more evidence to the history of the revolutions of our
pland.
    Thus, as I have said, from the 44th to the 34th degree
south, no large species of solid zoophytes are found. It is
at Port King George, in Nuyts Land, that these animals
appear, for the first time, with those grand characters which
they affect in the midst of the equinoctial regions. My
particular observations, indeed, are reduced in this point to
mere fragments, found here and there in the interior parts
of the earth. The case is not the same with those of Main-
zies .and Vancouver. The details, for which we are indebted
lo these navigators, are too valuable of themselves, and par-
                              1,2     1              ticularlv

1.64          • ¦   ', On some zoological Facts
ticularly on account of the consequences with which they
will furnish us, that I cannot here forbear transcribing what
Vancouver has said on the subject.
     " The country," says he, " is formed chiefly of coral,
and it seems that its elevation above the level of the sea is
of modern date ; for not only the shores and banks which
extend along the coast arc in general composed of coral r
since our lead always brought up some of it, but it was
 found also on the highest hills we ascended, and in parti
 cular on the summit of Bald Head, which is at such a height
 above the level of the sea, that it is seen at the distance of
 twelve or fourteen leagues. The coral here was- in its pri
 mitive state, and especially on a level field of about eight
 acre*,, which did not produce the least blade of grass amidst
 the white sand with which it was covered, but from which
 arose branches of coral exactly similar to those exhibited by
 beds of the same substance above the surface of the sea,
 with ramifications of different sizes, some half art inch at
 least, and others four or five inches in circumference. Many
 of these coral fields, if I may use that expression, are to be
 met with r a large quantity- of sea shells, some perfect and
 still adhering to the coral, and others at different.degrees of
  dissolution, are observed in them.. The coral itself was more
  or less friable ; the extremity of the branches, some of which
  rose more than four feet above the sand, was easily reduced
  to powder. In regard to the parts which were near or below
 the surface, a certain degree of force was necessary to de
  tach them from the foundation of rock from which they
  seemed to arise. I have seen coral in many places at a con
  siderable distance from the sea, but I never saw it any
  where else so high and so perfect*."
    . This, no doubt, is one of the most curious facts of tni*
  kind, as well as one of the most important to be verified
  and to be examined. Will it now he believed that the two-
  vessels belonging to our expedition, the Geographe and
  theCasuarina, remained for nearly a month at anchor inr
  Port King George, at the foot, as we may say, of this Bald
  Head, so valuable to be visited,* without any of the three
  naturalists, who still remained on board these vessels^ being
  permitted to go thither \
      Fortunately the large island of Timor presented a field'
   gtill wider and more striking for observations on zoophytes-
   There every thing attests their power, and the revolutions-
   effected by them in nature. They are found on the summits
                         * Vancouver's Voyage, voU-i.
                  -                                            of

             applicable to the Theory of the Earth.          1G5
of the highest mountains of Coupang, and they are easily
distinguished : in the deepest caverns, and the widest fis
sures, they present a tissue, the characters of w hich cannot
escape notice. In the excursion, so painful and so laborious,
tmdertakcn by me and my friend LesuCur, to hunt crocodiles
at Olinama, we every where observed the same composi
tion ; at Oba, Lassiana, Meniki, Noebaki, Oebello, and
Olinama. At the last-mentioned point we found ourselves
opposite to the grand chain of mountains of Anmfoa and
Fatelou, the back of which is uninhabitable on account
•of the prodigious number of crocodiles which live in the
anarshes of that part of the coast. This broad plateau,
which commands all that portion of Timor, is entirely
composed of madrepori6 matters. From Oeana to £aeoula
'the whole country, according to the inhabitants, is lime
stone ; and this is unanimously confirmed by the Dutch.
    It is not only in this state of death and inactivity that the
zoophytes of Timor ought to excite admiration and interest :
-they encumber, in the living state, the bottom of the sea.;
every where in the Bay of Babao they raise up reefs and
islands. Turtle Island (Rea Poulou), Birds Island (Bourou
 Poitlou), and Monkey Island (Code Poulou), are exclusively
their work. Long narrow reefs, which proceed from Point
 Simao, confine more and more the entrance of the bay in
that quarter. They render inaccessible, the coasts of Fa-
 toume and Soulama, and promote the increase of the
 land gained from the sea in all these points. On the coast
?of Osapa one may already, at low water, advance to the di
 stance of more than three-fourths of a league on the shore
abandoned by the waves: it is there that, with a mixture of
•astonishment and admiration, one may enjoy at ease the
 wonderful -spectacle «f thousands of these animals inces
 santly employed in the formation of the rocks on which
one advances. AH the genera are assembled at the same
 time at the feet of the observer; they press around him ;
 their singular and fantastical forms, the diiFcreut modifica
 tions of their .colours, and those of ,their arganizatio.fi and
 their structure, attract, in turn, his attention and medita
 tions ; and when, provided with a good magnifying glass,
 he contemplates these beings, so weak he can scarcely con
ceive how nature, by means so small in appearance, should
 be able to raise up from the bottom of the sea those vast
 ridges of mountains which are continued over the face of
 the island, and which seem to form almost its whole sub
 stance. At Timor it would be easy to make a long series
¦of observations on- these interesting animals : the profound
                                L3                      calmness

166                Sfiort Account of the Life
calmness of the sea, its high temperature, the nature of the
shore, on which one may advance at low water, as already
mentioned, to a very great distance, having the water
 scarcely up to the knee ; the great abundance of these ani
mals, and their variety, are all favourable to researches of
this kind: they may be observed, described, and drawn in
their natural state, as the water does not rise above them to
the height of more than a few centimetres, or sometimes
only millimetres ; they may be seen in their state of con
traction or extreme development ; one may observe, also,
 their progressive increase, and its boundaries : in a word,
there can be no doubt that a labour of this kind, undertaken
 by one or more enlightened naturalists, would contribute,
 in the most effectual manner, to the advancement of this
 part of natural history so little known, and which deserves
 so much to be carefully examined-.
                         [To be continued.]
       XXV. Short Account of the Life of the late
                        Dr. Priesttev.
Joseph Priest-lev, LL.D. F.R.S. and member of many
foreign literary societies, was born at Field Head, near
Leeds, in Yorkshire, on March 13, old style, in the year
 1733. His mother died when he was very young; and his
father, who was engaged in the cloth manufactory, marry
ing again, and having a large family, Joseph, when eight
years of age, was taken into the house of a near relation, a
lady eminent for piety and benevolence, who alloptcd and
educated him as her own son.
    He acquired the rudiments of the Latin and Greek lan
guages under the instruction of Mr. Hague, a respectable
clergyman, master of a free grammar school in the neigh
bourhood, and during the vacations he applied to the study
of the Hebrew, Chaldee, and other oriental languages. By
the assistance of Mr. Haggerston, who had been a pupil of
fhe celebrated Maclaurin, he made a considerable proficiency
in geometry, both speculative and practical algebra, and
natural philosophy. He acquired alsq some skill in modern
languages, in order to qualify himself for a merchant's
counting-house, the delicacy of his constitution rendering
it at one time doubtful whether he would he able to pursue
his studies for a learned profession.
   In his nineteenth year he entered as a student of divinity
                                            . ,            at

                    of the late Dr. Priestley.             167
  at the academy of Daventry, which was the successor of
 that kept by Dr. Doddridge, at Northampton, and was con
 ducted by Dr. Ashworth, whose first pupil young Priestley
 is said to have been. When about the age of twenty-two
 he was chosen assistant minister to the independent con
 gregation of Needham-market, in Suffolk ; and after a
 stay of three years at that place, he accepted an invitation
 to be pastor of a small congregation at Namptwich, in Che
 shire, where he opened a day school, in the management of
 which he exhibited that turn for ingenious research and that
 spirit of improvement which were to be his distinguishing
 characteristics. He enlarged the minds of his pupils by
 philosophical experiments, and drew up an English gram
 mar on an improved plan, which was his earliest publica
 tion .                                        -
    On the death of the reverend Dr. Taylor, the tutor in
 divinity at Warrington academy, Dr. Aikin was chosen to
 supply his place, and Mr. Priestley was invited to under
 take the vacant department in the belles lettres. He ac
 cordingly removed to Warrington in ^the year 1 7^1 , and
 soon after married a daughter of Mr. Wilkinson, of Ber-
 sham foundry^ near Wrexham, a lady of an excellent heart
and a strong understanding, and the faithful partner of all
 the vicissitudes of his life.
    At Warrington the literary career of this eminent person
properly commenced, and 'a variety of publications soon an
nounced to the public the extent and originality of his ta
lents. One of the first was a chart of biography, in which
he ingeniously contrived to present an ocular image of the
proportional duration of existence, and of the chronological
period and synchronism of all the most eminent persons
of all ages and countries, in the great departments of sci
ence, art, and public life. The favourable reception which
this work experienced suggested a second chart of history,
which exhibited in the like manner the extent, time, and
duration of the different states and empires.
    Having long amused himself with an electrical machine,
and taken an interest in the progress of discovery in that
branch of physics, he was induced to undertake a History
of Electricity, with an account of its present state, It ap
pears from his preface, that while engaged in this design he
had enjoyed the advantage of personal intercourse with some
eminent philosophers, among whom he acknowledges as
coadjutors Dr. Watson, Dr. Franklin, and Mr. Canton.
The work was first published at Warrington in 1767, 4to;
and so well was it received that it underwent a fifth edition
                               L4                          in

168                Short Account of the Life
in 4lo in 1794. It is, indeed, an admirable model of sci
entific history; full without superfluity, clear, methodical,
candid, and unaffected. The original experiments detailed
in it are highly ingenious, and gave a foretaste of that fer
tility of contrivance and sagacity of observation by which
the author was afterwards so much distinguished.
    His connection with Warrington ceased in 1768, at
which time he accepted an invitation to> officiate as pastor
to a large and respectable congregation of protestant dis
senters at Leeds. The favourable reception his History of
Electricity had experienced induced him to adopt the grand
design of tracing out the rise and progress of the other sci
ences in a historical form, and much of his time a"t this
place was employed in his second work of this kind, enti
tled " The Historv and present State of the Discoveries re
lating to Vision, Light, and Colours ;" which appeared in
two vols. 4to, 1772. This work, though possessed of con
siderable merit, did not attain to the same popularity as the
History of Electricity, and proved to be the termination of
his plan : but science was no loser by this circumstance, as
the activity of his mind was turned from the consideration
of the discoveries of others to the attempt of making disco
veries of his own ; and nothing could be more brilliant than
his success. It appears that at this period he had begun
those experiments upon air which have given the greatest
 celebrity to his name as a natural philosopher.
    Jn 1770 Dr. Priestley quitted Leeds; and having been
 recommended by his friend Dr. Price to the late marquis
 of Lansdown, then earl of Shelhurne, he lived with his
lordship in the capacity of his librarian, or rather as his li
 terary and philosophical companion. During this period
 his family resided at Calne, in Wiltshire, adjacent to the
 country-seat of lord Shelburne. Dr. Priestley frequently
 accompanied his noble patron to London, and mixed at
 his house with several of the eminent characters of the time,
 by whom he was treated with every respect due to his cha
 racter and talents. He also attended his lordship on a visit
 to Paris, where he was introduced to most of the celebrated
 men of letters and science in that capital.
    To give a detailed account of Dr. Priestley's philosophical
 labours would require far more room than can be allotted
 to such an important object in a miscellany of this kind :
 we must therefore content ourselves with the following short
 notice. In the Philosophical Transactions for 1773 he pub
 lished. a paper containing observations on different kinds of
 air, which obtained the honorary prize of Copley's medal.
            3                  • ,                   "   These

                   of the late Dr. Priestley .               169
These were reprinted, with many important additions, iri
the first volume of his Experiments and Observations' on
different Kinds of Air, Svo, 1774. A second volume of
this work appeared in 1775, and a third in 1777. Some of
the most striking of his discoveries were those of nitrous
and dephlogisticated air, or oxygen gas ; of the restoration
of vitiated air by vegetation ; of the influence of light on
vegetables ; and of the effects of respiration on the blood.
By these publications Dr. Priestley's fame was spread
throughout all the enlightened countries of Europe, and
most of the scientific bodies of Europe were ambitious to
rank him among the number of their members.
   The term of his engagement with lord Shelburne having
expired, Dr. Priestley, with a pension of I SOU per annum,
was at liberty to choose a new situation. He gave the pre
ference to the populous town of Birmingham, induced chiefly
by the advantages it afforded from the nature of its manu
factures to the pursuits of chemical knowledge. It was also
the residence of several men of science, among whom the
names of Watt, Withering, Bolton, and Keir, are well
known to the public. With these he was soon upon terms
of friendly intercourse ; and their Lunarian Club presented
a constellatkfh of talent which would not easilv have been
collected even in the metropolis.
   He had not resided long at Birmingham when he was
invited to undertake the office of pastor to a congregation of
dissenters near that town, upon which he entered towards
the close of the year 1730. The disgraceful scenes which
took place at Birmingham in 1 7-^1, and which compelled Dr.
Priestley to leave this situation as a fugitive, are well known
to the public, and it is not our intention to revive the re
 membrance of them by entering into particulars. Suffice it
to say, that the doctor's house, library, manuscripts, and ap
paratus, became a prey to the flames; and, though he re
ceived an indemnity for this loss, it was far from being an
adequate compensation. The result of many years' painful
 research and scientific labour perished by this shameful out
rage, which every friend to good order and justice deplored.
 For some time after this event Dr. Priestley lived as a wan
derer, till he was invited to succeed Dr. Price in a congre
gation at Hackney ; but' the persecution he had experienced
 from' the infatuated rabble, added to some family reasons,
 induced him to leave his native country, and to embark for
 America in 1794. The place he fixed on for his residence
 in the new world was Northumberland, a town in Penn
sylvania, where having collected, by indefatigable pains, a
                                                         valuable

 170     Account of the Life of the late Dr. Priestley.
 valuable apparatus and well chosen library, he returned to his
 former pursuits. By many new experiments on the consti
  tution of airs he became more and more fixed in the belief
 of the phlogistic theory, and in his opposition to the new
 French system of chemistry, of which he lived 'to be the
 sole opponent of note. The results of several of his inqui
 ries on these topics were given both in separate publications
 and in the American Philosophical Transactions ; and it is
 but fair to add, that the new theory is indebted to this op
 position for some of the strongest proofs on which it is
 founded.
    Dr. Priestley declined the offer of the chemical professor-
 ship-in the college of Philadelphia, which was made to him
 soon after his arrival in America ; and likewise another offer,
 of succeeding the late Dr. Ewing as principal of the same
 college, in the spring of 1803 ; preferring a life of retire
 ment and leisure, that he might devote himself entirely to
 philosophical and theologicaljnquiries. While he lived at
 Northumberland he had the misfortune to lose an excellent
 wife, and a beloved and dutiful son. - These afflictions,
 though severely felt, he bore with becoming fortitude and
 resignation. Till the year 1801 he had enjoyed umnter
 rupted good health, having scarcely ever known what sick
 ness was ; but at that period he was attacked at Philadelphia
 by a constant indigestion, and difficulty of swallowing any
 kind of solid food. From about the beginning of Novem
 ber 1803 to the middle of January 1804 his complaint grew
 more serious, and at one time he was incapable of swallow
 ing any thing for thirty hours. In the last fortnight of Ja
nuary his legs swelled nearly to his knees, and his weakness
increasing very much, he expired on the 9th of February
following.
    As theology is entirely foreign to the object of the Phi
losophical Magazine, we have not thought proper to say
anv thing in regard to Dr. Priestley's writings on that sub
ject, which are very numerous, nor the theotogipal disputes
in which he was engaged. His religious opinions are well
known to the public, and therefore jt is the less necessary
for us to enter into any observations on them. The prin
cipal part of his other works are :—The History and present
state of Electricity, with original Experiments, 4to : a fa
miliar Introduction to the Study of Electricity, 8vo: the
History and present State of Discoveries relating to Vision,
Light, and Colours; two vols. 4to, with many plates : Ex
periments and Observations on different Kinds of Air, and
other Branches of Natural Philosophy connected with the
           6                                          Subject,

             Notices respecting New Publications.          171
 Subject, 3 vols.: Experiments relating to' the Decomposi
 tion of dephlogisticated and inflammable Air, and on the
 Generation of Air from Water—a pamphlet: Heads of a
 Course of Lectures on Experimental Philosophy, including
 Chemistry : a familiar Introduction to the Theory and Prac
 tice of Perspective, with copper-plates : a new Chart of
 History, containing a View of the principal Revolutions of
 Empire that have taken place in the World ; with a Book
 describing it, containing an Epitome of Universal History:
 a Chart of Biography, with a Book containing an Explana
 tion of it, and u Catalogue of all the Names inserted in it :
 the Rudiments of English Grammar, adapted to the Use of
 Schools ; the same Grammar for the Use of those who have
made some Proficiency in the Language : Lectures on His
 tory and general Policy, to which is prefixed an Essay on a
 Course of liberal Education for civil and active Life, 4to:
Observations relating to Education, more especially as it
respects the Mind ; to which is added an Essay on a Course
of liberal Education -for civil and active Life: a Course of
Lectures on Oratory and Criticism, 4to.
    The following were published after the doctor went to
America :—Experiments and Observations relating to the
Analysis of atmospherical Air and the Generation of Air
from Water: the Doctrine of Phlogiston established, and
that of the Composition of Water refuted. Reprinted with
additions 1803.
         XXVI. Notices respecting New Publications.
Dr. Barton, professor of materia medica, natural his
tory and botany, in the university of Pennsylvania, has
announced his intention to publish, in America, a new pe
riodical work, to be entitled " The Philadelphia Medical
and Physical Journal ;" to be published every six months.
   Dr. Young's Course of Lectures on Natural Philosophy
and the Mechanical Arts, delivered two years ago in the
Theatre of the Royal Institution, is now printing, with con
siderable additions and improvements. The work will con
sist of two volumes, quarto ; the lirst containing the text of
the lectures nearly as they were delivered, but with such
alterations as are calculated to make them still more intel
ligible, to the most uninformed readers. The lectures are
followed by a copious series of plates illustrative of every
                                          N       department

   172                French National Institute. ,
  department of mechanical and physical science. The se
  cond volume will contain, in the first place, the mathema
   tical elements of natural philosophy deduced front first prin
  ciples, and in many instances extended by new investiga
   tions : secondly, a methodical catalogue of works relating
  to natural philosophy and the arts, with about ten thousand
  references to particular memoirs and passages, and a num
   ber of useful tables, and of concise abstracts and remarks :
   and lastly, a collection of the author's miscellaneous papers,
   reprinted, with some alterations, principally from the Phi
   losophical Transactions. The work is expected to be com
   pleted early in the next winter.
             XXVII. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                   FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
    An Account of the Labours of the Class of the Mathema
       tical and Physical Sciences of the French National'Insti
       tute from the 20th of June 1804 to the same Day 1805.
       By M. Cuvikr, perpetual Secretary.
                            PHYSICAL PART.                     ,
    Almost all the sciences which engage the attention of the
    society have this year made curious and important acquisi-
    lions ; and, as is usual, chemistry has obtained the most
    considerable and most numerous.
        Count Humford has examined heat under a new point of
    view. He has endeavoured to determine the force of the
    solar rays to produce it. The degree to which it is carried
    when its rays are concentrated by means of a burning glass
    is well known : but is their real power thereby augmented ?
    or does the effect arise from their acting in greater number
-* on a smaller space ? To ascertain this, count Rumford in
    vented a reservoir of heat, which is nothing; else than a
    metal vessel tilled with water having a thermometer im
    mersed in it: it receives the solar rays -on one of its faces,
    which is blackened, and the water it contains acquires a
    certain degree of heat. Count Rumford suffers these ray*
    to arrive sometimes in a parallel direction and sometimes
    concentrated by a magnifying glass ; but bringing the latter
    nearer or making it recede in such a manner that the rays
    ,shall strike on a greater or less space of the surface of the
    ressel, though their quantity continues always the same.
                                                              The

                     Prench National Institute.
The water in the reservoir always acquires the same degree '
of heat nearly in the same time. Hence the power of the
rays to produce heat is always proportional to their quantity
whether they are concentrated or not ; or, what amounts i
to the same thing, the heat produced is proportional to the
light absorbed.
    It has long been believed that the heat of the earth does:
not all come from the sun, but that it is indebted for a great
part of it to some focus concealed in its interior part : this
is the old hypothesis of Descartes, which Buffon after
wards made the basis of other systems. M. Peron, sent
by the Institute, as naturalist, with captain Baudin during
his voyage of discovery, has made an extensive series of
researches to ascertain the truth of this fact. He examined
with an ingenious apparatus the temperature of the sea at
different depths, and he every where found that it is colder
the greater the depth. This result, agreeable to that' before
obtained by English navigators in other seas than those
traversed by M. Peron, seems to destroy entirely the idea
of a central fire. It is even probable that the deepest abysses
of the sea are always frozen, even under the equator, in the
same manneras the summits of the highest mountains *.
    M. Biot has made a curious experiment in regard to the
 heat forced from bodies by compression. Oxygen and hy
 drogen gas, when merely mixed at the ordinary degree of
 the pressure of ihe atmosphere, have need, in order to com
 bine, of the action of the electric spark. When put toge- I
 ther in a condensing machine they combined nverely by the
 heat which was disengaged, and abandoned one so consi
 derable at the time of their combination that the machine
 burst every time the experiment was repeated f .
     Common air, the medium in which not only the greater
 part of the phaenomena of chemistry but those also of or
 ganic life take place, cannot be studifed too carefully by
 philosophers. Its degree of purity, that is to say, the pro
 portion of oxygen it contains, is one of the most important
 points that can be examined. Messrs. Humboldt and Gay-
 Lussac have compared the different means hitherto invented
  for measuring this proportion, and have shown that the
 best of all is that of Volta, which consists in burning hv-
  drogen gas. A hundred parts in volume of oxygen are ne-
    * This reasoning is very inconclusive. For, if the earth contains heat that
  does not come from the sun, the water which it warms must ascend to the
  surface, being displaced by that which is colder, and consequently more
  dense.—Ed-it.
    f See Philosophical Magazine, vol. xxi. p., 362.
                                                                      ceysary

    174               French National Institute.
    cessary to saturate two hundred of hydrogen, whatever be
    the pressure and temperature. In this .manner one may
    discover the hydrogen contained in any air whatever, even
    if it form only a three-thousandth part.
       Messrs. Humboldt and Gay-Lussac have ascertained that
   there does not exist a sensible portion of hydrogen in. the
   lower part of the atmosphere ; and the aerostatic excursion
   of Messrs. Biot and Gay-Lussac, and that of M. Gay-Lus-
   sac alone, during which he rose to a much greater height,
   have confirmed that there 13 no more at the greatest eleva
   tion to which it is possible to rise, and far above that where'
   the clouds are formed. Thus all the systems in which the
. formation of rain and other meteors was ascribed to the
   combustion of hydrogen gas, fall of themselves.
      There still remains some uncertainty in regard to the
   number of the new metals which are mixed with platina*
   Were any confidence to be placed in the results hitherto
   announced, there would be, besides iron, copper, chrome,
   and lead, the metal discovered last year by Messrs. Fourcroy
  and Vauquetin, as well as by M. Descotils; two others
   found in it by Mr. Tennant, and two discovered by Dr.
  Wollaston called rhodium and palladium.
      Dr. Wollaston, indeed, according to letters frOm Lon
  don, discovered palladium, of which mention was made in
  my two last reports, and kept the discaverv secret, as if to
  entcap chemists. He pretends that they have fallen com
  pletely into the snare, by imagining that this metal was a
  compound of platina and mercury ; and, indeed, not only
  have the attempts of M. de Morveau to imitate palladium,
  according to the process of Mr. Chenevix, been unsuccessful,
  but the case was the same with three German chemists,
  Messrs. Rose, Gehler, and Kichter. This palladium, there
  fore, ought to be a real metal. Is the case the same with
  rhodium, osmium, and iridium ? or do these substances
'enter into the composition of each other, or into those
 discovered by Messrs. Fourcroy, Vauijuelin, and Descotils ?
 This question can be determined only by time.
     Chemistry, however, appears to have acquired a new
 metal named cerium, from the planet Ceres. It was the
 oxide of this metal which M. Klaproth considered as a new
 earth, and named ochroite. Two Swedes, Messrs. Hessin-
 ger and Bezelius, have supposed it to be a metallic sub
 stance ; and M. Vauquetin, who repeated'thcir experiments,
 is of the same opinion. Nevertheless, as he was not able
 to reduce it completely, some doubts still remain.
     We must leave also to time the confirmation of a disco
                                                            very

                    French Katienal Institute,               175
 very said, in a letter from Florence, to have been made by
 M. Facchiani, professor at Pisa, of the radical of the mu
 riatic acid, one of the most important questions, without
 doubt, that still remain to be resolved in chemistry. M. Pac-
 chiani asserts, that he transformed water into oxygenated
 muriatic acid by taking from it a part of its oxygen by means
 of the Galvanic pile. The muriatic acid then will be hy
 drogen at ils minimum of oxidation ; the oxygenated mu
 riatic acid, hydrogen in the middle state; and water, hydro
 gen at its maximum of oxidation.
    Of all the objects of chemistry animal matters are the
 most embarrassing to it, on account of the great complica
 tion of their elements, and because the simplest agent that
 can be applied to them produces in them a thousand move
ments and transformations, the play of which escapes us,
and of which we judge only by the results. This is what
takes place, for example, when these matters are treated
with nitric acid,—a method first employed by Scheele and
Bergman, and from which M. Berthollct obtained so inte
resting results. The most apparent phcenomenon, then, is
the development of a great quantity of azote. Those next
observed are an alteration of the acid ; the production of a
great deal of ammonia, of carbonic, oxalic, and malic acid ;
and the transformation of a part of these matters into tallow,
and of another into a yellow bitter substance. But these
effects vary, according to the strength of the acid, the dura
tion of its action, and the nature of the matters subjected
to it.
    Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin, by directing their re
searches to these variations, and the circumstances which ,
attend them, have found that nitric acid applied to the
muscular fibre, that is to say, flesh, transforms it by a first
impression into a yellow matter, little sapid, little soluble,
and yet acid ; by a longer continued action, into another
matter, also yellow and acid, but verv little soluble and ex
ceedingly bitter ; and, in the last place, into a third matter,
soluble but inflammable, and, what is very curious, deto
nating, not only in heat, like common gunpowder, but also
by percussion.
   •Indigo furnishes a similar matter, and still more abun
dantly than animal matters. Messrs. Haussman and Wal-
ther had observed it for some time. Messrs. Foiucroy and
Vauquelin suppose it to be produced by the disappearance
of azote, and by the combination of the hydrogen and carbon
of the flesh with a superabundance of oxvgen furnished by
the acid. They suppose that the yellow matter which tinges

176               French Natiohal Inslitutei
the bile, and that;which colours the skin and the urine during
the jaundice, is produced also by some combination of oxy
gen with the fibrine matter of thj2 muscles, or with that of
the blood.
   Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin have employed them
selves also on the analysis of milk ; and their researches have
greatly simplified the theory of it. They have discovered
that the acid which is developed in it, and which was con
sidered to be of a particular nature, is nothing but the acid
of vinegar modified by some animal substances and some
salts which it holds in solution. Milk, according to them,
must be considered as a mixed liquor, consisting of a great
deal of water and of two kinds of matters, some of them
really dissolved, as sugar, mucilage, muriate and sulphate
of potash, and acetic acid ; others merely suspended^ as the
matter of cheese, that of butter, and, the* phosphates of iron,
lime and magnesia.
   Considering the infinite complication of this first aliment
of young animals, these gentlemen give us new motives for
admiring the providence of nature, which has deposited in
it all the materials of speedy growth. The caseous sub
stance is almost the same as that of the muscles ; the phos
phate of iron is one of the elements of the blood ; and that
of lime forms the earthy basis, and is the cause of the hard
ness 'of the bones.
   These gentlemen also have made a remark which may be
interesting to medicine : it is, that the whey does not con
tain phosphoric salts, but when it can dissolve them in an
excess of acid, and that it contains none when it is sweet.
   There are in chemistry some questions, which though on
the first view they seem entirely particular, yet the solution
of them may extend to so many different objects that it
might produce a revolution in the whole system of our
knowledge. Such, for example, are the deposits formed
by organized bodies of substances which we consider as
simple, and which, as appears, these bodies, under several
circumstances, could not acquire from without, but must
have, produced by combination.
   Do animals form lime, and vegetables argil and silex., as
some naturalists assert ? The generation of stones and that
pf mountains, and the whole history of our globe, depend
in some measure on this problem. It is to it we may refer
the analysis of the tabashcer, a kind of stony concretion
which is formed in the bamboo.
   Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin have found, as was said
some years ago, that it is almost pure-silex. But how could
              • '        •    ...»                         silex

                   Trench National Institute.               177
 silex be dissolved, and absorbed by the plant f How could
it circulate in the sap ? For all this must have been neces
 sary before it could be deposited in the knots of the stem.
Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquehn are of opinion that potash
has served as the solvent, and that it has carried with it into
the sap these particles of silex. According to them, there
fore, tabasheef proves nothing in favour of those who be
lieve that silex can be produced merely by the act of vege
 tation.
    These indefatigable chemists have carried their researches
to a phaenrimenon of disease in vegetation, interesting by
its singularity, and long known by the damage it occasions.
They have endeavoured, in consequence of a memoir pre
sented to the. Institute by M. Girod-Chantrans, to deter
mine the nature of the smut in wheat. They have found
in. it an oil of a green colour and of the consistence of but
ter ; phosphoric acid, in pari combined with magnesia, and
lime, and ammonia; charcoal, and a vegeto-animal sub
stance perfectly similar to that produced by the decomposi
tion of the gluten of wheat bv putrefaction. They thence
conclude that the smut is a residuum of farina decomposed
by putrid fermentation, and suppose that it arises from a
superabundance of animal manure, and a too hot and moist
temperature at the time of sowing, or when the grain is in
flower. If agriculturists should acknowledge that these
circumstances determine in reality a greater quantity of
smut, it might be possible to prevent, in some cases, this
scourge.
    Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin have analysed likewise
a mould found at the depth of more than fifty feet in some
desert islands of the South Seas, and which is employed as
manure on the coasts of Peru, where it is called guano.
This analysis has so great a resemblance to that of pigeons'
dung, that there is reason to believe, with Mr. Humboldt,
who brought this guana to Europe, that it is nothing but
the excrement of birds, which frequent these islands in im
mense numbers.
   This substance, as may be seen, is an object of very li
mited utility; but chemistry has long endeavoured to pro
cure one to agriculture which would be of more universal
importance, namely, sugar extracted from indigenous plants-.
We gave an account, at the time, of the efforts of M . Achard,
of Berlin, to obtain it from, beet-root. M. Proust; a cele-
lebratcd Spanish chemist, has extracted it from grapes ; he
his given a detail of the whole process in a memoir sent to
   Vol. 22. No. S6. July 1805.       M                       us

1 78      Formation of muriatic Acid ty Galvanism.
us from Madrid: hitherto, however, his sugar has neither
the whiteness nor the hardness, and has not entirely the taste
of the sugar made from the sugar cane.
   According to recent intelligence from Germany, the pro
cess of M. Achard has been there much simplified; and
this problem, So interesting in the present state of society,
and which can scarcely fail to change the state of nations,,
is not far from being solved.
   M. de Cossigny, a correspondent, has endeavoured to
get more directly to this result. He is of opinion that the
sugar cane might be cultivated in the southern provinces of
-France. It has, indeed, been cultivated at Nice for some
time without producing sugar; but he asserts that this was
owing to the juice being extracted too late, and to its hav
ing already undergone fermentation when boiled. He made
very good sugar from canes cultivated in. the Jardin des
Elantei, but in a hot-house.
   We have already spoken several times of the- labours of
M. Seguin in regard to the chemical, arts and medical che
mistry. He has continued them this year> and treated three
important branches.
   He first employed himself on the analysis of opium, in
order to determine which of its component principles it is-
that gives it its medical properties. This celebrated, juice
exhibited three very distinct substances: a little acetous
acid; another acid, which may be only the acetous or malic
,modified ; a crystalline matter which appears to be new ; an
extract soluble in water and in alcohol ; another extract so
luble only in alcohol, acids, and alkalies ; a vegetable oil a*
little concrete, and a sort of starch. Nothing remains hu\
to try separately each of these substances, and to determine
their respective effects on the animal body. M. Seguin is
employed on this at present, and he has promised that he
will soon communicate to us the result of his observations.
                         [To be continued.]
      XXVUI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
      FORMATION OF MURIATIC ACID BY GALVANISM.
After that part of our present Number which contains
the article respecting Mr. Peel's experiments was at press,
we. received Number III. of the Edinburgh Medical and
                         .. 7                                 Surjacal
                                            .- s. . ',*. - ...... «*

            Formation of muriatic Acid by Galvanism.        179
  Surgical Journal, published on the 1st of July, to which
  was subjoined the following
                          " POSTSCRIPT,            .
      <£ Containing an Account of the Discovery of the Com
  position of Muriatic Acid. By Professor Pacchioni, of
  Pisa.
     " Since this number of our journal was completed, and
  indeed part of the impression sent to London, we have re
  ceived a latter, dated 15th May 1805, from our valuable
  and eminent correspondent Fabbroni, of Florence, in which
  he says, " a brilliant discovery has been made by one of
 my friends. I have inclosed an account of it, which you
  will transmit to my respectable and dear friend Kirwan,
  after having communicated it to the philosophers of your
  country through the medium of your journal.'' We there
  fore gladly take this means, though somewhat irregular, of
 complying with his request, and of giving to our readers
 the earliest possible notice of the discovery alluded to.
 <c Letter of Dr. Francis Pacchioni, Professor of Philo
     sophy in the University of Pisa, to Laurence Pignotti,
    ,Historiographer to the lying.
     (c To you, my much respected friend, both on account of
  the spontaneous impulse of innate kindness with which you
  deigned to take so much care of my talents, such as they are,
 as to receive me among the number of your pupils, and on
 account of your having paved the way for my obtaining that
 very chair which was filled by you for many years with so
 much applause and hqnour to our country, rather than to
 any other person, shall I give an account of a discovery
 which I have made and satisfactorily verified. But these
 are not the only reasons by which my conduct is influenced.
 I wish, at the same time, to show my gratitude towards you,
 and to give you a proof that I am endeavouring to render
 myself more worthy of your esteem and friendship.
     " It is perfectly known to you that, since last year, on
 account of the premiums proposed by that excellent general
 and philosopher Bonaparte, emperor of the French, for the
 advancement of that new and fertile hranch of experimental
 philosophy discovered by the celebrated professor of Bologna,
..Galvani, and afterwards wonderfully extended by the sub
 lime genius of Volta, I have contrived a great number of
.experiments,, which I have performed with much care, and
 almost completed. These experiments have revealed to^me
 «iany fact?, witch I am collecting for a memoir.to be pre-
-. ..                         Ms                         sented
                                                            i

180        Formation of mufiatic Avid by Galvanism.
sented to the Societa Italiona ; and have led me to a know
ledge of the constituent elements of an acid which has hi
therto proved refractory to all the efforts of chemistry. I
 speak of the muriatic acid, hitherto tortured jn vain * with
the electric spark, caloric, and all the play of affinity* You
are perfectly acquainted with the different and discordant
opinions of the most recent and approved writers concern
ing the nature of this acid ; some of them considering it as
a simple combustible body, others as formed of an unknown
base combined with oxvgen ; and, lastly, others as a simple
substance naturally acid. But these opinions have not con
 tributed to the advancement of science, and are justly
esteemed as mere hypotheses destitute of proof.
    " Having, however, neglected these hypotheses, and
considered the means by which the discovery of the nature
of this acid has been hitherto attempted, it appeared to me
that one had not yet lieen tried, viz. the continued action
of the pile of the celebrated Volta, and I suspected that it
 might assist in leading me to discoveries which had hitherto
escaped the research of experimental philosophers. As far
 as I can judge, my endeavours have been crowned with
 success, and have furnished me with satisfactory evidence
 of the nature of the constituent principles of muriatic acid.
    " The simplicity of the apparatus, and of the means
 adopted to attain my views, the care with which I endea
 voured to avoid every source of error, have, I hope, suffi
 ciently secured me against those illusions which frequently
deceive young men ardent in the pursuit of science, and
even those practised in the art of extorting from nature her
 secrets. Want of time prevents me from relating the series
 of experiments by which I arrived at the discovery I have
 mentioned ; but you may see it by perusing the manuscript
 of my memoir, which will be immediately published, to
 submit my researches and their results to the judgment of
 the learned. For the present, I shall select from the expe
 riments and facts therein described those which are decisive,
 and which establish, in an evident manner, the following
 truths :
    " I. Muriatic acid is an oxide of hydrogen, and conse
 quently composed of hydrogen and oxygen.
    " II. In the oxygenated muriatic acid, and therefore, a
fortiori, in muriatic acid, there is a much less proportion
 of oxygen than in water.
   • Professor Pacchioni coutd. not possibly know that his discoveries Uai
 been in some measure anticipated by Mr. Peel, of Cambridge.—Note of the
 hiUori of the Edinburgh Medii alJournaU      ¦ " '.' .       ...       >
                       8                                    ¥ III! Hy-

             formation of muriatic Acid by Galvanism.                     l&f,
     * If I. Hydrogen is susceptible of very many and dif
  ferent degrees of oxidation, contrary to what is universally
  believed by pneumatic chemists, who assert that hydrogen
 is susceptible only or' one invariable degree of oxidation,
  that in which it forms water.
. ** Having at first examined the phaenomenon of the de
 composition of water bv the Galvanic pile, and having, by
 accurate experiments, ascertained the true theory, I readily
  discovered a very simple and exact apparatus, in which I
 could distinctly perceive the changes which happen to water,
  which, from the continued action of the Galvanic pile, is
 continually losing its oxygen at the surface of a wire of very
  pure gold immersed in it.
    " I therefore proceeded to examine these gradual changes
 of water thus losing its oxvgen ; and I at last observed a
 very singular fact, which unequivocally indicated the forma
 tion of an acid. In other antecedent experiments I had ex
 amined the nature of the air obtained before arriving at this
 remarkable point, and I always found, by means of the eu
 diometer of Giobert, that it was very pure oxygen *, as the
 residuum scarcely amounted to one-sixtieth.
    " Having thus examined the nature of the air formed in
 various experiments from the first moment of decomposi
 tion, until there were evident indications of the formation
 of an acid, I began to endeavour to determine, in a more
 positive manner, the existence and nature of this acid.
    " When the water, or, to speak more accurately, the
 residual fluid, occupied about half the capacity of the re
 ceiver, which at first contained the water, thits residual fluid
 presented the following characters :
    " Its colour was an orange yellow, rpore or less deep^
according as the bulk of the residual liquor was greater or
less, and it resembled in appearance a true solution of gold.
    " From the inferior orifice of the vessel, which was closed
with a piece of taffety, and then with double bladder, there
escaped a smell which was easily recognised to be that of
oxygenated muriatic acid.
    " The gold wire had in part lost its metallic lustre, and
its surface appeared as if corroded by a solvent.
    " The bit of taffety which had been in contact with the
coloured fluid, in consequence of its action, was easily torn,
   * "In all experiments we are acquainted with, hydrogen gas was al
ways evolved ; but as we have no information, concerning the arrangement
of professor Pacchioni's apparatus, we cannot adduce this fact as conclusive
against the accuracy of his experiments.—Note of the Editors of the Edinburgh
ifedical Journal,
                                   M3                     •                as

lbs       Formation of muriatic Acid by Galvanism.
as is usual with similar bodies when half burnt (setni-
combusto) .
    " Around the edges of the vessel, on the bladder, there
was formed a deep purple ring* which surrounded a circular
space rendered entirely colourless, or white.
    " A drop of this fluid tinged the skin of the hand, after
some hours, with a beautiful rose colour.
   " Having obtained, in various successive experiments,
the same liquid, possessing constantly the same properties,
I chose that obtained in the last experiment to subject it to
chemical examination. The very able chemist of this uni
versity, Sig. Giuseppe Branchi, had the goodness to enter
zealously into my views ; and in his laboratory we easily
proved,
   " 1 . The existence of a volatile acid by the white va
pours which were formed by ammonia placed near it.
   " 2. That this acid was certainly oxygenated muriatic
acid, since it formed in nitrate of silver a curdy precipitate,
the luna cornea of the antients, or the muriate of silver of
the moderns. From these facts we may draw the following
 positive and undeniable results :
    <( 1. Muriatic acid is an oxide of hydrogen, and is there
fore composed of hydrogen and oxygen.
    " S. Oxygenated muriatic acid, and of course muriatic
acid, Contains less oxygen than water does.
    " 3. Hydrogen has not one degree of oxygenation, but
many. One of these constitutes water, another below it
oxygenated muriatic acid, and, below this, there is another
w-hich constitutes muriatic acid. -
    " I shall mention the other degrees in another memoir,
which will be 'published immediately.
    " These, my much esteemed friend, are the decisive facts
 and experiments, which exclude every doubt, and which
 Confirm my fortunate conjectures. It is long since experi
 mental philosophy may.be said to have become a source of
 Wonders. The transmutation of azote into nitrous acid,
 and of hydrogen into water, appears to me truly wonderful,
 and yoUr gemus will -enable you readily to judge whether
 the same epithet may be applied to the metamorphosis of
 wafer into the true solvent of gold and platinum,' into that
 volatile substance which attacks and neutralizes pestilential
 miasmata, and presents so many resources to philosophy
 and the arts.
    " After having thus discovered the elements of this re
 fractor)' substance, I am engaged in determining their pro
 portions by experiment and calculation.
                                                          « To

            Formation of muriatic Acid by Galvanism.                      1S3
    "Tome it appears, that, the origin and nature of muriatic
acid being now known, there is no longer any mystery in
its' formation, nor in that of the muriatic salts in the vast
extent of the ocean. But these and other deductions will
be explained by me in another place. They will have al
ready occurred to you, and I should exceed the limits of
this letter, if I were to enter further into the subject. With
the most profound esteem and sincere attachment, I have
•the honour of subscribing myself
                   " Your much obliged servant and friend,
Pisa, May 9, 1805.                           " FRANCIS PACCHIQNI.rt
    " Contrary as the results announced in this interesting
communication are to analogy, there are some facts from
which they receive at least such a degree of confirmation
as to entitle them to the attention of every one zealous in,
the cultivation of science. In 1801 Mr. Cruickshank dis
covered that infusion of litmus was reddened by the one
¦end of the pile, and infusion of Brazil wood rendered purple
by the other; but he supposed these effects to be owing to
the formation of nitrous acid and ammonia; and only a.
few days before professor Pacchioni's letter was published
-at Pisa, the formation of muriatic acid by the Galvanic
 action was announced in London *, in a letter from Mr.
Peel, dated Cambridge, April 23, 1805."
                       ;ON THE SAME SUBJECT.
    After the preceding>was in the hands of the printer, we
received the following interesting communication.
          To the Editor of the Philosophical Magazine.
        SIR,
    The very important discovery, announced in your Ma
gazine for April last, by Mr. Peel, of Cambridge, has been
 lately confirmed by the evidence of professor Pacchioni, of
 Pisaf, who, without any knowledge of the experiments
 made in this country, attained similar results by the use of
 precisely the same means. There is one considerable point
 of difference, however, between the English and the Italian
 chemist, viz. that by passing a continued current of the
 Galvanic fluid through water, Mr. Peel obtained muriate of
 soda; while professor Pacchioni, having employed an in-r
 terrupted gold wire for the same purpose, produced mu-
    * Philosophical Magazine for April 1805, p. 279.
   ,f See a letter from Fabbroni^ of Florence, to the editors of the Edinburgh
 Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 3, published July 1.—H.
                                    M4                                   riate

 184       Formation of muriatic Jcii by Galvanism.
 riateofgold. These experiments cannot fail to have excited
 an ardent, interest in the mind of every chemist in this coun
 try, and an anxious expectation of the issue of the process
 in the hands of other experimentalists. For this reason I
 communicate to you the following account, though not
 perfectly conclusive, with a request that you will suppress
 it if more satisfactory testimony should reach you from any
other quarter.
    " The apparatus which I employed was such as would
 occur to any person having the same object \n view ; viz.
 a glass tube 4$ inches long and -35 inches diameter, in
 which were secured, by means of corks, two slips of platina
 (cut from a piece which was given to me, long ago, by Mr.
Tennant) with their extremities at a proper distance from
each other. The water, at the outset, amounted to two
drachms ; and was reduced, by six clays' exposure to the
current, (in part probably by evaporation, though carefully
covered with pasteboard,) to a quantity which left half an
inch of the tube unfilled. It had been most attentively pu
rified, first by simple distillation, and again by a second
distillation, after the addition of nitrate of silver. At the
close of the experiment it was found to become opalescent
in a few seconds by the mixture of nitrate of silver, and
afterwards to undergo, when exposed to the light, the usual
change of colour, indicating the presence of muriatic .acid.
To, ascertain whether muriate of platina were present, I
added a- solution of muriate of ammonia to one portion,
and to another carbonate of soda; but no precipitation en
sued. This, however, might possibly be owing to the very
dilute state of the solution ; and I was proceeding to reduce
the remainder by evaporation, with the view to further ex
periments, when the whole was unfortunately lost by acci
dent.
    " The repetition of this process requires the careful ob
servance of one precaution, which is extremely likely to be
overlooked. The wa-er employed must, on no account,
come into contact with the fingers of the operator ; fori
have found that from the surface of the skin there is a con
stant and copious excretion of muriate of soda, with, per
haps, a little muriate of ammonia. Of this any one may
be satisfied by observing the change effected by nitrate of
silver on pure distilled water after being poured on the palm
of the hand ; and if a glass tube, containing distilled w ater,
be frequently inverted in a cup of the same, by means of the
thumb or a finger, the water will be found to be precipitated
by nitrate of silver. Suspecting that the corks might have
                                                     furnished

            Formation of muriatic Acid by Galvanism.                   185
famished some muriatic salt, I added nitrate of silver to por
 tions of pure water in which corks had been kept immersed
 24 hours ; but instead of opalescence being produced, the
 colour of the liquid passed through successive shades to that
 of Port wine, and the tingemg matter remained in solution,
 instead of settling to the bottom like muriate of silver. In
 future experiments on the symhesis of muriatic acid it will
therefore be expedient to employ an apparatus in which the
water shall neither come into contact with the fingers nor
with corks. For transmitting the metallic wires, perforated
glass stoppers, one of which has an aperture large enough
to allow the water to escape as the. gases are generated,
would answer the purpose sufficiently. It is desirable also
that the water employed should be well freed from, air, and
that the atmosphere should be excluded ; for, if muriatic
acid be generated, it will otherwise remain to be proved that
azote is not one of its components ; and this presumption
is even confirmed by the extreme minuteness of the portion
of muriatic acid which seemed to be produced in my expe
riment. If water contain all the elements of that acid, an«T
nothing more be required to effect its transmutation than a
change of their proportion, we might expect a considerable
and unequivocal production of muriatic acid by the process
of Galvanism. Another circumstance suggesting the pre
 sence of azote in this acid is, that on examining the liquor
obtained by detonating impure hvdrogen and oxygen gases
in close copper vessels, Mr. Keir found that a small quantity
of muriatic acid accompanied the nitrous acid thus formed.
—See Keir's Dictionarv, p. 119.
    " The precautions which I have suggested will not be
thought trivia! by any one who recollects that one of the
most accurate and celebrated chemists of this or any other
time* was misled to a belief that he had effected the syn
thesis of muriatic acid, by a circumstance which was neg
 lected solely from its apparent insignificance. The source
of fallacv, in the instance alluded to, shows how unaccount
ablv that acid may find its way into the subjects of our ex
periments, and introduce uncertainty into their results.
                      I am, sir, your obedient humble servant,
   Manchester,                                " WlLLIAM HENRY."
  July 2S, 1805.
   t Berthollet. The error arose from the employment of iron filings con
taminated with muriatic acid, from which it required repeated wnshingwith
distilled water to free them, and which was even present in them when fresh
made fur the purpose.—AaimUs de Chimk, ixxix. 15, 10.            .
                                                                      Mr-

186                         Travels.
   Mr. Henry's suggestions are of great importance, and'
we doubt not will receive due attention from experiment
talists. From all that has yet occurred on this subject, a
strong presumption is furnished that we are on the verge
of perhaps more than one important discovery in chemistry.
At such a crisis, in particular, every phaenomenon that by
even the most remote analogies may appear connected with
this inquiry, should be communicated by chemists for the
benefit of science. For ourselves, we can only say we shall
fcithfully discharge the duty which devolves on us, to lay
them carefully and correctly before the public.
                            TRAVELS.
   Dr. Bolschoi, who, in the quality of physician, accom
panied a Russian and Buchanan caravan, which in the year
1 803, on its way from Troizk to Bucharia, was plundered
by the Truchmens and Karakalpaks, and who on that oc
casion was taken prisoner, returned to Petersburgh about
the beginning of November 1804, after undergoing various
vicissitudes and sufferings. The following particulars re
specting the Kirgisian Cozaks, communicated by this gen
tleman, are worthy of particular notice, as they relate to a
people interesting to the Russian trade, but who. have hi
therto been highly prejudicial to it.
 , When the Kirgisians had divided by lot the booty which
they obtained from this rich caravan, Dr. Bolschoi was esti
mated at the- value of a camel. These plunderers cut to
pieces the mathematical instruments, watches, telescopes,
and other things of the like kind, that each might have a.
share of them. They did the same in regard to the medi
cines. The roots, powders, pills, and mixtures, were all
divided into equal parts, Each person then threw his por
tion together into a vessel ; and this they considered as the
most- valuable part of the plunder. When the Kirgisians
found that their prisoner was a physician, and consequently,
according to their idea, a kind of sorcerer, they thronged
in crowds around him, that he might feel their pulse, in
order to tell them, from the nature of it, whether the horse
they had lost, the cow that had strayed, or the camel that
,was missing, would be again found : nay, some of them
even wished him to tell from the nature of their pulse whe
ther their absent sick mother, wife, sister, &c. would re
cover. If his answer turned out to be trile, the prophet was
rewarded ; but in the contrary case, he was often subjected
to the discipline of the whip.
    A violent storm having once taken place, the whole body
     i-                                                began

                            Travels.                     187
began to murmur ; and a general suspicion fell on the captive
doctor, who was considered as an adept in the art of witch*
craft. It was immediately resolved that the sorcerer should
be put to death : and this would certainly have been the
Case had not the storm fortunately subsided ; so that the
supposed sorcerer escaped with a slight correction.
   As Mr. Bolschoi was considered as a man of a higher
order, he was not sold into Bucharia with the other cap-r
lives, but kept in the steppe. During his captivity he served
as a common domestic, exposed to cold and hunger, and
obliged to perform all those menial services which are al*
lotted to the slaves of the Kirgisians. As he did not un
derstand the language of his tyrants, he was beaten till he
was able to tell the names of the most necessary articles in
Kirgisian. He, however, did not long remain with one
master, but was transferred from one person to another till
he came into the service of the kan. With him he remained
three months, but was exposed to no less hardship than
under his former masters. The kan, however, in the hope
of obtaining for him a large ransom, carried him 10 the
Orenburg lines ; at the distance of ten versts from which
he gave him a rich Kirgisian dress, and in that state he w as
ransomed.
   As some incorrect accounts of the Russian embassy to
Ohina have been published in various journals, the follow
ing particulars, which appear to be correct, are itaken from
an extract of a letter written by a naturalist who was des
tined some time ago for a journey to Thibet, but who now
is to accompany the embassy:—" Count Potocki, well
known by his historical works, has been appointed the
chief of this important mission. The principal naturalist
is Mr. Adams, who accompanied count Mussin-Puschkin
on his tour to the Caucasian mountains; Redofsky, for-?
merly botanical gardener to count Alexis Razumoisky, . is
appointed physician, botanist, and entomologist ; Pansnen,
mineralogist and geologue; Schubert, astronomer; and
Klaproth junior, philologue. The whole of the. scientific
men, with their assistants, draughtsmen, artists, and. a de-
tachment of fifty soldiers, were to set out on the 4th of
May: the embassy was to set off somewhat. later. The
route of the former was to be through Masco, Nishnev-
Novgorod, Rasan, Ekaterinenbourg, and south from To
bolsk to Omsk, Kolywan, Irkutsk, to Kiachta, the Russian
staple on the frontiers of Chinese Tartary. He re they wilj
Wait for the embassy, and for the Chinese Ta-tschins who
        .. ,                                              are

  1 8*                    Antiquities.
 are to escort the embassy, which will now consist of more?
 than a hundred persons, througti the desert of Robi and
 Yellow Mongolia to the city of Pekin.
     M. Bergman, who has lately communicated to the public
 an interesting account of his long residence among the Kal-
 mucs, is now preparing for another journey in the little
 frequented districts of Asia, which lie has been invited by
 government to undertake, with the most liberal allowance
 for his support. M. Bergman has been appointed an as
 sessor of the colleges ; and leave has been given him to
 choose a physician, naturalist, and draughtsman, to accom
 pany him. The benevolent Alexander has made provision
 for the wives of the travellers, in case any of them should
 die in the course of their journey.
     M. Herman, professor of natural history at Dorpat, who
 last year made a tour through a part of Russian Finland, is
 about to return to that country with a draughtsman. It is
 supposed that on his return he will publish a journal of
 these two tours.                ,                        • . .
     M. Giesecke, a Prussian mineralogist, has been for some
 time at Copenhagen. It is believed that the government
 proposes to send him to Greenland, where he will spend
 some years in examining that country in a mineralogical
 and geological point of view. Hitherto the Moravian mis
sionaries have been the only persons who have ventured to
reside for several years in Greenland.
                        ANTiaUITIES.
    One of the houses of the city of Pompeii, buried under
the lava of Vesuvius in the 79th year of the Christian aera,
has been discovered by clearing away the lava, and a great
many antique vases, coins, musical instruments, and a
brazen Hercules, with several excellent paintings in fresco,
have been found in it.
    Some further accountof this discovery is contained in thfi
following letter, dated Naples, May 1, 1804 :—" During
the course of a search by digging, begun about seven years
ago, the workmen discovered the capital of a pilaster, which
was supposed to be the lateral face of a large gate. Last
winter, the labour being resumed, the corresponding pi
laster was found. The brazen hinges of the gate were
transported to the Museum at Portici. The house to which
this gate conducts is large and commodious, and richly or
namented with paintings and mosaic. It is surrounded by
                                                  a beautiful

                          Vaccination.                       188
a beautiful wall of cut stone, the joinings of which are so
close, ant' the cement so perfect, that it has the appearance
of a solid mass. The alley which serves as an entry is
twelve palms in length and ten in breadth ; it leads to a
court, the walls of which are covered with stucco of diffe
rent colours. The capitals and cornices are in very fine
preservation. 1 remarked on them a large rose, which »
a master-piece of elegance and design. All the chambers
are ornamented with beautiful paintings on a red, blue, or
yellow ground. They exhibit small exceedingly delicate
columns, with flowers, candelabra, and other ornaments
in the best taste. On the left are two apartments which
in all probability were those of the master and mistress of
the house.
    '* The painter had given full scope to his imagination. in
the composition of all these pieces, which I beheld with
inexpressible pleasure. Nothing can be more attracting
than a dance of masked personages; nothing more elegant"
than a small bird pecking at a basket of figs. In the mid
 dle of the court is a cistern, or implavium of the Romans.
 On a marble pedestal is a young Hercules seated on a small
 fawn of bronze. These two pieces, one of which .may
 weigh about twenty and the other forty jKiunds, are of the
 finest workmanships From the mouth of the fawn water
 fell into a beautiful conch of Grecian marble. Behind the
pedestal was a table, the feet of which, of antique yellow,
 represent the claws of an eagle. These works have also
 been conveyed to the Museum. A lateral corridor, on the
 right hand, conducts to a second court, which was sur
 rounded by a portico, as appears by octangular columns
 coated with stucco."
    Near the town of Fiesole, not far from Florence, a beau
 tiful amphitheatre has been also discovered. The earth has
 already been cleared away from the greater part of it, and
 it appears that it was capable of containing at least 30,000
 spectators.                                                    '.
                         VACCINATION.
     We hear that Dr. Jenner is engaged in collecting reports
 from the different states of Europe, and from many of the
  other quarters of the globe, respecting the; effects of vaccine
 inoculation on the moitality occasioned by the small-pox.
  In several of the largest cities on the continent, we are in
  formed that he has already received the pleasing intelligence
 of the small-pox being either nearly or totally subdued.
  Among them is Vienna. But how melancholy is the re
  flection, that while the great and populous city of Vienna,
  which for time immemorial had been subjected to the in-
                                                          sessai.t

     igo       Palladium. —Astronomy .—^-List of Patents.
     cessant ravages of the small-pox, exhibited two deaths only
     by that disease in the year J 804, the city of London should
     even at this moment have to deplore the untimely fate of
    near fifty persons weekly by this horrid pestilence ! a pesti
     lence which it is obvious, from this and other similar ex
     amples, might not only be speedily banished from the me
     tropolis, but from every part of the British empire.
                              PALLADIUM.
        This new metal, recently discovered by Dr. Wollaston,
     may now be bought at Messrs. Knights' warehouse for che
    mical apparatus, Foster-lane, Cheapside, London. •
                              ASTRONOMY.
     A Table of the right Ascension and Declination of Ceres
                           and Pallas.
                         Ceres.                   Pallas.
                      AR.       Decl. N.        AR.       Decl.S.
            1805   h m      s     o    r    to IB          ° '
        Sept. 2    6  39   52    22   17    4   39   12    8 27
               5   6 24     8 22 21         4 42 48 9           9
               8   6 28 20 22 24            4 46 16 9 53
              11   6 32 24 22 28            4 40 36 10 39
              14   6 36 24 22 31            4 52 48 11 26
              17   6 40 20 22 34            4 55 52 12 15
              20   6 44     8 22 38         4 58 44 13          5
      . . •,• 23   6 47 48 .22 41           b    1 24 13 57
              26   6 41 28 22 44            5    3 56 14 50
            ' 29   0 54 56 22 47            5    6 16 15 45
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR. NEW INVENTIONS.
   , John Slater, of Liverpool, in the county palatine of Lan
    caster, gentleman ; for certain improvements upon sawing-
    mills, or machines for sawing all kinds of timber.
        Marc Isambard Brunei, of Portsea, in the county of
    Hants, gentleman ; for saws and machinery, upon an im-
   .pfoved construction, for sawing timber in an easy and ex-
, jpeditious manner.                                  . .
  . . John Edwards, of the parish of St. Paul, Coyeut Garden,
   in the Country of Middlesex, currier and harness-maker j
  .for certain improvements on bridles.
    . Obadiah h.lliot, of the parish of St. Mary, Lambeth, in
 .the county of Surrey, coach-maker j tor certain improve-
 . meuts in the construction, of coaches, chariots, barouches,
  .landaus, and. various other four-wheel carriages.

             List of Patents for New Inventions.          .191
   John Edwards, of the parish of St. Paul, Covent Garden,
in the county of Middlesex, currier and harness -maker; for
a machine or apparatus upon an improved construction, for
the purpose of preventing persons being drowned, which he
denominates the life luoy.
   William Horrocks, of Stockport, in the county of Ches
ter, cotton manufacturer; for further improvements to a
machine for the weaving of cotton and other goods by
hand, steam, water, or other power.
. Charles Hobson, of Sheffield, in the county of York,
silver plater, Charles Sylvester, of the same place, chemist,
and John Moorhouse, of Sheffield aforesaid, surgeon ; for
a method of sheathing ships, roofing houses, and lining
water-spouts, with a material not heretofore used for those
purposes.
   Thomas Pidgeon, of the parish of St- Pancras, in the
county of Middlesex, gentleman .; for a saddle upon an im
proved construction.
   Abraham Ogier Stransbury, of ihe city of New York, in
the United States ; for locks and keys upon an improved
construction,
   John Bevans, of Little Oueen-street, Lincoln's- inn Fields,
in the. county of Middlesex, carpenter and joiner ; for a.
window-frame and sashes upon a principle wholly new,
applicable to frames and sashes already made as to new-
ones, which conceal the sash-lines and exclude the air.
   John Blunt, of the borough of Warwick, in the county
of Warwick, surgeon ; for an improvement to stirrups now
in use, which is to Ik* fixed thereto, and by means of which,
whenever the stirrup happen'! to be in a reversed direction,
by a horseman falling from his horse, the stirrup will im
mediately fall from the leather, by which means the same
is suspended.
   Samuel Miller, of the parish of St. Pancras, in the •eotwrry
of Middlesex, engineer ; for an improvement upon, and ma
chinery to be attached to, coaches and various other car
riages, for the better accommodation of passengers.
   John Cox Stevens, of New York, North America, but
now residing in New Bond-street, in the county of Mid
dlesex, gentleman ; for a new method of generating steasn.
   Alexander Brodie, of Carey-street, in the liberty of .the
rolls, and Bounty of Middlesex, iron-master, and founder:;
for an improved method of making steam-engine boilers
and steam boilers, for various other purposes ; and of con
structing the flue for the conveying the heat to the same*
whereby the consumption of fuel is considerably lessened.
                                                    MKTKOjB-

192                                                                      ¦
                     meteorological table
              Bv Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                          For'July 1S05.
                Thermometer.
                         J2 •
Days of the              ,Cu £* tne
                                 Height of
                                     Baromi'.               Weather.
  Month.
                          c 7i inches.           4 W-
              fa                                 is
  June 27 52° 65° 53° 29- 80                           Showery
         28 54 56 51                 •80         0     Thunder ana
                                                          bail showers
         29    52    61    54    30- 01        42      Fair
         30    58    70    57        •13       48      Fair     .'
   July 1      Si    69    61        •21       62      Fair
           Si  62   "68    60    29- 98        32      Cloudy
          3    63    68    61        •80       15      Rain
          4   •65    76    68        •63       60      Fair
           5   65    68    60        ¦60       42      Cloudy
          6    60    66    56        •71       45      Showery
               60    67    58        •88       29     |Showery
          8    55    59    56        •90       10     Showery
          9    57    68   58     30-00         37      Fair
         10    58    71   56     29'SO         58      Fair
         11    55    58   53     30-02         12     Cloudy
         12|  55     64   5.5       •01        52      Fair
        13    56    66    56     29- 98        52     Fair
        14    58    68    57        •98        15     Cloudy
        15    56    61    56        •99        18     Cloudy
        16    57    66    57    30- 03        51      Fair
        17    55    61    55        •08       29      Cloudy
        18    55    64    53        •OG       42      Fail-
        19    54    64    58        •02       36      Fair
       ¦20|   58    74                                Fair             j
                          62    29- 90        26
        21    64    69    58        •68         6     Showery
       22,    58    70    59        •73       42      Fair, rain at
                                                         night
       23     60    70   60         •28       27      Showery
       24     61    66   59         •65       40      Fair
       25     60    64   57         •96       43      Cloudy
       26!    58    70   58     30- 01        46      Fair
            N. B. The barometer's height is taken at noon.           'V-

                                 [   193    ]
!XXIX. Account of Experiments made on a Mineral called
    Cerite, and on the particular Sulstance which it contains,
    and which has been considered as a new Metal. Jiy
    M. Vauouelin **
1S/.L. Klaproth wrote to me, about eight months ago,
that he had discovered, in a mineral of Batsnaes, in Swe
den, a new earth to which he had given the name of ochroit,
on account of the red colour which it assumes by calcina
tion. He even sent me in a letter a small specimen of this
substance; and having discovered in it, by several trials,
the presence of a considerable quantity of oxide of iron, I
started some doubts, in a note which I read "in the Insti
tute, in regard to the colour of that earth. I observed also
in the same note, that this substance had as many metallic
properties as earthy characters ; but that the small quantity
of it which I had in my possession did not allow me to give
any decisive opinion on this subject f.
    Some time after, Messrs. Berzelius and Hisenger, having
been informed, by their correspondents at Paris, of M. Klap-
 roth's labour, wrote to me to claim a priority, stating that
 they had sent to M. Klaproth the specimens of that mineral
 which he had employed for his experiments, and that at
 the same lime they had announced to him that they had
 found a new metal in it. I can give no opinion on this
 difference. I shall only observe, that the well known de
 licacy of M. Klaproth, and the high reputation he has justly
 acquired by his numerous and important discoveries, render
 it very improbable that he would appropriate to himself the
 discovery of another. M. Klaproth must, no doubt, have
 received from another quarter the mineral ir\ question ; and
 his labour was perhaps terminated before he acquired any
 information respecting that of the Swedish chemists. What
  seems to justify this opinion is, that they obtained results
  entirely different.
     Every thing,, therefore, seems to show that M. Klaproth
  of Berlin, and Messrs. Berzelius and Hisenger of Stock
  holm, made experiments a* the same time on the same
  mineral without having any communication with each
  other; and that each may have had the honour of the dis
  covery.
     The Swedish chemists transmitted to Paris a memoir on
       * From Annates du Musium National aVUistoire Naturelle, No. 30.
       f See Annates de Cliimie, No. 149, Floreal SO, an 12.
  Vol. 22. No. 87. August 1805.                N                       this.

194                Account of Experiments
this subject written in Swedish. M. Limdbon undertook
a translation of it, and caused it to be printed in the An~
nales de Chimie*. In this memoir they give a history of
the mineral, and point out the places where it is found, and
the substances which accompany it : they then give an ac
count of the methods they employed to ascertain the na
ture of it : they give the characters of the new substance it
contains, and which they consider as a peculiar metal, to
which tbey give the name of cerium ; a denomination taken
from the planet Ceres, discovered by M. Piazzi : they have
thence formed that of cerite, to denote the natural ore of
that metal.
   About the end of November, that year, I received, by
the care of Messrs. Hisenger and Berzelius, specimens of
this fossil } with an invitation to repeat their experiments,
and to determine whether the substance in question ought
to be classed with the earths or the metals. I charged my
self the more readily with this labour, as it furnished me
with an opportunity of subjecting to experiment a new sub-
Btance, and of pronouncing in regard to the opinion of re
spectable philosophers, whose sole object is truth.
   It will be seen by this memoir that the force of facts has
obliged me to adopt the opinion of the Swedish chemists.
I must not omit to mention that I have been seconded in
my experiments by Messrs. Tassaert and Bergman, both of
whom are well versed in practical chemistry.
                 Physical Properties of Cerite.
   This mineral is of a slight rose colour : it is sufficiently-
hard to scratch glass : its specific gravity is 45-30, and its
dust is grayish : it becomes reddish by calcination, and loses
twelve per cent.
   There are some varieties which contain martial pyrites,,
and which are traversed by veins of green actinote.
                 Preliminary Trials on Cerite.
 - This mineral, when pulverized in a mortar of silex, does
not increase in weight, which indicates that its hardness is
not very great : its dust is of a rust gray colour.
   When exposed to heat in a retort there are obtained some
drops of water, which are condensed in the neck of the
vessel.
   The dust of cerite is powerfully attacked by the nitric
muriatic and nitro -muriatic acids; caloric is developed, and
                    * No. ISO, Prairial 30, an 12.
                                                          there

                made on a Mineral called Cerite.              1 o5
there is disengaged carbonic acid as well as nitrous gas
 when nitric acid is employed.
   After ebullition of half an hour the action of the acids
appears to be'exhausted, and there remains at the bottom
of the %'essel a dust more or less coloured, which is the silex
contained in the mineral.
   When cerite is treated with eight or ten times its weight
of acid it is entirely decomposed by one operation, and
without the necessity of beginning a second time ; yet it
is impossible by these means to obtain silex perfectly pure ;
it always retains a certain quantity of metallic oxide. It is
only by fusing this earth with an alkali, and then combining
it with an acid, that it is possible to obtain it pure, and free
from all colouring matter: it generally forms about seven
teen hundredths of the mineral. When the solutions of
this matter are evaporated to dryness and the residuum is
dissolved in water, there is formed a slight white precipi
tate, which appears to be a little silex which the acid held
in solution.
   Solutions of cerium are of a yellowish red colour, like
that of the oxide of iron at its maximum of oxygenation ;
but when cerium is little oxidated they are only of a rose
^colour, similar to those of manganese and cobalt.
   These solutions, decomposed by ammonia, furnish a very
voluminous precipitate, which has the appearance of alu-
mine mixed with oxide of iron, but which greatly differs
from it in it3 properties : when dried in a gentle heat this
precipitate is reduced to a granulated powder of a pale yel
low colour, which becomes of a brick red by calcination.
The matter simply dried in the air redissolvcs readily in the
nitric and muriatic acids ; but the red oxide, that which
has not been calcined, is scarcely attacked, and does not
dissolve in muriatic acid without producing a very consi
derable quantity of oxygenated muriatic acid.
   The nitric solution readily crystallizes : the salt which it
furnishes is soluble in alcohol : in regard to the muriatic
solution it is very difficult to obtain crystals: this salt when
dried is deliquescent.
   The nitric and muriatic solutions are decomposed by al
kaline sulphates, phosphates, borates, oxalates, tartrites,
and carbonates : with sulphates there are formed yellow pre
cipitates too soluble in water to be subjected to analytical
experiments : besides, a part of the iron oxidated to a max
imum is precipitated at the same time. The precipitate
formed by the borates is still more soluble in acids : that
produced by oxalates is attended with the inconvenience of
                               N 2                       carrying

igS                Account of Experiments
carrying with it a little iron, which gives it a slight tint of
a rose colour : it is soluble in acids. The tartrites form a
precipitate much less soluble, which does not contain ironj
but it is entirely soluble in caustic alkalies as well as in an
excess of its concentrated acid, from which it is afterwards
separated by water. Phosphates occasion a precipitate
which is not soluble in acids without the aid of heat : iron
remains in intimate combination with it. Pruasiates preci
pitate solutions of cerium white, even when they contain evi
dent traces of iron. All the precipitates here spoken of are
 white, and retain that colour after desiccation, except the
phosphate, which becomes grayish. Sulphurets and hy-
 dro-sulphurets precipitate solutions of cerium white: the
 precipitates when washed retain their white colour in-dry
 ing, and dissolve in acids with effervescence : carbonic acid
 is disengaged, but not an atom of hydrogenated sulphuret }
 which proves that cerium does not unite with sulphurized
 hydrogen.
     Zinc, tin, and iron, immersed in a solution of muriate
 of cerium, do not effect a'reduction of it. , They precipitate
  a black matter, which is in too small quantity to be ana
 lysed : there is deposited at the same time a white powder,
  which appears to be an oxide of the precipitating metal.
      An alcoholic solution of gall-nuts produces in muriate of
  cerium a yellowish precipitate not very abundant. The ad
  dition of a few drops of ammonia determines a very volu
  minous one of a brown colour, which becomes black and
  brilliant by desiccation : by the action of heat it resumes a
  beautiful brick red colour.
      When the silex extracted from cerite is fused with an
  alkali, it is observed that the mixture assumes a beautiful
   pale straw colour, which soon passes to brown : if the sur
   faces be often renewed the whole matter becomes brown,
   but by adding a little charcoal this colour vanishes entirely.
      Having made these preliminary trials on cerite, and ascer
   tained the principal properties of the particular substance
   which it contains, I undertook to analyse it, in regard to
   quantity, in the following manner :
      A hundred parts of this mineral in fine powder were
   mixed with ten times their weight of nitro-muriatic acid,
   and subjected to ebullition for an hour : the mixture being
   diluted. with water, and filtered, left on the filter a brown
 * tlust, which was dried, and fused with caustic potash. The
   mixture being diluted with water, and then dissolved in
   .muriatic acid, evaporated to dryness, and redissolved in
    water, left a powder which when collected on a filter,
                                                         washed,

                 made on a Mineral called Cerite.         197
washed, and calcined, weighed seventeen parts : it was
eilex, stiil slightly coloured yellow.
   The nitro-muriatic solution being evaporated to dryness,
and its residuum redissolved in water, left about one part
of silex coloured bv a little oxide of cerium.
   The same solution freed from silex, and united to the
washings of the silex, was decomposed by ammonia : the
oxide of cerium and the oxide of iron precipitated by these
means, were separated from the liquor by filtration. The
oxalic acid added to this liquor formed a precipitate- which
by calcination gave two parts of lime.
   The metallic oxides, united and calcined, weighed seventy
parts : they had a beautiful reddish brown colour. To se
parate the iron of the cerium the whole was dissolved in
muriatic acid : the solution being concentrated to evaporate
the excess of acid, then djluted with water and decomposed
by tartrite of potash, there was formed a very abundant
white precipitate, which being washed till it contained no
more foreign salts, then dried, and calcined, gave sixty-
seven parts of oxide of cerium.
   The water from the washing of the tartrite of the cerium,
being united and mixed with hydro-sulphurct of potash,
gave a precipitate which became black in the air. It was
oxide of iron, the weight of which after calcination was two
parts.
   Thus 100 parts of cerite subjected to analysis furnished,
             1st, Silex         -       -         17
             2d, Lime                              2
            3d, Oxide of iron           -          2
            4th, Oxide of cerium        -        67
             5th, Water and carbonic acid         12
                                                100
   Though the specific gravity of cerite, the varied colours
assumed by the particular matter it contains, and the oxv-
gen disengaged during its solution in muriatic acid, afforded
great probabilities in regard to the metallic nature of this
substance; yet, as it was possible that these properties and
these phaenomena might be owing to the presence of some
known metal, to manganese for example, I endeavoured
to discover it by all the means which appeared to me proper
for accomplishing that end; but I did not find any sensible
traces of it. It therefore appears to me altogether impro
bable that manganese should contribute any thing towards
the properties exhibited by the matter of cerite. The case
                              ,N 3                          is

198                Account of Experiments
is not the same with iron. I must confess that when any
traces of it remain in the cerium it communicates to it 3
darker red colour ; but as this matter, when disengaged
from iron, as far as chemical means will allow, assumes
still a reddish colour by calcination, and as in this state it
furnishes as much oxygenated muriatic acid as before, it is
equally impossible to ascribe these phaenomena to the iron,
which, as is well known, produces no oxygenated muriatic
acid.
    Thus as cerium, in which the slightest sign of the pre
 sence of iron, or of any other foreign matter, could not be
 detected by any means whatever, always assumes a red
colour by calcination, and then gives oxygenated muriatic
acid during its solution, I am forced to consider it as a
metallic oxide rather than an earth, as M. Klaproth has
done. Hitherto, indeed, chemists were not acquainted
with any earth weighing five times as much as water, which
has a colour of its own, which absorbs oxygen, and which,
dissolving in common muriatic acid, produces oxygenated
muriatic acid*
    I had great hope that the reduction of this matter to the
metallic state by the action of a strong heat would confirm
the above probabilities, and convert them into certain truths ;
but this operation was not attended with all the success I
expected.
   In the first attempt, in which I had put into a charcoal
crucible oxalate of cerium reduced to a paste' with oil, the
whole was volatilized by the violence and duration of the
heat : at the bottom of the crucible I found only a metallic
grain scarcely so large as the head of a pin, and which was
an alloy of iron and cerium. This experiment, if it fur
nished no metal, proves at least that oxide of cerium is vo
latile ; and I do not know that an earthy substance was ever
thus volatilized.
   In the second operation I put into a luted porcelain retort
a paste made with tartrite of cerium, a little lamp-black and
oil, in order that I might collect the metal if it should be
volatilized as before ; but as the form of my apparatus did
not permit me to give as much heat, the matter was not
reduced: it remained in its natural stale mixed with the
charcoal.
   There were seen, however, on the sides of the retort a
great number of small globules which bad metallic bril
liancy, and the substance of which had been manifestly
volatilized. Some of the largest of these globules having
been detached and broken, exhibited in the inside a white
                                                        colour

                ¦made on a Mineral called Cerite.            X.Q 9
colour and a foliaceous texture. There was also in the neck
 of the retort a slight reddish covering, the taste of which
was exceedingly acrid and metallic : the quantity of the
matter which formed this covering was too small to be sub
jected to experiments capable of determining its nature.
   Three of these small metallic globules, which weighed
together scarcely a fourth part of a grain, being put suc
cessively into nitric and muriatic acid, were not sensibly
attacked : to effect the solution of them the union of these
two acids was necessary. The solution being evaporated,
and its residuum dissolved in water, had no colour ; its taste
was sensibly saccharine ; and by the oxalate of ammonia
and the prussiate of potash it gave white and flaky precipi
tates. It appears, then, that these globules, which I sus-.
pected to be iron, are really cerium. What is certain is,
that these globules are much more fragile, whiter, and less
liable to be attacked by acids than cast iron.
   These experiments prove that cerium is volatile at a high
temperature, and that it is probably only at the moment of
its volatilization that it is reduced, unless we suppose that
it is rather volatilized in the state' of oxide. This I propose
to ascertain by new trials.
   Recapitulating what has been said in the course of this
notice, it is seen, 1st,- That cerium, freed from the foreign
matters which accompany it in the mineral, is a substance
susceptible of uniting with two quantities of oxygen very
distinct.
   2d, That with the first quantity it forms a white sub
stance, soluble in acids, without any disengagement of ox
ygen.                                .
   3d, That with the second portion it assumes a slight red
colour, combines only with difficulty with acids, and con
stantly produces a considerable quantity of oxygenated mu
riatic acid by dissolving in common muriatic acid.
   4th, That these oxides do not dissolve in alkalies ; but
that when boiled together they no longer become coloured
by the contact of the air ; and that those which are red be
come white by a slight heat, without, however, combining
with the alkalis.
   5th, That {heir combinations with the sulphuric, phos
phoric, oxalic, tartareous, and prussic acids are white, and
insoluble in water.
   6th, That, on the other hand, those which they form with
nitric, muriatic, and acetic acids are very soluble in water
and in alcohol, and are even deliquescent.
                               N4             , •     7th, Thai

200                   On some zoological Facts
    7th, That all these salts have an astringent and highly
 saccharine taste.
    8th, That a good process for separating the iron of ce
 rium is, to precipitate the latter from its nitric or muriatic
 golution by oxalate of ammonia or tartrite of potash, put
 ting into the liquor a slight excess of acid; or, what is
"better,- is, to calcine the muriate of cerium, to redissolve its
 residuum in the muriatic acid, to calcine again, and to re
 peat this three times, in order to sublime entirely the mu
 riate of iron ; which succeeds very well.
    9th, That cerium does not unite with sulphurated hydro
 gen, like the other metallic oxides.
     I Oth, That it appears irreducible by those means which
 generally succeed with the most refractory oxides, but that
 it is volatile, and that it is probably at this moment that its
 reduction is effected.
     1 1 th, That if, contrary to every appearance, cerium is
 not a metal, it has, at any rate, much more analogy and
 relation with that class of bodies than with any other; and
 for these reasons we shall place it, with Messrs. Hisenger
 and Berzelius, in that class, till it has been proved that it is
 better fitted to any other kind of matters.
     1 2th, In the last place, that by some lucky chance, or
 means better combined than those hitherto employed, we
 shall obtain it in the metallic state ; and 1 do not despair
 myself of meeting with this success.
 XXX. Memoir on some zoological Facts applicable to the
     Theory of the Earth. Read in the Physical and Mathe
     matical Class of the French National Institute on the 22d
    of October 1804. By M. Peron, Naturalist to the Ex
     pedition fcr making Discoveries in Australasia.
                         [Concluded from p. 166.]
 I have now terminated the general history of petrified and:
 living zoophytes : we have seen them cantoned, as we say,
 in that zone of the globe comprehended between the 34th
  degree of north and south latitude, where they fill the sea
 with dangerous reefs, form new islands, enlarge the old
  ones, and every where increase the domain of the land at
  the expense of the ocean which nourishes them in its bo
  som : we have seen their antient labours rising over the sur
  face of the waves, and appearing again at great heights above
 their present level. The last phaenomenon deserves our at
                                                         tention

             applicable to the Theory of the Earth.       SOI
tentlon for a moment ; and two questions here present
themselves to be resolved. Have the nradreporic moun
tains been formed in the bosom of the sea ? and, supposing
this to be the case, what revolutions were capable of' effect
ing so prodigious a change, either in their antient state or
in that of the waves ?
    There can be no doubt that the former of these questions
may, and ought to be, answered in the affirmative. Ob
servation,—indeed experience, reasoning, and analogy, all
unite to prove that these pelagian animals, the vast remains
of which cover our continents with an organization similar
to that of families now existing, have had the same origin
and the same country. No objection has yet been made
against this general assent. 'But if any doubts of this kind
had been formed in regard to the different banks of testacea,
or even of ' zoophytes, disseminated throughout the large
continents at considerable distances from the sea shore, the
consequences could not be extended to those reefs, those
islands, and those archipelagoes, several of which still de
clare their origin by the little elevation they have acquired
above the place where they were formed. It may therefore
be considered as an incontestable fact, that all the madre-
poric productions we have seen raised more or less above
 the. present level of the sea, were formed in its bosom.
    The second question, it appears, may be resolved with
 as little difficulty. I shall here observe, to make use of an
 expression of the Nestor of the French navy in regard to the
 enormous bones seen at the Malouines at a considerable
 distance in the interior,—the land has either been raised up,
 or the sea has sunk down. In the first supposition, we can
 not conceive any other cause susceptible of raising up si
 milar masses, but volcanic eruptions as frequent as energetic.
 But independentlv of a multitude of other reasons which
 tend to make us reject a cause of this kind, do we not know-
 that these grand convulsions of nature always leave behind
 them indelible traces of the disorder and confusion by which.,
 they are exclusively characterized ? But nothing of this kind
  is observed in the madreporic countries. I have already
  spoken of the regular forms and insensible gradations of
  the island of Timor, an image and production at the same
  time of the calmness of nature : I have already quoted the
  ingenious observations of captain Vancouver, which alone
  are sufficient to show, how peaceable was the cause which
  left these madreporic eminences uncovered, whether its
  action was slow, rapid, or even instantaneous. Labillar-
  diere made similar observations : the two Forsters have fur-
                   . •    .                              nished

                   Oil some zoological Facts
nished us with valuable facts on the same subject: and
M. Fleurieu himself, having given the opinion of these
two naturalists, expresses himself as follows :—"To which
of our common systems can we refer the origin of that pro
digious number of small spots, either scattered or formed
into groupes, or united into archipelagoes, which, accord
 ing to the most accurate researches, appear to be still in a
state of increase ? These islands are' met with at the di
 stance of 1500 leagues from the continent and from large
islands, and in the middle of a sea the depth of which can
not be measured with the sounding-line. The attentive
eye of the enlightened observer has discovered nothing in
these low islands which indicates the former existence, re
mains, or traces of burnt-out volcanoes, or volcanoes swal
lowed up by the sea; nothing which can show that they were
produced by any convulsion of the globe : every thing, on
the contrary, announces that they have been the production
of ages; that the work is not yet completed; and that a
gradual increase in them must take place: but that a long
succession of years is necessary to render it sensible." The
unanimous opinion, therefore, of all observers, while it re
jects every idea of volcanic origin, destroys thereby every
other opinion which might suppose that the earth itself
could rise above the surface of the waves. This immediate
consequence then results, that the water must have sunk
down below its antient level'.
   A very delicate but interesting question here occurs :
What became of the water of the sea when it abandoned
the summits of the mountains formed in its bosom? The
solution of this question appears to me to have an imme
diate dependence on another of the same nature, and no
less difficult :—Whence arises that enormous quantity of
calcareous matter, which, as we see, performs so extensive
a part in the revolutions of the earth ? Here, also, an im
mense field is opened to imagination and hypothesis. Sar
tisfied myself with having collected, compared, and ar
ranged the most correct observations, that I might deduce
from them the most general and most certain consequences, '
I shall give, in a few words, those which I conceive to re
sult from the numerous facts here stated.
   1st, From the absolute difference of the two races in
New Holland and Van Diemen's Land, as well as from the
absence of the dog in the latter, 1 think myself authorized
to conclude that the separation of these two countries must
have taken place at a period much more remote than may
at first be supposed.
                                                      2d, The

           applicable to the Theory of the Earth.         203
    2d, The exclusion of all relation between these two races ;
the darker colour of the inhabitants of Van Diemen's Land j
their short, woolly, and curled hair, in a country much
colder than New Holland, where the contrary is the case ;
appear to me to be new proofs of the imperfection of our
systems in regard to the intercourse of nations, their trans
migrations, and the influence of climate on man.
   3d, From the petrified shells and zoophytes which I ob
served in different places and at different heights in Van
Diemen's Land, New Holland, and Timor, I infer that the
sea formerly covered that part of the Austral lands which
reaches from the 44th degree of south latitude to the 9th,
over an extent of 700 leagues from south to north : a result
the more valuable, as this immense region was the only one
which remained to be known under this point of view.
   4th, Having given this explanation as simple as satisfac
tory in regard to the formation of those beautiful calcareous
incrustations so frequent on the south-west and north-west
coasts of New Holland, I have taken an opportunity of
proving how difficult it is, in certain cases, to distinguish
bodies altered in this manner from those which are really
fossils.
   5th, In my observations on solid zoophytes I have con
firmed their almost absolute exclusion from the most Austral
seas of the Antarctic hemisphere ; I have proved that this
important family of animals is banished by nature to the
middle of the warmest seas, to the most peaceful equi
noctial regions, and those which border on them.
   6th, We saw them there, in the state of petrifactions,
forming all the low islands of the great equinoctial ocean,
and some, at least, of the highest in 'that sea and in the
Indian Ocean.                                               . .
   7th, We found them there, in the living state, inter
spersing the sea with new dangers, multiplving the reefs,
enlarging the islands and archipelagoes, encumbering the
harbours and ports, and every where throwing up new cal
careous mountains.
   While man, therefore, who styles himself the king of
nature, rears, with labour, on the surface of the earth those
frail monuments of his pride, which the breath of time
must soon destroy; feeble animals, which have so long
escaped his observation, and which he still disdains to no
tice, multiply at the bottom of the ocean those immense
testimonies of power which brave ages, and which our
imagination itself can hardly conceive.
                                                XXXI. Letter

                           [   204    ]
XXXI. Letter to M. Lacepede, of Paris, on the Natural
   History of -North America.            By Benjamin Smith
   Barton, M. D. Professor of Materia Medica, Natural
   History, and Botany, in the University of Pennsylvania.
                      [Concluded from p. 103-}
Our country, as you know, is very rich in birds. A
considerable number of these have been described, or men
tioned, by Buffon, Pennant, and other writers. But the
ornithology of the North American continent is very im
perfectly understood. Many of our birds have never been
correctly, if at all, described. Some of these undescribed
species are large birds ; such as a species of plotus, .called
in Carolina the snake-bird ; not to mention others. But it
is a matter of more consequence to study the manners of
those birds that have already been discovered, than merely ¦
to detect new species. I flatter myself that I have made
considerable progress in the study of the mores of our birds.
I have been particularly attentive to their instincts as we
call them, and have even digested my collection of facts on
this subject into order. These facts will form a part of a
large work on the Instinct of Animals. It js now com
pletely ascertained that some of the American species of
swallows remain among us in a torpid state. They retire
into the crevices of rocks, into the hollows of trees, and
other similar situations, and rest, for some months, in a
lethargic sleep more or less profound. The species con
cerning which I have the most correct information, as to
¦what regards their torpidity, are the purple martin (hirundo
purpurea), and the chimney-bird (hirundo pelasgia). Both
of these species, I repeat it, do sometimes become torpid
in the climate of Pennsylvania. It is probable that the
other species do the same. But I still adhere to my'former
opinion : I contend that the great body of American swal
lows, of different species, are really migratory birds ; that
is, they leave the climates of the United States on the
 coming on of cold weather, and retire southward, to more
 favourable latitudes. These facts show us how much birds
 can accommodate themselves to different situations, and
 give weight to an opinion which I have long entertained,
 that all animals are capable of the torpid condition. Even
 the little humming-bird (trochilus colulris), which is un
questionably a (generally) migratory bird, is sometimes
overtaken by the colds of our climate, and, on such occa
sions, has been known to fall into the torpid state.
                                                      I lately

          On the Natural tiistory of North America.                 2(05
   I lately ascertained a fact in ornithology, at once singular
and interesting. It is well known that the anas sbonsa of
Linnaeus, called in the United States summer duck, breeds
iu the hollows of trees, on the banks of rivers, or in islands
at a considerable height from the ground. The young ones,
soon after they are hatched, descend the sides of the tree,
and thus make their way into the water. 1 do not know
of a similar fact in the history of birds.
    I have read, with much pleasure, count Morozzo's letter
to you respecting a parrot hatched at Rome*. I am sorry,
however,- to find so sensible a writer adhering to the para
dox, that " the parrots both of the old and new continent
never pass the tropics, and seem confined to a zone of 23°
on each side of the equator ; and that " in their wild state
they never pass these limits, which nature seems to have
prescribed to them." The parrots of America are, I assure
you, much greater voyagers than count Morozzo supposes.
They sail far beyond the tropics. They are frequently found
in immense flocks upon the river Ohio as high as the lati
tude of 40° : nay, a very large flight of these birds has been
seen, on the eastern side of the United Slates, as high a3
the latitude of 42° t-
     From the birds I pass to the oviparous quadrupeds and
 other amphibia. The American animals of this class have
 been very imperfectly investigated. Notwithstanding your
 labours in your inestimable work on the Quadrupedes Ovi-
pares, and the labours of Schoepf, we possess several spe
 cies of testudo which have entirely escaped your attention-.
 In the western parts of Pennsylvania, Virginia, &c. there
 is a species of this genus considerably allied to, but still
 different from, the one which you have called la molle. The
 new species is called by some of our Indians pi-si-li-Tul-pe,
 which literally- signifies " the soft-shelled turtle." They
 are very prolific, and both their flesh and eggs are deemed
 excellent eating. Our western rivers, such as the Ohio and
 its branches, likewise possess a very remarkable undescribed
 species of lacerta, if, indeed, it be not entirely a new genus.
 It is sometimes seen near twenty inches in length. By the
 white people it is called alligator, though it is very different
 from the southern animal of this name. Its whole body,
 •but in particular the head, contains a milk-like fluid. Thi3
 animal lives upon fish, frogs, &c. It is often taken with
  the line and hook. The Indians say it is poisonous : but
      • See Philosophical Magazine, vol. xvi. p. 318.
      f See my Fragments of the Natural History of Pennsylvania, part i.
                                                                      this

206      ' On the Natural History of North America.
this is a doubtful point. Several of our species of rana ara
entirely undescribed by naturalists. I may, with great con
fidence, make the same observation concerning our ser
pents. The little black rattlesnake, which inhabits the
marshy grounds, is, I think, a new species. This specie3
is seldom more than a foot in length, and is deemed ex
tremely venomous. I suspect the species described by Mr.
de Beauvois (in the Transactions of our Society), and which
he calls crotalus adamantinus, is the same as that which is
found in South America. I think it is not quite certain
that the crotalus horridus, the most common species of
North American rattlesnake, extends to South America.
But I do not wish to be understood as speaking positively
on this subject.
   .The history of the rattlesnake is by no means complete.
I have, within the last two years, devoted a great deal of
attention to this curious subject. I have had a number of
living rattlesnakes under my immediate care. I have made
a considerable number of experiments to ascertain the ef
fects of the venom of this reptile upon different animals.
It is unquestionably a most powerful poison. It often kills
in a very few minutes. The effects of the poison are very
various, not only in different species of animals, but even
in different individuals of the same species. It sometimes
induces most violent pains, which, if we may judge from
the cries of the bitten animal, continue nearly to the close
of its life. At other times, the poison induces death with
out creating any or but very little pain. Hitherto my prin
cipal experiments have been made with warm-blooded ani
mals, such as dogs, cats, and rabbits. I am inclined to
think that the venom exerts very inconsiderable effects upon
 cold-blooded animals. Warm-blooded animals that have
 been most violently affected by the poison, sometimes strug
 gle through the' danger, and perfectly recover, although no
 remedy has been applied. This may serve to show how
many inert vegetables have acquired the reputation of curing
 the bite of the rattlesnake. I have ventured to apply a por
 tion of the undiluted venom of a rattlesnake, recently
 thrown from its fang, to my tongue. I made this experi
ment in the presence of several gentlemen. But 1 do not
 think I shall venture to repeat the experiment. I did not
 find the venom insipid, as the abbe Fontana and his servant
 did the venom of the viper. It had, on the contrary, a
 peculiarly pungent taste, and left, for a considerable time,
 a pretty strong sense of heat upon my tongue and fauces.
My observations have extended to eve"ry thing that might
            7                                            tend

          On the Natural History of North America^           207
tend to illustrate the history of this wonderful reptile. I
have found that its powers of digestion are very strong.
Even the bony fabric of the animals which it devours is
completely digested, or reduced to the state of a fluid mortar.
This I have several times observed. Great, however, as is
the faculty of digestion in this reptile, it is capable of living
a very long time without any food, unless, perhaps, a small
quantity of water. One of my rattlesnakes lived, without
having ate one grain of any solid food, from the 28th of
April to about the 9th of March following. It then died;
but upon examining it I found it very fat. I have now two
of these reptiles in my possession. One of them has eaten
nothing since the middle of October last. The rattlesnake
#heds its skin at least once every year. During the two
summers that I have been making observations upon these
animals, the old ones have shed their skins only once each
year, viz. about the end of July. A young one, however,
shed its skin twice in the course of the year, and that with
in five weeks. A rattle, or bell, is formed with each cast
ing of the skin. It appears, therefore, that the full grown
reptile generally acquires one bell annually. But 1 have
elsewhere shown * that we cannot, with confidence, calculate
the age of the animal from the number of its bells. I have,
,after much inquiry, ascertained the period at which these
reptiles copulate. The Indians are my authorities. They
assert that it is when the Indian com (zea mays) is in
flower; that is, about the 10th or 15th of July, between
the latitudes of 39° and 41°.
    I have had a number of very fine drawings made to repre
sent the anatomical structure of the crotalus. These draw
ings it is my intention to have engraved, by some of the best
 of your artists, for my Anatomy and Physiology of the Rat
 tlesnake; a work which I hope to publish in three or four
 years. It will contain every thing I have observed, or have
 been able to collect, relative to the structure, the functions,
 the manners, &c. of the crotalus horridus ; together with
 observations on some other species of the same genus, and
 on various species of coluber, &c. all natives of the United
 States.
    Perhaps no country of equal extent is richer in insects
than the United States. In no country is it an object of
 more importance to attend to the history of these animals ;
 for among them are enlisted some of the greatest enemies
 to the labours and industry of man. The heats of our cli-
                    * Supplement to a Memoir, &c.
                                                           mates

208        On the Natural History of North Americd.
liiates are extremely favourable to the generation and it*"'
crease of insects : our colds are not sufficient to destroy
them. We do not cultivate one important vegetable that
is not exposed to the devastations of some highly injurious
species of insect. Our wheat, vou know, has for many
years greatly suffered by a species of tipula, called by us
the Hessian fly. This, at present* is much less formidable
in its ravages than it has been. The curculio, or weavil,
which it is highly probable we received from Europe, is
still very destructive in the southern parts of the United
States. A species of cimex> not, I think, described, as
sists other insects in destroving the finest of all the cerealia j
I mean the zea mays, or Indian corn. Partly owing to the
ravages of insects, it is to be feared that, in the course of
 a very few years, there will be a great scarcity of that fine
fruit the peach in our country *. I could mention a hun
 dred other insects of the most pernicious kinds. It is a
 melancholy fact, that the industry of my countrymen has
 been much more exerted in destroving the insects which
 infest one of the vilest of plants, I mean the tobacco, than
 in endeavouring to stop the ravages of any of those species
 which lay waste the most useful of our crops !
    You must not, however, suppose, from what I have said,
 that the study of entomology is entirely neglected in the
 United States. On the contrary, this very important branch,
 of natural history (for such, when it is properly cultivated,
 it unquestionably is,) has several votaries, some of them ar
 dent votaries, in our country. The principal of these is
 the reverend Mr. Valentine Melscheimer, a clergyman, who
 employs a portion of his time in the cultivation of this sci
 ence, which has always been deemed favourable to religion.
 This gentleman has discovered several hundred new species
 of American insects, a catalogue and description of which
 may, perhaps, be published. I must still regret, however,
 that it is chiefly the nomenclature of the North American
 insects that is attended to. Other more important parts of
 their natural history are too much neglected. Some pro
 gress,' .however, has already been made in discovering re
 medies against the ills which result from these animals.
 Moreover the useful properties of several other species have
 been discovered. Various species of the genus lytta of Fa-
 bricius inhabit our country. The Lytta vittata of this cn-
    * The unripe fruit of the peach is greatly injured by a species of curculio ;
 but the insects most pernicious to this tree are two lepidopterous inseefs, of
 the genus zygana of Fabricius. These, while in the larva state, destroy the
  bark of the root.
                                                                  tomologist

            On the Natural History of North America.         209
  tomologist is called potatoe-fly, because it abounds upon
  the stems and leaves of the solarium tuberosum, or potatoe.
  It inhabits various other species of vegetables; such as the
  flax (linum), the beet (beta}, black snake-root \uclcea rd-
  cemosa), &c. This insect has been found to be a very effi
  cacious substitute for the cantharides of the shops, and is
  now employed, with this view, by many of our physicians.
     I shall conclude this part of my letter by observing', that
  I still continue my inquiries into the natural history of the
  North American tribes. On this subject I have read before
  our Philosophical Society a discourse, which it is my inten
  tion to publish in a much more enlarged and perfect shape.
, Since the publication of my N«!w Views, I have made great
  progress in collecting and comparing the languages of the
  American tribes with one another, and with the languages
  of Ilurope and Asia. Every step I take only serves to con
  firm me in my former opinion, that the (known) radical
  languages of "North America are very few in number, and
  that all the Americans are of Asiatic origin. I have lately
  received from Mexico an inestimable treasure,—a collection
  of a number of vocabularies of the old Mexican dialects.
  Between these and the dialects of Asia I find great affinities,
  sufficient to convince me that the Mexican nations (con
  trary to the paradox of Camper) are not of European ori
  gin; much more than sufficient to excite in me the greatest
  surprise that the learned abbe Clarigero, after leisurely
  comparing the Mexican languages with those of the old
  world, should have found no affinity between them. The
  affinities, I repeat it, are very great.
     Of all the branches of natural history, none, Tthink, is
  so little cultivated in the United States as mineralogy. This
  is the more remarkable, not merely by reason of the great
  utility of this branch of the science, but because its. sister
  science, I mean chemistry, is ardently cultivated, in dif
  ferent parts of the country, particularly in Philai^elphia.
  Mineralogy, however, is not entirely neglected in the United
  States. It possesses, among other votaries, an ingenious
  cultivator in Dr. Adam Seybert, to whom we are indebted
  for the discovery of a mineral which is supposed to be co
  rundum or adamantine spar. This is found to be abundant
  in the neighbourhood of Philadelphia. Mineralogy and
  chemistry, and I may add the other branches of natural
  history, have lately sustained a loss, not perhaps easily to
  be repaired, in the death of Mr. Thomas P. Smith, a young
  man of the most capacious mind, and of the warmest en
  thusiasm for the attainment and promotion of science.
     Vol. 22. No. 87. August 1S0A.         O              Mines

 2 10        On the Nalvrdt.Histoty of North America.
     Mines of various kinds are very abundant in the United
 States. We are extremely rich in iron, coppery and lead.
 The iron mines of Pennsylvania are, perhaps, inexhaustible.
  Prodigious quantities of copper, nearly ¦ in a native state,
 have oeen discovered near Lake Superior. A bed of cin
 nabar has been discovered in Virginia ; and several veins of
 plumbago have been detected ill Pennsylvania and other
 parts of the Union. As to gold and silver, these, as yet,
 are principally to be' found in the fields that are cultivated
 by the virtuous hand of agriculture. Our country is ex
 tremely rich in coal. This useful article has hitherto beer*
 found in the greatest abundance in the western parts of the
 United States, beyond the Alleghaney mountains. It is in."
 this same part of the continent that the principal salt springs,
 and mines of sal-gem or rock-salt, are found. In a few years,
 we shall, in all probability, be able to do without the salt
 of Europe. Hitherto very little sal-gem has been detected
 within the limits of the United States. I am not, indeed,
 certain that any has been detected. It must, however,
 abound at no great distance from the immense salt springs,
 which are now found in so many parts of our country. Of.
 sal -gem, however, prodigious quantities have been disco
 vered in the country that is watered by some of the branches
 of the Missouri, west of the Mississippi *.
     I have lately returned from a three months tour (which
 had been principally undertaken for the recovery of my
 health) through the western parts of Virginia. I have visited
 many of the most interesting natural objects in that part of
the United States, and have brought home a very considera
ble collection of vegetables. In travelling over some of the
principal ranges of our mountains, particularly the Blue
Ridge and the North Mountain, I have not observed that
auy of them are purely granitical. The stone composing
these mountains is, indeed, various; but I think the pre
dominant species is a petro-silex, of different degrees of
hardness. Veins of schistus are sometimes found upon
some parts of these mountains ; but such veins are princi
pally abundant about their bases. I have paid particular
attention to the declivities of the mountains. These I find
to be much less regular than Mr- Kirwan's ingenious ob
servations (concermng mountains in general) would lead us
   * Since writing the above, I have teamed that very large quantities of sul
phate of magnesia, or Epsom salt, have been discovered in some of the cal
careous Caves in the western parts of Virginia. It is also said that the borate
of soda, or corftmen borai, has been found in others of these caves. But this,
latt report requires further confirmation.                     s .
                                                                   .to

             On the Natural History of North America.        211
    to suppose. The general range of these American moun
   tains is north-east and south-west. In some places the
   north-west and in others the south-east sides are the
   steepest. The valley which is comprehended between the
   North Mountains and the Blue Ridge is principally calca
   reous. Very generally the veins of limestone' run parallel
- with the mountains, that is, liorth-east and south-west.
   When the nearest mountain varies from this direction, I
   observed that the adjacent strata in the. valley do the same.
   These strata are sometimes perpendicular in their position,
   but never horizontal. It is remarkable, however, that most
  of the strata in the country west of the great Alleghaney
   mountains (which are to the west of the North Mountains)
   are arranged horizontally. This observation applies to the
  strata of limestone, schistus, freestone, and even to the
  stone coal and iron ore. This difference in the disposition
  of the strata east and west of the Alleghaney mountains is
  well entitled to the attention of naturalists. I have made
  it the subject of an express memoir.
      It has long been conjectured that the calcareous valley
  which I have mentioned was once an arm of the ocean.
  This opinion has been maintained by Mr. Jefferson in his
  Notes on the State of Virginia. I entertain no doubt as to
  the antient covering of this valley by the sea, especially
  since my late researches have convinced me that the calca
  reous strata abound with marine exuviae of various kinds.
  It is a circumstance very remarkable, that marine vestiges
 are much less abundant in the calcareous strata that are
 nearest to the present ocean, than in those which are at a
 much greater distance from it. Thus, although immense
 quarries of marble have been opened in the neighbourhood
 of Philadelphia, I have never yet been able to discover,
 though I have for several years been in search of them,
 the, most distant semblance of a shell, or any thing of the
 kind, in hundreds of masses of this marble that I have exa
 mined. I do not, however, assert that such vestiges do not
 exist in the eastern Pennsylvania marble.
     This very long letter was written principally for the
 amusement of my learned friend, who, following tbe foot
 steps of the immortal French Pliny, cannot but be interested
 in hearing any thing that relates to the progress of the great
 science of natural history. The letter is at your free dis*
 posal. I am, with very great respect, my dear sir,
                       Your friend and humble servant, &c.
 To M. Lacepede.                   Benjamin Smith Barton.
Philadelphia, October 31, 1802.
i:                              O 2                XXXII. On

                                [   212     ]
XX XII. On feeding Cattle with green Food; together
   with other ingenious and 'valuable Observations in Agri
   culture. By Mr. Edward Powrs*.                          .•'*
I conceive the principal object respecting agriculture in
the present state of this country, is to procure the greatest
possible supply of the necessaries of life within the kingdom
itself, arid one principal means of doing this is, to raise the
greatest produce from a given quantity of land.
   To effect this, every encouragement should be given by
land-owners to the cultivation of grain and turnips ; be
cause I look upon the produce of an acre of grain to be, to
the produce of an acre of grass, in the proportion of at least
fifteen to two, in furnishing the necessaries of life. I sup
pose the grain made into bread, and the grass digested by
a feeding beast, and changed into an increase of weight.
 ' One great means of increasing the growth of grain and
turnips, I think, would be to encourage the farmer to make
as much manure as possible. This would be effected by
allowing him to sell all his wheat and rye straw, with the
restriction of laying out the whole price in manure ; and by
gentlemen, who have land in their hands, trying the expe
riment of keeping their cattle and horses in the house upon
green food great part of the summer.                              i ". • ,
   For these last six years I have sold all the wheat straw I
did not want, for thatching and the beds of certain kinds of
horses,' and can assure you that the same farm has pro
duced for some years back one-third more grain, and keeps
double the live stock it did six years ago.
   As a proof that what I say of keeping cattle in the house
in summer upon green food is not matter of theory only,
but of practice, I shall mention my own experience.
   For these last five years I have kept eight or ten wag
gon horses in the stable upon clover, cut and carried for
them once a day; the small waste that they made was
thrown into a low cratch (or receptacle, with staves on each
side) for my pigs, which have generally been from 25 to
40. My horses and pigs, thus fed, have eaten, between the
beginning of May and corn harvest, from 2-J-' to 3£ acres,
according to the goodness of the clever. My horses have
been, by this means, in much better condition than if turned
into a field ; there has been a saving of at least eight or ten
acres of clover for other stock -r a great deal of the richest
          * F.-oiii General Fiezu of the AgticuiUTt of Shmpshirf.   ¦      \
                                                                  manure

                  On feeding Cattle with green Food.                        213.
 manure has been made (much more, and richer, than in the
 same time in winter), and the additional daily expense has
 been, one man less than half his time, in cutting, raking,
 and carrying with a horse and cart, one load each day.
                               Experiment.
             Dr.              £. s. d.               Cr.             £. s. d.
 One man half a day for 13             Ei^h t acres of clover saved
    weeks, at 4s. per week 2 12 0         by this experiment, at
 One horse 13 weeks, at 6s. , 3 18 0      50s. per acre       -     20 0 0
                                        Manure, at least, -          10 10 0
                              6 10 0
 Pro6t                       24 0 0
                             30 10 0                                30 10 0
¦ The first year I tried the experiment the manure made
 was estimated by a good farmer at 20l. ; but 1 wish to make
 allowance for the value of the straw, and the manure that
 would have been made by the horses standing in the stable
 the usual hours in summer.
     I must endeavour to remove an objection that mav per
 haps be made to this experiment, by observing, that I can
 not think land injured any more by the green food being
 cut by the scythe, than by cattle or horses ; and as to the
 dung that is dropped in summer, it breeds flies, and does
 more harm than good. I have ever thought land exhausted
 infinitely more*by its produce being suffered to ripen and
 seed, than by its being cut in a green state. The advan
 tage I had derived from this experiment, induced me last
 summer to try whether cattle might not be treated in the
 same way.
     I began with putting into stalls 19; I afterwards increased
 my stock fed in this manner to 50, consisting of horses,
 feeding cattle, milking cows and colts, besides a la:g± quan*
 tity of pigs.
     The horses, as usual, answered well.
     The feeding cattle came on much faster than I ever saw
 them in summer. The milking cows fed very much, and
 milked very well. The colts did well, and lived chiefly
 upon the refuse of the cattle. The pigs, as usual, ate the
 refuse of the horses.             :
 ; The quantity of land run over with thescythe for this
  purpose was : •" ,
     Fourteen acres of trefoil, very modeigite, on account of
 <h«*clover root having nied in winter.                         . ¦ ¦
     Two'acres of vetches, very moderate, on account of the
  severe" winter. — •.>,¦•...? i -re-.:                    ,. y ..-i ...if.
     #jVe a4fe*-iof vfery. good grass. .:.<•.../        ,.. \! .;•,.<;\i ;?*j
 d »na                    J          Q 3                                    Th»

214            On feeding Cattle with green Food.
    The cattle were turned out late at night for about six op
seven hours.
    The trefoil caused some trouble, on account of the cattle
sometimes swelling, but brought them on very well, though
they throve best upon the winter vetch or tares, and upon
the grass. I'he daily expense was 6ne old map of more
than 70, to feed and clean them, another young man tq
cut, rake, and carry the fpod with a single hprse cart.
    If this stock had been turned out I should suppose they
would have run over at least 60 acres, if th? crop had been
food, and much more., if the indifferent trefoil is consi-
   ered.
 •• '                     Experiment.
           Dr.           £. s. A            Cr.           £. s. i
Two men 13 weeks, at Hi. 9 ,ti 0 Twentynihe acres saved,
One hone ditto . 7s. 4 11 0         at 50s.    -   «     97 10 O
                         18 13 0
Profit                   88 17 0
                         97 10 -0
    Any person that intends to practise this method should
begin to cut his green food so early in spring that he may
be able again to mow the same ground from hay to corn
harvest.
    I have before observed, that I never saw cattle in summer
come on so fast. I speak this, not only from my own ob
servation, but from that also of several farmers and but
chers, who came through curiosity or business frequently
to visit them. The most feeding green food is winter
vetches ; and the most advantageous mode of cultivating
them, I think, is to plough up a clean stubble (that is in
tended for turnips), manure it, and sow it with vetches
soon after corn harvest. When the vetches are all cut in
May and June, or rather in the latter month, the field may
 be ploughed and sown with turnips for a winter crop.
     From com harvest till September 22, my cattle were all
out in the fields at grass. I then took up thirty into stalls,
and fed them with turnips which had been sown early in
May, and which had arrived at a very good size. My first
field of turnips has been carried off, ploughed and sown
with wheat, which has been above the ground spme time,
and looks very premising,
    I have practised this scheme of sowing turnips in May,
carrying them off before the beginning or end of the fol
lowing November, and then -sowing the piece with wheat,
for these last three vears. And I have found this wheat

              On feeding Cattle ivitk green Food.           315
much more productive than any sown after any other crop
or fallow. I am speaking of dry sown land.
   One year I got up all . the turnips of a field, topped and
butted them (throwing the tops and butts in heaps by them
selves), carried the top* immediately as they were cut to a
bare stubble for my cattle and sheep, and laid the butts up
in large heaps either under cover or in my stack-yard, with
straw over them. . Where there was no straw in layers be-,
tween them, they kept for two or three months ; some that
had layers of straw every foot or half yard perpendicular,
soon began to decay near the straw, which was made to
heat by the moisture from the turnips.
   From these experiments upon turnips, and from observ
ing thai dry land of my own, though it produced crops of
grain or turnips for many years together, with the change
of clover (mown twice in the same year) only once in five
years, did not lose any of its power, I have conceived that
much more grain might be produced upon well cultivated
farms. Wet land that is well cultivated might bear, in
regular succession, crops of turnips, wheat, and barley or
oats. Dry sound land may also bear the same succession
when an early crop of turnips is wanted; and when turnips
are wanted to stand the winter, a succession of turnips,
barley, and wheat.
   I think it is much more advantageous to carry all the
turnips to cattle in stalls (except a very few left for sheep)
than to eat them on the land, because they furnish much
more food and manure. I am aware that many gentlemen
of landed property will object to this constant tillage : in
answer to which I shall only observe, that it has been my
opinion and practice never to have any grass Jand that is
not worth 40s. an acre; never to plough my grass land,
but to till the rest constantly, with the intermission now and
then of turnips and clover, the latter only for one year.
   The farm I have above alluded to is about 240 acres, of
which I have in grass land about 90 acres ; in tillage for
grain and turnips about 120 acres. The rest is generally
clover, unless I have a single fallow for w heat upon a field
of wet land.
   I repeat it once more, that the interests of the public, of
the landlord, and tenant, (for I know of no distinction when
many years are taken into consideration) are united in the
greatest produce of the necessaries of life ; and that if arable
land is kept clean and full of manure, it receives no injury
jfrpm producing the greatest quantity of grain. The in-
                               D4                       creased

 2\d            On feeding Cattle with green Food.
  creased produce of land benefits the public in too obvious a
  manner to enlarge upon. It benefits the landlord, by his
  heftig able, at the expiration of certain fair intervals, to raise
  the rent of his farm ; and the tenant or occupier, by getting
  more profit from a given quantity of land, and with nearly
  a given capital.
    . I have recommended turnips once in three years, because
  I think land requires cleaning once in that time, and be
  cause it is. thus effected without losing the benefit of a crop
  in any year.
- * Much has been lately said about the superior advantage
  of cattle over horses in farmers' teams. I think some horses
  must be kept for the farmer to take his grain to market,
  and to carry his coal and lime. If he is so near a large
 town that he can draw at least two load of dung in a day,
 he will also want them for that purpose. Other team-work
  may very well be done by cattle.. But I think cows are
 much tnore useful and beneficial than oxen, and that it
  would be an advantage to the kingdom if few or no oxen
 Were reared. The uses of cattle are to work, milk, and
  feed. I have seen barren cows work as well as oxen ; they
  require less keep, and walk faster. , Oxen are of no use to
  the dairy, and they will not feed so fast as. cows.
      When first I commenced farmer I followed the example
  of my predecessor, in feeding chiefly oxen; but I soon
  found that cows fed much faster and on less meat, and for
  some years past have carefully avoided having any oxen in
 my stalls.
                              Meadows.
      It- should he considered as a great object of every land
  lord, or his steward, to procure watered or flooded mea
  dows.
      The best means of doing this is, to place the farm-yard
  on such an eminence of .the farm that a stream can be pro
  cured to run through it, and afterwards over the greatest
  quantity of meadow land.
      Common meadows ought to be well manured once in
  three years, and will then produce one ton and a half of
  hay per acre, and a pasture from the middle of September
  to Christmas. ,
      Good watered meadows will bear to be grazed from the
  beginning or middle of August till May following, and will,
  between that time and hay harvest, produce one-fourth of
  hay more than the other.
                                                                The

              On feeding Cattle with green Food.          217
   The difference of the profit of watered meadows over
common, I think, is annually as underneath :
   One-third of 5 1. (the expense of manuring an
       acre of land)       -       -       -        1 13 4
   One-half ton of hay additional          -        15 0
    Difference of the value of grazing     -        0 118
                                                £.3     10   O
    But besides the produce and profit, there are two other
very great advantages in watered meadows. The one, saving
manure for arable land, the other keeping the pastures free
from stock the beginning of spring.
    I have hitherto only mentioned a stream that runs through
a farm-yard, but I have frequently observed very great ad
vantages derived from nothing but clear spring water being
turned over grass land.
    If a farmer has a greater command of water than he
wants for his meadows and pasture land, he may occasion
ally till some of them for two or three vears, and thev will
produce great crops without manure. I saw this practised
with great success, this last summer, by the late Mr. Bake-
well, of Dishley, Leicestershire.
                          Size of Farms.
    Much has been lately said upon the size of farms, from
the high price of grain being supposed to arise from the
opulence of the farmer, and his being able to keep back
his grain from the market. I might combat this assertion
by the well known fact, that at the harvest of 1 7 94 there
was not a fortnight's consumption of wheat in the king
 dom, and yet the price was moderate. I might also add,
 that there never was so much wheat brought to market be
fore Christmas as has been for these last two years, and that
 it has only been when wheat was plentiful that any of the
 stock remained in stacks at harvest ; but I think the high
 price is known by sensible thinking people to arise from
 other causes. I shall therefore proceed to observe, that
 farms of from 2001. to SOOl. per annum, and upwards, are
 much more beneficial to the public, the landlord, and te
 nant, than farms of from 50l. to lOOl. per annum. The
 public are benefited by fewer people and horses being kept
 upon one farm of 3001. per annum, than upon six of 50l.
 each to do the same work, and therefore by a greater pro
 duce being left, after the supply of the families, for the
 consumption of the kingdom at large.
                                                           The

 818              New Process for decomposing
    The landlord is benefited by having fewer buildings to
 erect and repair, and by having more opulent tenants. -The
 benefit of a large farm to the occupier I need" not enlarge
 upon. The misery of the small farmer, under 50l. per an
 num, is extreme. He has not constant employment for
 himself and family (if at all large) upon his farm ; he is in
 general above working day labour, is unable to exert him
 self and improve his small tract of land, and sits by the
 fire-side with his family great part of the winter, lamenting
 that his farm and his capital are not larger, and brooding
 nothing but discontent and indolence. .
    But while I am making these observations upon the ad
 vantage of large over small farms, let me notice the great
 benefit and. comfort that the common workman, in any
 line, derives from sufficient grass land being attached to
 his dwelling to keep a cow in summer and winter. The
 landlord will also receive benefit, as well as self-satisfaction,
 from being the cause of the plenty that the produce of a
 cow makes in a large and poor family.
    I can from experience assert, that the cottager can afford
 to give his landlord one-third, if not one-half, more for that
 small quantity of land than a farmer. The value of the cow
 is generally more than one year's rent, and the addition of
 a small cow-house is a trifling expense.
    I cannot help recommending this the more strongly, be
 cause I know well, from experience, the astonishing com
 fort and advantage that a poor family receives from the pro
 duce of its cow, and that it is also for the interest as well
 as inward satisfaction of the landlord.
 XXXIII. New Processfor decomposing Svlpliate of Barytes
    in order to prepare the Muriate of that Earth ; with a
    Method ofpreparing the Muriate. By M. Goettung*.
 jVIubiate of barytes is now so generally used, that every
 improvement in the mode of preparing it must be favoura
bly received. M. Goettling's new method is as follows:
. The decomposition of sulphate of barytes by means' of
 charcoal requires a strong fire continued a long time, and
 never succeeds completely. This is owing, on the one
 hand, to the strongly oxygenated quality of the acidifying
 principle in the sulphuric acid, so that in its translation to
                * From Taschea-luch fur Schcidkun.Hlsr.
                                                               the,

                     Sulphate vf Barytes.                    21 9
the charcoal it gives out but little caloric ; and on the other
hand, to the difficulty of imparting a certain degree of heat
to a mixture into which a large quantity of a body that is so
bad a conductor of heat as charcoal enters. To remedy the
first of these defects, I had already proposed to increase the
proportion of charcoal, a little, and t;> incorporate with the
mixture of charcoal and sulphate or barytes a twentieth of
nitrate of potash. To remedy the second, Mr. Goettling
advises to add muriate of soda to the mixture, which serve*
at the same time as a conductor of heat and a flux. The
following is his method :
    Four parts of native sulphate of barytes in fine powder
arc to be mixed with one part of muriate of soda and half a
part of charcoal powder. This mixture is to be pressed hard
into a Hessian crucible, and exposed for an hour and half
to a red heat in a good wind-furnace. After it has grown
cold, the mass is to be reduced to a coarse powder, and
boiled for a moment with sixteen parts of water. The li
quor is then to be filtered, and kept in well stopped bottles.
    The time of exposure to heat may be shortened to one
half, if the quantity of muriate of soda be doubled, and the
matter occasionally stirred. In this case, too, double the
quantity of water should be used to lixiviate the mass.
    To prepare muriate of barytes with this lixivium" of sul-
phuret of barytes, which at the same time holds in solution
muriate oi soda, muriatic acid is to be added in separate
portions till sulphurated hydrogen gas is no longer extri
cated. The liquor is then to be filtered, a little hot water
is to be poured on the residuum, and the liquor is to be
 evaporated to a pellicle. The lixivium being then filtered
afresh, is to be set to crystallize ; the muriate of soda, which
js much moTe soluble in water than the muriate of barytes,
and not more soluble with heat than without, is not depo
 sited by cooling, and the muriate of barytes crystallizes
alone.'
    The remaining lixivium is to be evaporated and set to
 crystallize again, and this is to be repeated till no more
 crystals of muriate of barvtes are formed.
    The barytic salt thus obtained, if care be taken not to
 employ an excess of muriatic acid, is perfectly white, on
 account of the hydro-sulphuret, by which the iron and
 pther metallic substances are precipitated. To be more
 certain that it contains no muriate of soda, the different
 products of the crystallization should be mixed together,
 dissolved, and re- crystallized, '
                                                   XXXIV. Re

  r                            ['220      J
XXXIV. Report on the Means of measuring the initial
 i Velocity of Projectiles thrown from Cannon, both in an
    inclined and a horizontal Direction. Read in the Phy
    sical and Mathematical Class of the French National
    Institute in the Month of December 1S04*.
The class charged Messrs. Bossut, Monge, and myself,
to give in a report on the means for measuring the initial
velocity of projectiles thrown from cannon, proposed by
colonel Grobert, who constructed an apparatus of such di
mensions that we could' employ it for our preliminary ex
periments. This apparatus was as follows :
    A horizontal revolving a'xis, of about 34 decimetres in
length, has at each of its extremities a disk or circle of
pasteboard placed perpendicular t» the axis, the centres of
which are in the same axis, to which it is fastened in such
a manner that the whole system can turn rapidly without
the' respective positions of its different parts being deranged.
    The rotary motion is communicated to the axis and to
the disks by means of a weight suspended at the extremity
of a rope, which, after passing over a pulley raised ten on
twelve yards above the ground, rolls itself round the arbor
of a wheel and axle fixed at the same level as the disks. An
endless chain, which passes round on the one side the wheel
of thcaxle, and on the other a pulley fixed on the axis of the
disks, transmit to that axis the motion which the weight
communicates to the wheel and axle during its fall.
    This apparatus, as is seen, has the merit of being simple;
and without entering into further details it may be readily
conceived how it can be employed for measuring hori
zontal velocities. Let us suppose that the two disks are
at rest, and that a ball traverses them in a direction pa
rallel to the axis or the line passing through their centres;
it is manifest that this axis will be in the same plane with
the holes made in, the disks; but if the disks turn around
their axis while the bail passes from the one to the other,
the plane containing the axis of rotation and the first hole
wilr not coincide with the second hole ; and if a second
prauebe made to pass through the second hole and the axis,
the angle formed by these two planes will be the measure
of the -arc described by any point of the disks, w hile the ball
for buHet passes over the interval by which they are sepa
rated.;      i A. r; -!             .">>.'                       ,• ... ,
           * From the Journal des Mines, Tforeal^an 12', no. 92.
                                                                     The

        Felocity of Projectiles thrown froVn Cannon.          "221
   The question then is, to measure the velocity of. the
bullet.         ">•     •• :• >• :,
    1st, To impress an angular, uniform, and known velo
city to the system of the axis and the two disks.
    2d, To measure the-arc comprehended between the two
planes passing through the axis, and each of the holes or
passages tyhich the ballet ha"s opened through the disks. '
    In the experiments which were made, the motion became
sensibly uniform when the weight had arrived nearly at the
half of the vertical space which it traversed : thfs'was ascer
tained by measuring at two periods the time elapsed during
the third" and fourth quarters qf the fall, and then comparing
these times with the corresponding spaces passed over. For
these measures we employed two excellent time-pieces that
beat seconds j one by Louis Berthoud, and the other by
Breguet.
    Ih-alinost the whole of the experiments we substituted
for the measure of the vertical space passed over by the
¦weight, (hat of the number of turns and fractions of turns
made by the arbor of the wheel and axle during a given
number of seconds, which in every respect was much more
precise and convenient.
   Then, to measure the 'arc passed over by the disks while
the ball went from the one to the other, we placed before
each of these disks a Screen of . fixed piece' of pasteboard,
which was at a very small distance from it ; so that the ball
during its passage first traversed the first' screen, then the
first disk ; then the second screen, and afterwards . the se
cond disk. When the piece was discharged the hole of
the first disk was brought opposite to that of the first screen,
and these two holes were in the same straight line with that
made in- the second screen ; a wire, directed horizontally
through the centre of the latter hole, pierced the second
disk; arid the arc, having its centre 'in the axis of rotation
comprehended between the extremity of that wire and the
centre of the hole made by the ball in the second disk, gave
*he measure of the angle described by the' system of the
two disks, while the ball had passed ever the- length of the
Axis'.      * •'¦ •                             •' v.;
   It may be readily seen- that the fixed screens, which give
the absolute direction of the ball in space, furnish the means
of making an allowance for the want of parallelism, if -there
be' any between that direction and the axis of rotation of
the disks.
   The cannon employed for throwing the projectile was
placed horizontally and parallel to-the arbor of the disks, at
        ''..'-                                         a sufficient

 S22         Means of measuring the init ial Velocity
 a sufficient distance from the first disk, that the motion,
 given to the air by the explosion of the powder should not
 hurt the motion of that disk.
    An apparatus exactly similar to the above was established
 by colonel Grobert in a place belonging to the School of
 Bridges and Causeways, where, with the commissioners-,
 he made, a few years ago, a great number of experiments,
 at which were present several officers of the engineers and
 artillery, among whom were general Marescot and the se
 nator La Martifiiere.
    This apparatus was far from having those dimensions and
 that perfection of which it w^as susceptible, and which .the
 author proposes to give it. The object of the commis
 sioners, therefore, was not so much to furnish results useful
 to the artillery, as to ascertain what advantage might be de
 rived from it when constructed as it ought to be.
    It is proper, before we speak of our experiments, that wc
 should resolve a difficulty which naturally occurs to all men
 who are in the least acquainted with this subject, and which
 arises from the enormous difference supposed to exist be
 tween the velocity of a projectile thrown from a cannon
 and the angular velocity that may be given to the disks..
 It is conducted, indeed, from the experiments already
 known in regard to artillery, that the time employed by
 the ball or bullet tn passing over the distance of three or
four metres between the disks must be smaller than the
hundredth part of a second, and it can hardly be conceived
that during so short a time the disks can describe a sensible
arc.
   The solution of this difficultv is as follows :—When the
 motion has become uniform, the wheel and axis make ger
 ncrally 0*833 turns per second, and the axis of the disks
 7*875 turns, which thus made 6* 56 turns per second, cor
 respond to each turn of that wheel : therefore a noint placed
 on one disk at the distance of a metre from the axis passed
over about 41 metres per second, which gives for i-ioodth
 second 41 centimetres, a length more than sufficient te
furnish very exact measures.
   The experiments were made with a common infantry
musket and a horse musketoon, the barrels of which were
resspectively 1*137 metre and 0-7 65 of interior length.
They were charged with cartridges furnished from the arse
nal. The first series of experiments having been more re
gular than was presumed, they were encouraged to employ
.more precision in the charges and more care in the proofs.
The balls were weighed exactly i their mean weight was
                                                24 •? grammes.

              of Projectiles thrown from Cannon.                22*
24- 7 grammes, and each of them was projected with half
its weight of powder.
   The following is the formula employed to calculate the
velocity of the balls.
   The semi-circumference, which has unity
for radius          -        -        -                = r = 3' 141
   The ratio between the respective numbers
of the turns made at the same time by the
wheel of the axle and the pulley of the axis
of the disks             -         -        '-        = k
   The time employed by the wheel of the
axle to make n number of turns                 -      = t
   The distance of the hole made by the ball
in the second disk from the axis of the disks = r
   The arc passed over by that hole, while the
disk goes from the one to the other              -     = ct
   The distance between the two disks              -   — b
   Velocity of the ball between the disks              = V
   We bare then the following equation :
                          ,,   2 tf » r ,
                          V — —— . —0.
                                 kt    a
   As it may be of some use to add to this formula a table
of some experiments, we shall give the six following, made
with the nmsketoon.
        Number
         of the'       n         #           a          V
      Experiments
                             Seconds.    Metres.     Metres.
            1           8       10      0-3510       402-3
           -2           8       10      0-3800        371-7
            3           8       10      0*368         362-5
            4         15       22       0-296        384-1
            5         15       22       0-264        430- f
            6         10        18      0-268        345-7
            7         15       10       0-392        398-8
            8         15       16       0-392        398.8
            9         15       16       0-416        375-8
          10          15       16       0-360        434-3
      Mean velocity = 390-45.
      Constant value of k
   All the values of a are referrea to tha^ of r        1 metre.
                 5                                             The

 224         Means of measuring the initial Veheity
    The mean velocity deduced from the ten preceding expe
 riments is 390-47 metres, nearly the same which results
 from the whole of the experiments. The mean value found
 for the velocity per second of balls thrown from the infantry
 musket was 428 metres, the ratio of which to the preceding
 is as 1 1 to 10. These experiments seem to indicate that the
 infantry musket might be shortened without much lessening
 its range ; but besides that the commissioners had no inten
 tion of deducing from these first trials any conclusions ap
 plicable to artillery, it is proper to observe, that some mili
 tary considerations, besides those of range, are in favour of
 length in an infantry musket.                                '';
    If we wished to select from the accurate experiments hi
 therto published in regard to the projectiles of artillery some
 proper for being nearly an object of comparison with those
 mentioned above, we- might take from the work of doctor
 Hutton those which he made with a cannon of the smallest
 dimensions, and which he marks No. 1, the bore of it
 being 7 decimetres in length and about 51 millimetres in
 diameter. The general results consigned to a table formed
 from the whole of the experiments,' give for the case, when
 the weight of the charge of powder is, as above, one-half
 that of the bullet, an initial velocity of 435 metres per se
 cond, which differs very little from the velocity found with
 the infantry musket. Dr. Hutton's pieces numbered 2, 3,
 and 4, and which were longer, gave mean velocities more
 considerable.
    The commissioners made some trials with half charges,
 that is to say, expelled the bail with the fourth part of its
weight of powder : the mean value of the velocity of the
ball thus projected was found for the infantry musket to be
25,1 metres, and for the musketoon 252. These two velo
cities are sensibly equal, and exceed the halves 214 and 195
of those given by whole charges.
    There is reason to presume that these circumstances de
pend chiefly on the complete inflammation of the powder
which take3 place when there is only half a charge.
    In the last place, the commissioners, to multiply their
trials on the application of colonel Grobert's apparatus to
horizontal firing, wished to obtain some data in regard to
the resistance offered by the air to the motion of the ball,
the diameter of which was 15 or 16 millimetres. The
mouth of the barrel, which was first at the distance of 2*35
metres from the first fixed screen, was removed to that of
18-44 metres, by means of which its distance from the first
fixed screen was 20-79 metres. In this position the velocity
            1                                               with

            of Projectiles thrown from Cannon.            225
with which the ball thrown from the infantry musket passed
over the interval between the one disk and the other, was'
found at a mean value to be 345 metres per second instead
of 428. The diminution is in the ratio of 42 to 34. The
experiments of the last kind are few in number, and we
shall deduce from them no conclusion: we shall not say,
any thing either of some trials which were made to deter- ,
mine the loss of velocity which the ball experiences in
traversing the' two first leaves of the pasteboard ; as the
principal object of our trials was not, as already said, to
employ this first apparatus for the advancement of the
science of artillery, but to acquire some idea of the advan
tage which this science might derive from it when con
structed with that perfection of which it is susceptible.
    One of the most important changes which the author
proposes is, to increase the diameter of the disks and the
length of their axis in such a manner as to render them
proper for determining the initial velocities of cannon balls
of different calibres. It would be difficult to assign previ
ously, and without preliminary trials, the term of this aug
mentation compatible with the possibility and exactness of
 experiments ; but there is no doubt that the apparatus we
used might be made of much, greater dimensions, and such
as might render it fit to be employed for trials with cannon.
    Colonel Grobert proposes another change, which derives
 its principal utility from that already mentioned. The ob
ject of it is to afford the means of traversing the disks by
 throwing balls in different directions, from the horizontal
 to that which forms half a right angle with the vertical
 line. To accomplish this end he has invented the follow
 ing mechanism, which is simple and easily constructed :—
 He does not make the disks revolve around a common axis,
 but gives to each of them a particular horizontal axis, to
 which a pulley is affixed. The axis of the windlass has two
 equal wheels corresponding to two pulleys, and two endless
 chains, each of which passes round a wheel and a pulley.
 The rotary motion which the windlass receives from the
 descending weight is thus communicated to the disks, and
 the dimensions of the wheels and pulleys must be well re
 gulated to make the disks turn together and to perform ex
 actly the same number of revolutions in the same period.
 This condition being fulfilled, the supporter of one of the
 disks (that which is furthest from the qannon) is disposed
 in such a manner that it can rise vertically and fix itself at
 different heights, for each of which there are added some
  links to the chain corresponding.to that disk, in order to
     Vol. S3. No. 87. August 1805.       P                 give

226         Means of measuring the initial Velocity
 give it sufficient length ; and by lowering the cannon it is
 thus possible to traverse the disks in different directions in
 clined to the horizon. It may be remarked that the pro
 jection of the surface of the disks on the plane perpendi
 cular to the line of firing decreases more and more in pro
 portion as that line inclines; but this is a very small in
 convenience, as the greatest decrease which takes place in
 the ratio of about 7 to 5, leaves still a sufficient field for
 pointing with all the precision requisite.
    It will not, perhaps, be so easy as might at flrs.t be be
 lieved to adjust the wheels, the pulleys, and the engage
 ment, in such a manner as that the two disks may turn ex
 actly together ; we are, however, of opinion that there is
 nothing in this part of the apparatus which may not be
 made by any careful ingenious workman. Besides, if the
 machine be strong, and the parts well executed, there are
 means of avoiding the errors resulting from the want of co
 incidence which might exist in the motion of the disksi
 These means consist in counting the turns of the wheels
  made from the moment when the piece is fired till that
 when the machine stops, and causing these wheels to make
 the same number of turns in a contrary direction, and in
  such a manner that the wheels shall be brought to the
 same respective positions in which they were when the
 piece was fired.
    We shall suppress several details relating both to the in
 clined range and to different pieces of mechanism invented
 by colonel Grobert for supplying the attention and hand of
 man in the experiments. By means of these pieces of mc-.
 chanism the moving power, when it arrives at that point of
 its course where its motion becomes uniform, rests on two
 triggers, one of which causes a pendulum that swings se
 conds to oscillate in order to count the time,'while the
 other establishes a communication between the motion of
 the windlass and that of a system of toothed wheels and.
 pinions, furnished with an index to count the revolutions
 of the wheels. The weight, when it arrives at the lower
 extremity of its course, presses on other triggers which
 serve to set fire to the cannon, and to stop the counter of
 time and that .of the number of turns. These different
 means may be useful, but it is sometimes attended with
  inconvenience to add too many parts to a piece of mecha
 nism, and to make .it so complex that it becomes liable to
'be deranged.
    As the above explanation wijl be sufficient to give an idea
 of the utility that may be derived from the apparatus of co-
i" j                                                       lonel

              of Projectiles thrown from Cannon.           227
lonel Grobert, we shall now add a short account of the me
thods hitherto employed in researches ef the same kind.
   It is onlv about sixty years ago that mathematicians be
gan to apply to the theory of projectiles. Benjamin Robins
appears to us to have opened the way, or at least to have
published the first experiments worthy the attention of phi
losophers, and to have employed, for determining the initial '
velocity of musket bullets, a pendulum, against which he
threw his projectiles, and the sought-for velocity was de
duced from the amplitude of the oscillation : the same ma
thematician, when about to make particular experiments oa
gunpowder, deduced his results from the recoil of a small
cannon attached to the lower part of the same pendulum *.
   The cheval ier d'Arcy, of the Academy of Sciences, about
eight or ten years after Robins's work appef ed, published,
in the Memoirs of the Academy for 1751, a paper on the
theory of artillery, containing a series of experiments made
with great skill and care, and for which he employed, nearly
in the same circumstances, two pendulums; against one of
these he fired the ball, while the other, from which the
small cannon was suspended, served to measure the recoil.
In this manner he made those important experiments re
lated in Essais d'une Thtorie de I Artiller'w, published by
the same author in 1760.
    Fifteen years after, Dr. Hutton, of the Royal Academy,
Woolwich, made new experiments with the pendulum and
projectiles, much heavier than those employed by Robins.,
An account of them may be seen in the Philosophical
Transactions for 1778.
    About the same year count Rumford resumed and im
proved the method of making such experiments by means
of a pendulum. He discovered a very simple way of sus»
pending the cannon, in such a manner that the recoil took
place without the axis ceasing to be horizontal. Dr. Hutton
bestows great praise on these experiments, which are de
tailed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1781, and which
have since been printed with considerable additions in a col
lection entitled Philosophical Papers, &c. London 1802.
    In the last place, Dr. Hutton was employed during the
 years 1783, 1784, 1785, and 1 7S6, on a numerous series
 of experiments, made with great care and expense, in regard
 to both kinds of pendulum. The collection of his memoirs,
 inserted in the Philosophical Transactions, and lately trans-
                    * See his Principles of Gunnery.            ,
                                  P2                      lated

228         Means of measuring the initial Velocity
lated into French by colonel Villantroys, may be considered
as the most complete and most instructive treatise on ba-
listic experiments that ever appeared.
    The apparatus proposed by colonel Grobert, as may be
seen, is very different from those employed by the authors
above mentioned ; and whatever merit may be due to expe
riments made with pendulums, it must no doubt be allowed
that it may be of some utility to make new ones by a very
ingenious method, in which simplicity and ceconomy are
united, and which leads to the proposed end in the most
direct manner, as the velocities sought for are deduced
merely from the observation of the time employed by a
moving body to make a certain number of revolutions
around a fixed axis : an observation free from tbose dynamic
calculations which are required by the method of Robina.
    We have said nothing of the labours of Antoni in regard
to the object of this report, and yet wc 'cannot omit men
tioning a machine which he 9peaks of in his Essai sur la
 Poudre, a French translation of which was published by
 M. de Flavigui in 1773. This machine, which Antoni
 says was invented by a mechanician named Mathey, consists
 of a horizontal circle supported by its centre on the upper
 extremity of a vertical axis, and serving as a base to a hollow
 cylinder of paper. A rotary motion is given to this cy
 linder by means of a weight affixed to a cord which passes
 over a pulley, and the projectile, thrown in* a horizontal di
 rection, when the angular velocity has become constant in
 the vertical plane of that axis, traverses the paper cylinder
 in two points. The distance of the second point from the
 diameter passing through the first, serves to measure the arc
 described by the system during the passage of the projectile
 in the interior of the hollow cylinder.
     It is incontestable, after this description, that the funda
 mental idea of the process, by which a circular is compared
 with a rectilinear motion, belongs to Mathey ; but without
 entering into any detail on the inconveniences of this ma
 chine, which no doubt have been the cause of its being
 little used, we shall content ourselves with observing that
 the apparatus of colonel Grobert differs from it essentially.
, 1st, By the horizontal position of its axis of rotation.
 The result of this difference is, that the axis can never be
 met by the projectile; which makes it easv to ascertain the
 solidity and regularity of the position and motion of the
 disks.
    2d, The projectile does not traverse a cyfindric surface, but
                                                              two

                  e/" Projectiles thrown from Cannon.                         229
 two vertical planes, the extent and distance of which may
be considerable, and which therefore may give very accu
 rate measures.
     3d, By the advantage it affords, not to be found in any
other kind of apparatus yet known, of measuring the velo
 city of bullets of different sizes thrown in directions in
 clined to the horizon-
     It remains for us to give an account of some experiments
 made to ascertain that the ball underwent no sensible devia
tion in traversing the disks. It is manifest from the first
 principles of dynamics, that the moment when the ball is
 in the plane of one disk in motion, it receives perpendicu
larly to its direction an impulse which, according to certain
mathematical hypotheses, would give it parallel to the plane
 of the disk a velocity almost equal to that of the point
 where it meets (the mass of the ball being very small in
 regard to those of the different moving parts of the ma
chine) ; and then the velocity of the ball, calculated accord
 ing to the formula before given, would be infinite. The
 effective phaenomena differ considerably from those deduced
 from similar hypotheses, considering the compressibility of
 the disks, their little hardness, and the prodigious rapidity
 with which they are penetrated* (the duration of the pas
 sage of the semi-diameter through the disk not being the
 40,000dth part of a second) ; but it is no less important to
 determine exactly the influence which they have on the re
 sults. One of the commissioners is employed in analysing
 a dynamic problem, from which this determination may be
 concluded a priori ; but as such a conclusion would not rest
 on physical data sufficiently certain, he preferred verifying
 by experiment whether the deviation was appreciable or not.
 For this purpose he placed three fixed screens at equal di
 stances from each other ; the second and third being placed
 respectively before the first and the second moveable disks.
    * It is here proper to give the reasoning on which these assertions are
 founded. Every body in nature being more or less compressible, the state
 of final motion, resulting from the action of two bodies on each other, is not
 acquired even at the moment of contact, but after a fixed term, which is
 very short; and bodies during their contact pass through all the interme
 diate states of motion between initial and 'final. From these incontestable
 facts, if one of the bodies escapes the action of the other before the moment
 when by the naxural consequence of the shock they would have ceased to
 press each other mutually, the state of motion at which that body will really
 arrive in that case will differ so much less from its initial state, and so much
 more from that in which it would have been had the shock been consum
 mated, as the contact has been of less duration, and this duration may be so
 •hort that the initial state is not sensibly modified. This is the case of the
.experiments mentioned in the text.
                                       P3                                       It

230       Velocity of Projectiles thrown from Cannon.
It may be readily conceived that in the hypothesis of devia
tion the hole made by the ball in the third fixed screen
ought not to be in the same vertical plane with those made
in the first and second screens ; and thus this deviation be
comes easy to be ascertained and measured.
   Several balls were fired, the apparatus being arranged as
here described. Each time a plumb-line was placed before
the centre of the hole made in the first screen ; and taking
in a line this thread and the centre of the hole made in the
secorld screen, it was very easy to see whether the centre of
the third hole was in the vertical plane containing the other
two centres. These observations were made with care an4
precision, and yet it was not possible to perceive the devia
tion estimable in the direction of the line passing through
the centres of the three holes : thus the motion of the ball
through the moveable disks is sensibly the same. as if these
disks were at rest. We are of opinion, however, that it
will be useful to employ always three screens, disposed as
above, in the experiments made in future on this subject :
by these means we may either ascertain whether th< re be
any deviation, or discover whether it be sensible ; and there
can be no doubt that it will be so, either in the case when
small velocities are communicated to the projectile, or, in
general, in. those where the ratio between that velocity and
the resistance which the bullet experiences in traversing the
disks shall exceed certain limits.
   it is proper to add, that the distance of the cannon from
the furthest distant screen was about twelve metres, and
that there was no reason to apprehend the inflections ob
served by Robins in distances of about a hundred metres,
which according to him render rigorously the trajectory a
curve of a double curvature.
   What we have said on the insensible effect which the
action of the disk has upon the ball to make it deviate,
proves that the re-action of the ball on the disk cannot di
minish its velocity by a sensible quantity : this conclusion,
might be deduced, besides, from other facts, relative both to
the mechanism of the apparatus and to the data furnished
by the experiments, and particularly by the measure of time
before and after the discharge of the piece :—but it is needr
less to. enter into further details.
   To conclude : we are of opinion that the means to mea
sure the initial velocity of projectiles thrown by fire-arms
in directions both horizontal and inclined, pr6posed bv co
lonel Grobert, and conformable to the summary description
found in the above report, merit the approbation of the
                                                      • class.

            On the Buds and Ram ifications of Plants.       23 j
  class. We shall add, that a series of experiments made with
  an apparatus of larger dimensions, and executed with more
  care than that employed by the commissioners, might fur
 nish results useful to artillery.
 XXXV. On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants; the
     Birth of these Organs, and the organic Relation between
     the Trunk and the Brunches: in a Letter from G. L.
     Koeler, M. D. Professor of Botany and the Materia
    Medica in the Provisional School of Medicine at Mentz,
     to M. Ventenat, Member of tlie French National In
    stitute*.
 - T MY DEAR FRIEND,
 INature seems to have thrown an impenetrable veil over
 the development of vegetable parts. In vain have botanists
 made efforts to surprise her; in vain do they watch her;
 she eludes their efforts, and laughs at their indefatigable
 patience. If it has been impossible, however, to accom
 plish by observations this end, which was the object of so
 much care and labour, their researches have still conducted
 them to a multitude of other valuable discoveries, which
 have assisted us in the study of the structure and interior
 ceconomy of plants, and have shown to us the causes of
 several phaenomena before considered as inexplicable.
    The opinions of those who have endeavoured to discover
 in what manner nature develops one vegetable organ from
 another may be ranged into two classes.
    Some have imagined that it is the pith, which makes its
 way through even the hardest wood to produce the ramifi
 cations of plants, and that it lengthens itself still to form
 the most essential parts of the vegetable body.
    Others, and those the most recent, rejecting this opinion,
have ascribed to the bark and cortical strata what their pre'-
decessors gave as the product of the pith. They have
thought also that the increase in length and thickness de
pends on the same organs.
    Placed between these two opinions, and though each of
them was supported by great names, yet being unwilling
jurare in verba magistn, I resolved to examine ooth with
out prejudice, and to give an opinion supported by my
own observations. I did so; and discovered that Linnaeus
and Hales, who had maintained the former opinion, were
            * From the Journal de Phynque, Flore*!, an 1 3-
                                  P4                        not

232        On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.
not far from, the truth ; that their error was very excusable,
for they might easily take for pith the reproducing organ,
which will be mentioned in the course of this letter, and
the herbaceous substance of which has a resemblance to
that of this spongy organ. It may be said further in their
favour, that they had not before them the experiments of
Desiontaines, Coulomb, Hedwig, Mirbtl, and Medicus,
and so many other philosophers who have thrown light on"
a great number of points hitherto inexplicable in regard to
the interior ceeonomy of vegetables.
   The observations which this study gave me an opportu
nity of making, have conducted me to results so unex
pected, that I did not think proper at first to trust to my
own eyes. Convinced without being persuaded, and dis
trusting my own senses, especially in an experiment the
results of which were in open contradiction to what we are
taught by the greatest masters, I resolved to submit to you
these observations, and to give them at the same time pub
licity, in order to call the attention of the most enlightened
botanists to the new phaenomenon which I think I have
perceived. I must, however, say, that it is the force of con
viction, the desire of instruction, and not a vain spirit of
controversy so unworthy of a real naturalist, which induce
me to think differently from several celebrated men superior
to envy, and to whom I readily pay the tribute of my gra
titude for the benefit I have received from their works.
    Before I give my observations on the origin of buds, I
 shall first rectify some ideas generally adopted in regard to.
 these organs.
    " The name of lud is given in botany to small bodies
 more or less round or ovoid, and covered with scales hol
 lowed out like a spoon, or with a down more or less thick,
 These organs are formed gradually in the spring season in
 the eyes of the leaves of most trees, shrubs, and plants of
 the dicotyledons, especially in climates where the winters
 are pretty severe. They contain and conceal the rudiments
 destined to be developed the following year into branches,
 leaves, and flowers. They have received from nature thp
 faculty of resisting cold and humidity: several of them may
 be preserved, like a great many seeds, during one or more
 years, by remaining in a state of torpor until the develop
 ment of their-parts is excited by favourable circumstances."
     These are the principles commonly received in regard tq
  buds in general ; but it appears to me that they are suited
  properly but to one species, that of most trees and shrubs
  m countries where the winter js pretty severe,
            6                        ,                   I shall

             On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.       233
      T shall now explain what, in my opinion, ought to be
  comprehended under the denomination of the buds of pha-
  negoram plants. * I give, this name to all the organs of t/iest
  plants which contain the rudiments or germs of st-ms,
  branches, leaves, flowers, and even roots : each of these
  parts separately, or several of them united', or, in a word,
  the whole together. This name belongs to them whatever
  be their size; theif number; that of the different parts of
  which they are composed ; the time of their appearance ;
  their property of being preserved ; the species which pro-
, duces them, and the place of their insertion : modifications
  and peculiarities which depend on the different structure of
  the plants as well as the circumstances under which they
  are placed.
      The definition I have given seems to me to unite several
  advantages : it embraces not only the whole of the organs
  together, even in regard to their origin ; it dispenses also
  with the inconvenience of admitting a great number of ex
  ceptions in the uniform progress of nature; exceptions
  which no doubt prove that they have not been sufficiently
  examined. It is pretended that shrubs are distinguished
  from bushes or trees by their ramifications not being the
  result of buds. This distinction is merely arbitrary, since
  these plants really produce them-; but their buds are very
  small, exceedingly thin, destitute of dry scales, and some
  times almost entirely concealed till the spring under the
  bark of the branches.
      Admitting the definition I have proposed, it will be ob
  served that buds differ from each other by a great number
  of characters in the various species of plants.' I shall here
  mention only those traits which are indispensably necessary
  to support my definition.
      In the ligneous monocotyledon plants the whole course of
   life is confined to the development of the first bud arising
   from the neck of the root or place where it is joined to the
   stem. This bud contains the germs of all the organs which
   appear above the earth, and the end of its development is
   the term also of the life of the same plant. These plants,
   however, generally live one, and even several, centuries.
      The propagation of plants by scions, by bulbs, and by
   other similar organs, which is very common to the herba
   ceous monocotyledons, is not essentially different from that
   by buds, as has been completely proved by M. Mirbel and
   several other botanists. Scions and bulbs are real buds;
   they are organs which contain the principles of new stems,
   branches, leaves, flowers, and roots. The part of the plant
                                                          which

234        On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.
which produced them, and some modifications in their
structure, make them, however, be considered as species
different from every other.
    In the dicotyledon plants and the herbaceous monocotyle-
dons the summit of the root bears during; the early age of
the plant a single bud, named then plumula. This bud
differs from that of the monocotyledon trees, as its deve
lopment is ended before the death of the individual, and is
followed by other buds, in consequence of the development
of which the plant ramifies. The monocotyledon trees
produce also secondary buds, but with this difference, that
these buds are pushed out by the primitive bud itself, and
that they fade much sooner than that from which they pro-^
ceeded.                                        ,
   In annual plants the development of all the buds of the
individual is completed in the space of a year. Inthe bi
ennial plants it is terminated at the end of two years at most*
Plants with a vivacious root but annual stem push out every
year another bud from the neck of the root : from the de
veloped parts of this principal bud other buds then issue,
¦which make the ramifications of the vegetable appear.
   The buds of the three sorts of plants here mentioned are
not all, or very rarely are, covered with other organs to pro
tect the germs against the intemperance of the weather.
Here nature, in general, may dispense with them, because
these buds develop themselves in the course of a very short
time, and almost always in the best seasons ; and the plants,
or at least the stems, to which they are indebted for their
birth, perish in the winter, or even sooner.
   In most of these plants, as well as in bushes and some
shrubs, the buds are small, thvn^ and pointed, as in the vi
burnum, the rhamnus (buckthorn), the heliotrope, the cor
nel tree, the gramineous plants, the arteihisia, &c.
   The ligneous dicotyledon plants in general push forth
their buds only in spring. Their buds in winter remain in
a state of inaction, and do not open till the return of
spring. From this rule, however, are excluded all trees and
bushes called evergreens, a great number of which perpe
tually send forth buds, so that the development of the
leaves, branches, and even sometimes the flowers, never
ceases during the life of these plants.
   In almost all tlie dicotyledon trees and shrubs of the cold
and temperate climates, the buds are formed in the eyes of
the leaves, and always before the approach of winter. Bo
tanists consider the most exterior folioles of these buds as
aborted folioles, because they are dry and even sometimes
;•                                               ,    sonorous

          On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.         23$
sonorous under the fingers. They are called scales, on ac
count of their usual form. These organs are almost always
covered with a resinous matter, which cements them verv
closely to each other, and which contributes not a little to
defend the tender germs contained in the buds from the cold
and moisture of the severe seasons.
   In a great number of bushes and shrubs these scales are
entirely wanting; but their place is supplied in several
species by a down, which sometimes is pretty thick, and
which affords sufficient protection to the buds against the
rigour of the wihter, as in the viburnum and the ptelea. In
other buds of similar plants the parts still herbaceous and
tender have neither down, nor scales, nor resinous matter,
nor any other kind of covering, and they nevertheless with
stand the intemperance of the seasons, unless it be exces
sive. Among the latter there are some the folioles of which
cover each otber firmly, as in the common lilae, the hazle,
&c; and there are some also in which the exterior folioles
are neither so thick nor so firmly applied to each other as
to b« able to oppose the entrance of humidity, as is the case
in the cornel tree.
   The buds of several ligneous dicotyledon plants remain,
in regard to their base and a great part of their body, con
cealed during winter under the bark, and their summit does
not entirely open a passage tor itself till the following
spring. Here the bark serves as bandages to the tender
elements of the new ramifications, as we see in a great
number of shrubs.
   Nature incloses the buds in several shrubs, as in the ber-
leris vulgaris, with petioles very close to each other; it co
vers them also on one side by the branch from which they
have proceeded, and on the other by the flat base of the
prickles.
   In the last place, there arc some ligneous dicotyledon ve
getables the buds of which are concealed and sheltered from
the pernicious influence of the weather in a manner as sin
gular as wonderful. The buds, unprovided with scales, but
covered with a fine and thick down, form themselves under
the concave base of the supporters of the leaves. During
winter these supporters remain in their place in several
plants ; but when the sap ascends, the eye, becoming larger,
rejects the tutor, of which it has no longer need. Some
times shocks, and other accidents, make them fall earlier ;
in this case, the bud, being still secured by its natural pe-
Jisse, escapes generally the severe cold of winter.
   I have observed that the supporter in question differs ac
                                                       cording

 $36         On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.
 cording to its nature. In several plants it is a real petiole,
 £s in the seringa, &c; in others it is, as it were, an inter
 mediate organ between the branches and the petioles, because
 it is not hollowed out in grooves at its upper surface, but
 entirely round ) because its substance is more ligneous than
 herbaceous, though it falls annually ; and because it forms
 internally a canal containing real pith, and closed towards
 the base of the petiole, so that the pith does not commu
 nicate with that of the part to which this supporter is at
 tached. Similar, supporters are found in the rhus coriaria,
 the acer negundo, the rohinia, &c.
     About three years ago I made this observation on the
 shumac ; and I have reason to believe that no one ever
 made it before me, since I in vain consulted on this subject
 all my books On botany. I proposed to make a series of
 researches on this subject ; and, indeed, they convinced me
 that nature covers in this manner the buds of several lig
 neous dicotyledons considered hitherto as not bearing any.
 It was my intention not to publish my observations until I
 had sufficiently repeated them, which could not be done
 till I had examined a much greater number of vegetables.
But a little while ago I found in the Memoires pour servir a
 I'Anatmnie et a la Physiologie Vegetates, par M. Medicus*,
 that this celebrated botanist had made the same observation
 on plane-trees. I immediately had recourse to other works,
such as your excellent Tableau du Regne Vtgetal; and,
though I found nothing in the first volume. under the arti
cles relating to that subject, I found in the third f that this
peculiarity of the plane-tree had not escaped you. I then
consulted the Traite des Arbres et Arbustes, by Duhamel,
where, under the article Platanus, this great observer makes
mention of the same phaenomenon, without pointing out,
however, whether it was known before ; but as it has been
known since that time, how comes it that no botanist, in
treating specially of buds, has rectified his definition ac
cording to this observation ?
    Shumac furnished me also with an opportunity of ob
serving several phaenomena in regard to the birth and deve
lopment of buds. I shall give you an account of them as
briefly as possible.
    Almost all botanists have adopted the opinion, that the
leaves in the eyes of which the buds shoot forth approach,
towards the end of their life, to the ligneous state by the
   * Beytrage zur Pfianxen anatomie und Pfianxen physiologic, haft i. p. 24.
   f Pag€ 572.
                                                                  influence

            On the Suds and Ramifications of Plants.         237
 influence of the rays of the sun and of the air, and that they
 then no longer afford a free passage to the ascending sap. It
 is supposed that the fluids stop, and are accumulated at the
 base of these leaves, and that they thereby give birth to
 cambium, which occasions the ring or swelling there ob
  served. It is pretended also that this cambium produces
 new vessels, which, obeying the impulse they daily receive
  from the ascending sap, becdme lengthened towards the
  surface of the bark, and force themselves to pierce it j after
  which they give birth to the bud.
     This explanation, though ingenious, appears to me to
  be only a bold hypotbesis, supported by facts which have
  not been examined with sufficient care. Instead of begin
  ning by an explanation, it would have been better to discover
  first all the facts and all the circumstances by which this
  phaenomenon is accompanied. And still we shall succeed
  as little in penetrating into this operation as we have done
  in regard to all the rest, the secret of which nature seems
  to have reserved. to herself : the formation of the individuals
  and of their organs will be always inexplicable to us. Na
  ture, however, far from precluding us from researches, ex
  cites us rather to watch her; and it is then that, by attend
  ing with assiduity and without prejudice, we often discover
  facts which form one step towards the truth. It may be
  objected to this explanation, that there are, indeed, buds
  which do not pierce the bark in the eyes of the leaves, and
• that the eye shows itself already at the time when the leaves
  have lost none of their vigour.
      I shall now return to my own observations. In exa
  mining with attention the ligneous dicotyledon plants at
  the different seasons, it will be observed that a body almost
  always soft, herbaceous, and green, when it issues from the
  wood, enters into the bud destined to develop flowers or a
  branch, and that this body forms in reality the centre or
  axis of the bud. The same observation will be made when
  the wood of the branch which throws out the bud is already
  formed of several annual zones. It will be perceived also
  that this herbaceous body is rarely alone ; that it has, for the
  most part, on each side, and at a very small distance from
  it, another body, and sometimes two. but of the same sub-
, stance as itself: these lateral herbaceous bodies are smaller
   than" it, and never penetrate into the substance of a bud
   which produces branches or flowers : they enter into those
   only of the leaves ; that is to say, into those a petiole or
   leaf of which is destined to develop itself, which we observe
   at the base of a twig in several shrubs and bushes. There

 238         On the Buds and Ramifications of Planlfi
 is sometimes also at the base, and very near the largest
 herbaceous body, a similar body, which penetrates with it
 into the same bud. All these herbaceous bodies are produced
 each separately in a medullary sheath, and never in the
 bark, the liber, or the alburnum, nor in the annual zones
 Of the wood. They are indeed the prolongations of the
 bundles of tubes of the medullary sheath*.
    The herbaceous bodies of which' I here speak, in passing
 into the wood are not always in a horizontal direction : 1
mean, that they do not form in all the plants which I have
 examined a right angle with the medullary sheath : in se
 veral trees and shrubs they leave it much lower than the
 place where the bud issues from the bark, as is the case
 in the shumac, plane-tree, willows, &c.
    When the bark, with the bud, has been removed, these
 herbaceous prolongations present themselves under different
 forms, according to the species to which they belong, the
 age of the branch, the place even where they are, and the
 angle at which they have traversed the wood. This is the
 reason why the figure of their section in the exterior zone
 of the wood varies from the form of a line or stroke to that
 of a point entirely round ; sometimes there are several of
 them united, so that altogether they form scarcely a single
 line or oblong point. At the place where these herbaceous
 bodies traverse the wood, the ligneous fibres are separated
from each other; and though they press them more or less,
they still leave them a sufficient passage. This separation
 of the tubes and fibres of the wood is more apparent in the
 zones near to the medullary case, than in those which are
more distant, and consequently nearer to the bark.
    The thickness of these bodies differs also in the different
 species of plants. In those the wood of which is hard and
compact they are smaller, and at the same time less cylin-
dtic than in those the wood of which is light. Those de
stined to push forth buds for twigs and flowers have more
volume than those which produce leaf-buds.
    They do not always remain green : they lose that colour
as they change into wood. But they are found herbaceous,
and filled with green substance, at least, until the bud has
expanded into a flower-bud ; and I have observed that they
are still green and herbaceous, even in the twigs and young
branches, if the wood of the species from which they have
proceeded be white and light.
   * These vessels are porous tubes, large simple tubes, trachea;, and false
trachea. See TVai.'e d 'Anatomie et de Piysiologie vigetales, par Brisseau Mirbel,
toI. i. p. 186, et se<j.; and the same in Diet, ties Sciences Nuturelles, vol. ii.

           On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.        239
    The same prolongations are found in 'herbaceous plants
with a ramified stem : for example, in the adult stems of
the common cabbage, &c, where one mav be convinced
that the branches have no other origin there than that of
 the medullary sheath, and that they issue from real buds.
     It seems to result, from what I have here said, that the
 reproducing organ of buds in the dicotyledon plants, is
effectively and exclusively the case or sheath which contains
 the pith: it is even in the herbaceous monocotyledon
 plants, the spaces between the knots of which form empty
 tubes : nature, to produce branches, has formed in these
 plants solid knots or articulations, the structure of which
 is almost the same as that of the stems of plants the canal
 of which contains pith.
     The opinion that the meduljary case is the only organ
 which gives rise to buds, and consequently to branches, is
 confirmed by the observations which I made on the inser
 tion of old branches even in trunks entirely dry. For this
 purpose I carefully examined the branches of the pine fir
  and prunus spinosa (sloe-tree), shumac, oak, apple-tree,
  6pc., and every where I observed the same result. It
  is true, that in the old branches the prolongations are more
  herbaceous, and on that account are difficult to be distin
  guished, because the one which has penetrated into the
  principal substance of the bud, from which the branch has
  proceeded, has, become ligneous : the small lateral ones are
  not even dried, and are still entirely covered and concealed
  both by the base of the branch, and bv the annual strata of
  the wood, which had been formed after these prolongations
  had thrown out petioles or leaves. The perpendicular sec
  tion of a branched 'trunk always shows, whatever be the
  pumber of the concentric strata of the ligneous body, that
  the medullary sheath of the branch proceeds from the
  medullary sheath of the trunk ; that the branch never forms
  in the trunk an inverted cone, the summit of which is con
  cealed by the strata of that part ; and that the branch of a
  tree can never be compared, as has been done, to a plant
   the roots of which are in a ligneous soil. The different an
  nual strata of a branch never cover each other, in any case,
  at their respective bases ; and they are never separated from
  those of the trunk. These strata are in immediate com-
• munication with those of the trunk, in such a manner that
  .the strata of the branch seem to have arisen from a pro
  longation of those of the trunk. It is- very difficult to di
  stinguish whether the medullary sheath takes its origin
                                                           from

340       On the Buds and Ramifications ef Plants. -
from that of the trunk, when the medullary canal of that
part is filled with ligneous strata, which is the case in se
veral bushes and shrubs where an interior liber is formed
annuaily of the pith, until the canal which contains it has
altogether disappeared, as in the ash, the oak, shumac,
&c. ; but it is principally in the latter that we may be con
vinced that it is never by the medullary sheath, nor by the
interior cambium, that these internal zones are produced.
   The increase in length of buds and twigs is ascribed to
an erection of the tubes of the, liber. If the bark of a
young branch be separated as far as the terminal bud in a
young poplar, for example, and particularlv before winter,
or in the following spring, it will be found that the inner
bark has never become lengthened. The upper part of a
branch and a flower-bud is formed only by the pith, the
medullary sheath, and the bark. I think I may conclude
from this observation, that the increase of the stems or
trunks, and the ramifications, depends merely on the
elongation of the vessels of the medullary sheath. The
alburnum, the tubes of which have a direction perfectly
straight, presents itself at the upper part of a branch under
the form of separate fibres, which lose themselves at the
 surface of the medullary sheath. This observation explains
 to us also why the zones' of the upper part of a branch - are
 in number inferior to those of the base. It confirms also
 what I have said in regard to the birth of buds ; for, if we
 examine the bud of a small branch in any tree whatever,
 we shall be convinced that it is the medullary sheath with
 out exception that composes alone the interior of that
 organ.
 Explanation of the figures belonging to the above article*
                         See Plate III.
    Fig. I, A vertical section of a piece of a branch of
 shumac.
    A, The bark.
    B, Ligneous zone of one year.
    C, The medullary sheath.
    D, A bud.         '                                   *
    E, The swelled-up part of the bark at the base of the
 bud.
    F, Herbaceous prolongation of the medullary sheath,
 which has traversed the wood and given birth to the bud.
    G, The pith.                                    . .
                                                        Fig. 2,

          On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.         24 1
   Fig. 2, A similar, cut obliquely at the place where the
prolongation passes through the wood.
   A, A bud.
   B, The bark.
   C, Ligneous zone of the year.
   D3 Herbaceous prolongation of the medullary sheath
passing through the wood and entering the bud.
   E, The swelled part of the bark at the sides of the bud.
   F, The pith.
   G, The medullary sheath.
   Fig. 3, The same piece seen in profile, to show the
angle of the section.
   Fig. 4, Vertical section of a piece of shumac of two years
old, bearing a bud.
 . A, The bud produced from an herbaceous prolongation
of the medullary sheath, which prolongation has passed
through the two ligneous strata.
   Fig. 5, Vertical section of a branched piece of shumac.
   A, The bark.
   B, Ligneous stratum of the second year.
   C, Ligneous stratum of the first year.
   D, Stratum arising from the lignificalion of the exterior
part of the pith.
   E, Medullary sheath of a branch.
   F, Medullary sheath of a twig.
   G, Pith.
   H, Prolongation of the medullary sheath, become lig
neous, and confounded with the wood produced by the
pith.
   Fig. 6, Vertical section of a branched piece of the pla*
tanus occidentalis.
   A, Pith. .
   B, Medullary sheaths.
   C, Ligneous stratum of the first year.
   D, Ligneous stratum of the second year.
   E, Lignified prolongations of the medullary sheath'.
   Fig. 7, Vertical section of a piece of hazle, bearing a
twig with false wood, which has only one ligneous zone,
andwhich has arisen from a prolongation of the medullary
sheath, which prolongation, in order to produce the bud
from which the twig resulted, has passed through seven
zones of wood, and at length become ligneous.
                   [To be concluded in our next.]
Vol. 22. No, 87. August 1805.           Q        XXXVI. Method

                               C    242 J
  3£XaVI. Method of olviativg the Necessity of lifting
      Skips. By Mr. Robert Seppings, of Chatham Yard*.
  The following is a description' of an invention by Mr.
  Robert Seppings, late master shipwright assistant in his
  majesty's yard at Plymouth (now master shipwright at
  his majesty's yard, Chatham), for suspending, instead of
  lifting, ships, for the purpose of clearing them from their
  blocks, by which a very great saving will accrue to the pub
  lic, and also two-thirds of the time formerly used in this
  operation.
     From the saving of time anofher very important advan
  tage is derived, namely, that of enabling large ships to be
  docked, suspended, and undocked, the same spring tides.
  Without enumerating the inconveniencies arising, and,
  perhaps, injuries, which ships are liable to sustain, from the
  former practice of lifting them, and which are removed by
  the present plan ; that which relates to manual labour de-
, serves particular attention ; twenty men being sufficient to
  suspend a first-rate, whereas it would require upwards of
  500 to lift her. The situation which Mr. Seppings held in
  Plymouth-yard, attached to him, in a great degree, the
  shoring and lifting of ships, as well as the other practical
  part or the profession of a shipwright. Here he had an
  opportunity of observing, and indeed it was a subject of
  general regret, how much time, expense, and labour, were
  required in lifting a ship, particularly ships of the line. This
  induced him to consider whether some contrivance could
  not be adopted to obviate these evils. And it occurred to
  him, that if he could so construct the blocks on which the
  ship rests, that the weight of the ship might be applied tc«
  assist in the operation, he should accomplish this very de
  sirable end. In September 1 800, the shoring and lifting,
  the San Josef, a large Spanish first-rate, then in dock at
  Plymouth, was committed to his directions ; to perform
  which, the assistance of the principal part of the artificer*
  of the yard was requisite. In conducting this business, the
  plan, which will be hereafter described, occurred to* his
 mind; and from that time, he, by various experiments,
  proved his theory to be correct : the blocks, constructed by
 him, upon which the ship rests, being so contrived, that
 the facility in removing them, is proportionateto the quan
 tity of pressure; and this circumstance is always absolutely
    * From the Tramactions of the Society of Artsi who voted him the gold
 medal, 1804,
                        S                                         under

          On olviating tlw Necessity of lifting Ships.      243
  binder command, by increasing or diminishing the angle of
  three wedges, which constitute one of the blocks; two of
 which are horizontal, and one vertical. By enlarging the
 angle of the horizontal wedges, the vertical wedge becomes
 of consequence more acute; and its power may be so in
 creased, that it shall have a great tendency to displace the
 horizontal wedges, as was proved bv a model, which ac
 companied the statement to the society ; where the power
 of the screw is used as a substitute for the pressure of the
 ship.
    Mr. Seppings caused three blocks to be made of hard
 wood agreeable to his invention, and the wedges of various
 angles. The horizontal wedges of the first block were
 nine degrees ; of the second, seven; and of the third, five ;
 of course, the angle of the vertical wedge of the first block
 was 162 degrees; of the second, 166; and of the third, 170.
 These blocks, or wedges, were well executed, and rubbed
 over with soft soap for the purpose of experiment. They
 were then placed in a dock, in his majesty's yard, at Ply
 mouth, in which a sloop of war was to be docked : on exa
 mining them after the vessel was in, and the water gone,
 they were all found to have kept their situations', as placed
 before the ship rested upon them. Shores in their wake
 were then erected to sustain the ship, prior to the said
 blocks being taken from under the keel. The process of
clearing them was, by applying the power of battering-
 rams to the sides of the outer ends of the horizontal wedges;
alternate blows being given fore and aft ; by which means
they immediately receded, and the vertical wedges were
disengaged. It was observed, even in this small ship, that
the block which was formed of horizontal wedges of nine
degrees, came away much easier than those of seven, and
the one of seven than that of five. In removing the afore
said blocks by the power of the battering-rams, which were
suspended in the hands of the men employed, by their
holding ropes passed through holes for that purpose, it wa3
remarked by Mr. Seppings, that the operation was very la
borious to the people ; they having to support the weight
of the battering-rams, as well as to set them in motion,
He then conceived an idea of affixing wheels near the ex
tremity of that part of the rams which strikes the wedges.
This was done before the blocks were again placed ; and it
has since been found fully to answer the purpose intended,
particularly in returning the horizontal wedges to their
original situations, when the work is performed for which
they were displaced ; the wheels also giving^ great increase of
                             Q % .                      power

244                  Metliod of obviating
power to the rams, and decrease of labour to the artificers;
besides which, the blows are given with much more exact
ness. The same blocks were again laid in another dock, in
which a two-decked ship of the line was docked. On exa
mination they were found to be very severely pressed, but
were .removed with,great ease. They were again placed in
another dock in which a three-decked ship of the line was
docked. This ship having in her foremast and bowsprit,
the blocks were put quite forward, that being the part which
presses them with the greatest force. As soon as the water
was out of the dock, it was observed that the horizontal
wedges of nine and seven degrees had receded some feet
from their original situations. This afforded Mr. Seppings
a satisfactory proof, which experience has since demon
strated (though many persons before would not admit of,
and others could not understand, the principle), that the
facility of removing the blocks or wedges, was proportionate
to the quantity of pressure upon them. The block of five
degrees kept its place, but was immediately cleared, by ap
plying the power of the battering-rams to the sides of the
outer ends of the horizontal wedges. The above experi
ments being communicated to the Navy Board, Mr. Sep
pings was directed to attend them, and explain the prin
ciple of his invention-; which explanation, further corro
borated by the testimonials of his then superior officers,
was so satisfactory, that a dock was ordered to be fitted at
Plymouth under his immediate directions. The horizontal
wedges in this, and in the other docks, that were afterwards
fitted by him, are of cast iron, with an angle of about five
degrees and a half, which, from repeated trials, are found
equal to auy pressure, having in no instance receded, and,
when required, were easily removed. The vertical wedge
is of wood, lined with a plate of wrought iron, half an inch
thick. On the bottom of the dock, in the wake of each
block, is a plate of fron of three quarters of an inch thick,
so that iron at all times acts in contact with iron.
    The placing the sustaining shores, the form and sizes of
 the wedges, and battering-rams, &c. ; also the process of
 taking away, and again replacing, the wedges of which the
 block is composed, are also exemplified by a model.
    The dock being prepared at Plymouth, in August 1 801
 the Canopus, a large French 80-gun ship, was taken in,
 and rested upon the blocks ; and the complete success of
 the experiment was such, that other docks were ordered to
 be" fitted at Sheerness and Portsmouth dock-yards, under
Mr. Seppings's-directions. At the former place a frigate,
                                                          and

                 the Necessity of lifting Ships.           245
and at the latter a three-decked ship, were suspended in
like manner. This happened in December 1 802, and
January 1803; and the reports were so favourable,, as tQ
cause directions to be given for the general adoption of these
blocks in his majesty's yards.         This invention being
thought of national cousequence, with respect to ships, but
particularly those 6f the navy, government has been pleased
to notice and reward Mr. Seppings for it.
   The time required to disengage each block is from one to
three minutes after the shores are placed : and a first-rate
sits on about fifty blocks. Various are the causes for
which a ship may be required to be cleared from her blocks,
viz. to shift the main keel; to add additional fasle keel ; to
repair defects ; to caulk the garboard seams, scarples of th&
keel, &c. Imperfections in the false keel, which are so
very injurious to the cables, can, in the largest ship, be
remedied in a few hours by this invention, without adding
an additional shore, by taking away blocks forward, amid
ships, and abaft, at the same time; and, when the keel is
repaired in the wake of those blocks, by returning them
into their places, and then by taking out the next, and so
on in succession. The blocks can be replaced in their ori
ginal situations, by the application of the whet! battering-
rams to the wedges, the power of which is so very great,
that the weight of the ship can be taken front the .shores
that were placed to sustain her. There were one hundred
and six ships of different classes, lifted at Plymouth dock
yard, from the 1st of January 1798 to the 31st of Decem
ber 1800; and, had the operation of lifting taken less time,
 the number would have been very considerably increase d,;
for the saving of a day is very frequently the cause of saving
a spring tide, which makes the difference of a fuitnight.
The importance of this expedition, in time of war, cannot
 be sufficiently estimated.
    This invention may be applied with great advantage,
 whenever it is necessary to erect shores, to support any
great weights, as, for instance, to prop up a building during
 the repair of its foundation,, Jkc. Captain Wells, of his
 majesty's ship Glory, of 98 guns, used wedges of Mr.JSep-
 pings's invention for a fid of a top-gallant mast of that
 ship. In 1803, the top-gallant masts of the Defence, of
 74 guns, were fitted on this principle by Mr. Seppings :
 and, from repeated trials, since she has been cruizing in the
J^or.th Sea, the wedge fids have been found in every respect
 to answer.
    But jt is Mr. Seppings's wish that it should be under-
 L.J .                        £3                        stood,

 246                  Method of ohviating
 stood, that the idea of applying this invention to the fid of
 a top-gallant mast originated with captain Wells, who
 well understood the principle, and had received from him a
 model of the invention.
    When it is required to strike a top-gallant mast, the top
 ropes are hove tight, and the pin which keeps the horizontal
 wedges in their place is taken out, by one man going aloft
 for that purpose; the other horizontal wedge is worked in
 the fid, as shown in the drawing and model that accompany
 this statement. The upper part of the1 fid hole is cut to
 form the vertical wedge. The advantage derived from fid-
 ding top-gallant masts in this way is, that they can be
 struck at the shortest notice, and without slacking the rig-,
 ging, which is frequently the cause of springing and carry
 ing them away, particularly those with long pole heads.
The angle of the horizontal wedges for the fids of masts
should be about twenty degrees.
    The above account was accompanied with certificates
from sir John Henslow, surveyor of the navy ; Mr. M,
Didram, master-shipwright of Portsmouth-yard; and Mr.
John Carpenter, foreman of Shetrness dock-yard, con
firming Mr. Seppings's statement.
Reference to the Engraving of Mr. Seppings's method of
     obviating the necessity of Ifting ships. Plate IV,
   This plan and section of a seventy-four gun ship de-
scribes the method of obviating the necessity of lifting ships,
when there may be occasion to put additional false keels to
then), or to make good the imperfections of those already
on; also, when it may be necessary, to caulk the garboard
seams, scarples, the keel, &c. ; by which means a very con
siderable part of the expense will be saved, and much time
gained. The blocks are cleared, and again returned by the
following process. A sufficient number of shores are placed
under the ship to sustain her weight, and set taught, sta*
tioned as near the keel as the working of the battering-
rams fore and aft will admit. Avoid placing any opposite
the blocks, as they would in that case hinder the return of
the wedges with the battering-rams. A blow must then
be given forward on the outer end of the iron wedges with
the battering-rams in a fore and aft direction, which will
cause them to slide aft, as khown in the plan. The batter
ing-rams abaft then return the blow, and the wedges again
come forward ; by the repetition of, this operation, the
wedges will be with great, ease cleared, and the angular

                 the Necessity of lifting Ships.           24 7
fjlock on the top will drop down. When the work is per
formed, the block must be replaced under the keel, and the
wedges driven back bw working the rams athwart-ships,
as described in the section.
    N. B. In returning the iron wedges, to avoid straining
 the angular blocks, it is proposed to leave a few of them
out forward and aft, and stop the ship up, by laying one
 iron wedge on the other, as shown at Fig. J , Plate IV.
    To facilitate the business, blocks may be cleared forward
 and aft at the same time, sufficient to get in place one
 length of false keel. If the false keel should want repairing^
 it may bedone without any additional shores,by clearing one
 block at a time ; and when the keel is repaired in the wake
 of that block, return the wedges, as above directed, ani
 clear the next, &c.
              Section and Plan, Plate IV. Fig. 2.
    A, Keelson.
    B, Ceiling.
    C, Floor timber.
    D, Dead or rising wood.
    E, Plank of the bottom.
    F, Keel and false keel.
    G, Angular blocks with a half-inch iron-plate bolted to
 them.
     H, Cast-iron wedges.
     I, Iron-plate of three-fourths of an inch thick on the
 bottom of the dock.
     K, Battering-rams, with wheels, and ropes for the
 hands.
    L, Cast-iron wedges, having received a blow from for
 ward.
    M, Shores under the ship to sustain her weight.
     Fig. 3. represents part of a top-gallant mast fitted with
  a wedge fid.
     a, Top-gallant mast.
     b, Fid, with one horizontal wedge worked on it.
     c, Moveable wedge, with the iron strap and pin over it,
 to keep it in its situation.
    d, Trussel trees.
                              Q4                 XXXVII. Qn

                                [    248     ]
    XXXVII. On the Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
      in different Latitudes. By Messieurs Humboldt and
      Biot. Read by M. Bibx, in the Mathematical and
      Physical Class of the French National Institute 2Qth
      Frimaire, An 13*. (\ 7th December 1804.)
   An inquiry into the laws of terrestrial magnetism is no
   doubt one of the most important questions that philoso
   phers can propose. The observations already made on this
   subject have discovered phaenomena so curious, that one
   cannot help endeavouring to ,so|ve the difficulties they pr&r
   sent ; but notwithstanding the efforts hitherto employed, it
   inust be confessed that we are absolutely unacquainted with
   the causes of them.
      It was difficult to obtain On this point any precise know
   ledge at a time when the construction pf the compass
   was still imperfect; and so little time has elapsed since
   the discoveries of M. Coulomb have taught us to render
   them completely exact, it needs excite no astonishment that
   so few facts in the observations of travellers have been
   found worthy of confidence.
      The expedition which M. Humboldt has terminated has
   procured for this part of philosophy a collection no less
. valuable than those with which he has enriched the other
   branches of human knowledge. Furnished with an excel-,
   lent dipping-needle, constructed by Le Noir on the princi
   ples of Berda, M. Humboldt has made more than three
  hundred observations on the inclination of the masnet, and
   on the intensity of the magnetic force in that part of Ame
   rica which he traversed. By adding to these results those
   which he had already obtained in Europe before his de
   parture, we shall have for the first time a series of correct
   facts on the variation of the magnetic forces in the northern,
   part, of the globe, and in some points of its southern
 - part.
      The friendship which M. Humboldt has testified for me
   since his return having given me an opportunity of commu
   nicating to him some experiments on this subject, which
   I made this year in the Alps, he immediately offered to
   unite his to mine in a memoir. But if friendship and a
   dtsire of making known new facts induced me to accept
   this offer of M. Humboldt, justice forbids me to take ad
   vantage of it to his prejudice ; and I must here declare, that
   a very small part of it belong* to me.
              * From the Journa'. dc Phininue, Frimairgj An 13v
                                                      '   '     ' To

         On the Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism.     249
     To place in order the facts and consequences which may
  be deduced from them, it is necessary to consider the ac
  tion of terrestrial magnetism under different points of view,
  corresponding to the different classes of the phaenomena
  which it produces.
     If we consider it first in general, we find that it acts on
  the whole surface of the globe, and that it extends beyond
  it. This last fact, which was doubted, has been lately
  proved by one of us, and particularly by our friend M. Gay-
  Lussac, during his two aerostatic voyages. And if these
  observations, made with all the care possible, have not
  shown the least sensible diminution in the intensity of the
  magnetic force, at the greatest height to which man can
  attain, we have a right to conclude that this force extends
  to an indefinite distance from the earth, where it decreases,
  perhaps, in a very rapid manner, but which at present is
  unknown to us.
     If we now consider magnetism at the surface even of the
  earth, we shall find three grand classes of phaenomena,
' which it is necessary to study separately, in order to have a
  complete knowledge of its mode of action. These phaeno
  mena are; the declination of the magnetic needle, its incli
  nation, and the intensity of the magnetic force, considered
  either comparatively in different places or in themselves,
  paying attention to the variations which they experience.
  It is thus that, after having discovered the action of gravity
  2S a central force, its variation, resulting from the figure of
  the earth, was afterwards ascertained in different lati
  tudes.
     The decimation of the magnetic needle appears to be
  that phaenomenon which hitherto has more particularly
  fixed the attention of philosophers, on account, no doubt,
  of the assistance which they hoped to derive from it in de
  termining the longitude ; but when it was known that the
  declination changes in the same place, in the course of
  time, when its diurnal variations were remarked, and its
  irregular traversing, occasioned by different meteors ; in a
  word, the difficulty of observing it at sea, within one de
  gree nearly, it was necessary to abandon that hope, and to
  consider the cause of these phaenomena as much more com
  plex and abstruse than had been at first imagined.
     In regard to the intensity of the magnetic force in diffe
  rent parts of the earth, it has never yet been measured in a
  comparative manner. The observations of M. Humboldt
  on this subject have discovered a very remarkable phaeno
  menon; it is the variation of the intensity in different lati-
             1                                             tudes,

  250           Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
  tudes, and its increase proceeding from the equator to the
  poles.
     The compass, indeed, which at the departure of M.
  Humboldt gave at Paris 245 oscillations in 10 minutes,
  gave no more in Peru than 211, and it constantly varied in
  the same direction ; that is to say, the number of the oscil
  lations always decreased in approaching the equator, and
  always increased in advancing towards the north.
     These differences cannot be ascribed to a diminution of
  force in the magnetism of the compass, nor can we sup
  pose that it is weakened by the effect of time and of heat ;
  for, after three years' residence in the warmest countries of
  the earth, the same compass gave again in Mexico oscilla
  tions as rapid as at Paris.
      There is no reason, either, to doubt the justness of M.
  Humboldt's observations, for he often observed the oscilla
  tions in the vertical plane perpendicular to that meridian ;
  but by decomposing the magnetic force in the latter plane,
  and comparing it with its total action, which is exercised in
  the former, we may from these data calculate its direction,
  and consequently the direction of the needle*. This in
  clination, thus calculated, is found always conformable to
  that which M. Humboldt observed directly. When he
  made his experiments, however, he could not foresee that
  they would be subjected to this proof by which M. Lst
  Place verified them.
      As the justness of these observations cannot be contested,
  we must allow also the truth of the result which they indi-
     * Let HOC (plate V. fig. I.) be the plane of the magnetic meridian pass
  ing through the vertical OC; let OL be the direction of the needle situated in
  that plane, and OH a horizontal. The angle LOH will be the inclination
  of the needle, which we shall denote by L If F represent the total mag
  netic force which acts in the direction OL, the part of this force, which actt
  according to OC, will be F sine of I ; but the magnetic forces which deter*
  mine the oscillations of the needle in any plane, are to each other as the
  squares of the oscillations made in the same time. If we denote then by M,
  the number of the oscillations made in 10' of time in the magnetic meridian,
  and by P, the number of oscillations made also in 10', in the perpendicular
  plane, we shall have the following proportion,
                                  F sin. I _ P*
                                     F ~ M1
  from which we deduce
     The inclination then may be calculated by this formula, when we have
* oscillations made in the two planes.
     In like manner, by making a needle oscillate successively in several vertical
  planes, we might determine the direction of the magnetic meridian.
      ¦ -                                i ¦                                   -
                                                                           cate,

                     in different Latitudes,                  S31
 cate, and which is the increase of the magnetic force pro
 ceeding from the equator to the poles.
    To follow these results with more facility it will be proper
 to set out from a fixed term, and it appears natural to make
 choice for that purpose of the points where the inclination
 of the magnetic needle is null, because they seem to indi
 cate the places where the opposite action of the two terres-
 trial hemispheres is equal. The series of these points forms
 on the surface of the earth a curved line which differs very
 sensibly from the terrestrial equator, from which it deviates
 to the south in the Atlantic Ocean and to the north in the
 South Sea. This curve has been called the magnetic equa
 tor, from its analogy to the terrestrial equator, though it is
 not yet known whether it forms exactly a great circle of the
 earth, We shall examine this question hereafter ; at pre
 sent it will be sufficient to say, that M. Humboldt found
 this equator in Peru about 7'7963° (7° l') of south latitude,
 which places it, for that part of the earth, nearly in the
 spot where Wilke and Lemonnier had fixed it.
     The places situated to the north of that point may be di
 vided into four zones; the three first of which, being nearer
 the equator, are about 4-5° (4°) of breadth in latitude;
 while the latter, more extensive and more variable, is 16*
  (14°). So that the system of these zones extends in Ame
 rica from the magnetic equator to 25-5556° (23°) of north
 latitude, and comprehends in longitude an interval of about
  56° (50°).
     The first zone extends from 7" 7963° (7° l") of southlatitude
  to 3-22° (2° 54'). The mean number of the oscillations of
  the needle in the magnetic meridian in 10' of time is there,
  Sll'Q: no observation gives less than 211, or more than
  S14. From M. Humbojdt's observations one might form
  a similar zone on the south side of the magnetic equator,
  which would give the same results.
     The second zone extends from 2-4630° (2° 137) of south
  latitude to 3-61° (3° 15') of north latitude. The mean term,
  of the oscillations is there, 217'9: they are never below
  220, or above 226.
     The fourth zone, broader than the other two, extends
  from 10-2778° (9° 15') to 25-7037° (23° 8') of north lati
  tude. Its mean term is 237: it never presents any ob
  servation below 229, or above 240.
     We are unacquainted, in regard to this part of the earth,
, with the intensity of the magnetic force beyond the latitude
  of 26° (23°) north; and on the other hand, in Europe,
 jrhere we have observations made in high latitudes, we
                                                              have

252      ' Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
have none in tl>e neighbourhood of the equator : but we
will not venture to compare these two classes of observa
tions, which may belong to different systems of forces, as
will he -mentioned hereafter.
   However, the .only comparison of results, collected in
America by M. Humboldt, appears to us to establish with ¦
certainty the increase of the magnetic force from the equa
tor to the poles ; and, without wishing to connect them
too closely with the experiments made in Europe, we must
remark, that the latter accord so far also with the preceding
as to indicate the phaenomenon.
   If we have thus- divided the observations into zones pa
rallel to the equator, it is in order that we may more easily
show the truth of the fact which' results from them, and
in particular to render the demonstration independent of
those small anomalies which are inevitably mixed with
these results.
'. Though these anomalies are very trifling, they are, how
ever, so sensible, and so frequently occur, that they cannot
be ascribed entirely to errors in the observations. It ap
pears more natural to ascribe them to the influence of local
circumstances, and the particular attractions exercised by
collections of ferrugineous matters, chains of mountains,
or by the large masses of the continents.'
   One of us, indeed, having this summer carried to the
Alps the magnetic needle employed in one of his late aerial
excursions, he found that its tendency to return to the
magnetic meridian was constantly stronger in these moun
tains than it was at Paris before his departure, and than it
has been found since his return. This needle, which made
at Paris. 83'9° in 10 minutes of time, has varied in the fol
lowing manner in the different places to which it was car
ried :
                                           Number of oscillations in
             Places of oliservation.          tea minutes of time.
         Paris before his departure                  83-0
        7'urin                                       87-2 . ,      ..'
         On Mount Genevre                            88'2 "
         Grenoble          -                         87-4, .         ;
        Lyons            .- ,                        87-3
         Geneva                           - .        86-5
         Dijon           -      .    r-              84-5 > . ' ,
         Paris, on his return                        83-9
   Thee experiments were made with the greatest care* con
jointly with excellent observers, and always emploving the
same watph verified by small pendulums^ and taking the
                                                 " .          mean

i                      hi different Latitudes.                  SS3
   mean terms between several serieses of observations, which
  always differed very little from each other. It appears
   thence to result that the action of the Alps has a sensible
   influence on the intensity of the magnetic force. M, Hum
   boldt observed analogous effects at the bottom of the Py
   renees ; for example, at Perpignan. it is not improbable
   that they arose from the mass of these mountains, or the
   ferrugi-neous matters contained in them ; but whatever may
   be the cause, it is seen by these examples that the general
   action of terrestrial magnetism is sensibly modified by local
   circumsUnces, the differences of which may be perceived
  an-places very little distant from each other. This truth
  will be further confirmed by the rest of this memoir.
      It is to causes of this kind, no doubt, that we must
   ascribe the diminution of the magnetic forces observed in
  some mountains ; -a diminution which, on the first view,
   might appear contrary to the results obtained during the last
   aerial voyages. This conjecture is supported bv several ob
  servations of M. Humboldt. By making his needle to oscil
   late on the mountain of Guadaloupe, winch rises 676 metres
   (338 toises) above Santa- Fe, he found it in 10 minutes of
   time give two oscillations less than in the plain. AtSilla, near
   Caracas, at the height of 2632 metres (1316 toises) above
  the coast, the diminution went so far as five oscillations;
  and, on the other hand, on the volcano of Antisana, at the
  height of 4934 metres (2467 toises), the number of oscilla
  tions in 10 minutes was 230; though at Quito it was only
  218: which indicates an increase of intensity. I observed,
  indeed,' a similar effect on the summit of Mount Gcnevre,
  at the height of 1600 or 1800 metres {8 or 900 toises), as
  mavbeseen by the numbers which I have already given;
  and it was on this mountain that I found the greatest in
  tensity of the magnetic force. I saw on the hill of La Sut-
  perga, in the neighbourhood of Turin, an example of these
  variations equally striking. Observing, with Vassali, oil
  this hill, at the elevation of about 600 metres (300 toises) ^
  we found 87 oscillations in 10 minutes of time. On the
  side of the hill we had 88-8 oscillations; and at the bot
  tom, on the bank of the Po, we obtained 87"3. Though
  these results approach very near to each other, their differ
  ence is, however, sensible, and fully shows that their small
  variations must be considered as slight anomalies. produced
  by local circumstances.
     This examination leads us to consider the intensity of
  magnetism on the different points of the surface of the
 globe, as subject to two sorts of differences. One kind are
                                                          general :

254         Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
general : they depend merely on the situation of the platfH
in regard to the magnetic equator, and belong to a general
phcenomenon, which is the increase of the intensity of the
magnetic forces in proportion as we remove from the equa-
tor : the other kind of variations, which are much smaller
aud altogether irregular, seem to depend entirely on local cir
cumstances, and modify either moreor less the general results.
   If we consider terrestrial magnetism as the effect of an
attractive force inherent in all the material particles of the
globe, or only in some of these particles, which we are far
from determining, the general law will be, the total result
of the system of attraction of all the particles, and the small
anomalies will be produced by the particular attractions of
the partial systems of the magnetic moleculae diffused irre
gularly around each point ; attractions rendered more sen
sible by the diminution of distance.
    It now remains to consider the inclination of the mag
netic needle in regard to the horizontal plane. It has long
been known that this inclination is not every where the
same : in the northern hemisphere the needle inclines to
wards the north; in the southern towards the south; the places
where it becomes horizontal form the magnetic, equator ; and
those where the inclination is equal, but not null, form on
•each side of that equator curved lines, to which the name of
magnetic parallels has been given from their analogy to
the terrestrial parallels. One may see in several works, and
particularly in that of Lemonnier, entitled Lois du Mag"
netisrn, the figure of these parallels and their disposition on
the face of the earth.
    It evidently results from this disposition that the inclina
tion increases in proportion as we recede from the magnetic
equator; but the law which it follows in its increase has
not yet, as far as appears to us, been given. To ascertain
this law, however, would be of great utility ; for the in
clination seems to be the most constant of all the magnetic
phenomena, and it exhibits much fewer anomalies than the
 intensity. Besides, if any rule, well confirmed, could be dis
covered on this subject, it might be employed with advan*.
tage at sea to determine the latitude when the weather does
not admit an observation of the sun; which is the case in
various places during the greater part of the year. Wf
Jrave some reason to expect this application when we
see the delicacy of that indication in the observations of
M. Humboldt, where we find 0-65° (35' 6") of difference
between two towns so near each other as Nismes and Mont*
pellicr. These motives have induced us to study with great
          , . ¦                                          interest

                           in different Latitudes. ¦ '                      SSS
   interest the series of observations made by M. Humboldt
. in regard to the inclination ; and it appears to us that they
• may be represented very exactly by a mathematical hypo
   thesis; to which we are far from attaching any reality in
   itself, but which we offer merely as a commodious and sure
   mode of connecting the results.
       To discover this law, we must first exactly detennine.the
 'position of the magnetic equator, which is as an interme
   diate line between the northern and the southern inclina
   tions. For this purpose we have the advantage of being
   able to compare two direct observations ; one of Lapey-
   rouse, and the other of M. Humboldt. The former found
> the magnetic equator on the coasts of Brasil at 12*1666*
   (10° 57') of south latitude, and 29-2407° (25° 25') of west
   longitude, counted from the meridian of Paris. The latter
   found the same equator in Peru at 7*7963° (7° l') of south
   latitude, and 89-6481° (80° 41') of west longitude, also
   reckoned from the same meridian. These data are suffi
   cient to calculate the position of the magnetic equator, sup
   posing it to be a great circle of the terrestrial sphere ; an
   hypothesis which appears to be conformable to observa
   tions. The inclination of this plane to the terrestrial equator
   is thus found to be equal to 11-0247° (10° 58' 56"), and
   its occidental node on that equator is at 133-37 1 90 (120°
   2' 5") west from Paris, which places it a little beyond the
   continent of America, near the Gallipagos, in the South
   Sea; the other node is at 66-6281° (50° 57' 55") to the
   «ast of Paris, which places it in the Indian Seas*.
                                                                            We
      * To calculate this position let NEE' (Plate V. fig. 2.) be the terrestrial
   equator; NHL the magnetic equator, supposed also to be a great circle ;
   and H L the two points of that equator, observed by Messrs. Humboldt and
 > Lapeyrouse. The latitudes HE, LE', and the arc E E', which is the diffe
  rence of longitude of these two points, is known: consequently, if we sup
   pose HE = b, LE' = V, EE' = v, EN « x, and the angle ENH «y, we
   shall have two spherical triangles N E H, N E'L, which will give the two
   following equations :
                         —S_b cot 1y sin.
               Sin. x = tan?,            . (x, + v). m tan?.           y
                                                             2—£' cot. 2,
        *                     **                               *¦
 . from which we deduce
                             c. (J ± ")            »ng. V
                                     sin. x = tang, u—
                             bin. —.——
                       cot. x = ¦     tang. V           cos. v
                                  tang, b sin. v        sm.v
      Let U3 now take an auxiliary gngle <f>, so that we may have
                                          tan?, b sin. v
          •                     * fT = —2
                            tang,            tang. V ,

  250          Farialions of the Terrestrial Magnetisrri
     We do not give this determination as rigorously exact :
  some corrections might no doubt be made to it, had we
 a greater number of observations equally precise; but
 we are of opinion that these corrections would be very
  small; and it will be seen hereafter that, independently of
 the confidence which the two observations we have em
 ployed deserve, we have other reasons for entertaining,
 this opinion *.
     It is very remarkable that this determination of the mag
 netic equator agrees almost perfectly with that given long
 ago bv Wilke and Lemonnier. The latter in particular,
 who for want of direct observations had discussed a great
 number of corresponding observations, indicates the mag
 netic equator in Peru towards 7°± of south latitude ; and
 M. Humboldt found it in the same place at 7-7963° (7° l') ;
 besides, Lemonnier's chart, as well as that of M. Wilke,
 indicates for the inclination of the magnetic meridian 1 2'22"
  (about 1          and they place the node about 155° 56' (140°)
 of west longitude, reckoned from the meridian of Paris.
     Can it be by chance, then, that these elements, found
 more than 40 years ago, should accord so well with ours
 founded on recent observations ? or does the inclination of
 the magnetic equator experience only very small variations,
 while all the other symptoms of terrestrial magnetism
 change so rapidly ? We should not be far from admitting
 the latter opinion, when we consider that the inclination of
 the magnetic needle has changed at Paris 3° during 60 vears
 since it has been observed ; and that at London, according
 to the observations of Mr. Graham, it has not changed 2J
 in '200 years ; while the declination has varied more" than
 20° in the same interval, and has passed from east to west :
 but, on the other hand, the observation of the inclination is
 so difficult to be made with exactness, and it is so short a
 time since the art of measuring it with precision was known,
 and we shall have                                                            -
                                      sin. v sin. *
                            tang, x —
                                      sin. [v — 3>) ,
   By these equations we may find x, and then y, by any of the first two.
   • Since this memoir was read, we have collec>ed new information which
confirms these first results. Lapcyrouse, after having doubled Cape Horn,
fell in a second time with the magnetic equator in 18' north lat. and 1 19° 7'
of longitude west from Paris. He was therefore very near the node of the
magnetic equator, such as we have deduced it from observations. Thij
fact establishes in a positive manner two important tonsequences : first, that
the preceding determinations require only very slight corrections ; and the
second, that the magnetic equator is really a great circle of the earth, if not
exactly at least very nearly.—ifoturif the Authors.
                                                                          that

                Account of a Case of Hydrophobia.                    257
that It is perhaps more prudent to abstain from any prema
ture opinion on phaenomena the cause of which is totally
unknown to us.
   To employ the other observations of M. Humboldt in re
gard to the inclination, I first reduced the terrestrial latitudes
and longitudes reckoned from the magnetic equator. The
latter, being reckoned from the node of that equator in the
South Sea, I could first perceive by these calculations that
the position of that plane determined by our preceding re
searches was pretty exact ; for some of the places, such as
Santa-Fe and Javita, where M. Humboldt observed incli^
nations almost equal, were found nearly on the magnetic
parallel, though distant from each other more than 6-6666"
(6°) in longitude *.
   When these reductions were made, I endeavoured to re
present the signs of the inclinations observed, and to leave as
little to chance as possible. I first tried a mathematical
hypothesis conformable enough to the idea which has hi
therto been entertained in regard to terrestrial magnetism.
   I have supposed in the axis of the magnetic equator, and
at an equal distance from the centre of the earth, two cen
tres of attractive forces, the one austral -and the other boreal,
in such a manner as to represent the two opposite magnetic
poles of the earth : I fhen,calculated the effect which ought
to result from the action of these centres in any point of the
surface of the earth, making their attractive force recipro
cally vary as the square of the distance; and in this manner
I obtained the direction of the result of their forces, which
ought to be that also of the magnetic needle in that latitude.
                               [To be continued.]
XXXVII T. Account of a Case of Hydrophobia successfully
   treated by copious Bleeding and Mercury. In two Let
   ters from Dr. Robert Burton, of Bent, in the State
   of Virginia, to Dr. Benjamin Rush, of Philadelphia^,
       SIR,
Believing that you are always disposed to encourage
any thing which may throw light upon the treatment of
diseases, I take the liberty of addressing to you the follow*
  * This confirms what we have already said, that the magnetic equator is
sensibly a great circle of the earth.—Nate of the Autl-ors.
  f From the American Medical Repository.                .         I
Vol. 22. No. 87. August } 605.                    R                   ing

258          Account of a Case of Hydrophobia.
ing case of hydrophobia, requesting a line or two, if you
think it deserving your attention.
   On July 4, 1 803, at nine o'clock in the evening, I was
desired to visit Thomas Brothers, aged 28 years. I was
informed by the person who came for me, that he had been
bitten by a dog, which his friends suspected to be mad. I
found him in the hands of four young men, who were en
deavouring to confine him, and thereby prevent him from
injuring himself or friends. He recognised me, and re
quested me to give him my hand, which he made a violent
effort to draw within his mouth. Conscious of his inclina
tion to bite, he advised his friends to keep at a distance,
mentioning that a mad dog had bitten him.
   His symptoms were as follow: viz. a dull pain in his
head, watery eyes, dull aspect, stricture and heaviness at
the breast, and a high fever.
   Believing, as you do, that there is but one fever, I de
termined to treat this case as an inflammatory fever- 1
therefore drew twenty ounces of blood ; and, as he refused
to lake any thing aqueous, I had him drenched with a large
dose of calomel and jalap.
   July 5th, four a.m. Finding the symptoms worse, I took
away sixteen ounces of blood, and applied two large epi-
spastic plasters to his legs, hoping thereby to relieve the op
pression of the praecordia and other symptoms. '
   Twelve in. Was informed that one of his friends had
permitted him to take a stick in his mouth, which he bit-
so as to loosen several of his teeth. As he craved some
thing to bite, I desired his friend to give him a piece of
lead, which he bit until he almost exhausted his strength.
   One p. nt. Finding but little alteration, I drew eighteen
Ounces of blood, and had him drenched with the antimo-
nial powders*
   Two p. j». He slept until half after three, when he.
awoke, with the disposition to bite, oppression, &c, but
fiot so violent.
   July- 6th* eight a. m. Found him biting the bed-clothes;
his countenance maniacal, his pulse synocha, with a stric
ture of the breast, difficult deglutition, laborious breathing,
and a discharge of saliva. I took away twenty-four ounces
of blood, gave him a dose of calomel and jalap, and con
tinued the powders.
   Twelve m. Drew sixteen ounces of blood, and gave him
laudanum.
                                                           Five

                Account of a Case of Hydropkoliq.          259
   Five p. m. Found him in a slumber ; his skin moist, and
his fever and other symptoms much abated.
   July 7lh, eight a. to. Was informed that he had only
two patoxysms during my absence, and that he had lost
sixteen ounces of blood agreeably to directions. Notwith
standing the favourable aspect which the disease wore, I
resolved to bleed him twice more, and then to induce an
artificial fever by mercury, which would predominate over
the hydrophobic. I therefore drew ten ounces of blood,
and requested his friend to take eighteen ounces at night ;
to rub in a small quantity of mercurial ointment, and to
give a mercurial pill every four hours.
   July 8th, nine a. to. Found him convalescent^ but con
tinued the mercurial unction and pills.
   July 9th, ten a. to. Found his gums sore, and discon
tinued the mercury.
   July 15th, pne p. to. Found him well, but with a con
siderable degree of debility.
   It would be doing injustice to you not to. mention that I
was indebted to your lectures for the successful treatment
of this disease.
  August 21, 1803.
                         To Dr. Burton.
       DEAR STR,
   Accept of my congratulations upon your rare triumph,
over a case of hydrophobia. I give you great credit for.
the boldness of your practice. You nave deserved well of
the profession of medicine.                        ' ¦
   In order to render your communication more satisfac
tory, permit me to request your answer to the following
questions:
    1 . On what part of the body of your patient was the
wound inflicted ; and how long was the interval between
the time of his being bitten and the attack of his fever ?
   2. Did he-discover any aversion from the sight of water?
and did he refuse to swallow liquids of all kinds ? ,
   3. What were the appearances of the blood drawn? Did
it differ in the different stages of the disease ?
   Your answer to the above questions will much oblige
your sincere friend,                .
  Phiiaddphfc,,                               Benjamin Rush;
August 29, 1803.
                    \  -      .  ..                     ,    • ;
                                R 2                         To

260            ' Speedy Decomposition of Water
                      To Dr. Benjamin Rush. '
      SIR,
   I regret that business of an indispensable nature pre
vented me from being more particular in my communica
tion. I drew it up in a hurry, intending to transcribe it,
and insert such other notes as would throw light on the
case ; but being called out a few hours before the post set
out from this' place, I was obliged to forward the commu
nication in the manner in which you received it.
   The part of the body of my patient on which the wound
was inflicted was a little above the union of the solaeus and
gastrocnemius muscles, which form the tendo-achillis. The
interval between the time of his being bitten and the attack
of the fever was twenty-four days.
   He was, I was told, dull and solitary a few days previous
to the attack. A few minutes before it, his friends found
him two hundred yards from the house, apparently in a
deep study. He has informed me, since his recovery, that
he had a slight pain in the wound, attended with itching,
and an uneasiness in the inguinal gland, several days before
the fever.
   He refused to swallow liquids, and the sight of water
threw him into a convulsive agitation.
   With regard to the appearances of the blood drawn, I
am sorry to inform you, that after it became cold I did not
examine it.
                                 I am, sir, yours, &c.
Bent Creek, Virginia,                        ROBERT BURTON.
 September 18, 1803.
XXXIX. Hints respecting a speedy Decomposition of Water
  by Means of Galvanism. By Mr. William Wilson.
                          To Mr. Tilloch.
       SIR,                                London, August 22, 1805.
At a time like the present, when there is every appear
ance of some important discoveries in chemistry being made
by the help of Galvanism, any experiment connected with
this subject that is not generally known (and especially such
as relate to the decomposition of water, and that in a more
rapid manner than is usually done by Galvanism) must be
acceptable to persons engaged in this branch of, science, t
therefore take the liberty of troubling you with the follow-
            1                                                  in§

                       ly means of Galvanism,                             261
irig account of some experiments I made, about a year'&nd
a half ago, with a Galvanic trough containing fifty pair of
plates four inches square. If you think it worthy of a place
in your Philosophical Magazine, you will insert it therein.
    Being desirous of ascertaining whether water would be
decomposed or no, if the wires, which were connected with
the ends of the trough, were at a considerable distance from
one another, I inserted two short silver wires through corks
into the ends of a glass tube 36 inches long, and which was
filled with water: the ends of the wires were about 34 inches
asunder, which distance was too great for any visible de
composition of the water to take place ; vet that wire which
was connected with the zinc end of the trough, gave a very
 faint whitish cloud which descended *. With a shorter tube
 the decomposition of the water commenced when the ends
 of the wires were at the distance of 18 inches. It then
 struck me, that if a wire was interposed between the two
 end wires of the long tube a decomposition might possibly
 be effected at two places in the tube at the same time, and
 that the quantity of gas evolved would be greater than if it
 was evolved at only one place. I therefore introduced a
 piece of iron wire between the end wires, in such a manner
 that its ends came within an inch of them. When a com
 munication was made with the trough there was a very
 copious evolution of gas at both ends of the interposed wire,
 and at that end wire that was connected with the copper
 end of the trough ; and a red oxide of iron was formed at
 one end of the iron wire, while a black oxide was formed
 at the other.
     To try if any increased effect would take place if there
 was a greater surface of the wires opposed to one another,
  I pushed the end wires further into the tube till their ends
  passed about an inch beyond the ends of the interposed
  wire: when a communication was made between them and
  the ends of the trough, a very rapid evolution of gas took
  place throughout the whole extent of the parts of the svires
  that were opposed.
      Finding the quantity of gas much increased by this ma
  nagement, I introduced a wire into each end of a tube about
   16 inches long. Each of these wires passed nearly the
  whole length of the tube without touching one another, so
  that the length of the opposed parts was 14 inches. When
  these were connected with the trough, there was a very co-
     * "Wilh a battery of troughs containing 400 pair of plates 4 inches square,
  the decomposition took place when the wires were withdrawn to the ends of
       tube,
                                      R3                                  pious

262 _     Observations on Volcanoes and their Lava.
pious evolution of gas through the whole length of the tube.
The wires used in this were iron, and the red and black
oxides were formed in considerable quantity.
   Seeing the quantity of gas evolved with a given power is
in proportion to the quantity of surface of the wires oppo
sed, many contrivances might be used to increase the effect
to a considerable degree. If thin plates of metal were used
instead of wires, a greater surface would be opposed, and in
all probability the effect would be increased. Several wires
or plates might be arranged in the same tube, and alternately
connected with the ends of the trough; or, if wire cloth was
used instead of plates, probably the .effect would be still
further increased.
               I am, sir, your obedient humble servant,
                                                   William Wilson.
XL. New Observations on Volcanoes and their. Lava.                   Byf
                         G. A. Deluc*.
    qlcajnoes have been so numerous on the surface of
our continents, when they were under the waters of the
antient sea ; and as this class of mountains, raised by sub
terranean fires, manifest themselves still on the shores of
the present sea, and in the middle of its waters, it is of
importance to geology and the philosophy of the earth to
obtain as just ideas of them as possible.
   I have attended a great deal to this subject from my own
observations; and I have shown, at different times, the
errors into which several geologists and naturalists, in
treating of it, have fallen. ' - '
   This class of mountains, in particular, requires that we
should see them, that we should behold them during their
eruptions, that we should have traced the progress of their
lava, and have observed closelv their explosions ; that we
should have made a numerous collection of the matters
which they throw up .under their different circumstances,
that we might afterwards be able to study them in the ca
binet, and to judge of their composition according to the
phaenomena which have been observed on the spot.
   This study is highly necessary when we apply to geology
and the philosophy of the earth, in order that we may avoid
falling into those mistakes which make us ascribe to sub*
terranean fires what does not belong to them, or which
leads us to refuse them what really belongs to them.
         * From Journal <Ii l.'ities, Therhitdor,' Au. xii. No. 95.
                                                                    We

           Observations on Volcanoes and their Lava,       263
    We read in the Journal de Physique for January, 1 104,
 tinder the title, On the cause of Volcanoes, the following
 assertions :                                                  ,
    ** What is the nature of the matters which maintain
 these subterranean fires ? We have seen that Chimboraco,
 all these enormous volcanoes of Peru, and the Peak of
 Teneriffe, are composed of porphyry.
    " The Puy-de-Ddme is also composed of porphyry, as
 well as the Mont-d'Or and the Cantal.
    " aEtna, Solfatara, and Vesuvius, are also of the poN
 phyry kind.
    " These facts prove that the most considerable volcanoes
with which we are acquainted are of porphyry."
    This opinion, that the fires of volcanoes have their cen
tres in such or such a rock, and that their lavas are pro
duced from these rocks, has always appeared to me not to
be founded on any certain data. Opinions also on this
subject have varied ; some having placed the origin of lava in
horn rock, others in granite or schist, and at present it is
assigned to porphyry.
    I have always been of opinion that nothing certain could
be determined in regard to this point. It ever remains un
certain whether the seat of the matters of which lava is
formed be in compact rocks, or in strata in the state of
softness, pulverulent, and muddy.
    Those who see lava issue from a volcano in its state of
fusion and incandescence, and in its cooling, are convinced
that the nature of every thing is changed, that it exhibits a
paste in which nothing can be known, except the sub
stances which the volcanic fires have not reduced to fusion.
    But these substances contained in the paste of lava,
and those which are the most numerous, show us, that the
strata from which they proceed cannot be similar to those
exposed to the view, nor even to the most profound strata
to which we can penetrate.
    The schorl of volcanoes, which was named augite, and
then pyroxene, an octaedral prism with two biearal pyra
mids, is not found in the strata with which we are ac
quainted ; and the case is the same with the leucite or white
garnet, a crystallization of a round form, with twenty-four
trapezoidal faces. And these crystals, which are observed
perfectly insulated in lava, are found there also, united in
groups, which are likewise insulated, having no marks of
former adhesion.
    Here then we have two species of crystals exceedingly
numerous in several kinds of lava. Those of ./Etna are-
                              R4                         filled.

264          Observations on Folcanoes and their Lava.
filled with schorl ; and those of Vesuvius, particularly the
antient, contain schorl and leucites in great numbers*.
    I shall make no mention of other substances, such
as chrysolites and olivins, because their form is not
sufficiently determined to enable us to decide whether they
are found or not in the exterior strata.
    It is not the lava of Vesuvius and ./Etna alone which
contains one or other of these crystals, or both of them to
gether. Most of the lavas of the antient volcanoes in the
neighbourhood of Rome are filled with myriads of leucites.
Several of the lavas of the Brisgau contain schorls in great
quantity. The gravel of the volcanjc lake of Andernach is
filled with them . They are found in the basaltes of the circle
pf Lewtomeritz inBohemia, and in the scoriae of the crater of
 Puy-de-la-Vache in Auvergne. I mention only the lava$
 pf which I possess specimens, most of them collected by
 myself on the spot, or which, were sent to me by my bro
 ther, who collected them in his excursions to the old yolca-
 poes of Germany.
    Are these two crystals so numerous in lava, the schorls,
 of volcanoes, and leucites, found in any porphyry, granite,
 or horn rock ? They are not found there : the question;
 then is decided ; lavas do not derive their origin from por
 phyry, nor from the two other rocks.
     What, in all probability, has led to the contrary opinion,
 }s the appearance of several kinds of lava, which, by the in
 sulated substances they contain, have a porphyroid appear
 ance, though they are not porphyritic-
     Leucite is said tp have been found :—Is this crystal, of a
 round form, with twenty-four trapezoidal faces, really thaj
 substance ? If it -is, in what kind of rock was it found ? Is-
 it found there by myriads, as in lava ? Were this the case,,
  must it not have been long since known ? And if it be:
  found onhy rarely, it is only an exception of very little con
  sequence, compared with the grand fact presented by lava.
     I have said that it is uncertain whether lava proceeds from
  solid rocks, or strata still in the state of softness, pulveru-
     * The bie'dral pyramids of schorl are subject to several varieties, but
  never tothat of the prism, which has always eight faces: these faces vary
  iu their size like those of rock crystal. Some are frequently seen which have
  two opposite faces broader than the rest; a variety which is observed
  also in the prisms of rock crystal. These perhaps arc modifications which
  have made these prisms be considered by Dolom'ieu and' Spallanzani as hex-
  acdra : they are certainly as much octat'dral as rock crystal is hexaedral, and
  the rose feld-spar of Baveno tetraedral.
     I have in my possession a leucite which exhibits a very singular accident.
  It is united to a schorl, one part of the length of which" it embraces. Thi«
  union has produced an elongation of the leucite to embrace the schorl.
                                                                 , '        lent,

           Observations on Volcanoes and their Lava.          265
lent, and muddy. When we reflect, indeed, that these
crystals, the schorls of volcanoes, and leucites, are found in
such great number in their paste, all insulated, and without
bearing any marks of adhesion to any rock ; when we con
sider also, that these schorls are found insulated one by one
jn myriads, mixed with the small scoriae, thrown up by
the mouths which vomited forth the enormous lava of
iEtna in 1 669; that this lava itself is filled with it,—it is not
easy to conceive how they could all be contained in a solid
 rock. It is still more difficult to conceive that fires capable
 of fusing granite, horn rock, and porphyry, should spare
 schorls, leucites, and some other substances, which are
 fused and reduced to glass in our furnaces.
    The volcanic mountain of Viterbo exhibits lavas where
 the leucites are so near each other that they occupy
 between them more space than the paste of the lava which
 contains them.
    The lava of iEtna contains, besides schorls and some
 olivins, a multitude of crystalline laminae, whitish, and
 semi-transparent. They are named without hesitation
feldspar, which appears to me not so certain as is sup
 posed.
    These laminae are two or three lines in breadth, and
 about half a line in thickness. They are found also sepa
 rated from each other, mixed with the schorls and the
 gmall scoriae of Mount Rosso, or the crater of 1669. In
 the bed of a rivulet which runs down from Mount iEtna I
 found rolled fragmentsof old very black lava, which contained
 some of these laminae in as great quantity as any marble can
 contain fragments of shells. It would be very extraordi
 nary if these laminae proceeded from fcld-spars, such as
 those with which we are acquainted, and that they should
  not be found mixed with anv fragment larger or better de
  termined, which might indicate in a certain manner that
 origin.
     Admitting the hypothesis, that the strata from which the
  lavas proceed are in a pulverulent and muddy state, con
  taining elements of all these small crystals, one may con
  ceive how they are formed there, insulated, grouped, or
  solitary, and are found then in the lava in that slate of in
  sulation.
     The fragments of natural rocks thrown up by Vesuvius
  are not ot the same kind as the matters of which the lava
, is composed. Most of these fragments are micaceous
  rocks, with laminae of greater or less size, and of a kind of
  granite called sienite. I have found some composed of
                                                             white

266       Olservaliom on Volcanoes and their Lava.
white quartzy rock; it is found sometimes of calcareous
rock.
   The most probable idea that can be formed in regard to
the origin of these fragments is, that they have been carried
from the borders of the strata through whieh the lava, that
comes from greal depths, has opened for itself a passage.
These fragments are carried to the surface or the lava as far
as the bottom of the chimney of the crater, whence they
have been thrown out by explosions, mixed with fragments
separated, or rather torn, from the lavaj for it is not by the
lava that they have been brought forth to view, but by ex
plosions.
 • Some of these fragments of natural rocks have not been
attacked by the fire; others have more or less, which de
pends, no doubt, on the place which they occupied in the
volcano, and on the time which they remained in it. The
most of the latter have retained at their surface a crust of
lava, and this crust contains substances which are not the
same as that of the fragment it covers.
   On Vesuvius the strata pierced by eruptions are lower
than the surface of the soil; in Auvergne and several places
of Germany they are above ; for this reason there are seen
there in their place schists or granites, which the eruptions
have broken to form for themselves a passage.
   No volcano rests on natural strata ; they sometimes show
themselves on the exterior ; but they have been opened by
eruptions, and their edges have remained in their pldce.
   The focus of no volcano exists or has existed in the cone
which appears above the surface of the ground. They have
been raised by eruptions, which, proceeding from great
depths, have thrown them up through the upper strata.
When it is said, therefore, that the volcanic mountains of
Auvergne rest on granite, (his is a mistake, and an incor
rect expression has been used by those who have not form
ed a just idea of the phaenomenon. Lava may have flowed
upon granite or any other rock, and rested upon it ; but
this is never the case with the volcano itself: its bases are
below all the rocks visible.
   It is from the bosom even of the lava, when in a state of
fusion in the interior of the volcano, that all the explosions
proceed. In that state of fusion they contain all the mat
ters which produce fermentations, and the disengagement
of expansible fluids.
   I have been enabled to ascertain this on Vesuvius as far
as was possible. The continual noise which was heard
through the two interior mouths of the crater which I had
                                                        before

          Observations on Volcanoes and their Lava.        267
before my eyes, was that of an ebullition, accompanied
with inflammable vapours, and the gerbes of burning mat
ters which they threw up at intervals were separated pieces
of the lava in its state of fusion. I saw several of them in
the air change their form, and sometimes become flat on
the bodies which they struck or embraced in falling. And
among the most apparent of these fragments there are al
ways a multitude of small ones of the size of peas and nuts,
and still smaller ones, which show at their surface, by their
asperities, all the characters of laceration.
   The name of scoriee has been given to these fragments to
distinguish them from compact lava, though their compo
sition be the same as that of the hardest lava; and it is for
want of reflecting properly oh this point that it has been
said that it is the compact part only that we must observe,
in order to judge of their nature. The pieces which I took
from the flowing lava with an iron hook, have at their sur
face the same lacerations and the same asperities as the frag
ments thrown up by explosions, and both contain the same
substances.
   This separation, by tearing off the parcels of the lava
effected by fermentations and explosions which proceed
from their bosom, serves to explain those columns, some
times prodigious, of volcanic sand which rise from the
principal crater. When seen with a magnifying glass, this
sand exhibits nothing but lava reduced very small, the par
ticles of which, rough with inequalities, have the bright
black colour and the varnish of recent lava.
   Parcels of substances which exist in our strata, such as
fragments of quartz, scales of mica, and crystals of feld
spar, are found sometimes in lava. Similar matters must
no doubt be disseminated in the composition of our globe,
without there being reason to conclude that the strata
from which they proceed are the same as the exterior strata.
It is neither in the granites, the porphyries, nor the horn
rock, and still less in the schists and calcareous rocks that
the schorls of volcanoes, the leucites, and perhaps olivins,'
will be found. These small crystals are brought to view by
the lava, otherwise they would be unknown to us.
   These lavas contain a great deal of iron, which they ac
quire neither from the granite nor porphyries. Might not
one see in the ferruginous sand which is found in abun
dance on the borders of the sea near Naples, and in the
environs of Rome, specimens of that kind of pulverulent
strata from which lava proceeds ?
   I have here offered enough to prove that it cannot be
                                5                  determined

£68       Observations on Volcanoes and llieir Lava.
determined that lava proceeds from strata similar to those
with which we are acquainted. The operations of volca
noes, those vast laboratories of nature, will always remain
unknow n to us, and on this subject our conjectures will al
ways be very uncertain.
    What is the nature of that mixture which gives birth to
these eruptions, that produce lava and throw upmountains[?
What we observe as certain is, that the introduction of the
water of the sea is necessary to excite these fermentations,
as containing marine acid and other salts, which, united to
the sulphuric acid, the bases of which are contained in
abundance in the subterranean strata, determine these fer
mentations, which produce the disengagement of fire and
other fluids, and all the grand effects that are the conse
quence.
    Several naturalists have believed, and still believe, that
fresh or rain water is sufficient for this purpose; but they
are mistaken : this opinion is contradicted by every fact
known. To be convinced of this, nothing is necessary but
to take a short view of them. I have done it several times,
as it is necessary to consider them often. I shall here enu
merate the principal ones :—No burning mountain exists
in the interior part of the earth; and all those which still
burn are, without exception, in the neighbourhood of the
 sea, or surrounded by its waters. Among the deliquescent
 salts deposited by the smoke of volcanoes, we distinguish
chiefly the marine salt, united to different bases. Several of
 the volcanoes of Iceland, and Heckla itself, sometimes
 throw up eruptions of water, which deposit marine salt in
 abundance. No extent of fresh water, however vast, gives
 birth to a volcano. These facts are sufficient to provethatthe
 concurrence of sea-water is absolutely necessary to excite
 those fermentations which produce volcanoes.
    I shall here repeat the distinction I have already made
 between burnt out volcanoes and the antient volcanoes,
 that I may range them in two separate classes.
    When we simply give the name of burnt otit or extin
guished volcanoes to volcanic mountains which are in the
 middle of the continents, it is to represent them as having
 burnt while the land was dry, and inhabited as it is at
 present ; which is not a just idea. These volcanoes have
 burnt when the land on which they are raised was under
 the waters of the airtient sea, and none of them have burnt
 since our continents became dry. ' It is even very apparent
 that most of them were extinct before the retreat of the
 sea, as we find by numerous examples in the present sea.
                                                         Thps$

          "Observations on Volcanoes and their Lava.       209
   Those which I denominate extinct volcanoes are such as
no longer burn, though surrounded by the sea, or placed
on the borders of it. They would still burn, were not the
inflammable matters by which they were raised, really ex
hausted and consumed. Of this kind is the volcano of
Agde, in Languedoc. Of this kind also are many of the
volcanic islands which have not thrown up fire since time
immemorial.
   M. Humboldt, in his letters written from Peru, speaks
of. the volcanoes which he visited, but what he says is not
sufficiently precise to enable us to form a just idea of them.
He represents Chimboraco as being composed of porphyry
from its bottom to its summit, and adds, that the porphyry
is loootoises in thickness; afterwards, he remarks, that it is
almost improbable that Chimboraco, as well as Picchincha
and Antisana, should be of a volcanic nature : " The place
by .which we ascended," says he, " is composed of burnt
and scorified rock, mixed with pumice-stone, which re
sembles all the currents of lava in this country."
   Here are two characters very different. If Chimboraco
be porphyry from the top to the bottom, it is not composed
of burnt and scorified rocks, mixed with pumice-stone;
and if it be composed of burnt rocks, it cannot be porphyry.
This expression, burnt and scorified rocks, is not even exact,
because it excites the idea of natural rocks, altered in their
place by fire, and they are certainly lava which have been
thrown up by the volcano. But the truth must be, that
 Chimboraco, and all the other volcanoes of Peru, are com
posed of volcanic matters, from their base at the level of
the sea to the summit.
    I have just read in the Annales du Museum d'Histoire
Naturelle*, a letter of the same traveller, written from
 Mexico, on his return from Peru, where, speaking of the
 volcanoes of Popayan, Pasto, Quito, and the other parts of
 the Andes, he says, " Great masses of this fossil (obsidian)
 have issued from the craters ; and the sides of these gulphs,
 which we closely examined, consist of porphyry, the base of
 which holds a mean between obsidian and pitch-stone
 (pechstein) ." M. Humboldt therefore considers obsidian,
 or black compact glass, as a natural fossil or rock, and not
 as volcanic glass.
    Father de la Torre, who resided at Naples, and has written
 on Vesuvius, believed also that the interior of its mouth
 was composed of na'.ural rocks and strata like every other
                             * No. 17.
                                                    mountain :

   270       Observations on Volcanoes and their Lava.
  mountain : he calls them strati naturali, sassi naturall,
   though every thing there be the work of fire.
      If M. Humboldt had been a witness to the birth and
  formation of the craters of which he speak9, he would soon
  have given them up entirely to the volcanic empire. The
  violence of the fire; the explosions and burning lava with
  which that empire would have reclaimed them, would soon
  have silenced all Neptunian pretension, and confirmed that
  these masses, which he calls porphyry, and their bases,
  holding a medium between obsidian and pitch-stone, are
  lava and vitrifications belonging to Vulcan. M. Humboldt
  derives his objection against the opinion that obsidian is
  volcanic glass, from its swelling up and becoming spongy
  and fibrous by the least degree of heat of a furnace, whence
  he concludes that it cannot be the production of fire.
     An attentive examination of volcanic productions shows
, that, their state and appearance depend on the nature of the
  matters which have been subjected to the action of the
  fires, on the degree of heat, the time and place where it has-
  been exercised. Therefore a degree of heat which has beeo
  able to reduce any substance to compact glass, would not
  be sufficient to put it into a state of ebullition, and at that
  moment could not be carried to a degree capable of pro
  ducing that effect : to this the want of free air may contri
  bute. But there are some circumstances, even pretty fre
  quent, of volcanic fires giving fibrous and puffed-up glass.
  I possess a vitrification from Lipari, the centre of which is
  compact glass, and the inside in laminae, bubbles, and
  threads, like pumice-stone. I have ill my possession an
  other, part of which is glass nearly compact, and part glass
  very much puffed up. I found on the sea-shore,
  near Messina, two pieces of four or five inches in diameter,
  formed merely of vitreous laminae, elongated, undulated,
  and full of puffed up places. I have two fragments of
  obsidian, or black compact glass of Ischia, one of the en
  tire faces of which evidently shows by the circular undula
  tions of the one, and the rounded inequalities of the other,
  that they have been in a state of fusion. I saw at Vulcano
  a vitreous mass, from which I broke a large fragment, the
  glass of which is compact in some parts, and full of puffed
  up places, some of them large and others small. Of this
 kind is the black compact glass of the volcanoes of Iceland.
     Another objection of M. Humboldt is, that obsidian is
 found in such large masses that it may be compared to a
 quarry. But why should this be an objection J Vitreous
 lava does not differ from any other lava, but by more perfect
                                                    vitrification y

                   Royal Society of London.                 37 1
vitrification ; and in regard to the size of the masses, it
may be said that it has no bounds, since iEtna, a volcano
much less considerable than those of Peru, throws up lava
several leagues in extent, and of a very great thickness.
    Obsidian, therefore, or the black glass of the volcanoes
of Peru, is as certainly a production of their fires as the lava
which is seen to issue from the bottom of every crater.
                        [To be continued.]
            XLI. Proceedings of Learned Societies.
                 ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
 In the sitting of 25th April last there was read an inte
 resting piper on an artificial substance possessing the prin
 cipal characteristic properties of tannin, by Charles Hat-
 chett, Esq. a member of the society.
    The author, after mentioning the labours of Mr. Deyenx
 and Mr. Scguin, the former of whom first separated this
 substance from galls, the characteristic property of which,
 to precipitate gelatin from water, was ascertained by the
 latter ; and after mentioning the experiments of Mr. Big
 gin, Mr. Proust, and Mr. Davy, remarks that' no one had
 hitherto supposed that it could be produced by art; unless-
 the fact mentioned by Mr. Chenevix, that " a decoction of
 coffee berries did not precipitate gelatine, unless they had
 been previously roasted," might be considered as an indi
 cation of it. Recent experiments have, however, shown
 him that tannin may be formed by very simple means, not
 only from vegetable, but from mineral and animal sub
  stances.
     In the course of his experiments on lac and resins, he
  observed the powerful effects of nitric acid on these sub
  stances, and has since observed that by long digestion
  almost every species of resin is dissolved, and so completely
  altered that water does not cause any precipitation, and that
  by evaporation a deep yellow viscid substance is obtained,
  equally soluble in water and in alcohol. In his experi
  ments afterwards, on the bitumens, he observed a material
  difference between their solutions and those of resins.
  With bitumens, nitric acid, by long digestion, formed a
  dark brown solution ; a deep yellow coloured mass was se
  parated, which, by subsequent digestion in another portion
  of nitric acid, was completely dissolved, and, by evapora

272                 Royal Society of Londotit
tion, was converted into a yellow viscid substance similar
to that obtained from the resins. Mr. Hatchett therefore
concluded that the dark brown solution was formed by the
action of the nitric acid on the uncombincd carbon of the
bitumens ; that the deep yellow portion constituted the
essential part of the bitumens ; and therefore that the
dark solution was in fact dissolved coal. He accordingly
tried pit coal, and, by a similar treatment, obtained the
same dark brown solution in great abundance, but not
when he used coals which contained little or no bitumen.
    Having by means of nitric acid obtained solutions from
asphaltum, from jet, pit coals, and charcoal, he evaporated
each to dryness, very slowly, to expel the remaining acid
without burning the residuum, which in each was a glossy
brown substance, exhibiting a resinous fracture, soluble in
water and in alcohol, and highly astringent. Exposed to
heat, they smoked but little, swelled, and yielded a bulky
coal. Their solutions reddened litmus paper, and precipi
tated various metallic and earthy salts, and also glue or
isinglass, yielding a precipitate insoluble in water, either
hot or cold—and consequently possessing all the properties
of tannin, uncontaminated with gallic acid.
    Mr. Hatchett then reduced some animal substances to
 the state of charcoal, and by a treatment similar to the
above obtained from them jtannin.
    Some kinds of coal, which in their natural state yielded
little or no tannin, on being brought to a red heat in a close,
vessel, and then digested with nitric acid, were almost
wholly converted into that substance. The result was the'
 same with various kinds of wood ;—when charred they
yielded a great quantity of tannin, though before under
going that process they would yield none.
    This ingenious paper contains other interesting details on
 matters connected with this subject, all tending to show
 that different substances yielded tannin in proportion to the
 quantity of their original carbon, and that substances re
 duced into coal in the humid way (as by the action of
 sulphuric acid) in like maner yield the tanning substance
 by nitric acid ; but we shall not enter more into this detail
 till the paper itself be published.
     On the 4th of July was read a paper by W. Hyde Wol-
 laston, M. D. on the discovery of palladium ; with ob
 servations on other substances found with .platina.
     The author, having purified a great quantity of platina
by precipitation, had an opportunity of examining
 the various impurities usually mixed with the ore.
                                                          This

                    Royal Society of London.                273
This led him to the discovery of the new metal which he.
named rhodium, and also to the discovery which forms the
principal subject of this paper. He mentions also having
found blended with platina the ore of another metal, which
has hitherto passed unobserved from its great resemblance
to the grains of that metal. These grains he considers as
the ore of iridium, ~lhe new metal discovered by Mr. Ten-
nant. They are insoluble in nitro-muriatic acid, are harder
than platina, brittle under the hammer, and break with a
laminated fracture. Mr. Tennant has undertaken the ana
lysis of a portion of this ore.
   The author mentions having separated from the ore of
platina, by a current of water, some very minute red cry
stals, the quantity of which was too small to admit of ana
lysis ; but from such an examination as he could give them
he concludes them to be hyacinths.
   Having separated these and other impurities from the
ore of platina, as far as practicable by mechanical means,
dissolved the ore, and obtained, in the form of a yellow
triple salt, all the platina that could be precipitated by sal-
ammoniac, clean bars of iron were used to separate the re
maining platina. This precipitate, consisting of various
metals, was subjected again to exactly the same treatment,
when the precipitate obtained by sal,ammoniac was found
to be not of so pale a yellow as before: bars of iron were
also again used to precipitate what remained suspended.
A repetition of the same process on this second precipitate
led to the discovery of palladium ; for Dr. Wollaston found
that a portion of it resisted the action of the nitro-muriatic
acid, though this powder had been twice completely dis
solved before. The solution was verv dark in colour, yielded
by sal-ammoniac onlv a small quantity of precipitate, and,
instead of becoming pale by the precipitation of the platina,
retained the dark colour which it had acquired from the
other metals held in solution. The second metallic preci
pitate, therefore, became the subject of investigation. Lead,
iron, and copper, were detected in it by muriatic acid. Di
lute nitrous acid- separated k further portion of copper, form
ing, as usual, a blue solution ;' but when a stronger acid
was used for the purpose of separating the remaining cop
per, the dark brown colour of the solution gave evidence
that some other metal had been dissolved. A small portion
of the solution was put on a surface of platina ; and on ap
plving a clean plate of copper a black precipitate was ob
tained, soluble in nitric acid, and consequently neither gold
nor platina. The solution in that acid was red, therefore
the metal was neither silver nor mercury j and having been
   Vof. 22. No. 87. August 1 805. ' S               precipitated

                     French National Institute',
   precipitated by copper, it was none of the other knows*'
  metals. Mercury, agitated in a warm. nitrous solution of
   this metal, acquired the consistence of an amalgam, which
  when exposed to a red heat left a white metal—palladium y
  which gave a red solution, as before, with nitrous acid,
  could not be precipitated by sal-ammoniac or by nitre, bub,
  yielded a yellow precipitate with prussiate of potash, and
  in the order of its affinities was precipitated by mercury, but
  not by silver. The author, however, adopted afterwards
  another process for obtaining palladium, depending on one
  of its most distinguishing properties, by means of which it
  may be obtained with the utmost facility. To a solution
  of crude platina, whether neutralized by evaporation of the
  redundant acid, or saturated by any of the alkalies, by lime,
  or by magnesia, by mercury, copper, or iron, and also whe
 ther the platina has or ha9 not been precipitated from it by
 sal-ammoniac, it. is only necessary fby the separation of the
  palladium that prussiate of mercury be added to the solu
 tion. In a short time it becomes turbid, and a flocculen*
 precipitate is gradually formed of a pate yellowish white
 colour. The prussiate of palladium thus obtained, when
 heated, yields that metal in a pure state.
                FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
     On the 23d of June the first class of the French National
 Institute, that of the Mathematical and Physical Sciences,
 held a public sitting, when the following papers were read :
     1st, Chaptal's report on the prize question respecting the
winter sleep of animals.
     2d, Delambre's eulogy of P. F. A. Mcchain.
     3d, Memoir of Pinel on the treatment of lunatics in a
large hospital, and on the result of three years' experience
at the Salpetriere.
    4th, Memoir on the terrestrial magnetism, by Biot.
    5th, Jussieu's account respecting the last voyage of dis
covery.
    6th, Cuvier's eulogy on Dr. Priestley.
    The prizes also were adjudged for the papers on the last
prize questions.
An Account of the Labours of' the Class of the Mathema
    tical and Physical Sciences of the French National Insti
    tute from the QOlh of June 1804 to the same Day 1805.
    By M. Covier, perpetual Secretary.
                      [Continued frdm p. 178.]
    We have in commerce three kinds of strong glue, those
of England, Flanders, and Paris, The first is the best, and
            8                                               the

                    French National Institute.               S?3
the third the worst. M. Seguin, having accurately com
pared their degrees of goodness, that is to say, of tenacity?
has -examined the difference of their chemical principles*
He has alwavs found in the glue of Paris an insoluble mix^
turc of gelatine and calcareous soap, which is deposited
when the glue is dissolved: in that of Flanders, a coagu
lated albumen, which deposits itself also : that of England
alone is free from this mixture and deposit. Nothing re
mained but to discover a sure method of making glue si
milar to that of England.
   M. Seguin first saw} that of all the animal parts capable-
of giving glue, skins furnish the best, and particularly the
skins of adult animals killed hy the butchers. He then saw
that every thing depends on the method of freeing them
from the hair. The worst glue is produced by skins freed
from the hair by lime ; that of skins freed from the hair by
alkalies is a little better ; but the most tenacious is obtained-
from skins freed from the hair by gallin, and particularly
by the successive action of gallin and diluted sulphuric acid.
But gallin is rare, and too dear for such" an application.
M. Seguin, therefore, did not obtain a complete solution
of the problem which he proposed, but by finding out a
substitute for gallin, whinh is moistened malt.
    The name of degras is given to a matter employed for
currying leather, and which is obtained in the preparation
of shammy leather. There are two kinds of it j that of
the country and that of Niort, which is better and dearer,
than the former. The degras of the country, according to
 Seguin, is composed of oxygenated oil, soap, and gelatin
in particular states. The two latter principles hurt its ef
 fect. The degras of Niort contains none of these sub
 stances, and is only oil in a certain state, M. Seguin imi
tates it, the colour excepted, bv treating oils with nitric
acid ; and the product he obtains proves a substitute, at
less expense, for the degras of Niort.
    M. Sage has shown us sortie singular products of the
 chemical art in foreign countries. The Chinese make fur-'
 haces which are as light as pasteboard, and which are in
 combustible, because they are made of amianthus. The
 same nation employ zinc for coin, a semi-metal which did
 not seem proper for such a purpose. The same chemist
 continues, with indefatigable ardour, to describe those ob-*
jects interesting to geology which are contained in his col
 lection. He has shown us this year several curious fossils
 belonging, for the most part, to the class of shells^- such as"
 terebratulae, orthoceratites, nummularia, &c/. , .
                                S3                           The

  276               F)-ench National Institute.
     The voyage of M. Peron, among the infinite number of
  interesting objects it has procured, has furnished us with
  two proper for throwing light on the history of these fossils.
  The shell called by naturalists nautilus spirula was among
  those still found alive the nearest to the cormia ammonis,
  the spiral camerin-es, and nummularia. ' M. Peron brought
  home the animal, and we have seen that it is not contained
  in the shell, but, on the contrary, that it contains the shell,
  as the cuttle-fish contains its bone. This animal belongs,
 therefore, to the genus of the cuttle-fish. It gives us reason -
 to believe that the cormia ammonis and nummularia belong
 to it also, and he explains every thing that remained em-
 barrassiug on this' subject. The same traveller has brought
 back also an animal near a-kin to the medusae, which con
 tains in its inside a cartilaginous disk entirely analogous in
 its structure to the concentric nummularia. M. Sage ob
 served in a piece of coal the impression of a disk, which
 must have resembled that of this medusa still more than
 these nummularia themselves.
    M. Cuvier, who has made known to the class these two
 results of M. Peron's collections, presented to it also two
 fa!cts interesting to geology^ discovered by himself.
    The first is, that among the numerous animals of un
 known genera with the remains of which the plaster quar
 ries in the neighbourhood of Paris are filled, there is found
 a kind of opossum, a genus still existing, but only in the
 new continent: the other is, that the remainsof a hyaena,
 very similar to that of the Cape of Good Hope, are scattered-
 throughout the earth in different parts of France and Ger
many.
    M. Desmarets has contributed also to extend this curious
 part of the natural history of animals known only by their
 remains. He has presented to us two sorts of fossil shells
 of Angoumois hitherto unknown to naturalists : he has read
 to us also a treatise on the different sorts of vegetable earth,
 their characters, and their origin. We have had like
 wise in mineralogy a Description of Guadaloupe by
M. l'Escalier. This island is in part volcanic and in part
madreporic.                   _
    M. Humboldt has given us a view of the geologic com
 position of the heights of the Cordilleras. M. Ramond has
 added new observations to those which he before made on
(the Pyrenees.
    M. Lelievre has taught us that the kind of mineral called
pinite has been discovered in France by Cordier, who found
it in minerals collected in the environs of Clermont in Au-
                  -                                      vergne,

                    French National Institute.               277
vergne, by M. Lecoq, commissioner of gunpowder. Hi
therto it has been found only in Saxony.
    Botany continues to be enriched with an increasing num
ber of new species. The superb work on the Jardin de Mal-
maison, by M. Ventenat ; the Flora of the Oware of Benin,
by M. de Beauvois ; that of the Isles de France et de Bour-
lon, by M. du Petit Thouars ; that of New Holland, by
M. de Bellardiere, are prosecuted with success. Messrs.
de Humboldt and Bonpland have published the first number
 of that of South America.
    M, Desfontarnes has published a catalogue of all the ve
getables in the Jardin des Plantes ; a valuable work, not
only for those who frequent that celebrated school, but also
for all botanists. M. Broussonet has also given that of tbe
 Jardin de Montpellier.
    Botany for a long time has been accustomed to honour
 those who cultivate and patronize it, by giving their names
 to the ,new genera it discovers ; and experience has proved
 that such monuments are the most durable of all.
    No person deserved this honour more than the empress,
 who takes so much pleasure in that agreeable science, and
 who promotes its progress so much. The Spanish bota
 nists, Messrs. Ruiz and Pavon, had already paid her this
 hjonour by giving the name of her family to a beautiful
 plant of South America.
     M. Ventenat, charged by her majesty with making
 known to the public all the new species of the garden of
 Malrnaison, has consecrated to her a second, the josephina,
 originally from New Holland, and near a-kin to the digi-
 talia and the pedalia. The elevation -of its .stem and the
 beauty of its flowers will make it be cultivated in pleasure-
 gardens.                                    *.
     M. de Beauvois has dedicated to the emperor Napoleon a
 tree of the country of Oware, in Africa, distinguished by
 its splendour, and the size and singularity of its flower.
     M- de Humboldt during his travels enriched the natural
  history of plants with general and very new considerations :
  he has traced out a sort of geography of them, in which he
  determines, the, limits of each species in latitude and in ver
  tical height : it is the temperature which stops them in both
  directions ; but as the degrees which suit each are different,
  they extend more in breadth, or rise higher, on the moun
  tains, according to this difference ; which may serve as a sure
  guide to agriculture in the choice of the plants which it
  destines to each position.
     This indefatigable traveller has enriched no less the his-
                                S,3                  ,        tory

278                French National Institute'.
tory of animals. He has described several sew specie^'
among which we have to remark in particular one of the
fish thrown up sometimes by the volcanoes in South Ame
rica. .Do they live in subterranean lakes which have a
communication with the sea?
   M. Peron has communicated to us two observations ex
ceedingly valuable in regard to the natural history of man.
The first relates to the celebrated apron of the Hottentot wo
men ; denied by some, and differently described by others.
M, Peron proves that it is a natural excrescence, which
forms one of the characters of a particular race known
under the name of the Boschm.en. The other observation
relates to the strength of the savages. A number of expe
riments, made by Kegnier's dynamometer, has shown that
they are sensibly weaker, ceeteris paribus^ than the people,
of civilized nations.
   We long ago announced the celebrated work of Berthollet
entitled Statique Chhnique. M. Pinel has written another,
the title of which is Statique Anatomique. We have an
other .of the same kind written in the century before last
by the celebrated Borelli ; but mechanics and anatomy have
both since that period made so much progress, that Borelli's
work, excellent for its time, is at present superannuated.
   A particular object of anatomy, namely, the teeth, ha,s,
been long studied by M. Tenon. This profound anatomist
has made so many discoveries on this subject,that it is more
indebted to him than to any person who preceded him. He
has lately read to us a memoir on a substance peculiar to the
teeth of certain herbivorous animals, such as the horse and'
elephant, v hich envelops the enamel.
   The same physician has communicated to us a. great work
on diseases of the eyes, which he will soon publish, and
another on the diseases peculiar to hatters. The latter arise,
chiefly from the use which hatters make of mercury to ren
der common hair fit lobe manufactured into felt, since we
were deprived of beaver skins by the loss of Canada. These,
diseases cannot be prevented but by weakening as much aS:
possible the mercurial liquor employed, or by endeavouring
to discover some other kind of hair which may be converted
into fe!t without that liquor.
   M. Tenon has read to us also several memoirs on surgery,
concerning the different methods hitherto used to prevent
or correct those accidents which are inseparable from our-
nature. Of this kind are instruments proper for extirpating
polypes of the nose ; and a method, by compression, op
stopping haemorrhages of the mouth.
                         [To be continued.]

                       Vaccine Inoculation*                  2f9
     MEDICAL AND CHIRUBGICAi SOCIETY OF LONDON.
     An institution has been lately established }n London for
 the purpose of promoting a liberal and useful intercourse
 among the different branches of the medical profession, and
 .of affording a centre for the reception of communications,
 and for the formation of a select and extensive professional
 Jibrary. It is called the Medical and ChvrUrgieal Society of
 London, and it comprises in it a considerable number of
 professional men of the first character. The meetings
  (whichjwill commence in October) will be held at the So
 ciety's apartments, Verulam Buildings, Gray's Inn, where
 any communications, or donations of books, are requested
 to be sent, directed to the Secretaries.         s
    The following is a list of the officers and council for the
 present year :                                           '
           President—Wm, Saunders, M.D. F.R.S.
 John Abernethy, esq. F.R.S. James Curry, M.D. F.A.S.
    v.ice-pres.                   Sir Walter Farquhar, bart.
 Charles Rochemont Aikia,            M.D.
    esq. sec. *                   Thompson Forster, esq.
 Wm. Babington, M.D,              Algernon Frampton, M.D. *
    F.R.S. vice-pres,             John Heaviside, esq. F.R.S.
 Mattthew Baillie, M.D,           Alex. Marcet, M.D. foreign
    F.R.S.                           secretary.
Thos.Bateman,M.D.F.L.S. Dav. Pitcairne, M,D. F.R.S.
Gilbert Blane, M.D. F.R.S. Hen. Revell Reynolds, M.D,-
Sir Wm. Blizard, T.R.S.              F.R.S.
    vice-pres.                    H. Leigh Thomas, esq.
John Cooke, M.D, FA.S. James Wilson, esq. F.R.S.
    vice-pres.                    John Yelloly, M.D. secre-
Astley Cooper, esq. F.R.S.          tary.
    treas.
        XLII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    VACCINE INOCULATION.
The Allgemeine Literatur-Zeitung, of 24th of July, re
marks that " it has been shown in some of the German
J)ublications on the eow-pock, that this method of inocu-
 ation was known in Germany before it was recommended
by Dr. Jenner; and the case appears to be the same rn,
France. M. Audouard of Castres, now at Paris, secretary
to the society of the practice of medicine at Montpellierj
has discovered that the method of vaccine inoculation v as
»...>'"'                      S4                      "practised

        580                  Vaccine, Inoculation.
        practised in some of the departments of France long before
        the attempts of Dr. Jenner. M. -"Audouard will publish a
        work on this subject, in which it is expected he will give
        proofs that this method belongs originally to France." On
    - this we may observe, that we have no doubt of the fact, for
        it was also practised in England bv solitary individuals ; but ,
       this does not lessen at all the merit due to Dr. Jenner, who
       was the first to point out the proper use that might be made
       of the fact; nor of Drs. Pearson, Woodville, and others,
       who seconded his views, and have laboured with such in
       cessant zeal to promote its general adoption, not only in
       this country, but in every part of the world—and with so
       much success, that at no very distant period we may expect
     , to see the small-pox, the most dreadful scourge with which
       the human race were ever afflicted, banished from the face
       of the earth.
                                                     Ragusa, June 30th.
           The vaccine has at length been adopted at this place,
       owing tp the exertions of that indefatigable physician
       Stulli, and the repeated instigations of Dr. ciaCarro of Vi
       enna, to whom we are indebted for this bewfit. Dr. dp
       Carro's Catechism on the Vaccine, translated into the Illvric
. <    language, and distributed in the town, and by the country
       clergymen, has contributed greatly to dispose the inhabi
       tants for receiving it. The vaccine matter of Vienna has
       succeeded very well : in the course of a few weeks Stullj
       has vaccinated a hundred children ; a great many for this
       country, which in some late years, and particularly in 1802,
       lost a great many children by the natural small-pox. This
       happy discovery is making great progress among the Dal
       matians and Turks.
                                                   Manheim, July 28th.
           According to the last accounts received by Dr. de Carro,
       at Vienna, respecting the progress of vaccination 'in the
       East Indies, the governor, by a public notice, dated Janu
       ary iQ, 1803, requested the Kuropeans and natives belonging
       to the presidency of Fort St. George to take advantage of
       this salutary discoveiy. It results from the official reports
       of the board of medicine, that from the 1st of September
       1802 to the 30th of April 1804, there were inoculated with
       success 1^5,840 persons, namely 165 Europeans, 4,141
       Bramins, 41,806 Malabarese, 40,022 Gentoos, 10,926 Ma
       hometans, 444 of mixed casts, 1,092 Portuguese, 35,975
       Farias, 440 Mahrattas, 10,367 Canaputes, 462 Raiaputes.
                                                                  The

              Proposal for encouraging Vaccination.        281
  The raja of Tanjore encourages vaccination as much as pos
  sible, and the dewar of Travancore has himself submitted
  to it.
  PROPOSAL FOR ENCOURAGING THE PRACTICE OF VAC"
                            CTNATION.
     The great number of persons who have taken the small-,
  pox in the present year, shows plainly that so many have
  not been vaccinated as hath been represented. Indeed, we
  have long more than suspected that accounts given by
  many practitioners to the public of the number inoculated
  by each of them was not exact. A practitioner is too apt
  to assume consequence from the long list he produces, and
  this it is makes him apt to plume himself upon the credit
  given to him for the number rather than for the accu
  racy and novel tv of his observations ; or it induces him to
 strive to swell his list of number, rather than to bestow the
 labour of observation. Hence too it has happened tfiat
 many persons have taken the small-pox subsequently to
 the practice of such iqexact inoculators for the cow-pock.
  It is decisive that the numbers given to the public are ex
 aggerated, n»t only for the reason just set forth, but he-
 Cause the total united sum from the different lists exceeds
 the sum on any reasonable calculation which the population
 affords to be inoculated. If we remove a cypher from the
 figures containing the numbers asserted, the sum remain
 ing will be less remote from the most accurate calculation,
 of the real number vaccinated : for instance, in some state-'
 ments, instead of 10,000 say 1,000; for 5,000 say 500, and
 so in proportion.                                            :
     The late prevalence of the small-pox has not only led to
 the above remarks, but to the consideration of the means
 of renderino- vaccination effectual for extinguishing the
 small-pox. Supposing that when the cow- pock is duly
 excited, a person has as great a chance of security as after
 due inoculation for the small-pox, it was announced at a
 public meeting—the annual one of the original Vaccine
.Pock Institution, Broad Street, on the 7th February 1803,—.
 that a plan would be brought forward to show the necessity
 of laws for the inoculation of every subject within7 a cer
 tain period after birth, as well as for the immediate prohi
 bition of the inoculation of the small-pox. It was con
 tended that the prohibition of the small-pox inoculation
 alone would be inadequate to the purpose of extinguishing
 the small-pox ; and it was maintained that it was not more
 an infringement of the liberty of the subject to render the
                                                      cow-pock

 282           Proposalfor encouraging Vaccination.
 cow-pock inoculation universal, than to prohibit, as already
 proposed, the small-pox inoculation*. The same gentle
 man (Dr. Pearson) who made these observations, has lately
 explained to the Vaccine Institution that he had been dis
 couraged and induced to lay aside his plan, from the opi
nion of a great number of friends, who almost universally
 disapproved it as impracticable in the execution, and im
 prudent for the author. He has accordingly lately pro
 posed two things, by way of rendering vaccination less
 ji'able to failures, and more extensively practised.
     1. That each person Inoculated at the Institution shall
 have a ticket signed by three members of the medical esta
blishment, attesting that the vaccination has been duly un»
dergone; and that if the person so attested shall subsequent
ly take the small-pox, such person shall be entitled to ten
guineas from the Institution.
    2. It is proposed that the medical establishment f shall
grant certificates, which may have the effect of diplomas to
qualify pupils, by attending the practice and lectures at the
Institution.
    It is remarkable, and indeed singular, that notwithstand
ing the Institution has been established near,six years, not
a single authenticated case of small-pox subsequently to
the cow-pock has occurred in the practice.
Of the inoculation of persons who have undergone t/w cow-
    pock 30 to 50 years ago; with some anecdotes of Farmer*
    Jesty, the Vaccinator of his family in 1774.
    Mr. Benjamin Jesty, farmer, of Downsh ay, accompanied
by his son Mr. Robert Jesty, lately visited the Vaccine
Institution in Broad Street, where he proved, by authen
tic evidence of various kinds—
    1. That he took the cow-pock from his own cows about
50 years ago, and although he had been often in the way of
the small-pox, he had remained unsusceptible. He has a
scar on one hand from the cow-pock.
    2. That knowing many instances besides himself of
persons never taking the small-pox who had taken the
cow-pock in dairy farms ; and that it was a harmless com*
plaint ; also being of opinion that he should avoid ingraft*
ing diseases of human subjects, such a* evil, lues, mad-
   * See Philosophical Magazine, vol. xv, No. 57, p, 81.
   + The medical establishment consists of—Doctors Pearson, Nihell, and
Nelson; Surgeons extraordinary, Thomas Kcate, Thomas Payne, and>
Thompson Foster, esquires; Surgeons in ordinary, John Gunning, J. C.
Carpue, and J, Doratt, esquires; Visiting apothecaries, Francis Rivers,
Augustus Braiide, and P.de Bruyn, esquires.
                                                                 ness,

             Proposal for encouraging Vaccination.          483
 pess, 8tc, by inoculating from the cow, he determined tq
 prefer vaccination in his own family. .. Accordingly, when
 the small-pox prevailed' in the town and neighbourhood
 pf Yetminster, in 1774, where he then lived, he inoculated;
 his wife, Mrs- Jesty, and his two sons Robert and Benja
 min^ with matter from his cows. Benjamin showed a
 large cicatrix, on the middle of the upper arm, left by this
 inoculation 31 years ago. The two sons were inoculated
 for the small-pox, without effect, 15 years ago; and they,
 as well as Mr. Jesty, have been often in contact with per
 sons in the small -pox in the course of 31 years. To give
 further satisfaction, Mr. Robert Jesty, without hesitation,
 agreed to the proposal of being again inoculated while in
 town for the small-pox. Accordingly variolous limpid matter
 was very carefully inserted by four punctured places in the left
 arm, immediately from a child in the 6th day of the erup
 tion. Red pimples appeared in the punctured parts the day
 after inoculation, which continued for two or three days,
 and then died away without any attending pain of the arm
 or arm-pit, or any constitutional disorder.
    Mr. Jesty's aversion to the small-pox " humour," as he
called it, occasioned him to prefer being tested with vaccine
matter. Accordingly he was inoculated in four places in
one arm witji matter immediately from a subject ii\ the gth
flay of vaccination.
   The farmer described how much he was censured by his
neighbours for inoculating his family from " a freest—a
brute creature without any soul ;." and he was called " a
jiard-hearted man :" but he answered that the brutes were
free from many disorders of men ; and he saw that " there
were many Christians who were greater brutes than the
pows."
   It is worthy' of notice, all the four parties in the cow-
pock inoculation have enjoyed an uncommonly good state
of health, and are all athletic subjects. Mr. Jesty, who is
70 years old, is a fresh-looking man, and has the usual ap
pearance of a man of five-and-fifty, or at the most of sixty.
The indistinctness of his speech is from the loss of all his
teeth.
   To gratify the public, and to preserve for posterity this
interesting part of the history of cow-pock inoculation, the
Vaccine Institution have had a whole length picture of
farmer Jesty painted by Mr. Sharp of Suffolk-street. It
{us been executed in a capitally successful manner; but it
flM.st be owned that the manly figure and fine countenance
    the subject were in favour of the ingenious artist1. •
                                                     BOTAHY,

                             Botany.
                            BOXANT.
    A private individual in the government of Astracan, has
 sent to the Russian minister of the interior the roots and
leaves of a plant which grows there in great abundance, to
gether with meal and bread prepared from these roots. The
accompanying memoir states that these roots have been
long used by the Calmucs as food ; that the bread made
from them is wholesome and well tasted ; that in case of a
scarcity, occasioned by a bad crop, it might be employed
as a good substitute for common bread, and that the plant
is easilv propagated by seed.
    Further examination has shown that this plant is nothing
 else than the lidomus umbeUatus, Linn. ; in English the
flowering rush or water gladiole ; in French hutome a om-
 lelle joncefteuri; in "Tartaric sussatok; in Ostiak russ; in
 Russian sussac, sotschnoj koren. It grows in every part of
 Europe, in Siberia, and in the neighbourhood or Peters-
 burgh, and particularly in marshes and rivers. The Cal
 mucs roast the roots or dry them, and use them in that
 manner as food. According to the elder Gmelin, they are
 used also for the same purpose by the Ostiaks and neigh
 bouring people. In former times a healing power was
 ascribed to this plant.
    Meal has been prepared at Petersburgh from the roots,
 and bread baked of it. We are informed that the meal in
 kneading has all the properties of common meal. The
 dough rises very easily when leaven is added to it ; and the
 bread is very little inferior in colour, taste, or smell, to
 wheaten bread ; the only difference is, that it is not so
 tough, and readily breaks, in consequence of the fine fibres
 of the roots which remain in it, and it has also a little bit
 terness.
    From all these facts it appears that this plant may become
 a substitute for corn ; ,and if the bread b'e as wholesome as
 is asserted, this discovery deserves the utmost attention,
 and particularly in places which do not produce corn, and
 where this vegetable production can be cultivated.
    The minister of the interior has announced this discovery
 to the emperor, who was greatly pleased with it, and order
 ed a present to be given to the person who transmitted the
 roots to Petersburgh.
    Mr. Andrews's Work on Roses. — It is not unworthy of
 remark, that the Rose, though it has ever been celebrated
 as the queen of flowers, has been very little an object,
                   6                                         of

                           Jjectufei.                      28S
of the attention of botanists.-* It is hoped that this un
accountable defect, which has frequently been objected
to the science of botany, will be in some degree removed
by the new work lately announced. bv Mr. H. -C. Andrews
of Xnightsbridge, the merits of whose Botanist's Reposi
tory, and Engravings of Heaths, are well known. Jt is* t»
be a complete Monograph of the Genus Rosa, and will con
tain coloured figures of all the .known species of Roses, and
their numerous and beautiful varieties, drawn, engraved,
described, and coloured, from the living plants, by Mr.
Andrews.
                          LECTURES.
   At the Theatre of. Anatomy, Blenheim-street, Great
Marlboro.ugh-street, the Autumnal Course of Lectures on
Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgery, will commence on
Tuesday, the first of October, at two o'clock in the after
noon, by Mr. Brookes.
   In these Lectures the structure of the human body will
be demonstrated on recent subjects, and further illustrated
by preparations, and the functions of the different organs
will be explained.
   The surgical operations are performed, and every part of
surgery so elucidated, as may best tend to complete the ope
rating surgeon.
   The art of injecting, and of making anatomical prepara
tions, will be taught practically.
   Gentlemen zealous in the pursuit of zoology will meet
with uncommon opportunities of prosecuting their re
searches in comparative anatomy.
   Surgeons in the army and navy may be assisted in , re
newing their anatomical knowledge, and every possible at
tention will be paid to their accommodation as well as in
struction.
   Anatomical Converzationes will be held weekly, when
the different subjects treated of will be discussed familiarly,
and the students' views forwarded.—To these none but
pupils can be admitted.
   Spacious apartments, thoroughly ventilated, and replete
with every convenience, will be open in the morning for
the purposes of dissecting and injecting; where Mr. Brookes
attends to direct the students, and demonstrate the various
parts as they appear on dissection.
   An extensive Museum, containing preparations illustra
tive of.(every part of the human body, and its diseases, ap
pertains to the Theatre, to which students will have occa
sional admittance—Gentlemen inclined to support this
                                                        school

388                         LecltcreS.
school by contributing preternatural of morbid parts, sub
jects in natural history, &c. (individually of little value to
the possessors,) may have the pleasure of seeing them pre
served, arranged, and registered, with the names of thedonorSi.
    The inconveniences usually attending anatomical inves
tigations are counteracted by an antiseptic process, the re
sult of experiments made by Mr. Brookes on human sub-1
jects at Paris in the year J 782; the account of which was
delivered to the Rovak Society, and read on the 17th of June'
 1784. This method has since been so far improved, that
 the florid colour of the muscles is preserved, and even
 heightened,—Pupils may be accommodated in the house.—
 Gentlemen established in practice, desirous of rehewing
 their anatomical knowledge, may be accommodated with
 an apartment to dissect in privately.
    The first Monday in October next will commence a
 Course of Lectures on Physic and Chemistry at the Labo
ratory in Whitcomb-street, at the usual morning hours,
Viz. on Therapeutics at a quarter before eight, on the
Practice of Physic at half after eight, and bri Chemistry
 at a quarter after nine o'clock.
    These Lectures are delivered every mornings except on
 Saturdays, when at nine o'clock a Clinical Lecture is
fiven on the cases of Dr. Pearson's patients in St. George's
   lospital.
By George Pearson, M. D. F. R. S. of the College of Phy
    sicians, and Senior Physician to St. George's Hospital,
                            &c. &c.
    N. B. Proposals may be had at St. George's Hosgital^
 and at No. 52, Leicester-square.
    The following Courses of Lectures will be delivered at the
Medical Theatre, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, during the
ensuing winter :
    On the Theory and Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Roberts
 and Dr. Powell.
    On Anatomy and Physiology, by Mr. Abernethy.
    On the Theory and Practice of Surgery> by Mr. Aber
nethy.
    On Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, by Mr. Ma
cartney.
    On Chemistry, by Dr. Edwards.
    On the Materia Medica, by Dr. Powell.
    On Midwifery and the Diseases of Women and Chil
dren, by Dr. Tbynne.
                                                   Anatomical

             List of Patent?.—Travels in Africa.            SSf.
   Anatomical Demonstrations and Practical Anatomy, by
Mr. Lawrence;.
   The Anatomical Lectures will begin on' Tuesday, October
the first, at two o'clock, and the other Lectures on the suc
ceeding days of- the same week.                           s
    Further particulars may be learned by applying to Mr.
Nicholson, at the Apothecary's Shop, St. Bartholomew's
Hospital.
           LIST OP PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
 , Malcolm Cowan, of Gloucester-place, Portman -square,
in the county of Middlesex, commander in the royal navy;
for improvements in the construction of sails for ships and
vessels of all descriptions.
    Robert Bather, of Billborough, in the county of Notting
ham, gentleman ; for new and improved modes of making
and shaping stockings and pieces, and also some new and
improved kinds of stocking-stitch and warp-work.
    Thomas James Plueknett, of Butt-lane, Deptford, in the
county of Kent, gentleman ; for a method of mowing corn,
grass, and other things, by means of a machine moving
on wheels, vyhich may be worked either by men or horses.
    William Collins, lieutenant in the royal navy ; for a
ventilator, upon a new or improved construction, for the pur
pose of ventilating tents and marquees of every description.
                     TRAVELS IN AFRICA.
    By letters received, we learn that the celebrated traveller
Mungo Parke, with his companions Messrs. Anderson and
Scott, who sailed from Portsmouth in the Crescent trans
port, about six months ago, having touehed at the islands
 of St. Jago and Goree, arrived at Kayay, on the river Gam
 bia, on the 14th of April, whence they were to proceed in
 a few days into the interior of Africa, to effect the business
on which they were dispatched, and which we believe to be
 of a very important and extensive nature. The heat was at
 that time so excessive, that the thermometer was constantly
at 100 degrees and upwards in the shade, and for two or
 three hours after sunset continued at from 82 to 92 de
grees. We are happy, however, to hear that notwith
 standing this excess of heat the whole party had enjoyed
 Eerfect health : they had only lost one of the fifty men they
   ad received from the African corps at Goree, though
 they had been above fourteen days in the river ; and this
 man had been unwell before they left the island.
    Mr. Seetzen, another traveller, arrived on the 4th of
March at Aleppo; but intended in fourteen days to set
out for Damascus, whence he was to proceed through
Egypt to the interior parts of Africa.
                                                    METEORO-

288                                       Meteorology.
                               meteorological table
               By Mb. Carev, of the Strand*
                                      For August 1805.
                     Thermometer.                                   cilnessie's
                                                           re sorDiLbv
                                                        Degy-                   Hygrometer.
                     |Morning.                Height of
         tb o'.Clock,
Days off the                    Noon.  ££ tne Barom.                                            Weather.
       th.
  Month.                                       Inches.
                  58°           72°     59° 29-68                 54°                       Fair
       y 27                                      •68                26                      Showery
          28       60          69       58
                               68       59       •68               35                       Showery
          29       59
                               67       60       •78               39                       Fair
          30       63
                   62           66      56       •68                25                      Showery
          31
                   60           69      57       •58                20                      Showery
       g. 1                                      •44                38                      Stormy
            2      61            71     58
                                66      59        •77               21                      Showery
            3      62
                    62          69      61        •90               33                      Cloudy,
            4
                                 71     59        •64               63                      Fair, with
            5       60
                                                                                               strong wind
                    62           71     57        •71                74                     Fair
            6
                    61           69     56        •86               49                      Fair
            7                                     •87
            8       60           73     57                           51                     Fair
                    64           74     64        •89                30                     Cloudy
            9
           10       64           72     62     30 02                 53                     Fair
                     63          76     64        •00                52                     Fair
           11
           12        65          75      60    29-78                 .52                     Fair
                     60           70     61       •90                64                      Fair
           13
                     60          67      55       •95                57                     Showery
           14
           15         58          70     60    30-00                 65                      Fair
           16         61          70     61    29-90                 44                      Fair
                      60          69     63       •99                 52                     Fair
           17
                      64          69     60       •86                 35                     Cloudy, and
           18
                                                                                               heavy rain
                                                                                               at night
                      60          59     54       •52                           0            Showery
           19
                      60          66     57       •62                  25                    Showery
           20
                      59          60     56       •95                   1-5                  Cloudy
           21
           22         57          66     62    30-12                   35                    Fair
                      63          70     64       •18                  39                    Fair
           23
                      64          71     63        •15                 51                    Fair
           21
           2,5        62          70     62         02                  35                   Fair
           26         63          72     58    29-05                    24                   Cloudy
                 M. B. The barometer's height is taken at noon.

                             [   289      ]
  XLIII. Extract from a Memoir entitled <c Considerations
    on Colours, and several of their singular Appearances."
    Bead in the Mathematical and Physical Class of the
    French National Institute, Ventose 13, An 13. By
    C.A. Prieur*.
 The author of this memoir endeavours to account for
 several phaenomena which appear to him not to have been
 before properly explained : or, rather, his object is to give
 a general theory, by the help of which all the cases of co
 loured appearances, and even the most singular, may he
 referred to certain principles.
    He sets out from known opinions in regard to the diffe
 rent kinds of luminous rays ; on the mixture resulting from
 several of these rays taken at different places of the solar
 spectrum, and among others on that very remarkable case
 when the rays are so chosen that their union produces on
 the organ of sight the sensation of whiteness, even if two
 kinds of rays only be employed.
   For these ideas we are indebted to the discoveries of the
immortal Newton ; and they flow immediately from the
method which he proposed for determining what colour
will be obtained from the mixture of any given quantities
of other colours.
   If we are desirous of comprehending fully what takes
place in the vision of colours, it is first indispensably ne
cessary that we should be familiarised with knowing the
shades composed of different simple rays, and with forming
correct ideas of Hack and white, and the complication which
they produce in coloured appearances ; and in particular to
make ourselves acquainted with the correspondence of co
lours, which, taken two and two in a certain order, are sus
ceptible of forming, by their union, white or any other
complex shade at pleasure.
   Two colours which have this kind of relation are called
complementary colours ; one of them being given, the de
termination of the other may be made, with more or less
precision, by experience, calculation, or mere reasoning ;
and the consideration of them may be applied with much
utility to a great number of cases, as will be seen hereafter.
   Several details are here given, which those versed in
optics, or habitually acquainted with the mixture of co
lours, m=»y readily supply : besides, the rest of the me-
                * From ihe Journal de Chimie, No. 160.
Vol. 22. No. 88. Sept. 1805.             T                moir,
                                                                ,

   290                Considerations on Colours,
   moir, of which we have undertaken to give an account,
   \vill afford us an opportunity of mentioning what will be
   most necessary for understanding the subject.
       These *p"reliminary observations are followed by some re
   marks on contrasts. The author employs this word to
   characterize the effect of the simultaneous vision of two
   substances of different colours when brought together,
   under certain circumstances. The contrast here, then, is a
   comparison, from which there results a sensation of some
   difference, great or small. It is very generally known,
   and painters know it well, that a coloured matter which
   occupies a pretty extensive space, and brought near to, or
   surrounded by, some other colour, has not the same appear-
 ¦ ance as when it has near it other colours. But whence
   does this difference arise ?
       Before we answer this question, let us make an essential
   distinction. It either relates to homogeneous colours, that
• is to say, formed of one kind of rays, or to complex colours,
   arising from a mixture of heterogeneous rays, that is to say,
   composed of different sorts.
       In regard to the first case, it must be confessed that we
   are ignorant whether the bringing together different simple
   colours would produce any alteration in their respective
   appearance. As one can rarely enjoy the sight of such
   colorations, and as it is not easy to dispose of them to our
   wish, no experiments have yet been made on their contrasts.
   This subject, however, deserves to be studied.
       In regard to the cases of compound colours, (which is
   that of almost all the natural or artificial bodies, as the au
   thor shows in the sequel of his memoir,) the new colours
   manifested by the contrast are always conformable to the
   shade which would be obtained by suppressing from the
   colour proper to one of the bodies, the rays analogous to
   the colour of the other body.
       Thus, if we place on red paper a small slip of paper
   painted of an orange colour, it will appear almost yellow.
    Removed then to yellow paper, the same orange slip will
   become almost red. After this, if it be put upon violet pa*
    per, it will resume a yellowish shade, but different from the
    preceding; and, in the last place, applied to green paper
    it will assume a new degree of a red colour.
       The explanation of these examples according to the pro
   posed rule is easy, if we suppose that the orange colour of
   the small slip observed arises, (as is comnuudv the case)
   from an union of all the kinds of rays except the blues.
       A multitude of combinations of colours placed thus
                                                            above

           and several of their singular appearances.                     291
above each other produce the colour of contrast indicated
by the rule here given ; but there are several circumstances
which render the effect of it more striking, or modify the
result.
    It sometimes depends on the degree of the brightness
with which the observed bodies are affected : they may be
uniformly illuminated, or one of them more than the rest.
The quantity of light which has entered simultaneously into
the eye by the whole field of vision has also an influence.
If the bodies consist of several rows, like a series of decreas
ing circles placed one within the other, the colours of each
will re-act respectively on each other. At each junction
there will be on both sides a border coloured by the con
 trast of the neighbouring bodv : these borders will extend
more or less according to the splendour of the objects. The
effect of one may become dull, or extinguish all the rest.
    The colours of contrast show themselves also with more
vivacity after some moments of observation, or if the ob
jects have been agitated a little, as if to make them move
slowly over the retina. It would appear that a certain fa
tigue of the eye, either instantaneous in regard to the inten
sity of the light, or more slowly by prolonged vision, con
curs to produce the appearances in question. But exces
sive fatigue of that organ would occasion a degeneration of
the colours belonging to another mode.
    We ought not, then, to refer to contrasts those impres
sions mentioned by Epinus, which are propagated in the
eye with a certain duration and a particular period of shades,
when one, has looked with intensity at a very brilliant light,
 such as that of the sun.
    But the colours called by Buffon accidental, and respect
ing which Scherfer has given an interesting memoir, belong
 to the class of contrasts, or at least constantly follow the
 same law.                                 ,
    Coloured shadows are also a phaenomenon of- the same
kind. Count Rumford has placed this truth beyond all
doubt in two memoirs, in which he has treated this subject
 in an interesting manner*.
    The author of that which we here analyse is of opinion,
 that we must ascribe also to contrasts those appearances of
 the solar light received through a hole in a coloured cur
 tain, which general Meusnier remarked in consequence of
their singularity, lie assimilates to this also several cases
of colours exhibited by opals, or more generally by bodies
       * Philosophical Essays, vol. i. p. 319 et seq. 180'J, London edit.
                                   Ta                            containing

292                Considerations on Colours^
containing sensibly opake parts disseminated throughout a
pellucid substance. By the same reasons he explains the
 colours under which the grayish dust collected by age oil
 old paper or coloured stuffs shows itself, and deduces the
 same consequences in regard to the blueish appearance of
 the veins of the human body.
    He proposes, likewise, a new method of rendering very
 sensible the colours of contrasts more lively even than by
 the known process of accidental colours, and yet without
occasioning extraordinary fatigue to the eye. The latter
 condition is of -importance, for it is known that it is dan
gerous to expose to forced exercise an organ so delicate as
the eye.
   This method consists simply (when one is in an apart
ment and in the open light) in placing before the window
the painted pieces of paper on which you intend to observe
the contrasts, as in the example before mentioned. As the
coloured paper, then, which serves as a field has a semi-
transparency, and by these means is more illuminated,
while the small band of another colour placed over i^is, on
account of the double thickness, more opake and in the
shade ; the colour arising from the contrast becomes thus
more striking.
   It is this Jisposition which produces the singularly strik
ing effect of the contrast of a small piece of white card ap
plied successively to paper, glass, or stuff of any colour
whatever. When the transparent body is red, the opake
white appears of a blueish green ; it is then seen decidedly
blue if the ground be orange ; then of a sort of violet on a
yellow ground, or green on crimson, &c. ; always accord
ing to the exact correspondence of the complementary co
lours.
   It is here to be observed, that according to the rule in
dicated, if from the white which is formed by the union
of all the coloured rays we suppress, for example, the red
rays, the remaining bundle ought to be seen under the co
lour of a verv pale blueish green ; but as the small white
piece in the preceding experiment is in the shade, the black
which results from it may be of the degree proper for de
stroying the effect of the white, and then the blueish green
appears of a bright shade. The same reasoning is appli
cable to the cases of all the other colours.
   To produce w ell the effects here announced, in repeating
these experiments, it is necessary, w hen the opportunity of
clear wrather has been obtained, to guard against the reflec
tions of •neighbouring bodies, and against double contrasts.
                                                       Thus,

           and several of their singular appearances.        293
 Thus, when the bright light conveyed through a window
 surrounds the transparent paper, it may increase very sensibly-
 the splendour of the colour of contrast, or injure it by pro
 ducing another shade according to the colours of, the bodies
 subjected to observation. In a word, one may always re
 move this inconvenience by concealing the troublesome
 objects by a piece of black pasteboard or stuff, or by look
 ing through a blackened tube which confines the field of
 sight to the extent necessary.
    This knowledge of contrasts may be applied with great
 advantage to those arts which have a relation to colours. ,
 The painter knows that one cannot be placed indifferently
 in the neighbourhood of another. But when one knows
 the law to which their re-action is subject, one knows bet
 ter what must be avoided or done to increase the splendour
 of the colour which it is necessary to heighten : a successive
 comparison of them furnishes also valuable indications in
 regard to their nature or their composition. This is what
 the author himself put in practice with advantage in his
 manufactory of colours and paper-hangings.
    These considerations in regard to contrasts led him to,
 the examination of a very singular case proposed and treated
 of by Monge with his usual sagacity*; namely, the white
appearance under which a coloured body is sometimes seen
 when viewed through a piece of glass of the same colour ;
 some uncertainty remained in regard to the circumstances
 really necessary for producing this effect. The author de
termines them by the help of his particular experiments,
 and enumerates those which have a favourable influence, or
 the contrary. He concludes that, when one experiences
the sensation of whiteness in these cases, it arises merely
from the action of contrasts, by which the impression of the
 colour is lessened or annulled, while that of a certain bright
ness still exists, and is remarked by the opposition of a
greater degree of obscurity. This manner of considering
the subject leads to a new definition of whiteness, in which
there is certainly nothing repugnant : white to us is the sen
sation of light when no particular colour predominates or is
perceived.
    In the subsequent part of his memoir the author employs
himself in particular with the coloration of different opake
or transparent bodies ; that is to say, he endeavours to dis
cover what are those luminous rays which any coloured
:body is really susceptible of reflecting or transmitting.
                    * Annales de Chimie, torn. iii.        '
                                T3                           His

294        -.      Considerations on Colours,
   His means of making experiments are simple. If the
body be opake, it is placed on a piece of black stuff in order
to be observed with the prism. He endeavours to give it a
rectangular form ; or, if it is not susceptible of being cut,
it is covered with a piece of black pasteboard pierced with
a hole of that form. The coloured fringes, then, manifested
on the two opposite edges indicate the kind of rays which
are reflected, and consequently those which are absorbed
when the nature of the illuminating bundle is known; on
which it is still to be remarked that, as the fringes them
selves are of complex shades, we must separate the simple
kinds. When a person has had some practice, a bare in
spection will be sufficient. He may be formed to this habit,
and the want of it may be supplied by guiding himself by
cards representing each kind of rays placed over each other
in order, removing them gradually agreeably to the different
 refrangibility ; or he may employ a plate or board, con
 structed according to Newton's method, for determining
 the shades composed of different elementary colours.
    If the body subjected to examination be diaphanous, it
 will be proper to view it through the aperture of the card
 before spoken of, in order to exclude extraneous light, in
 such a manner that the prism may show the fringes. Also,
 by placing yourself in the dark, a flame such as that of a
 wax taper will show through the transparent body, and,
 by the help of the prism, a series of coloured images corre
 sponding to the rays transmitted.
    By proceeding in this manner, the author found that
 many opake bodies which he had at hand of different kinds
 and of all colours, either yellow, orange, or red ; or green,
 blue, or violet, were indebted for their coloured appearance
 to the following conditions :
     1st, Each of the bodies always absorbs rays of the com
 plementary kind of the prevailing colour,
    2d, The absorption, in regard to some of them, compre
 hends, besides the complementary kind, other rays colla
 teral to that species, and more or less numerous.
    3d, The darker the same colour is, the fewer kinds of
 reflected rays it presents.
    It must here be understood that we do not allude to
  mixed colours, but only to those w hich form a homoge
  neous compound or a real combination, according to the
  meaning attached by chemists to that word. , It is also to
  be remarked, that we must not confound the colour reflected
  from the interior of the moleculae susceptible of bright or
  dark shades with the light sent back from the anterior sur-
                       2                                   face

           and several of their singular Appearances.      2Q5
face of the body. Though the latter overcharges more .or
less the proper colour, it is-, however, easy to lessen the
effects of it, and to distinguish them in experiments.
    Another remark proper to be made is, that the expression
predominating colour ought not to signify that the rays of
that colour are more abundant than the rest : this would be
an error. Several kinds of rays may co-exist in the bundle
which produces the colour, without any kind being, on
that account, more abundant. Strictly speaking, all the
elements of the bundle are dissimilar, and consequently
none of them is in greater quantity. But the general tone
of the colour remains analogous to that of the rays distin
guished by the name at predominating. Hence it is proper
to retain this expression, provided an exaggerated significa
tion be not given to it.
    The author observed also transparent bodies, such as
glass of different colours, and liquors contained in a flask
having two broad parallel faces. By these he found a law
of absorption similar to that of opake bodies, but still more
striking, and without any ambiguity.
    This law is constantly regular. It depends On the pecu
liar nature of the body which receives the light, and on its
 density and thickness. It is also determined bv the light
of the illuminating body, either in regard to its force, or to
 the two kinds of rays which compose it.
    The absorption always begins with the rays most opposite
 to the predominating colour of the illuminated body. It
continues by those which are next in the order indicated
 by the spectrum. It thus extends gradually, and never by
jumps, to the last kind :> consequently the body becomes
 more and more obscure, and always terminates by being
 black. Sometimes it extends from one side only of the
 first rays absorbed ; sometimes on both sides at the same
 time; and it there proceeds either by an equal progress
 from the right and left, or by advancing more rapidly on
one of the sides.
     If each element be separately varied, there will be in the
 effects a peculiar progression. That depending on the densi
 ties is not alwavs similar to that arising from the changes
 of thickness. By receiving also on the same body different
 kinds of light, the progress of the absorption is differently
 modified, and consequently the colours changed.
. The author quotes examples of all these cases. He de
 rives them from the numerous experiments which he made
 with coloured glass, with acid or alkaline) metallic solu
  tions, with the liquid tinctures of infusions or vegetable
                               T4                   decoctions.

  296                Considerations on Colours,
  decoctions. They exhibited curious peculiarities ; but we
  shall not detail them, both for the sake,of brevity, and be
  cause they may be easily tried. . ,
      In short, very important consequences in regard to the'
   reciprocal action of bodies and. light arise from the whole"
  of these observations, and perhaps they will throw some
  light on the grand question of the cause to which their per
  manent colours ought to be ascribed.
     After these researches the author concludes with an exa
  mination of different phaenomena of various kinds. He
  indicates the modifications experienced in their coloration
  by burning coals at different degrees of incandescence.' His
  remarks are applicable also to other bodies, such as iron in
   a state of ignition, or a long series of reverberated lamps
  seen during foggy weather, or a white light seen through a
  piece of glass blackened by progressive strata of smoke.
  In all these cases, the colours necessarily pass through a
  series of shades, which proceed from white to yellow, to
  orange and to red, more and more dark; the reason of which
  he explains.
      Metallic oxides have also a gradation of shades according
  to the proportion of oxygen. A certain continued altera
  tion in vegetation produces one in some of the parts of
  plants. The arts or chemical processes present one also
  under a multitude of circumstances.
     The manufacturer may, with advantage, derive from them
  indications either in regard to the progress of combinations,
  or to enable him to judge of the moment proper for per
  forming certain operations of his labours.
     The author then dwells more particularly on the appear
  ance of the coloured clouds, and especially those seen near
  the time of the rising and setting of the sun. This phoe-
  nomenon, so generally known, had hitherto never been ex
  plained, though the ablest philosophers had made it an ob
  ject of their research.
      It does not arise from the refraction of the rays of the
  sun, but the successive absorption of these rays when they
  strike the lower parts of the atmosphere and those most
  charged with vapours.                      , ,
     This absorption follows laws analogous to those already
  mentioned. As the quantity of the vapours, and even their
  nature, are not similar for two days in succession, this irre
  gularity produces corresponding differences in their effects.
     In general, the first rays attacked by these vapours are
  blue approac^g to violet. Soon after, they absorb the
' contiguous rays, gaining with more rapidity the blues pro-
                                                        • perly

           and several of their fmgular Appearances.      29?
perly so called, then the greens and yellows, and continuing
thus to the red : hence the yelloivishr orange, and red co
lours, under which the clouds appear. This period of
 shades, namely, the evening, manifests itself gradually in
 proportion as the sun approaches the horizon. Terrestrial
 objects, the part of the air near the sun, and even that lu
 minary itself, are tinged with the same shades. When his
rays can be received on a prism, it is seen that the rays
 really absorbed correspond to the general coloration of the
 moment.
    In consequence of the successive increase and density of
the vapours traversed by the light, clouds differently placed
must at the same instant be tinged of different colours.
The highest maybe white, while the rest, at a less elevation,
 will be yellow, and others still lower will be proportionally
 redder. At an equal elevation, the most distant from the
point where the sun sets will incline to red, and the nearest
to yellow.
    One may then see on bodies naturally white, blue- or
green shadows, as BuffojA and other philosophers have re
marked. They are only, as has been already said, the
effect of the contrast of the actual colour of the illuminated
and the obscure part.
    Contrasts may also render complex the colour of the
clouds ; for example, when a great portion of the heavens
shows a blue colour. There are some the colour of which
arises merely from this cause, and some are observed some
times during the day by those who are on a high mountain,
or in any other situation which secures the eye from the too
strong direct or reverberated action of the solar light ; but
in this case the clouds have only a yellowish shade, exactly
of the complementary colour of the sky-blue.
    It is under a similar colour that the moon is sometimes
seen, when she is very high, a little before or after the sun
has passed the horizon. It seems, also, that she appears
thus, or even altogether white, when there exist at the same
time in the atmosphere clouds variously coloured by the
vapours of the east or the west. By this concourse of cir
cumstances we have a new proof of the difference of the
causes to which these colorations are owing.
    We must remark, in the last place, that by the irregu
larity of terrestrial localities, and the state of the atmo
sphere, these phaenom.ena may he concealed, or subject to
different interruptions. In our climates, the coloration of
the clouds for the most part does not attain to its utmost
term. On certain evenings', however, if the sky is very se
                                                          rene

198             Considerations on Colours, &c.
rene towards the part corresponding to the sun, and if there
be over our heads auy of those light clouds which are ex
ceedingly high, they will be seen at a later period clothed
with a brilliant red, heightened by the diminution of the
light on the earth, soon after darkened, and at length ex
tinguished in the shade.
                         CONCLUSION.
    Notwithstanding the many fine discoveries already made
in regard to light, the theory of the production of colours
has not yet acquired that generality which renders it appli
cable to all cases, and to that simplicity of principles to
which we are always conducted when we discover the real
laws of nature. Many phenomena have never been ex
 plained ; and the explanation given to several necessarily
 requires to be rectified. The author proposes to establish
 changes in theory, the want of which he points out. He
 founds his reasoning partly on the doctrine and facts gene
 rally admitted, and partly on other information less diffused,
 though long known, and on his own observations. But he
 is far from nattering himself with the idea,of having pre
 sented these objects properly in a sketch such as this me
 moir. He even was soon sensible that a subject so exten
 sive and complex would require more time and labour.
    To fill up many vacuities, to develop several points, and
 to rectify and extend others by researches, new experi
 ments, and profound reflection,—such is the ample task of
 improvement. If his health, and occupations permit, he
 will endeavour to undertake it.
    It would be of utility, and also just, to give at the same
 time a short account of what we are indebted to the great
 Newton, who opened this career in so admirable a manner,
 and to the philosophers who have discovered new points,
 and removed difficulties. Greater precision ought also to
 be employed in the language relating to colours, proportioned
 to the increase of our knowledge, and the present state of
 science and the arts. In a word, it would not be too much,
 in such a branch of science, to add the resources of calcula
 tion and geometry to all the riches of experience, and, if
 possible, to the advantages of the best method.
                                                    XLIV. 6a

                            t B99 3
XLIV. On the Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism,
    in different Latitudes. By Messrs. Hdmboldt and
    Biot. Read ly M. Biot in the Mathematical and
    Physical Class of llw French National Institute 26/A
    Frimaire, An 13. (17 th December 1804.)
                       [Concluded from p- 257.]
 J?HE calculation is as follows :—T suppose that the point B
 (fig. 3.) is the north magnetic pole of the earth, and that
the point A is the south magnetic pole: I suppose also that
there is in the point M, at the surface of the earth, a mo-
lecula of the austral fluid which is attracted by B and re
pelled by A in the inverse ratio of the square of the di
stance; and I require what will be the direction of the
power resulting from these two forces acting on that mole-
cula. It is evident that this direction will be that also
which would be assumed in the point M by the needle of
 a compass freely suspended : for, in consequence of the
smallness of the needle in comparison of the radius of the
earth, the lines drawn from its points to one centre, Bor A,
 may be considered as parallel, especially if the points A
 and B are near the centre of the earth; which is the "case
 with nature, as may be seen..
    I shall first suppose that the earth has a spherical figure,
and that the two poles A and B are equal in force ; I shall
then examine how far the latter supposition agrees with the
results observed. -
    Let AM then = D', BM = D, CP = x; PM = y,
the angle MCP*= a, CA ' = CB = a, and 1 shall make
a. = Kr; r being equal to the radius of the earth, and K a
 constant but indeterminate quantity.
    Let X, Y, also he the forces which attract M in a direc
 tion parallel to the axes of the co-ordinates, and S the angle
 which the resulting force makes with the axis ABC.
    We shall first have the following equations, in which
"F is the magnetic force, at a distance equal to unity.
        X = ~ cos. MBD ~ -^r cos. MAD ;
        D'« *       -f (x + o)« o r> +2 axis + <zf
                                        F
        Y = ~ sin. MBD — -p.— sin. M AD ;
        D4 = y + (.r — a)" = r"- — 3 axis + a*,

 300         Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
  or by putting for the cosines their values :
« :              Y _ F (f ~ g)        F (j + a)
                    _ Fy       _   Fy
  and as we have
                                      Y
                       tang. /3 = -^-j
 ¦we shall have also
              _y        _y_
               Ds        D'3                y (D'3 - Dj)
 tang. 0 =              j-£-j = j (D's_D3) - a (D'3 + D^) ;
              "T)3       D'3
  and putting for x, y, and a, their values, r cos. a ; r sin. a ;
  Kr;
                     .               sin. u
              tang. f
            D'3 = r* (1 + 2 K cos. a + K«) ;
            D» = r* (1 — 2 K cos. a + K*) ;
 which gives the system of the two equations,
                                      sin. k
                            cos- " - K (^TZDi)
  r fD'3 + D3\ _ (l+2Kcos.M4-K')?+(l-2Kcos.a+Ke)^
     ln'3_n3/ ~ ~                        3                  S-"^'
                    (1+2Kcos.h+K<0"*-(1-2Kcos.k+K)*
    These equations determine the direction of the magnetic
 needle in regard to each point M, the distance of which
 from the magnetic equator is known ; but it is seen that
 this direction depends on the quantity K, which represents
 the distance of the magnetic centres from the centre of the
 earth : this distance being expressed in parts of the terres
 trial radius, we must therefore first determine this quantity
 from observations.
    To do it in the manner of approximation, and thus ac
 quire a first idea of the value of K, I have chosen an obser
 vation made by M. Humboldt at Carichana in 7*2978° (6°
34' 5") of north latitude counted from the terrestrial equa
tor, and 78-111° (70° 18') west longitude reckoned from
                                                             the

                          in different Latitudes.                       301
  the meridian of Paris; which gives 16-526° (14° 52' 25")
  of latitude counted from the magnetic equator, and 53" 7390°
  (48° 21' 53") of west longitude proceeding from the node
  formed by that equator with the equator of the earth. The
  inclination of the magnetic needle was observed in that
  place by M. Humboldt in the month of Messidor, year 8,
  and found to be equal to 33-78° of the centigrade division*.
  A comparison of this result, with the other observations
  of M. Humboldt, shows that it may be indeed considered
  as agreeing to that latitude.
     To make use of it I have successively given to K different
 ¦values in the formula : I have calculated the inclinations
  resulting from that latitude ; and, comparing these results
  with that which M. Humboldt really observed/ the progress
  of the errors naturally led me to the most proper 'supposi
 tion. The following is a table of these trials :                          ,
        Values of K.        Inclinations of the Needle.       Errors.
        K = 1                         7-73°                  26*04°
         K = 0-6                    18-80                     14-97
        K = 0'5                     22-04                     11-73
        K = 0-2                     29-38                      4-39
        K = 0-1                     30-64                      3'13
        K = o-oi                    31-04                      2-73
        K = 0-001                   31-07                      2-7
    The first value of K would place the centre -of the mag
 netic forces at the surface of the earth and the poles of the
 magnetic equator. It is seen that this supposition cannot
 be admitted, because it would give an increase of inclina
 tion much less rapid than that indicated by observations.
The case is the same with the following results, which
 place the centres of action on the terrestrial radius at
different distances from the centre of the earth : but it is
seen also, in general, that they approach more and more to
the truth in proportion as this distance becomes less; which
evidently shows that the two centres of action of the mag
netic forces are situated near 'the centre of the earth. All
the other observations of M. Humboldt would also lead to
the same consequence.
    The most proper supposition would be to make K null,
or so small that it would be needless to pay attention to'it;
which amounts to the same thing as to consider the two
centres of action placed, as we may say, in the same mo-
lecula. The result, indeed, obtained in this manner is this
most exact of all ; it is equal to 3 1-0843° : this value Is' still
   * Alt the measures of inclination which I have given in this memoir will
be ejrpKs6ed, like those of M. HumW.dtjiB decimal parts of a quadrafif.
       ' 'l                                                       , a little

3t>2         Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
a little l^ss than that which M. Humboldt observed, ani
the difference is equal to ^69; but it must be considered
also that the formula from which we derive these values
supposes the position of the magnetic equator to be per
fectly determined ; but it may not be so with the utmost
exactness, according to the only two observations of Lapey-
rouse and Humboldt, which we have employed. It is there-*
fore by studying the progress of the formula, and comparing
it with the observations, that we are able to appreciate it
justly ; after which we may think of remedying the small
errors with which it lrfay be accompanied.
   To obtain the result I have here mentioned, and which
is, as it were, the limit of all those which may be obtained
by giving to K different values, it is to be remarked that
the quantity
or
    K (1 + 2 K cos. a + K.,)-   - + (I — 2Kcos. a+K2)^
                                                  ¦
       (1 + 2Kcos.a + K-')2 — (1— 2 K cos. a + K>)*
becomes       °   when K is null, but by applying to it the
methods of known quantities it will be found that its value
in this supposition is rcallv determinate and equal to ——-.
            11                -                   ^3 cos. 11
By substituting this in the formula we shall have
                                     sin. u
                 tang. /3 =                  :—
                              cos. u —
                                         3 cos. u
an equation which may be reduced to this form :
                                    sin. 2 a
which will easily give the value of jS ; and when this value
is known we shall have the inclination I, by the following
formula : '
                       I — 100 + a — /3,
which will serve throughout the whole extent of the two
hemispheres.
   From the progress I have traced out it is seen that the
preceding formula is not merely an cmpyric construction of
wbservations ; on the contrary, it is totally independent, and
only supposes the inclination of the magnetic needle to be
                                                      produced

      V
  .                  in different Latitudes.                 303
pfrniueed by a magnet, infinitely small, placed in the centre
of the terrestrial surface; but by calculating from this for
mula the inclination for the different latitudes, I have found
precisely the same numbers as M. Humboldt observed either
in Europe or in America : and it is not his observations only
that are represented in this manner; but those which have
been made in Russia, and at Kola in Lapland, during the
last transit of Venus, are also comprehended under the same
law. This is proved by the table annexed to this memoir,
in which I have calculated the observations of Mallet and
Pictet, with a part of those of M. Humboldt, which I took
at random, but, however, in such a manner as to include all
the rest in the intervals.
    It is seen that the results of the formula deviate very little
from the observations ; but these differences may be rendered
still smaller. By examining, indeed, the progress of the
 errors, it is seen that the numbers given by calculation are a
httle too small in America for the low latitudes, ami a little
too great for the high latitudes ; which shows that the whole
may be allowed, with some slight modifications, either by
changing, however little, the node and inclination of the
 magnetic equator, which two observations cannot determine
 with the utmost exactness, or by displacing ever so little
 our small magnet, leaving, however, its centre in the plane
 of the magnetic equator, and placing it in such a manner
 that it shall be a little nearer America than Europe. It is
 by the observations themselves, when we shall have a greater
 number, that we must be guided in these small correc
 tions.
    In a word, it must not be expected that we can represent
 in a rigorous manner, by a mathematical law, all the in
 clinations observed ; for the phaenomenon of the inclination,
 though more regular than the other magnetic effects, is not
 free from some anomalies : this may be easily seen on con
 structing the curve given by the observations themselves.
 Thus, for example, the inclination observed at Popayan is
 0° 10' greater than at St. Carlos del Rio Negro, though
 the magnetic latitude of the latter is 0-685.20 (3° j'^greater.
 The case is the same with observations made at Javita and
 Santa-Fe. Other anomalies are discovered in the compara
 tive progress of the observations and formula. This is the
 case in regard to Carichana, St. Thomas de la Guyane, and
 Carthagena. ' The increase of the inclination from the first
 to the second of these points is by no means in harmony
 with the increase from the second to the third ; and if we
      , " '. ' ".. ¦", ":           ¦'                   compare

  304         Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
 compare together the intensities observed in these dif
 ferent places, the anomalies they exhibit announce in
 some measure those which the inclination ought to ex
 perience.
     The cause of these anomalies becomes evident from what
 has been already remarked ; they are merely the effect of
 local Circumstances, and arise from the small systems of
 attraction by which the general phaenomena are modified.
 This must be sensible in particular for that part of America
 which M. Humboldt travelled over, and which is traversed
 throughout its whole length by the grand chain of the cpr-
 dillera of the Andes. It is also in these places that the
 most considerable differences exist. Popayan, for example,
 is situated near the volcanoes of Sotara and Pourace ; it is
joined to basaltic mountains abounding with magnetic iron.
Near Sulumito,- to the east of Popayan, these basaltic co
lumns have very striking poles : in like manner Mexico is
 situated at the height of 1160 toises on the ridge of the
 grand cordillera of Lenschtitlan : the ground there is co
vered with porous basaltes and amvgdaloids, which are
 almost all charged with magnetic iron. Must not all these
 causes have a sensible influence on the inclination of the
 magnetic needle ; and must not the different dispositions of
 the ferruginous masses, or their change of state, in conse
 quence of 'the action of nature, produce also variations ?
M. Humboldt made on this point a decisive observation :
the earthquake of the 4th of November 1799 changed at
Cumana the inclination of the needle. On the 1st of No
vember it was 43° 65' ; on the 7th it was only 42* 75' ; and
ten months after it returned to 42° 85' : but it did not re
gain its former value ; the intensity of the magnetic force
was not changed by the effect of this earthquake.
     It is proved, then, by these observations, that local cir
 cumstances may have on the inclination a sensible influ
 ence ; and this influence is remarked in the countries tra
versed by M. Humboldt*.
    It appears, therefore, that the mathematical hypothesis
which we have employed really expresses the law of nature
at least to the north of the magnetic equator; for, though the
first results observed towards the south seem to bend to it also,
the uncertainty under which we are in regard to the true
cause of these phaenomena must stop our conjectures, and
   * We can observe that the anomalies are sensible in particular iu the
i«h.iids.—Note ly the Authors of the Memoir.
            ¦ >                                                prevent

                            in different Latitudes.                         30S
    Iirevent us from extending too far the consequences of the
     aws which we observe*.                        ,.. „
        From the preceding results, we may calculate the points
   where the axis of the magnetic equator pierces the terres
   trial surface; for their latitudes are equal to the comple
   ments of the obliquity of that equator, and their meridian is
   at 100' of longitude from its nodes. The north magnetic
   poTe is found also at 97-7975° (79°l'4") of north latitude,
   and at 33-3719° (30° 2/ 5") of longitude west from Paris,
 -which places it to the north of America. The other mag
   netic pole, symmetric to the preceding, is situated in the
  same latitude south, and at 66-6281° (149° 67' 55") of lon
   gitude east from Paris, which places it amidst the eternal
   ice: indications entirely analogous to those of Wilke and
   Lemonnier.
       if we could reach these poles, the compass would be seen
   vertical; but if any confidence can be placed ia the law
   which we have discovered, this would be the only difference
   which would be observed in regard- to the inclination, and
' we should be still as far distant as in Europe from the real
   centres which produce it. This result might appear to be
   of such a nature as to diminish the interest one might have
   i\i visiting these horrid regions, had we not also the hope of
   discovering there new phaenomena in regard to the inten
   sity of the magnetic force, and the influence of meteors.
       These consequences do not entirely accord with the
   opinion pretty generally received, and which ascribes the
  increase of the magnetic effects towards the north to the
     reat quantity of iron dispersed throughout these regions ;
     ut it appears to us that this opinion is not agreeable to the
  truth,. The cordillera of the Andes contains an enormous
  quantity of magnetic iron : the native iron of Chaco, that
  problematic mass analogous to that of Pallas, and those of
  Xacatcras in Mexico, is found even under the tropics f.
     * Since this memoir was read, we can advance something more positive.
  Observations made at the Cape of Good Hope, Cape Horn, and New Hol
  land, by different navigators, are very exactly represented by our formula ;
  and it follows, that it extends also to the austral hemisphere. We hope
 soon to have numerous and very exact observations on the inclination of
  the needle in that part of the earth. JJut we have thought it our duty to
  add to our table such results as relate to it, and which we have been able
  (o procure. We have inserted also two observations on the intensity, made
  With great care by M. Rossel, during the expedition of d'Entrecasteaux, which
  are very important, as they prove that the terrestrial magnetic force in
  creases also ui the austral hemisphere in proportion as one removes from the
  equator.—Note .by tlie Authors of the Memoir.
     ,f We may now add to the preceding considerations this decisive fact, that
 the intensity also increases when one approaches the south pole.—Note by
  the Authors of the Memoir.
      Vol. 22. No. 88. Sept. 180^, U                                        On

30G        Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
   On seeing the inclinations of the compass so exactly re-^
presented in our hypothesis, we endeavoured to discover
whether it could he applied also to the intensities observed
by M. Humboldt; but we found that it did not apply. It
gives, indeed, an increase of the magnetic forces from
the equator to the pole; but this increase, which at first
is too slow, becomes afterwards too rapid : I have not yet
been able to try whether the small displacement of the ter-.
restriat magnet will contribute towards representing them
better : but it must be remarked, that the series of the in
tensities is extremely whimsical, and contains an infinite
number of anomalies ; so that local phaenomena may have
on this phaenomenon a much more sensible influence than
on the inclination.
   On reviewing the results which we have given in this
memoir, it is seen that we have first determined the posi
tion of the magnetic equator by direct observations, which
had never been done before; we have then proved that the
magnetic force increases in proceeding from that equator to
the poles: in the last place, we have given a mathematical
hypothesis, which when reduced to a formula satisfies all the
inclinations hitherto observed.
    Supposing, as we have done in this formula, the small
corrections of which it is susceptible, its utility becomes
evident, either for making known, in the course of time, the
variations which may take place in the action of the terres
trial magnetism, or to ascertain or even foresee the value of
the inclination, which in a great many cases is of gBeat im
portance.
    For example, near the magnetic equator, the increase or
 diminution of the inclination will indicate to a vessel on a
 voyage whether she has gained or lost in latitude by cur
 rents. This knowledge of the latitude is sometimes as im
 portant as that of longitude. On the coasts of Peru, for
 example, the currents tend from Chilo? to the north and
 north-east with such force, that one may go from Lima to.
 Guayaquil in three or four days, and two, three, and some
 times five months arc necessary to return. It is conse-
 quentlv of the greatest importance foir vessels com.ing from
 Chili which stretch along the coast of Peru, to know their
 latitude. If they go btyond the port to. which they are
 bound they must work to the southward^ and every day's
 progress requires often a month of return. Unfortunately,
 the fogs which prevail during four or five months on the
 coasts of Peru prevent navigators from distinguishing the
 form of the coast : nothing is seen but the summits of the
                                                       Andes,

                     • in different Latitudes.                   30f'
  Andes, and that of the peaks which rise above that stratum
  of vapours; but the figure of it is so uniform that pilots
  fall into mistakes. They often remain twelve or fifteen days
  without seeing the sun or the stars, and during that interval
  they come to anchor, being afraid of overshooting their port :
  but if we suppose that the inclination of the magnetic
  needle in the ports to ihe south of Lima is known, for
  example at Chancay, Huaura, and Santa, the dipping needle
  will show whether it be, in regard to Lima, to the south or
  the north. It will show at the same lime opposite what
  point of the coast a vessel is; and this indication will be
  attended with more exactness than one could hope for, be
  cause in these seas the inclination varies with extraordinary
  rapidity. M. Humboldt, to whom we are indebted for
  these remarks, obseryed in these seas the following values ;
       Places.             South Latitudes.        Inclinations.
     Huancey           -       10° 4'          -       6,80°
     Huaura            -       11 3                    0,00
     Chancay           -       1 1 33          -      10,35
     Theje observations prove that the error of three or four
 degrees in the inclination in these seas would produce but a
 degree of error in latitude; and, on account of the tranquil
 lity of the Pacific Ocean, the inclination may be observed
 to within a degree nearly. Frequent instances of such re
 sults may be seen in books of voyages. In like manner, if
 one knew exactly the inclination at the mouth of the Rio de
 la Plata, it would be very useful to navigators, who, when
 the Pamperos blow, remain fifteen or eighteen days without
 seeing the heavenly bodies, and go on different tacks for
 fear of losing the parallel of the mouth of that river.
    In a, word, the inclination may indicate also the longi
tude in these seas : and this method may be employed when
others fail. A vessel which sails there in the- direction of
a parallel could not find its longitude either by a chrono
meter or the declination of Halley, unless a star could be
seen in' order to take an horary angle or the magnetic azi
muth. The dipping needle, then, throws light on the lon
gitude amidst the thickest fogs. We point out this method
as one of those which have only a local application ; but
hitherto little attention has been paid td it. These ideas
may be extended and rectified by able navigators.
    In general, if the inclination of the needle, and the law
we have tried to establish, could be depended on, to observe
the inclination and the terrestrial latitude would be suffi
cient to determine also the longitude : but we have not yet
examined the extent of the errors of which this method may
                                 U2              t               be

308    On the Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism.
be susceptible, and consequently we confine oursel ves to
mere indication of it.
   The phaenomenpn of the inclination has in maritime ob
servations a particular and very remarkable advantage*
namely, that of not being subject to those great progressive
variations which affect the declination. Without repeating
what we have already said above on the supposed constancy
of this phaenomenon, it may be remarked that our formula,
even affords a new proof that it may comprehend in the
same law the observations made thirty-six years ago in,
Lapland, those which Lacaille brought hack in 1751 from
the Cape of Good Hope, and those which M. Humboldt
has. lately made in America.
   In short, when we tried to represent the inclinations in
diff rent latitudes by the supposition of a magnet infinitely
small, very near the centre of the earth and perpendicular
to the magnetic equator, "we did not pretend to consider
that hypothesis as any thing real, but only as a mathema
tical abstraction useful to connect the results, and proper 10
ascertain in future whether any changes exist. Intregard
to the declina'ion and intensity, we freely confess that we
are entirely. unacquainted with their laws or their causes j
and if any philosopher is so fortunate as to bring them to,
one principle, which explains at the same time the varia
tions of the inclination, it will no doubt be one of the
greatest discoveries ever made. But this research, exceed
ingly difficult, requires perhaps before it be attempted more
observations, 'and in particular more precise observations
than have hitherto been collected. For this reason we
thought we might present to the class the preceding re
searches, imperfect as they are, begging it to receive them
with indulgence. Should we be so happy as to find that
our results appear of any utility, we propose to unite all the
exact observations which have been made on this subject,
in order to give the utmost degree of precision to the law;
WP have discovered.
                                                NORTHERN

                   inDif erences jegre sot ne                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                             node
                                                                                                                                                                             this
                                                                                                                                                                             South
                                                                                                                                                                             rl3ar
                                                                                                                                                                             in ecThe33°.°oaxectomnsgtpqkaurnoeislantheudsnoierc,dsis
                                                                                                                                                                               3'
                                                                                                                                                                               table
                                                                                                                                                                               mof
                                                                                                                                                                                Sea:
                                                                                                                                                                                 ''
                                                                                                                                                                                 from                                                this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ecWe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shows
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     their
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ofo33°,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     mthey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    have                                             would
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hthe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     For
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     cldegrees
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   sogiveia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ainemgrsaxqpsreattrconueihlran.btmeilontcryd,haveofbforea3'soulmcnweryet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tqolotivugh—apslteialorthuenosdtre.emthe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rdDmade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      It
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ofrom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tthat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 iduring
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  them
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  of  'xbanEesprgreat                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dby M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         mwhen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         hthat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          also
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       exactly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ieoThe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nbcaatremslgoasoneiqensarucmpfvotmehiatoedlsncriec., caTrothis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                tgecousnlevdatleristaeusolxin.,sotnmyTberag                                                   this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               aeight
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              these
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              regard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                orchas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              iin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              pthe Hafter,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nhM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   by       gbepuoidrsalwneorvtdpaesymhtb'dlnretsThe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      bueltitosmanusyears                        giving
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 bymeand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   heoflbuatscmerlwepbuot>rrisflevrpatdels-.io,esdelocal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hwhich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 nDhave                                            is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   this the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   picomand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        again
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        there
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        much
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        found
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        will
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        sthat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Itnofohrcid'louimvsonaufoeptmieryarencsnda.bo,lnywhich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in                                                     than
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dthe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                bof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          hwould
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           rHoifrom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               less                                                by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M.yunescpmlourtsrdoibvneu,anathcnliaeodsntei.ts;ylaw
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  that
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t^iven
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dwhich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  nothing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   oregard
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ithis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  in M.bnestcftotoorgreat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              eatlcanpov:usmaretinoeclvd.sesThe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dpithere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               semin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 also
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nacal                                                IDthose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        inwhich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Smade
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          pand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     xcsornlptagrionsencirauombntseuila.ontecain-srctleyword,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ocInsis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             iJava.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of enaoatdrvlmauiotecpars,s.itncaerbodulniasn,ygrabut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              bThis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               fact                                           be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              celdand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   nof
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ofwhen
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ribxaosnotfemustvmrtasouriecmguetracnleitoradslcsy, with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  with                                                   peach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        those
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        oshould
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          othei
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          wher
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           inco-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            vmtevery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ofcraiegreat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           into
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nfall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the.   oagree
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   csweey
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ih:ramgouientrdios,rns
33.Page
[To
face                                                                                                                                              303
                                                                   to3
                                                  b>
                                           direct); siven          3,37'.
                               Inclinations                                                '3. 3/JG'7— '3.                                        3,7.—
                                                                                                                                                 7 ,9' 7
                                           Inclinations                                    37,73 3,3' ,,.9
                                                                   3,,,
                                                                                                    ',.3.9                                        7'7337
                                                  \oi
                                                  OsciUa-
                                                     the
                                                     of from
                                                     Node
                                                      \the
                                                       the                                                            70,03
                                                                   33,., 39,.
                       ngitudes'
                    Lo[East
        UAG^KTlC^ms?^
             NORTHERN                                              '3333                     33..'3                                                33
                                                                                                                                                  '3
                                                                                                    '39O 3             .'3
                                            1gvr;'"—
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                only
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ofepsreweasarency
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            apbrfirst  ouricxledtmsat;ei,notg.
                                                                                                                                                   33
                                                              I33'.37
                                                                                         \ 3V0.'. OW3.7'
                                                                                                     '33 O3             3.'9ff0                    33
                                                                                                                                                 W.3'3'
                                                             |     .333 3 3
                                                                   7
                                                                                           H.Capeof
                                                                                           Good:pe TBay         j.     '3 j-                     H333ol ¦-and
                                                                                                                                                   New
                                                             the
                                                             in
                                                             ,Sourabaya                                        the
                                                                                                               IsleofIn Pofatagonians
                                                                                                    ofalcaguarasight
                                                                             Entrecastcaux                                                                    tintrecasitaux
                                                                  pofedition                         Lapeyrouse                       Derexos el, of
                                                                                                                                                   pedition
                                                                                                                          Thesa-me
                                                                                             Bavlt
                                                                                              .77'
                                                                                             in


                              [   309 ]
XLV. Concerning the State in which the true Sap of
   Trees is deposited during . Winter. In a Letter from
   Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. to the Right Hon.
   Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S.*
      MY DEAR SIR,
It is well known that the fluid, generally called the sap, in
trees, ascends in the spring and summer from their roots,
and that in the autumn and winter it is not, in any consi
derable quantity, found in them ; and I have observed in a
former paper, that this fluid rises wholly through the al
burnum, or sap-wood. But Du Hamel and subsequent
naturalists have proved, that trees contain another kind of
sap, which they have called the true or peculiar juice, or
sap, of the plant. Whence this fluid originates does not
appear to have been agreed by naturalists; but I have of
fered some facts to prove that it is generated by the leaff ;
and that it differs from the common aqueous sap, owing to
changes it has undergone in its circulation through that or
gan : and I have contended that from this fluid (which Du
Hamel has called the sue propre, and which I will call the
true sap,) the whole substance, which is annually added to
the tree, is derived. I shall endeavour in the present paper
to prove that this fluid, in an inspissated state, or some con
crete matter deposited by it, exists during the winter in the
alburnum, and that from this fluid, or substance, dissolved
in the ascending aqueous sap, is derived the matter which
enters into the composition of the new leaves in the spring,
and thus furnishes those organs, which were not wanted
during the winter, but which are essential to the further
progress of vegetation.
   Few persons at all conversant with timber are ignorant^
that the alburnum, or sap-wood, of trees which are felled in
the autumn or winter, is much superior in quality to that
of other trees of the same species which are suffered to
stand till the spring, or summer: it is at once more firm
 and tenacious in its texture, and more durable. This su
periority in winter-felled wood has been generally attributed
to the absence of the sap at that season ; but the appearance
 and qualities of the wood seem more justly to warrant the
conclusion, that some substance has been added to, instead
 of taken from it, and many circumstances induced me to
            * From Philosophical Transactions of 1805, part i.
           f See Philosophical Transactions of 1301, pa^e 386.
                                  U4                           suspect

 310 "        State m ivhich the true Sap of Trees
 suspect that this substance is generated, and deposited within
 it, in the preceding summer and autumn.
    Du'Hamel has remarked, and is evidently puzzled with
 the circumstance, that trees perspire more in the month of
 August, when the leaves are full grown, and when the an
 nual shoots have ceased to elongate, than at any earlier
 period ; and we cannot suppose the powers of vegetation to
 be thus actively employed, but in the execution of some
 very important operation. Bulbous and tuberous roots arc
 almost wholly generated after the leaves and stems of the
 plants, to which they belong, have attained their full growth ;
 and I have constantly found, in my practice as a farmer,
 that the produce of my meadows has been immensely in
 creased when the herbage of the preceding year had re
 mained to perform its proper office till the end of the au
 tumn, on ground which had been mowed early in the,sum-
 mer. Whence I have been led to imagine, that the leaves,
 both of trees and herbaceous plants, are alike employed,
 during the latter part of the summer, in the preparation of
 matter calculated to afford food to the expanding buds and
 blossoms of the succeeding spring, and .to enter into the
 composition of new organs of assimilation.
    If the preceding hypothesis be well founded, we may ex
 pect to find that some change will gradually take place in
 the qualities of the aqueous sap of trees during its ascent in
 the spring; and that any given portion of winter-felled"
 wood will at the same time possess a greater degree of spe
 cific gravity, and yield a larger quantity of extractive mat
 ter, than the same quantity of wood which has been felled
 in the spring or in the early part of the summer. To ascer
 tain these points I made the experiments, an account of
 which I have now the honour to lay before you.
    As early in the last spring as the sap had risen in the
sycamore and birch, I made incisions into the trunks of
those -trees, some close to the ground, and others at the
elevation- of seven feet, and I readily obtained from each in
cision as much sap as 1 wanted. Ascertaining the specific
gravity of the sap of each tree, obtained at the dirTerem
elevations, I found that of the sap of the sycamore with
very little variation, in different trees, to be 1.004 when
extracted close to the ground, and 1 .008 ,at the height of
seven .feet. The sap of the birch was somewhat lighter ;
but the increase of its specific gravity, at greater elevation,
was comparatively the same. When extracted near the
ground the- sap of both kinds was almost free from taste;
nut when obtained at a greater height, it was sensibly sweet.

                  is deposited during winter.              3}1
The shortness of the trunks of the sycamore trees, which
were the subjects of my experiments, did not permit me to
extract the sap at a greater elevation than seven feet, except
in one instance ; and in that, at twelve feet from the ground,
I obtained a very sweet fluid, whose specific gravity was
1.012.
  - I conceived it probable, that if the sap in the preceding
cases derived any considerable portion of its increased spe
cific gravity from matter previously existing in the alburnum,
I should find some diminution of its weight, when it had
continued to flow some days from the same incision, because,
the alburnum in the vicinity of that incision would, under
such circumstances, have become in some degree exhausted:
and on comparing the specific gravity of the sap which had
flowed from a recent and an old incision, I found that from
the old to be reduced to J .002, and that from the recent one
to remain 1.004, as in the preceding cases, the incision
being made close to the ground. Wherever extracted,
whether close to the ground, or at some distance from it,
the sap always appeared to contain a large portion of air.
    In the experiments to discover the variation in the spe
 cific gravity of the alburnum of trees at different seasons,
 some obstacles to the attainment of any very accurate re
 sults presented themselves. The wood of different trees of
 the same species, and growing in the same soil, or that
 taken from different parts of the same tree, possesses'
 different degrees of solidity ; and the weight of every part
 of the alburnum appears to increase with its age, the ex
 ternal layers being the lightest. The solidity of wood varies
 also with the greater or less rapidity of its growth. ' These
 sources of error might apparently have been avoided by
 cutting off", at different seasons, portions of the same trunk
 or branch : but the wound thus made might, in some degree,
 have impeded the due progres of the sap in its ascent, and
  the part below might have been made heavier by the stagna
  tion of the sap, and that' above lighter by privation of its
  proper quantity of nutriment. The most eligible method
  therefore, which occurred to me, was to select and mark in
  the winter some of "the poles of an oak coppice, where all
  are of equal age, and where many, of the same size and
  growing with equal vigour,' spring from the same stool.
  One half of the poles which I marked and numbered were
  cut on the 31st of December, 1803, and the remainder on
  the 15th of the following May, when the leaves were nearly
  half grown. Proper marks were put to distinguish the
  winter-felled from the -summer-felled ipoles, the^ bark

312           State in which the true Sap of Trees
being left on all, and all being placed in the same situation
to dry.
    In the beginning of August I cut off nearly equal por
tions from a winter and summer-felled pole, which had
both -grown on the sanie stool ; and both portions were
then put in a situation, where, during the seven succeeding
weeks, they were kept very warm by a fire. The summer-
felled wood was, when put to dry, the most heavy ; but it
evidently contained much more water than the other, and,
partly at least, from this cause, it contracted much more in
drying. In the beginning of October both kinds appeared
to be perfectly dry, and I then ascertained the specific gra
vity of the winter-felled wood to be 0.679? and that of the
summer-felled wood to be 0.609; after each had been im
mersed five minutes in water. ,                       ... \ '
    This difference of ten per cent, was considerably more
than I had anticipated, and it was not till I had suspended
and taken off from the balance each portion, at least ten
times, that I ceased to believe that some error had occurred
In the experiment : and indeed I was not at last satisfied till
I had ascertained by means of compasses adapted to the
measurement of solids, that the winter-felled pieces of
wood were much less than the others which they equalled
in weight.
    The pieces of wood, which had been the subjects of these
experiments, were again put to dry, with other pieces of the
same poles, and I yesterday ascertained the specific gravity
of both with scarcely any variation in the result. But when
I omitted the medulla, and parts adjacent to it, and used
the layers of wood which had been more recently formed,
I found the specific gravity of the winter-felled wood to be
only 0.583, and that of the summer-felled to be 0.b33! ; and
trying the same experiment with similar pieces of wood,
but taken from poles which had grown on a different stool,
the specific gravity of the winter-felled wood was 0.588,
and that of the summer-felled 0.534..
    It is evident that the whole of the preceding difference in
the specific gravity of the winter and summer-felled wood
plight have arisen from a greater degree of contraction in
the former kind, whilst drying; I fhe.refore proceeded to
ascertain whether any given portion of it, by weight, would
afford a greater quantity of extractive matter, when steeped
in water. Having therefore reduced to small fragments
1000 grains of each kind, I poured on each portion six
ounces of boiling water ; and at the end of twenty-four
hours, when the temperature of the waiter had sunk to 60°,
 ,,             *               *                      I found

                 is deposited during Winter.                313
I found that the winter-felled wood had communicated a
much deeper colour to the water in which jt had been in
fused, and had raised its specific gravity to 1.002. The
specific gravity of the water in which the summer-felled
wood had in the same manner been infused was 1 .001 . The
wood in all the preceding cases was taken from the upper
parts of the poles, about eight feet from the ground.
   Having observed, in the preceding experiments, that the
sap of the sycamore became specifically lighter when it had
continued to flow during several days from the same incision,
I concluded that the alburnum in the vicinity of such in
cision had been deprived of a larger portion of its concrete
or inspissated sap than in other parts of the same tree : and
I therefore suspected that I should find similar effects to
have been produced by the young annual shoots and leaves;
and that any gfven weight of the alburnum in their vicinity
would be found to contain less extractive matter than an
equal portion taken from the lower parts of the same pole,
where no annual shoots or leaves had been produced.
   No information could in this case be derived from the
difference in the specific gravity of the wood ; because the
substance of every tree is most dense and solid in the lower
parts of its trunk : and I could on this account judge only
from the quantity of extractive matter which equal portions
of the two kinds of wood would afford. Having therefore
reduced to pieces several equal portions of wood talcen from
different parts of the same poles, which had been felled in -
JMay, I poured on each portion an equal quantity of boiling
water, which I suffered to remain twenty hours, as in the
preceding experiments : and I then found that in some in
stances the wood from the lower, and in others that from
the upper parts of the poles, had given to the water the
deepest colour and greatest decree of specific gravity ; but
that all had afforded much extractive matter, though in
every instance the quantity yieided was much less than I
had, in all cases, found in similar ' infusions of winter-
felled wood.
   It appears, therefore, that the reservoir of matter deposited
in the aiburnum is not wholly exhausted in the succeeding
spring : and hence we are able to account for the seve
ral successions of leaves and buds which trees are capable of
producing when those previously protruded have been de
stroyed by insects, or other causes ; and for the extremely
luxuriant shoots, which often spring from the trunks of
trees, whose branches have been long in a state of decay.
   T have also some reasons to believe that the matter depo
sited in the alburnum remains unemployed in some cases.
           8              ¦                               during

 314         State in which the true Sag of Trees
 during several successive years : it does not appear probable
 that it can be all employed by trees which, after having been
transplanted, produce very few leaves, or bv those which
produce neither blossoms nor fruit. In making experi
 ments in 1802, to ascertain the manner in which the buds
of trees are reproduced, T cut off in the winter all the
branches of a very large old pear-tree, at a small distance
from the trunk; and I pared off, at the same time,- the
whole of the lifeless external bark. The. age of this tree, I
have good reasons to believe, somewhat exceeded two cen
turies : its extremities were generally dead ; and it afforded
few leaves, and no fruit ; and I had long expected every
 successive year to terminate its existence. After being de
 prived of its external bark, and of all its buds, no marks of
vegetation appeared in the succeeding spring, or early part
 of the summer: but in tha beginning of July numerous
buds penetrated through the bark in every part, many leaves
pf large size, every where appeared, and in the autumn every
part was covered with very vigorous shoots exceeding, in
the -aggregate, two feet in length. The number of leaves
which, in this case, sprang at once from the trunk and
branches appeared to me greatly to exceed the whole of
those, which the tree had borne in the three preceding sea^
sons; and I cannot believe that the matter which composed
these buds and leaves could have been wholly prepared by
the feeble vegetation and scanty foliage of the preceding
year.
   But whether the substance which is found in the aU
burnum of winter-felled trees, and which disappears in- part
in the spring and early part of the summer, be generated in
one or m several preceding years, there seem to be -strong
grounds of probability, that this substance enters into the
composition of the leaf: for we have abundant reason to
believe that this organ is the principal agent of assimilation;
and scarcely any thing can be more contrary to every con-
elusion we should draw from analogical reasoning and com
parison of the vegetable with the animal economy, or in it->
self more improbable, than that the leaf, or any other organ,
should singly prepare and assimilate immediately from the
crude aqueous sap, that matter which composes itself.
   It has be'en contended* that the buds themselves contain
the nutriment necessary for the minute unfolding leaves r
but trees possess a power to reproduce their buds, and the
matter necessary to form these buds must evidently be de
rived from some other source : nor does it appear probable
that the young leaves very soon enter on this office ; for the
                     • • Thomson's Chemistry.
                                                         cxpe

                  is deposited during Winter.              315
experiments of Ingenhousz prove that their action on the
air which surrounds them is very essentially different from
that of full grown leaves. It is true that buds in many
instances will vegetate and produce trees, when % very small
portion only of alburnum remains attached to them : but
the first efforts of vegetation in such buds are much more
feeble than hi others to which a larger quantity of alburnum
js attached ; and therefore we have, in this case, no grounds
to suppose that the leaves derive their first nutriment from
the crude sap.
   It is also generally admitted, from the experiments of
Bonnet and Du Hamel, which I have repeated with the
same result, that in the cotyledons of the seed is deposited
a quantity of nutriment for the bud, which every seed con
tains ; and though no vessels can be traced * which lead
immediately from the cotyledons to the bud or plumula, it
is not difficult to point out a more circuitous passage, which
is perfectly similar to that through which I conceive the
sap to be carried from the leaves to the buds in the subse
quent growth of the tree ; and I am in possession of many
facts to prove that seedling trees, in the first stage of their
existence, depend entirely on the nutriment afforded by the
 cotyledons ; and that they are greatly injured, and in many
instances killed, by being put to vegetate in rich mould.
   We have much more decisive evidence that bulbous and
tuberous rooted plants contain the matter within themselves
which subsequently composes their leaves ; for we see them
 vegetate even in dry rooms on the approach of spring ; and
 many bulbousrooted plants produce their leaves and flowers
 with nearly the same vigour by the application of water
 only, as they do when growing in the best mould. But
 the water in this case, provided that it be perfectly pure,
 probably affords little or no food to the plant, and acts only
 by dissolving the matter prepared and deposited in the pre
 ceding year ; and hence the root becomes exhausted and
 spoiled : and Hassenfratz found that the leaves and flowers
 and roots of such plants afforded no more carbon than he
 had proved to exist in bulbous roots of the sajne w?ight,
 whose leaves and flowers had never expanded.
    As the leaves and flowers of the hyacinth, in the pre
 ceding case, derived their matter from the bulb, it appears
 extremely probable that the blossoms of trees receive their
 nutriment from the alburnum, particularlv as the blossoms
 of many species precede their leaves : and as the roots of
 plants "become weakened and apparently exhausted, when
                             * Hedwig.
                                                           they

   316            Stale in uhich the tfue Sap of Trees
   they have afforded nutriment to a crop of seed, we may sua*
   pect that a tree, which has borne much fruit in one season^
   becomes in a similar way exhausted, and incapable of af
   fording proper nutriment to a crop in the succeeding year.
   And I am much inclined to believe that were the wood of a
   tree in this state accurately weighed, it would be found spe
   cifically lighter than that of a similar tree, which had not
   afforded nutriment to fruit or blossoms, in the preceding
   year, or years.
      If it be admitted that the substance which enters into the
   composition of the first leaves in the spring is derived from
   matter which has undergone some preyiouspreparation within
   the plan), (and I am at a loss to conceive on what grounds
   this can be denied, in. bulbous and -tuberous. rooted plants
  ^t least,) it must also be admitted that the leaves which are
  generated in the summer derive their.substance from a simi
  lar source; and this cannot be conceded without a direct
   admission of the, existence of vegetable.circulation, which is
  denied by sp many eminent naturalists. I have not, how
  ever, .found in their writings a single fact to disprove ita
  existence, nor any great weight in their arguments, except
  those drawn from two. important errors in the admirable
  works of Hales and Du Hamel, which I have noticed in a
  former memoir. , I shall therefore proceed to point out the
  channels, through which I conceive the circulating fluids to
  pass./''
      \yhen a seed is deposited in the ground, or otherwise ex
  posed, to. -a proper degree of heat and moisture, and exposure
  to air, wa{er is absorbed by the cotyledons, and the young
• radicle or . root ,i§¦ emitted. At this period, and in every
  subsequent staged of/ the growth of the. root, it increases in}
  length- by the addition 6? new parts, to its apex, or point,
  and not by any- general distension of its vessels and fibres j
  and the experiments of Bonnet and Du Hamel leave little
  grounds of doubt, but that the new matter which is added
  jto the point of the root descends from the cotyledons. The
  first motion therefore of the fluids in plants is downwards,
  towards the point of the root ; and the vessels which appear
  to carry them, .are of the same kind with, those which are
  subsequently ib;unu in -the bark, where I have,- on a former
 #ceasion> endeavoured to prove that they execute the same
  otfice.. -.     -                   . , • :-.
     In. the last spring I examined almost every day the pro
 gressive changes which take place in the radicle emitted by
 the horse chesnut : I found it, at its first existence, and
 until it was some weeks old, to be incapable of absorbing
  • , }                                                 coloured

                  is deposited during Winter.                 317
 coloured infusions, when its point was taken off, and I was
 totally unable to discover any alburnous tubes, through
 which the sap absorbed from the ground, in the subsequent
 growth of the tree, ascends: but when the roots were con
 siderably elongated, alburnous tubes formed ; and as soon
as they had acquired some degree of firmness in their con
 sistence, they appeared to enter on their office of carrying
 up the aqueous sap, and the leaves of the plumula then,
 and not sooner, expanded.
  ' The leaf contains at least three kinds of tubes : the first is
 what) in a former paper, I have called the central vessel,
through which the aqueous sap appears to, be carried, and
 through which coloured infusions readily pass, from the
 alburnous tubes into the leaf-stalk. These vessels are al
ways accompanied by spiral tubes, which do not appear to
carry any liquid : but there is another vessel which appears
to take its origin from the leaf, and which descends down
the internal bark, and contains the true or prepared sap.
When the leaf has attained its proper growth, it seems to
perform precisely the office of the cotyledon ; but being ex
posed to the air, and without the samemeans to acquire, or
the substance to retain moisture^ it is fed by the alburnous
tubes and central vessels. The true sap now appears to
be, discharged from the leaf, as it was previously from the
cotyledon, into the vessels of the bark, and to be employed
in the formation of new alburnous tubes between the base of
the leaf and the root. From these alburnous tubes spring
other central vessels and spiral tubes, which enter into^ and
possibly give existence to, other leaves ; and thus by a re
petition of the same process the young tree or annual shoot
continues to acquire new parts, which apparently are formed
from the ascending aqueous sap.
    But it has been proved by Du Hamel that a fluidvsimilar
to that which is found in the true sap vessels of the bark,
exists also in the alburnum, and this fluid is extremely ob
vious in the fig, and other trees, whose titie sap is white, or
coloured. The vessels, which contain this fluid in the al-.
burnum, are in contact with those which carry up the
aqueous sap ; and it does not appear probable that, in a
body so porous as wood, fluids so near each other should
remain wholly unmixed. I must therefore conclude, that
when the true sap has been delivered from the cotyledon or
leaf into the returning or true sap vessels of the bark, one
portion of it secretes through the external cellular, or more
probably glandular substance of the bark, and generates .,3
    Vol. 22. No. 88. Sept. 1805.        X                   ni\y

318     State of the true Sap of Trees during Winter.
new epidermis, where that is to be formed; and that the
other portion of it secretes through the internal glandular
substance of the bark, where one part of it produces the
new layer of wood, and the remainder enters the pores of
the wood already formed, and subsequently mingles with
the ascending aqueous sap ; which thus becomes capable
of affording the matter necessary to form new buds aud
leaves.                                        \
   It has been proved in the preceding experiments on the
ascending sap of the Sycamore and birch, that that fluid
does not approach the buds and unfolding leaves in the '
spring, in the state in which it is absorbed from the earth :
and therefore we may conclude that the fluid, which enters
into and circulates through the leaves of plants, as the;
blood through the lungs of animals, consists of a mixture
of the true sap or blood of the plant with matter more re
cently absorbed, and less perfectly assimilated.
   It appears probable that the .true sap undergoes a consi
derable change on its mixture with the ascending aqueous
sap; for this fluid in the sycamore has been proved to be
come more sensibly sweet in its progress from the roots in
the spring, and the liquid which flows from the wounded
bark of the same tree is also sweet ; but I have never been
able to detect the slightest degree of sweetness in decoctions
of the sycamore wood in winter. I am- therefore inclined
to believe that the saccharine matter existing in the ascend
ing sap is not immediatelv, or wholly, derived from the
fluid which had circulated through the leaf in the preceding
year ; but that it is generated by a process similar to that of
the germination of seeds, and that the same process is al
ways going forward during the spring and summer, as long
as the tree continues to generate-new organs. But towards
the conclusion of the summer I conceive that the true sap
simplv accumulates in the alburnum, and thus adds to the
specific gravity of winter-felled wood, and increases the
quantity of its extractive matter,
   I have some reasons to believe that the true sap descends
through the alburnum as well as through the bark ; and I
have been informed that if the bark be taken from the
tTunks of trees in the spring, and such trees be suffered to
grow till the following winter, the alburnum acquires a great
degree of hardness and durability. If subsequent experi
ments prove that the true sap descends through the albur
num, it will be easy to point out the cause why trees con
vene t© vegetate after all communication between the leaves
 , vr                         , .,       • ¦               and

         Description of the Coming-up Glass Telescope.                   31j>
and roots, through the bark, has been intercepted : and why
some portion of alburnous matter is in all trees * generated
below incisions through the bark.
    It was my intention this year to have troubled you with
some observations on the reproduction of the buds and
roots of trees ; but as the subject of the paper, which I have
now the honour to address to you, appeared to be of more
importance, I have deferred those observations to a future
opportunity ; and I shall at present only observe, that I
conceive myself to be in possession of facts to prove that
both buds and roots originate from the alburnous substance
of plants, and not, as is, I believe, generally supposed, from
the bark.
                                    I am, &c.
Elton, Dec. 4,                                    T. Andrew Knight.
XLVI. Description of the Coming-up Glass Telescope, as
    made ly Mr. Thomas Jones, Mathematical, Optical,
    and Philosophical Instrument Maker ; Pupil of fne late
    Mr. Ramsden.
As it is of much importance, especially in war time, du
ring the chase of a vessel, that the chasing ship should be
 able to ascertain whether she lessens or increases her di
stance from the object of which she is in pursuit, I am per
 suaded the philosophical world will be pleased with a de
 scription of an instrument adapted to this useful purpose,
 invented by the late Mr. Ramsden. It consists in applying
 ft micrometer to a refracting telescope of about two feet
 long, or to a day and night telescope ; and I have been in
 formed by some who were furnished with them by Mr.
 Ramsden, (and by myself since his death,) that they an
 swer the purpose remarkably well.
     To this combination the English sailors have given the
 name of a coming-up glass. To fit the telescope for this
 use, the third glass from the eye, in the drawer of the tele
  scope, is divided in two by cutting it across its centre at
  right angles to its surface ; and, in using it, these two semi- .
  lenses are separated from each other in the direction of their
  line of separation. By turning a finger^ screw on one side -
    * I have in a former paper stated that the perpendicular shoots of the vine
  form an exception. I spoke on the authority of numerous experiments ; but
  they had been made late in the summer ; and on repeating the same experi
  ments at an earlier period, I found the result in conformity with my experi-
  moms on other trees.
                                     X2                                      Of

320     Description of the Coimng-up Glass Telescope.
of the eye-tube, each semi-lens forms an image of the same
object. These two images will be more or less separated
in the proportion of the distance of the centres of the semi-
lenses from each other, which distance is shown in revolu
tions and parts of a revolution of a finger- screw that sepa
rates them. For this purpose a circular head is fixed on.
the finger-screw, the edge of which is divided into a hun
dred parts ; and in order to know the number of revolutions,
a small slip of brass (that passes over the graduated surface
of the head, and serves as its index for showing the cente
simal parts of a revolution) is fixed to the eye-tube, and
has its chamfered edge also divided, each division being
equal to one entire revolution of the screw.
                    To adjust the Telescope.
    Having, by drawing out the eye-tuhe more or less, ad
justed the telescope to distinct vision, turn the finger-screw
till the two images of the same object appear in onej and the .
edge of the head together with the division numbered 1DO-
w ill be found at the first division on the index that show s the
revolutions.
               Tiie use of the Coming-up Glass.
    Having directed the telescope to the vessel chased, turn
the finger-screw till the two images of some well defined part
of the vessel appear to have their extreme edges in contact
with each other then read off the number of revolutions
of the screw shown on the chamfered edge, also the parts of
a revolution shown on the edge of the head : then if, after
some time, it be required to know whether we have gained
or lost in the chase, again bring the edges of the images
of the Same object in contact as before. If the number of
revolutions and parts of the screw be the same as was shown
before, we have neither gained nor lost in the chase. But
 if the number of revolutions and parts he less, the distance
from the chased Vessel will be greater in the proportion of
the difference of these numbers to the former. On the
contrary, if the number of revolutions and parts be greater,
we come nearer the vessel in the proportion of the difference
of these numbers to the number of revolutions and parts of
the first observation.
                             Example.
    Suppose in the chase of a vessel, bv turning the finerer-
Screw, I bring the image of the main-top-yard to coincide
with the main-yard ; and, reading off the value, 1 find it to
be three revolutions on the chamfered edge, and CO parts of
                                                         a revo

              On 'the Bads and Ramifications of Plants.      321
  a revolution on the circular head, which may be wfpte 320 ;
 if, some little time after, by bringing the two images of the
 same object in contact, I find the number of revolutions and.
 parts to be 360, the difference of the two observations is 4(>,
 therefore 40 : 320 : : 1 : 8 (that is, 40, the difference, is to
 320, the first observation, as 1 is to 8) ; consequentlv, we
 shall have gained in the chase one-eighth part of the di
 stance : but if at the second observation the number of re
 volutions be less, for instance 280, or two revolutions and
 80 parts of a revolution; thtn, as 40, the difference, is to
 3-20, the first observation, so is 1 to 8 : consequen>ly we
 should have lost one-eighth part of our distance in the chase.
 No. 1 20, Mount-street,                                        ,
     Berkeley-square.
 XLVIT. On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants ; the
    Birth of these Organs, and the organic Relation between
    the Trunk and the Branches; in a Letter from G. L.
    Koeler, M. D. Professor of Botany and the Materia
    Medica in the Provisional School of Medicine at Mtntz,
    to M. Ventenat, Member of the French National In
    stitute?.                                                   ,
                         [Concluded frop p. 241.]
 But it may be said, if these observations on the origin
ftf buds are founded in nature, how comes it to pass that'
herbaceous and so tender bodies should penetrate through
a considerable number of ligneous zones, which must be
the case in branches of two or three years of age, which,
though rarely, produce, however, soniethnes buds ? It ap
pears to me very probable, that at the period when the bud.
becomes expanded, a period which corresponds with the
elongation of the medullary sheath, a certain number of
the bundles of the tubes of that sheath proceeds laterally
from interval to interval towards the bark. Soon after, the'
first cambium of the bud appears between the medullary
sheath and the bark, and separates these two parts ' from -
each other. This cambium does not long retain its muci
laginous form ; it is soon metamorphosed into the first liber
or bark. The bent vessels of this first liber, in hardening
and becoming every day straighter, proceed towards the
medullary sheath, round which they compress themselves,
and form there the first alburnum, which becomes then the
first ligneous zone. The prolongations of the medullary'
sheath are not all pinched by the formation of this first
                                 X 3                    stratum

322        On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.
stratum of the wood.; for the latter quits its mucilaginous
state slowly, and its tubes have not straightened themselves
by a great effort : on the contrary, they retain their curva
ture around the prolongations, as may be readily seen. The
Straightening, however, and compression of the tubes of the
liber one against the other, ought to be attended with this
necessary consequence, that the prolongations should be
more or less pressed ; and as this is repeated every year in
the formation of the new ligneous strata, the result must be,
 that not only a certain number of prolongations are at length
 stifled, but also that the quantity increases in proportion as
 the twig becomes a branch, and as the latter acquires more
 size. This opinion appears to me to be very well founded,
 for we observe that the number of the buds is generally in
 the inverse ratio of the age of the branch : nature will have
 it that this number should decrease more and more every
 year, and she fixes a period at which branches generally
 cease altogether to produce any. On this rule, modified
 according to the nature of each species of vegetable, and
 according to the particular circumstances under which the
 plants are placed, depends in a great measure the habitus of
 the vegetables. Nature rarely deviates from this law: there
  are, however, some exceptions ; and it sometimes happens
 that it retains, in case of need, some of these prolongations,
  which have not expanded into buds during the first years of.
  the branch. If, for example, the sap rises in too great
  abundance, or if it be too nourishing, especially when the
  t.reecannot sufficiently discharge it, such of these prolonga
  tions as are not stifled acquire vigour, lengthen themselves
  towards the bark, pierce it, and" give birth to gluttonous
  branches, or branches with false wood, which often preserve
  the tree from plethoric diseases which might become mortal.
  The birth of these twigs explains to us, in my opinion, why
  the buds from which they have been produced are always
  thin and herbaceous ; why they almost always expand very
  speedily, and often out of season ; and why they do not
  adhere firmly to the tree. It appears besides, that my opi
  nion on the question itself is confirmed by the considera
  tion, that if. nature forms more wood than usua)s and very
   thick zones, the branches commonly give fewer buds the
   following year : but nature seems then to gain o# the one
   hand what it loses on the other ; for it multiplies then the
   number of the young branches, which, as we know, produce
   more buds than any other part of the vegetable. Another
   observation, which renders my.opinion still more probable,
   is, that I have seen afe the. lower part of the branches, and,

                On the- Buds and Ramifications of Plants*      a23-
    the. twigs of several trees and shrubs, such as the voung
    branches of the common willow [salix capred), a considera
    ble number of small herbaceous prolongations of the me
    dullary sheath, which were as insulated and dispersed
    throughout the ligneous body, and which had neither
    pierced nor raised up the bark that covered them. They,
    appeared to me to be prolongations reserved to form, in
    case of need, leaves or branches.
        But how can we account for the origin of buds from a
    trunk the interior part of which is rotten, and where the
    medullary sheath no longer exists ? and how comes it to
    pass that the branches of a hollow tree, or those grafted on
    another tree, vegetate with the greatest vigour ? It appears
    to me that the answer to this question presents no difficulty.
    These phoenomena will soon be explained,if we shall be able
    .to prove that the prolongations of the sheath may be pre
     served, and live, when they are separated by art or by nature
    from the sheath whence they have arisen. In these cases
     the branches must receive the sap by other tubes than those
     of the sheath. But does not the observation made bv
     Coulomb, that in sound trees the sap ascends chiefly
     the tubes which surround the pith, oppose what 1 have-
     said? I do not think it : on the contrary, I am of opinion, .
     that, if the observation of that celebrated philosopher had
     still need of being corroborated, it certainly would be by
     my experiments on the prolongations of the sheath. If is
     in these organs, indeed, more than in any other, that we
     ,are to search for the proof that the sap ascends chiefly in
     the vessels of the medullary sheath of a sound tree, because
     when cut transversely they are always found, as long as they
     are not ligneous, more or less filled with juices. But is the
     medullary sheath the only way by which the sap proceeds
     from the root to the extremities of the vegetable? Has na-
  - ture confined herself within so narrow limits, or has she
     established .other canals to conduct the nourishing juices
     from the root to all the ramifications of the plant? The
     existence of so, many hollow trees will furnish us with an
     answer. In hollow trunks it is only by the liber, and be-
. fore the birth of that organ by the alburnum, that nature
     makes the sap to ascend. It happens also, but more .rarelyj
     that the bark is provided with small tubes which convey a
      f>art of that limpid liqubr. If we examine the hollow wil-
       ows on the approach of spring, it will be observed that the
     alburnum is full of juice. If we cut the stems, branches,
      and stalks of the vine, euphorbia, &c. we shall see the tubes
      next, the bark emit not only their own juices but also an.
,                  ' ,' '          X4                      aqueous

324       On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.
aqueous humour, which is the ascending sap. The liber,
aijjurnum, medullary sheath, and sometimes the tubes of
the bark, are the only organs which nature employs in the
 'Otyledons to convey the sap to the ramifications of the
trunk. But after the sheath has produced the prolonga
tions or germs of the buds, the liber and alburnum secure
in preference the preservation of the individual ; for, when
the new production of these organs is prevented, the plant
infallibly dies : on the other hand, if nature destroys the
sheath, the tree verv often vegetates as before; and to be
fully convinced of it we need only mention the enormous
boabab of the coast, of Africa. Besides, the ingenious ex
 periments of Mirbel have fully shown how, by the help of
 the pores and fissures with which almost all the tubes
and cells of vegetables are pierced, the sap may be conveyed
to all the parts ; and how nature, to convey the juice from
 one organ to the other, may find ways which to us appear
extraordinary. Hence we are obliged to believe, that in the
case where the sheath does not exist, or a graft has suc
ceeded, and where the pith is converted into wood, the
prolongations may receive the nourishing liquor with which
they are filled, from the living tissue with which they are in
immediate contact. In plants, even the interior part' of
which is very sound, the sap cannot be conveyed imme
diately from the tubes of the sheath of a trunk to those of
the sheath of an old branch. In this case, the prolonga
tions are not composed of tubes ; they have become entirely
ligneous, and their vessels, changed into fibres, no longer
convey the juices. There is no longer any organic com
munication but by means of the alburnum, the liber, the
medullary radii, and the bark : even the latter rarely serves
for conveying the sap. It thence follows, that the sap of
the trunk ascends in the sheath, passes thence into the
liber, or the alburnum, to be conveyed to the sheath of the
branch through the cellular and vascular tissue. When it
reaches the sheath of the branch, it is conveyed to the fol
lowing ramification in the same manner as from the trunk
to the principal branch.
   The origin of buds, of which I have spoken, enables us
to conceive the cause of the firm insertion of the branch
into the trunk. The bud has been produced by a prolonga
tion of the medullary sheath : the first stratum of the wood
is formed while that bud has been elongated into a branch :
the trunk has produced one at the same time; the ligneous
zones have succeeded regularly fiom year to year in the
trunk and in the branches^ and each zone of the branches

          On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.          325
i* in an uninterrupted relation with another zone of the*
trunk, and seems to be thus produced by the prolongation
or increase of the latter. It appears to me that the cause
is explained by the following observation :— ft is generallv
known that the cambium, of which the liber is formed, has'
its birth in the alburnum and bark, and that the latter,
¦during the formation of, the cambium, is altogether sepa-'
rate from the alburnum even at the base of the branch. , By
these means the cambium of the trunk and that of the
branch are never divided; on the contrary, they adhere to
each other, and the result is, that the wood thence arising
forms thus an uninterrupted zone. The old trunks of the
pine, fir, oak, &c. seem, however, sometimes to show the
contrary ; for it is not uncommon that the branches, even
 those covered with bark, traverse a greater or less part of the
wood of the trunk, without being there united to the exterior
zones. Nevertheless, if such a trunk be cut vertically, it'
 will be seen that all the zones of the branch have an im
mediate reference to as many zones of the trunk ; the reaso/i
 of which is, that this branch has been cut, or tvas ceased to
 grow, and that the trunk, which has continued its zones,
 has surrounded and inclosed the branch sometimes even en
 tirely.
    It may perhaps be asked, why all the germs of a twig do
 not pierce the bark at the same time the first year. This
 question I am not able to answer, because I cannot unveil
 the mysteries of nature, and, in regard to the birth of buds,
 know only the above phaenomena. It may, however, be
 conjectured that in the expanded buds there were germs,
 that is to say, prolongations of the medullary sheath, dif
 fering in size and vigour; and that, besides, the time of
 their respective development depended on external circum
 stances, the most of which are still unknown to us.
    It is observed sometimes in shumac, the plane-tree, 8tc.
 that the lateral prolongations are entirely dried and ligneous,
 though that in the middle be still perfectly herbaceous. In
 this case the petiole which covered the great prolongation,
 and below which the bud that produces the twig must have
 been formed, has been torn or dropped off the preceding
 spring, or at least before the autumn.
    The means which nature has made choice of to nourish
 the buds during the winter have been the object of several"
 hypotheses. 1 shall abstain from mentioning them all, in "
 order that 1 may attach myself to the only one which merits
  particular consideration. The interior of the bud has been
 compared to the embryo of a seed, and it has been asserted

326        Qn the Buds and Ramifications of Plants.
that the body of this bud was nourished by the scales which
cover it, as the embryo is by the cotyledons. I shall not
here examine whether the embryo be really nourished bv
the cotyledons ; but I must deny that the bud is nourished
by the scales, sometimes very arid, which protect it. On
the contrary, it is nourished by the juice conveyed to it by
the prolongations of the sheath ; for I have had opportuni
ties of remarking that the motion of the sap does not en
tirely cease in the interior of the tree but when the cold is
severe, and the buds are then preserved without having need
of nourishment. To insure the conveyance of the sap to
the buds, and by these means to shelter them as much as
Jiossible from the cold, nature, perhaps, has caused the pro-
  ongations of the sheath to be traversed by one or more
aones of wood.
    In regard to the symmetry which nature exhibits in the
disposition of the prolongations of the sheath and the buds,
it is as yet inexplicable to us : the hypothesus that the bud
pierces the bark at the place where it is thinnest, as for ex
ample in the eyes of the leaves, is still very far from the
truth. The question is, to know how the prolonged tubular
bundles of the medullary sheath which is directed towards
the bark, may meet that thin place without having crept
along the interior side of that organ. A thousand other
questions might be added, which present difficulties equally
great.
    It appears to me very probable that Hales, Linnaeus, and
several other observers who had adopted the hypothesis that
the pith is the most active organ in the interior ceconomy
 of plants, the reproducing organ of the ramifications of
 the trunk, were not far from discovering the tubular pro
 longations of the sheath, which I discovered by chance. It
 appears to me also that the green substance contained in the
 medullary sheath has a different origin from that ascribed
 tp\t; and that in regard to the medullary radii, to which
Daubenton has given the name of medullary prolongations;
 they are very different from the organs to which I have given
 the name of prolongations of the sheaik.
    Mv researches in regard to these* organs have made me
(>ereeive also some phaenomena respecting the origin of
  eaves, which were entirely unknown to me. These organs
are considered as expansions of the herbaceous tissue of the
bark, and of the tubular tissue of the liber. This opinion is
 among the number of those which cannot be admitted. A
leaf, whatever be the place of its insertion, can never be
torn off without finding, exactly at the place where it was
  .                            .                 ,      fixed,

               Progress of Vaccination in India.            327
fixed, one or more prolongations of the medullary sheath
penetrating the wood, and sinking into the petiole, or into
the base of the leaf to which they convey sap. In the spe
cies of the family of the pinnifera one single prolongation of
the like kind enters into the petiole : in all the other vege
tables which I have examined, I found two, three, and even
more.
    The fall of the leaves is explained, not only by the in
fluence of the air and the sun, but also by the mechanism
of nature, which, according to the opinion most generally
admitted, prevents the sap trom ascending from the branch
to the petiole. " The tubes of the liber (it is said) in daily
extending more press against each other, and by a necessary
consequence transport themselves towards the centre of the
vegetable ; at the same time the bark, which dilates itself,
recedes; and the necessary result of these two movements
is, that the leaves no longer receive sufficient nourishment."
There is no doubt that the influence of the air and the sun
contributes powerfully to harden the substance of the leaves,
 as well as to approach towards the ligneous slate, in which
 the passage of the juices ceases, and then the leaves no
 longer transpire or absorb. But I do not believe that the
 mechanism in question can in any manner prevent the
 ascent of thesap. But do we not, indeed, see that- in a great
 number of plants some leaves drop at the period w hen the
 liber has not yet been changed into alburnum, and while
 the sap is still in full motion ? In a word, when the barli
 is separated at the place where the petiole has been fixed, it
 is seen that the prolongations of the medullary sheath,
 which have conveyed the nourishing juice from the stem
 to the leaves, are still green and herbaceous, ana have sus
 tained no injury ; which seems to prove that they were not
 «hoked, nor attracted with force. They dry a long time
 after, and acquire very slowly the consistence of the wood
 in which they are placed.
  >      —                                    '             - n
          XLVIII. Progress of Vaccination in India**
 Nfaver was a. discovery corroborated by more numerous
 and distant evidences than the cow-pock.
     The bramins in India were accustomed to inoculate at
  certain periods of the year; now they vaccinate throughout;
  the year ; and the following testimony has appeared in the
      i            •' Communicated by Dr. Thoraton. '
                                                      government

  328        New Genus of Mammalia called Hydromis.
  government gazette at Fort St. George, Dec. 19, 1804,
  being a letter from the head bramin to the physician-general
  at Madras.
                        To Dr. James Anderson.                 -
        sin,                                         >
     I beg leave to assure you that I am an eye-witness, a*
  well as many other bramins, of that wonderful, healthful;
  immorjal vaccine matter, discovered on the nipples and
 iidders of some cows in England by that illustrious doctor,
 Jenner; whereby that loathsome, painful, and fatal small
 pox has been prevented attacking persons in India as well as
 in England. Numbers of children and others have been
 inoculated by us without any injury whatever, except a
 small blemish or spot in the place where the matter is ap
 plied, generally on the arm.
    This preserving power should be experienced not only by
 the honorary but also those of the low cast. On which
 account permit me to observe, that the term cow-pox, adver
 tised in bur Tamul tongue by you, translated comary, should
 be altered, not to give room for the prejudices of the very
 common people ; and it should be styled, no doubt, a drop
 of nectar from the exuberant udders of some cows in Eng
 land, and not by any appellation similar to the humour
 discharged from the feet of diseased cattle in this country.
                          I am, sir, with much respect,
                Your faithful, obedient, very humble servant,
Dec. 19, 1804.           MoO-PE-RAL SfEE-NE-VA-SA-CHA-RV.
XLIX. Memoir on a new Genus of Mammalia called Hy
        dromis. By E. Geoffroi (Saint-Hilaire).*
This new genus, introduced into the system, is com«
posed of three species, two of which have never been
described, <md the third cannot be exactly known but by
means of the illustrations which I am about to give. It
was first found in the waters of Chili by Molina, who pub
lished an account of it under the American name of coypou:
it has since been met with only by Felix d'Azzara, who has
given a long description of itf under the name of qnovyia^
by which it is known in the province of Tucuman.                 '
   A long time, however, after these travellers had disco
vered the coypou, it had engaged the attention of Commer-'
       * From AnnaXts du Mustum tfllistoire NatureUe, No. 31.
       t Histoire des Quadrupedcs du Paraguay^ vol. iL art. 2.

         New Genus of Mammalia called Hyctromls.           329
son; and it would then have been more perfectly known,
had that respectable and indefatigable naturalist lived long
enough to publish the immense materials with which he
enriched natural history. There was found, indeed, among
 Commerson's papers, a drawing of this singular animal re
duced only to half its size : he had been indebted for it to
   M. Bougainville de Nerville, governor of the Malouine
 Islands, an enlightened amateur of natural history." These
are the words of the note which our respectable correspon
dent put at the bottom of the drawing which had been given
to him. The name myopoinmns lonariensis, which he pro
visionally gave to this species, 'proves that he then consi
dered it as the type of a new genus.
    I have not employed the same denomination as Com-
merson. It appeared to me more proper to prefer that of
hydromis, composed nearly of the same radicals, because it
presents the same termination as the names alreadv em
ployed to denote the most of the analogous genera, such as
 those of pteromis, phascohmii, lagomis, cheiromis, &c.
    We long neglected the drawing of the myopotamus,
either because, not having been executed by Comiiiersou
himself, it did not inspire us with sufficient confidence, or
because our mistrust was authorized by the difficulty of
.comprehending it in the genera already established.
   It was only after examining the rich collection of furs of
M. Bechem*, where I found a considerable quantity of the
slcins of an animal which appeared to me to be unknown to
naturalists, that I recollected the drawing of Commerson.
M. Bechem informed me that these skins had been intro
duced into commerce about nine or ten years before ; that
they were transmitted by the way of Spain ; that he never
received fewer than a thousand at a time ; and that in some
years ttie number amounted to fifteen or twenty thousand.
M. Bechem found that they had an affinity to the beaver
skins, and could be applied to the same purposes : he sold
them under the denomination of racounda, which he derived
from that of racoon, the name given by the English to ah
animal of North America. They are sought for in com
merce, and are employed in particular by the manufacturers
of hats. Thus our arts were supplied with, and a part of
our dress was formed of, the hair of an animal with which
we Were unacquainted, and which, however, was sufficiently
different from others of the same genus to deserve to be
classed in a small particular tribe.
    It was so humiliating a condition for science to be thus
                     * A fur-merchant of Paris. , % ,
                                                    outstripped

          New Genus of Mammalia called Hydromis.
outstripped by commerce, that I could not help embracing
the earliest opportunity of endeavouring to discover to what
animal this useful fur belonged. Among the number of
skins which M. Bechem possessed, I had the good for
tune to find a sufficient number entire, to enable me to hope
that I should be able to determine this point. I soon per
ceived that the.description of the quouyia of M. d'Azzara
corresponded to them perfectly, and that this description
could be exactly applied also to the drawing of the myopo-
tamus. 1 should have been sooner conducted to this com
parison, had I not found, in the French translation of
M.d'Azzara's work, the epithet of red twice substituted for
that of ruddy : the author, by the Spanish word rulro, had
denoted only the latter quality.
    It was with reason that Commerson had provisionally
considered his animal of Buenos-Ayres as a new genus : it
"belongs to the order of the rodentia by its two strong incisor
 teeth in each jaw ; but not to any of the genera of that
 order, in consequence of its tail and its hind feet. The
 conjecture of Commerson is now fully justified by the ex
 istence of two other species in New Holland, which have
 exactly the same combinations of form : such are the three
 animals which I comprehend under the same generic deno
 mination of hydromis.
    To be able to subdivide with "more precision the order of
  the rodentia, and particularly the numerous genus of rats,
 we have attended to the consideration of the molar teeth,
  the form of which has furnished us with excellent charac
 ters, which have gone hand in hand with the different con
  figurations of the feet and the tail. Thus, all the rats ana
  logous to the field rat, the water rat, &c. have the molar
  teeth formed of laminae placed one before the other, and
  the tail short and hairy : on the other hand, those which
  have a relation to the common rat, &c. Norway rat, &c.
  are distinguished' by molar teeth with a simple crown, and
  by their long tail, which is in part naked and scaly j others,
  such as the hamster, have these teeth single, and the tail
  short and hairy.
     My first care, after these observations, ought to be to at
  tend to the molar teeth of my three species, and deduce
  from them characters applicable only to them.. I was de
  prived of the means of doing this in regard to the American
  species. M. d'Azzara neglected to speak of its molar
  teeth : Molina, however, has in part supplied this defi
  ciency, if it be true that he extended his remarks to their
   number. We have reason to believe this from the extract
  ,\.                                       7                 ip

          . N&.w Gcntis of Mammalia called Hydromis.        331
in regard to the mus coypus, which Gmelin made from the
account of that iesuit. M. Gravel in the French transla
tion must, then, have omitted this important character. .
    However, the following are the observations, in regard to
the teeth, which I made in the two species of New Hol
land.
    These molar teeth present themselves first in a number
worthy of remark : there are only two on each side, which
carries the whole number to eight. Their form exhibits no
less singularity: the length of each is double its breadth:
the enamel traverses it in the middle, turning round in such
a manner, that the section forms pretty nearly the figure 8, ,
which is rendered sensible in particular bv two excavations,
pretty deep, corresponding to the vacant spaces which exist
in that figure.
     The feet of the hydromis have five toes ; those of the fore
 feet are very short, and almost entirely enveloped : the other
toes are free. On the other hand, those of the hind feet
 are engaged in a membrane : the external toe onlv is at
liberty, because the general membrane which extends over
 It, and which borders the interior side, arises only from the
•extremity of the mctacarpian bone of the annular toe ; it
 forms on the last a small interior border, which does not
 retain it in its deviation. The nails are compressed, pretty '
 long, hooked, aiid very sharp.
     The head, as far as could be judged from the remains
 w hich I examined, is broad and depressed like those of the
 beaver and the water-rat: the muzzle appears to be less
 obtuse; the neck is thick and short ; the ears small and
 round ; the whiskers long and thick.
     The hair is of two kinds, as in the beaver ; under the long
 bilky hair is a short felt, thick, and exceedingly fine.
     The hydromis has a resemblance also to these ammals by '
 the proportions of its body, and particularly by the short
 ness of its paws ; but they differ sensibly by the form of the
  tail, which is almost as long as the body, perfectly round,
  apd terminating in a point.
      In general, there can be no doubt that in the natural
  order these animals ought to occupy an intermediate place
  between the beaver and the water-rat : being destitute of
  membranes on the hind feet, they would naturally belong
  to the'tribe of the latter; or, if their tail had the form of
  that of the beaver, they might be united with the species of
  that genus.
      1st. The Hydromis Coypou.—I have said that it was first
                                                            made

   332      New Genus of Mammalia called tiydroThis.
  made known by Molina. His description comprehends
  pretty well the essential points, but is not sufficiently mi
  nute. This traveller speaks of the coypou as a species of
  water-rat, of the size and colour of an otter. Gmelin has
  confined himself, in what he has said of the mus coypus, to
  copying Molina. M. d'Azzara, on the other hand, has
  given a complete description of that species, with the mea
  sures of the different parts of the body ; and, in general, has
  hoc omitted what relates to the molar teeth.
     The coypou is distinguished in particular from the two
  other species, of which we shall speak hereafter, by its
  great size.
                                                      In. Lines.
           Length of the body                          9     6
                    of the tail              - ^       2     3
                           head
          ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦ of the extremities-      -. -       4    36
     The general tint of the hair and on the back is a chestnut
  brown. This colour becomes brighter on the flanks, and
  passes to bright red j under the belly it is only a dirty and
  almost dark russet. Yet this colour is sufficiently change
  able according to the manner in which the coypou raises or
  lowers its hair. This mobility in the tone of its fur arises
  from each hair being of an ash-coloured brown at the root,
  and bright red at the point. .
     The felt concealed under the longhair is an ash brown,
  of a brighter tint under the belly. The long hair on the
  back has the points only reddish, and that on the flanks is
  of the latter colour throughout the half of its length.
     As in all animals which go frequently into the water, the
  hair of the tail is thin, short, stiff, and of a dirty red> colour;
  in its naked parts it is scaly.
     The contour of the mouth and extremity of the muzzle
  are white ; the whiskers, which are long and stiff, are also
  white, some black hairs excepted.
     Among the. great number of skins which form part of
  the collection of M. Bechem, I saw some belonging to ani
  mals which had no doubt been affected with the albine dis
  ease ; in one of these the silky hairs were entirely russet, so
  that the back appeared of the same tint as the sides and the
- belly ; in another, the grand dorsal stripe, instead of being'
  chestnut, had passed entirely to a red colour, the flanks
  being of a very pale red. I cannot believe that these varie
  ties, on the oi\e hand, were the character of youth or of the
  female,, because these accidents -were rare, considering the
                                                                 great

            New Genus of Mammalia called Hydromis.            333
  great number of skins which I examined ; and on the other,
  because M. d'Azzara has expressly told us that the female
  is entirely similar to the male.
     Molina and d'Azzara agree in regard to the mild qualities
  by which the coypcHi is distinguished. It eats every thing
  given to it, and seems to attach itself to those who take care
  of it. It may be easily tamed, and soon becomes accus
  tomed to the stale of domesticity. It is never heard to cry
  but when harshly used ; it then emits a piercing cry. The
  female produces five young, which she always carries with
  her.
     The coypou is very common in the provinces of Chili,
  Buenos-Ayres, and Tucuman. On the other hand, it is
  rarely found in Paraguay.
     2d. The yellow-bellied Hydromis.—This species is nearly
  half as small as the coypou. The length of its body is one
  foot, and that of the tail two inches six lines.
      Its long hair is not sensibly distinguished from the felt ;
  it is proportionally shorter and finer, which renders the fur
  of this hydromis more .valuable than' that of the coypou:
1 there are few furs thicker, or softer to the touch. The hair
  in its apparent part is above of a chestnut brown, and below
  of a most beautiful orange colour. At the root it is ash-
  coloured, and gray under the belly. The tail is entirely
  covered with very short and stiff hair : towards the root it
  is pretty large, and well furnished with hair: in three-
   fourths of its length its colour is the same as that of the
  back ; but in the other fourth, towards the point, it is of a
  very pure white. The membrane which incloses the toes of
  this second species is not so extensive as in the coypou ; its
  interior cut is a little deeper.
      This animal was killed by a sailor in one of the islands
   which form d'Entrecasteaux's channel, at the moment
  when about to shelter itself beneath a heap of stones : it
   was preserved to us by the care of M. Levillain, one of the
   zoologists on the expedition to the austral lands.
      3d. The white-bellied Hydromis.—This species has a
   great resemblance to the preceding, and is of the same size.
   Its head, however, is a little longer, and its fur not so fine,
   and less soft to the touch. The hind-feet are only half
   palmated ; its hair is brown above, and dirty white below.
   The tail is also terminated with white, but for a more con
   siderable extent : the white part forms a little more than a
   third of the whole length.
      Four individuals of the white-bellied Hydromis were
   transmitted to us,, all' of which had a great resemblance to
      Vol. 22. No. 88. Sept. 1805.        Y                  each
         \

334             Experiments on the Hand Granade,
 each other: they were found in the islaud Maria, which is
 not far from d'Entrecasteaux's channel, by Messrs. Peron
 and Lesueur, to whom we are indebted for almost the whole
 of the zoological5 riches brought to us from New Holland.
    I have comprehended' in the following table all the cha
 racters of the genus and species of these three ammals,
                              HYDROMIS.
 Nat. char.—Incisor teeth two in each jaw ; canine ; two
    molar teeth in each row, furrowed on the side, and with
    a double excavation on the crown.
    Feet peutadactyles ; the anterior free, the posterior pal-
        mated.
    Tail round, and covered with short hair.
Essent. char.—Hind-feet pa/mated. Tail round.
    I. Species. Hydromis coypotj. Hydromis coypus
        (Plate VI.)
    Hair chestnut brown on the back, red on the flanks, and
        bright brown under the belly.
          Coypon. Molina's Hist. Nat. du Chili, p. 255. French Translation.
     . * Mus coypus. (im. Sytt. Nat.
         Qiwiityi. D'Azzara, Hist, des Quad, du Paraguay, torn ii. p. I.
Country.—Chili, Paraguay, Tncuman.
    II. Species. Yellow-bellied Hydromis. Hydro-
       mis chrysogasler (Plate VIII.}
   Hair chestnut brown above, orange below.
Countrv.—One of the islands in d'Entrecasteaux's chan
       nel.
   III. Species. White-bellied Hydromis. Hydro-
       mis Imcogaster. (Plate VII.)
   Hair brown above, white below.
Country.—The island Maria.
L. Physico-mechanical Experiments and Discussions of tha-
   Phcenomena observable in that casual Product of' Art
   the Hand Granade, Prince Rupert's Drop, or Glass
   Tear. By Mr. John Snart, Optician.
Although the subject of this paper is very inconsiderable
in itself, being, as was said above, " the casual and easy
product of art ;" yet as it tends, in my humble opinion, to
develop some very obscure and important phaenomena in
nature as well as the arts, I shall not take an operose route
to apologize for offering my explanation of it to the public ;
because every accurate account of the arcana nalurce, &c.

                Prince Ruperfs Drop, or Glass Tear.            335'
  is always sufficient to justify itself, and consequently does
   not need any apology. I therefore proceed.
      The pyrometer long ago has demonstrated to the satis
   faction of every one in the least acquainted therewith, that
   all bodies, whether in a fluid or solid state, expand by heat,
  and contract by cold, and from a very obvious cause ; viz.
  because the particles of that fluid element, (fire,) by insi
  nuating themselves between the component parts of such'
  bodies, not only fill the most minute interstices, and per
  vade every pore with the greatest facility, but absolutely dis
  unite or separate the constituent particles themselves, and
  thereby make them, in the aggregate, of a greater volume;
  and ultimately render such substances (if capable of fusion)
  a fluid, or running mass : in which state such substances
  occupy their greatest possible extension,—unless they were
  volatilized, or changed into vapour.
      Thus much for the laws of fusion themselves. The ap
  plication and inferences from them are quite appropriate.
      Tt is while the greatest possible .degree of expansion of
  the vitreous matter exists, that the portion which forms this
  molten tear or drop I am about to treat of, is separated and
  made. In fact, its fusion is the radical consequence of its
  extreme rarefaction, or expansion, being physically and me
 chanically superinduced thereby. For, by the introduction
  of the accumulated igneous particles, a separation of the
 once continuous particles of the glass takes place, until the
 attraction of cohesion entirely ceases, and fluidity eventually
 •ensues.
     Now, at this instant of extreme excitation it is, that, with .
 a sudden and forcible jirk, the artist ejaculates or throws it
 forth lo be suddenly quenched in cold water ; when it is
 •evident, that the parts which first came into contact with
 the water will become cooled and indurated first,—which is
the exterior surface. And this stratum (if I may so speak,
 and suppose the whole composed of a number of strata)
 having taken its form and dimensions, no internal mutation
or exertion it Is capable of can either alter or lessen its form.
 But as all bodies, as was said before, must contract in cool
 ing, the interior parts {contrary to gradual cooling) must
give way : they therefore become vacuous, of neefssity.
And because the central parts cannot coalesce, they being
the last which feel the refrigerating quality of the water,
they remain longest in a fluid state: and as there is not a
sufficient quantity of matter, when cooled, to occupy all ,
the space it did when in an ignited or rarefied state, the
parts which are most fluid, being most easy to move, and
                               Yi                         finding,
                                                                 ¦

33G           Experiments on the Hand Granade,
finding they cannot fill the whole space, by close union,
on account of their- paucity, make the best junction they
can, by taking a lateral course, .and a vacuum is the result
of unavoidable necessity.
    And such a vacuum as cannot be produced by any other
means that we know of ;—a vacuum only assailable by that
subtle agent that knows no impediment,
                But walks alike through solid. gate-> of brass,
                Or bars of steel, or doors of molten glass ;    \
               This primutn motile all forms pervades; "
                Our ev'ry act depends upon its aid.
    It is true, the same event happens to other bodies, upon
being brought into a 'state of fusion and suddenly quenched,
as to glass. Thus, if a bar of steel be overheated in our
attempts to harden it, we see upon breaking it that the in
terior parts have changed their position, and formed them
selves into a kind of irregular crystals,' for the same reasons :
yet, as no substance but glass is so generally impermeable
to all agents, except fire, the result is not so satisfactory
as when this material is used ; because, on account of its-
diaphanous nature, or transparency, the appearances are
more ocular, consequently less doubtful. For here, with
out analogy or hypothetical inference, our senses are called
to witness the most complete vacuum in nature ; and, as
far as relates to heterogeneous effluvia, quite perfect. ¦
   A vacuum not of the Boylean kind, where that air
which is driven out is ejected by means of that which re
mains behind ; but of the Torricellian kind, yet infinitely
more perfect : the very formation of which precludes the
possibility of the most subtle agent in nature (except fire)
insinuating one particle of its sjibstance therein. : And,
were it possible that we could make this vacuum subser
vient to our experiments on the mechanical pressure of the,
air, (whether incumbent or lateral,) I am persuaded, from
what I have herein discovered, that we should have a greater
result than (the maximum allowed) 14 or 15 lbs. per inch
for its energy. The excess of which cnergv would be in a
direct ratio to the perfection of this vacuum, in comparison
with that of the barometer : and those of the air-pump*
cannot stand one moment in competition, for rhe reason
assigned above.
   And yet so well grounded were the antient philosophers
" in all space being occupied by some agent or other," that
they have, as it were, anticipated us in our most modern
discovery j for it was one of the dogmata of the. Peripate
tic ox Aristotelian schools, " that Nature abhorred a va-
   . . >                                                          cuum."

               Prince Rupert's Drop, or Glass Tear.              337
  cuum." And although I will not take upon me to justify
  all their decisions, or even this dogma itself upon their
  principle ; yet as this seems the ve plus ultra of human
  means to procure one, and which, after all, appears not in
  be absolutely so, 1 think their assertion is not remote
  enough from truth to justify a rash contradiction on our
  part, or to arraign the profundity of their knowledge. But
  to return : How great must be -the velocity, how great
  the mechanical collision, to rend asunder with such force
  so well compacted a substance as the glass of which these
  granades are made,- even after making every reasonable
  allowance for its want of annealing, which no doubt in
  creases its fragility, while it hardens the surface ! There
  must be something more than mere mechanical influx, or
• consequent collision, to rend asunder and reduce to powder
  an impregnable mass, which is capable of resisting the
  weight of many tons, sustaining the force of a large vice,
  or the rude strokes of a hammer (after allowing for the
  geometric resistance on the external attack, and the want of
  the same in the internal forc<;) used in breaking them, be
  fore this phaenomenon will be satisfactorily explained.
      .And without giving a more elaborate definition than the
   thing is obviously susceptible of, I conceive this cause to be
  electricity : and that, in the formation of the drop, after the
   caloric particles have pervaded the glass and subsided, this
   matter, like a lambent flame, attaches to and lines the inte
  rior surface or cavities, as in the Leyden jar ; and by this
   hermetic accident (for it is not properly art) may remain
   prisoner for many centuries ; but vet, though pent up, (being
  perfectly insulated) is not diminished : therefore, upon
   opening the conduit pipe of communication in the tail, the
   affinity the inclosed effluvium has with that in the air, our
   hands, or whatever else breaks them, causes that violent de
   tonation, and the destruction thereof considered therewith to
   take place, and the force of the explosion is ('ccpieris paribus)
  in a compound, direct, ratio with the capacity of the cavi
   ties, and the strength of materials.
      Thus is is, when a vacuum is induced of necessity, and
   of materials which, while thev'are extremely friable on the
  one hand, are impervious to both influx and' efflux on the
  other; (hence the want of these appearances in breaking
   steel, &c.) and void of every other occupant than this
   clastic vapour, which is generated in their first formation,
   which, like seed in the womb, seems to be the very germ or
  rudiment of elementary fire, and" only waits the invitation
  of excitation to manifest itself : and whenever this excita-
  . :                           Y 3                             tion

    333         Experiments on the Hand Granade, &e.
    tion is begun, how irresistible are the effects produced hy
   it ! I believe nothing in nature (if small things might be
   compared with great) is more analogous to an earthquake
   than the bursting of one of these little tears of glass, or
   more like it in its cause ; for both arise from a sudden
   combustion of a latent and inflammable principle contained
   in their interior parts ; and both alike cause a derangement
   of the parts which heretofore formed their orbicular prisons.
      To ascertain whethei they were charged/*///.? or minus*, I
   placed them in an insulated situation, on a large flint glass
   condensing; receiver ; and with a hammer of the same kind
   of glass (both being well excited) I broke some of them at
   the small end : but, contrary to my expectation, the result
   was the same as if broken in my hand.
      I next placed some of them on a table, which I knew to
  be a good conductor, and with my glass mallet or hammer
   I broke several more with precisely the same effect.
      I also broke some with a conducting, i. e. a common
  hammer, upon the excited receiver, but there was no diffe
  rence in the effect : for all the means I made use of (how
  ever varied) were productive of the same appearances as
  when broken in my hand, or by the collision of a conduct
  ing substance, while they were placed upon another con
  ductor.                                                          -
     And now, having varied the experiment by all the means.
  I could devise, except I had tried the air-pump, (which I
 could not do, as I had not got an open receiver,) I began to
 doubt whether electricity had any share in this phaenome-
 non or not, and to conclude the effect must be purely me
 chanical (for I would not call it a lusus natures) ; when
 what compensated all my trouble, and put the matter past
 doubt, was this :
     I darkened the room entirely, having previously furnished
 myself with a clear strong glass receiver to prevent the ac
 cident of the pieces flying into my eyes ; then directing
 these organs of vision bv the feel, I broke several in this in
 cisure, where they uniformly produced a bright corrusca-
 tion like lightning; which, together with the more than
 mechanical snap they make upon breaking, quite satisfied
    * To those who are tinacquainted with the history of electricity, it may
be needful to observe, that the terms plus and minus, . — ; positive and
negative; vitreous and resinous; are not six different electrical qualities;
but three sets of equivalent terms, in different systems of the same science,
indicative of the two or contrary principles which reciprocally attract each
other, and cause what is called the tUetrit shock. There are also other
terms by way of designating the same principles, as terrene and atmospheric ;
but these arc not so common.
                                              , -                        me

       Twenty-third Communicationfrom Dr. Thornton. 330
 ane that it was not the mere mechanical collision of the air
 striking the internal -surface which so forcibly rends them
 asunder, but a compound effect of that and electrical affi
 nity together; which, , being corroborated by so many
 actual experiments, makes me believe the phs&nomenon of
 these little philosophical aenigmas is nearly explored. And
although I would not say the subject is entirely exhausted,
 yet this solution has so satisfied my mind, that I cannot
 think it any longer a desideratum.
                              I remain, sir,
 Tooley-street, Your °b»geu servant at command,
Sept. 14, 1805.                                       JoHnSnART.
    P. S. Since the publication of my paper in the 86th
number of -the Philosophical Magazine, from a comparison
of the creature therein described with what I have met with
In Dr. Shaw's work, I am inclined to think it is a larva of
the genus dytiscus, of the order coleoptera. It might not
improperly be denominated ranumalgus, or frog-sucker.
LI. Twenty-third Communication front Dr. Thornton.
                        To Mr. Tilloch.
                                            Sept. 14, 1805.
       DEAR SIR,               No. I, Hinde-street, Manchester-square.
Permit me the honour of continuing, in your excellent
magazine, facts confirming the propriety of employing
pneumatic medicine.
      Case of Consumption cured ly Hydro-azotic Gas.
   James Davis, aet. 25, living with Mr. Chambers, banker.
Bond-street, as groom, had all the marked symptoms of a
confirmed galloping consumption, violent cough, frequent
pains in the side, shortness of breathing, the expectoration
very copious, of an opaque appearance, night sweats con
stantly, wasted almost to a shadow, and extremely weak,
arising from a cold proceeding from putting on a damp
shirt, and being wet through, in March 1805. The vio
lence of this disease had existed two months. He was re
commended by Joseph Workman, who had been similarly
affected, servant of captain Bond, also cured by the same
plan. This patient inhaled the hydro-azotic gas, and he
took at the same time tonic medicines, as bark, columbo,
with myrrh, with occasional aperients j and, following
                             Y4                                  thi*

   340             Notices respecting New Books.
   this plan for six weeks, he was restored to perfect health.
   The patient is now before me, Sept., 14, 1805; and in
   excellent health, looks well, is fat, has since had no com
   plaint of any kind, and is an additional proof of the virtue
   of the aerial remedy.
                    I have the honour to remain,
  '*"'               >          Dear sir, &c.
                    ' ,             Robert John Thornton.
       Observations on this Case.—The same opinions arise here
   as ii* other cases : but the pneumatic practice is more par
   ticularly necessary, as tonics would only augment the
   malady, if applied alone, as the lungs are locally inflamed ;
   and the lowering plan would only have aided the debility
   induced'from this local cause, exciting an immoderate mor
   bid secretion from the lungs.
   LIT. A simple Method,of making Tubes of elastic Gum or
      Caoutchouc, to avoid the Expense of Solution in JEther.
   Split a stick of cane, and then apply together again the
   split pieces, but with a slip of whalebone interposed be
   tween them. Cut the elastic gum into slips fit for twist
   ing over the prepared cane, so as to cover it ; then, by duly
  heating the surface of the cane covered with the caoutchouc,
   it will melt so as to form one piece. When cold, draw out
  the interposed whalebone from between the split cane ; by
  which means, without difficulty, the whole substance of the
   cane may then be readily withdrawn from under the cover
   ing, thus* leaving the tune formed as desired.
       Some recommend winding small thread round the
   twisted gum clastic, to help to unite the joinings, and em-
~ ploy the heat of boiling water.
                LIU. Notices respecting New Books.
   Medical Shetches of the Expedition to Egypt from India.
       By James M'Gregor, A. M. Member of the Royal
       College of Surgeons of London ; Surgeon to the Royal
       Regiment of Horse Guards ; and lately Superintending
       Surgeon to the Indian Army in Egypt. 1 804.
  The health of soldiers,' and particularly when engaged in
  distant expeditions, is of so much importance, that every
  publication which can tend to promote so desirable an ob-
              I                                             ject

                Notices respecting Neiv Books.            341
}ect deserves to meet with a favourable reception. This
observation, in our opinion, is very applicable to the pre
sent work, as it relates chiefly tp a country interesting to
Great Britain, under various points of view, and which, in
the present situation of public affairs, may again afford
British soldiers an opportunity of showing what they are
able to achieve, when commanded by able and experienced
officers.
   These sketches are divided into three parts. The first
gives the medical history, or rather the journal, of the expe
dition : in the second, the author, after attempting to as
sign the causes of the diseases which prevailed, proposes
some modes of prevention : and in the third, some account
of the diseases is given.
   " The first division of the army intended for the expedi
tion to Egypt, under colonel Murray, sailed from Bombay
in January, 1801. Their voyage was rather a tedious one,
and the small pox and a remittent fever broke out among
them. They touched for refreshments at Mocha and at
Jedda, and on the 1 6th May, 1S01, came to anchor in
Kossier -bav ; the prevailing winds- in the Red Sea, at this
time, rendering it impossible to get so far up as Suez.
   " The second division of troops (originally intended for
another time), under colonel Beresford, sailed from Point
de Galle, in Ceylon, on the 19th February; and on the 19th
May disembarked at Kossier.                           i
   " The last division, under colonel Ramsay, sailed from
Trincomalee, in Ceylon. They were later of arriving at
Kossier, and were not able to cross the desert before July.
   " At Kossier there is a fort and a town, if they deserve
the name. They are built of mud, and the Arabs inhabit
them onlv at the season when caravans arrive with the
pilgrims for Mecca, and with corn for that and the other
ports on the opposite Arabian coast."
   Soon after the arrival of the troops at Kossier, they were
all attacked with a diarrhcea, occasioned by the water, which
contained much sulphate of magnesia. At first the men
were greatly debilitated bv it ; but as they became used to
the water, it ceased to affect their bowels : on the whole,
however, it appeared to have produced saluiary effects, and
the army for some time was uncommonly health'y.
   On the 1 gth of July, 1801, the 88th, with two companies
of the 80th regiment, under the command of colonel Beres-
forcf, as the advance, of the army, commenced the march
across the desert-; but as they had the digging of wells, and
other duties to perform, they did not reach the banks of the
                                                          Nile

   342             Notices respecting New Bot.ks.
   Nile until the next month. The rest of the armv marched
   on the following days, the marches being always performed
   by night, and the army, with very inconsiderable loss, reached
   the banks of the Nile in a very healthy-state. The course
   it pursued was nearly that travelled by Mr. Bruce. During
   almost the whole of July the army was encamped on the
' banks of the Nile, which now began to overflow its banks
   near Ghenne; they, however, soon prepared to move, and
   detachments went up to Thebes, Luxor, and the cataracts, to
   press all the boats; and about the end of the month the
   army began to move to Lower Egypt. The 10th regiment
   marched to Girge, the capital of Upper Egypt, sixty miles
   below Ghenn£, and on the 27th and following days the rest
   of the army was embarked in boats. The thermometer
   had a wide range at Ghenne ; in the author's marquee it va
   ried from 71° to 108°, on the 20th it rose to 111°, and in
   the open air the heat was from 70° to 115°.
      By the 1 2th of August, the greater part of the army,
   after a navigation 011 the Nile of nearly four hundred miles,
  arrived at Ghiza. As they landed, the troops were uncom
  monly healthy ; but in three weeks the sick of the army ex
  ceeded one thousand. A considerable number of ophthal
  mic cases occurred, but the prevailing disease was fever ; in
  general it was of short duration, of two, three, or five days
  at most, and rarely proved fatal. In the month of Sep
  tember the plague made its appearance in the hospital of
 the 86th regiment, in the neighbourhood of Rosctta, which
 rendered it necessary to adopt measures for preventing the
 further progress of this destructive scourge. Next to the
 plague, the most formidahle disease in the army, from its
 general prevalence, was ophthalmia. In the 10th and 88th
 regiments there were upwards of three hundred and fifty
 cases, and the total number in the army exceeded six hun
 dred. Dysentery and hepatitis prevailed very generally
 among all the European corps, and the mortality of the
 month was very considerable. In the month of January,
  1 802, the cases of plague in the Indian army amounted to
 72, in March the number was 46, and in May 26.               - ,
     On the last day of April, orders arrived from England to
 general Baird, to return with his army to India, and to de
 tach the 10th, 61 st, and 88th regiments, which were placed
 on the British establishment. On the 3d, the Indian army
 began to march to Ghiza, where it remained encamped by
 the pyramids 'for some days, until water and other neces
 saries for the passage, over the desert were reported to be
 ready. They crossed the river, encamped at Bculac, set oft"
                                                           from

                 Notices respecting New Books,      i         34»
  from Cairo, and, passing the ruins of Heliopolis, made
  El Hadje their first stage. Their marches over the desert
 of Suez, as in crossing the great desert, were all performed
 during the night, and they always encamped by sun-rise in
 the morning. By the end of the month, the whole corps,
 except the "th Bombay regiment, had crossed the desert,
 and arrived at Suez. Part of the armv was encamped near
 the town of Suez, and part at Moses Wells, nint> miles on
 the eastern side of the Red Sea. The march over the desert
 of Suez was performed with much greater ease than that
 over the desert of Thebes. The weather was cool and fa
 vourable ; the hot winds were less felt, and they found
 abundance of good water provided at the different stations.
 On the 2d of June, the embarkation commenced, and by
 the 15th the whole army was embarked, and had sailed for
 the different presidencies, except the 7th regiment, which,
 on account of the plague still prevailing in it after the rest
 of 1 lie army had embarked, was ordered to remain two
months. Most of the corps of the army embarked in the
 most healthy state.
     " To conclude," says the author, "never, perhaps, was
 there an army embarked for any service more healthy than
the Indian army was when it re-embarked on its return
 from Egypt.
    " Previously to the arrival of the army from Egypt, in
order to provide against the introduction of the plague into
 India, quarantines were established at the presidencies of
Bombay, Bengal, and Madras, as well as at the island of
 Ceylon. The principal of these was at Butcher's Island,
near /Bombay, where there were pest and quarantine esta
blishments, of which, on my arrival in June, I took the
charge. At this period, letters from Dr. Short, at Bagdad,
and from Mr. Milne, at Bassorah, described the plague as
raging in Persia, and particularly at Ispahan and Bagdad : in
consequence of this information, every vessel, both from
the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, was ordered to Butcher's
Island.
    (* As the ships arrived, the troops from the Red Sea were..
landed ; but the artillery, 86th regiment, 1st Bombay regi
ment, and the commissariat department, were so uncom- -
monly healthy, that I detained them but a very few days on
the island.
    " The 7th Bombay regiment landed at Butcher's Island
in August. As this was the corps in which the plague had
Principally prevailed, though they were not unhealthy,
  judged it prudent to detain them a month. On my last
                                                      inspection

344               Notices respecting New Books.
inspection of them before. they left the island, of a total of
seven hundred, including sepoys, their wives, and the
public and private followers of the corps, I found only four
sick, and these I believe were all catarrhs.
   " Dr. Henderson, with the pest-establishment, and all
those whom we had left at Suez, arrived at Butcher's Island
on the 1st September. The convalescents from the plague,
as well' as the guard, and the pest-house servants, were, on
their arrival, -all of them very healthy : but T thought it safe
to keep them in quarantine on the island till October; when,
like all the others who had been in quarantine, they were
provided with new clothing and sent over to Bombay.
   " The company's packets from Bassorah, and the vessels
which arrived from the Persian Gulf, had none of them the
least suspicious appearance, and 1 found that their crews
were all very healthy.
   " I had likewise the satisfaction to receive accounts from
the medical gentlemen employed in the expedition, after
their arrival at Calcutta, Madras, and Ceylon > their ac
counts were so late as November. In none of the corps did
any death occur from the time of embarkation at Suez."
   In part second, the author gives some observations on the
climate of Egypt, as connected with the diseases which pre
vail in that country.
   " The cultivated part of Egypt, particularly the Delta, is
a very rich country; in fertility and luxuriance of soil yield
ing to none under the-face of heaven. The ,-irt of husbandry
is there but imperfectly known ; and at- their harvests there
is a very great destruction of vegetable matter, from which
hydrogene gas, or hydro-carbonate, is extricated in great
quantities. Under similar circumstances, in America as
¦well as in India, I have seen a bald fever of the intermittent
or remittent type appear. But in Egypt after the subsiding
of the Nile, which in many places had covered a great ex
tent of country, there is a great exhalation from the mud,
and from the putrid animal, and vegetable matters left be
hind. The effluvia of these substances, acting on the human
body,willreadilyaccountformuch disease. i If we add to these
the extreme filth of the inhabitants of Egypt, their poor diet,
their narrow, close, and ill-ventilated apartments, generallv
much crowded, with the extreme narrowness of their streets,
and the bad police of their towns, we shall not be astonished
if a fever, at first intermittent or remittent, should have
symptoms denominated malignant, superadded to the more
ordinary symptoms of the disease. If an imported conta
gion should make its appearance at the same time, 'and
 .     '.                                                 under

                   Notices respecting New Books'.                   343
under the above circumstances, we exriect a most terrible
disease.
    " The dry parching, wind, which comes over the desert,
a<id which at certain seasons blows in Egypt and in Arabia, is
well known, and was often severelyJelt by the army on their
march, both across the desert and the isthmus of Suez.
The whirlwinds of sand roll with great impetuosity, are
very troublesome, and insinuate fine sand and dust every
where. It is hardly possible to keep the minute particles
out of the eyes.
    " The dews, whiqh'fall in Egypt, I always heard were
very heavy, and were a cause of the diseases of the countrv .
I had Occasion too, more than once, to hear the natives at
tribute much to them as the cause of their diseases ; with
what justice I will not pretend to decide. From some ex
periments which I made in India, on the Red Sea,,arid lastly
in Egypt, I am inclined to think that they are equally heavy
in the two former as in the latter quarter. After weighing
the matter carefully, I took a quantity of lint, twelve inches
square, exposed it for a night to the dew, and, by weighing
it in the morning again, ascertained the quantity which it
had gained. I am aware that this is by no means a nice ex
periment, and that in the performance of it several particu
lars demand attention ; but it is sufficient to our purpose,
and I learned by it, that, in the island of Bombay, on the
Red Sea, and in Lower Egypt, the quantity of dew which
falls is nearly equal.
    " It ought to be mentioned, that, during the year we
were in Egypt, the season was not the usual one. There
was a greater overflow of the Nile. It rose higher on the
Nilometer than it had done for several former years, and it
was remarked to be much later in subsiding at Rosetta.
    " The fall of rain at Alexandria was greater than on for
mer years; and, at Rosetta, the rains were in setting-in later
than usual. The season of the plague set-in much earlier
than usual*.
    " In general, the Thebaid, - or Upper Egypt, is healthier
than the Lower. Never were troops more healthy than the
army when encamped near Cihenne.
    " Ghvza, the autient Memphis, at the time the army
disembarked there from Upper Egypt, we found to be a
very unhealthy quarter. For a considerable time, and im
mediately before the arrival of the Indian. army, it had been
   * These circumstances I learned from a member of the French Institute,
and from the Pharmacien en Chef to the French army, who often related to
ine the order which Bonaparte gave him to poison the wounded with opiumJ
                                                                    the

  34(5             Kotkes respecting New Booh.
  the station of large armies : alternately of Turks, Mamelukes,
  French, and English. From all.these armies a number died
  at Ghiza, and there was much filth and noxious effluvia.
  We saw there enough of putrid animal matter to generate
  contagion. Whether this was or was not the cause of the
  fever which prevailed, 1 will not attempt to decide. One
  circumstance may be mentioned : we were here joined by a
  detachment of the 86th regiment under colonel Lloyd,
  which, for some months before, had been doing duty with
  the vizier's army, which never was healthy. That the cir
  cumstances which existed at the time of our occupying
 Ghiza were the cause of the fever, is manifest from this, that,
  subsequently to the army going to the coast, the garrison
  left in it found Ghiza a most healthy quarter. The same
  objections are to be made to Khoda that are applicable to any
 marshy situation."
     In the third part of this work,- which gives an account of
  the diseases of Egypt, Mr. Macgrcgor has brought forward
  some new facts in regard to the plague, and particularly the
  treatment, which are well worth the attention of medical
 men in general, and of those in particular who may visit
  countries where this disease is prevalent. It is commonly
 believed, that the progress of diis contagion is stopped by ex
 tremes of both heat and cold : but if this be true in regard to
 heat, it did not appear to be so in the army of Egypt in re
 gard to cold ; for the period at which the plague raged most
 was in the coldest months. In regard to the treatment,
 nitric acid was given internally, and where the patients would
 drink it it showed good effects. Bark, wine, and opium,
 were largely administered, and at a certain stage the cold
 bath, for the purpose of obviating that debility which alwavs
 appeared to be very great. At first, calomel was used only
 as a purgative, but at last the use of this remedy was carried
 farther. " On the whole," says the author, " in mercury
and the nitric acid we appear to have excellent remedies for
 the plague; but they must be very early and very liberallv ex
hibited. If the first stage is allowed to pass over before
they are given, the season of doing it with advantage is in
danger of being lost." In re^iird to preventive means, the
following observation seems so well calculated to remove
that despondency which generally prevails when the plague
'exercises its ravages, that we cannot help quoting it.
       There was hardly a corps in the army,''' says the author,
 <c where, at one period or other, the disease did not make its
appearance; but it was always in our power to arrest its pro- *
gress. In well regulated corps, where a rigid discipline was
             8                                          enforced,

                               I
                 Notices respecting Nciu Books.             347
enforced, and proper attention to the interior economy was
paid, it rarely happened, indeed, that much difficulty was ex
perienced in eradicating the contagion. As our success in
the prevention," adds he, " was so great, all that remains
for me is to mention the substance of general Baird's order to
the army on the subject.
   " 1st, To every hospital, an observation-room, or in lieu
of it a tent was attached ; arid to it every case whatever with
febrile symptoms was sent, as soon as discovered, and was
there most strictly watched by the surgeon.
   " 2dly, On any symptoms of the plague appearing, the
case was instantly sent to the pest-house from the observa
tion-room of the regimental hospital : the patient was ac
companied by the medical gentlemen of this corps who
attended him, and who gave the medical gentlemen at
the pest-house aa account of the previous treatment of the
case.
   " If any doubt remained, the patient in the first instance
was placed in the observation -room of the pest-house; and,
if the disease did not turn out to be plague, he was sent to-
the quarantine.
   " 3dly, In every corps, and in every department, a minute
inspection by the surgeon was made twice a week ; and every
person with the smallest appearance of ill-health was sent
to the hospital.
   " 4thly, Every corps or hospital, where a case of plague
had appeared, was put into a state of quarantine ; aud, in
such corps or hospital, an inspection by the surgeons was-
made at least two or three times a day ; and every case with
suspicious symptoms was ordered to the observation-TOym,
   " 5thly, In suspected corps it was ordered, that, under
the inspection of a commissioned officer, every person
should be bathed more frequently, and at stated periods;-
and, likewise, that all their clothing and bedding should be
frequently washed and baked. To all the hospitals, ovens
and smoking-rooms were attached.
   " Cthly, Quarters of corps, hospitals, and ground of en
campments, were frequently changed.
   " 7thly, Much is to he attributed to the nitrous fumiga
tion. In several instances it was attended with the best?
effects. The lamps, with .this, were kept constantly burn
ing in the observation-rooms, and in the rooms from which
the cases of the plague had come. Vessels, with the ma
terials for the fumigation, were likewise placed under the
beds, and in the corners of the rooms. When our stock of
nitre was at length exhausted,, we substituted marine 9alt
                                                             for

348              Notices respecting New Books.
for it ; but this fumigation could not be kept up in rooms
where the patients were all confined to their beds."
    The next malady which engages the author's attention is
the ophthalmia, which, in Egypt at particular seasons is a
most generally-prevailing disease. It is not, however, con
fined to the human race ; the animals of the country, parti
cularly the dogs and camels, are subject to its attacks. In
Egypt it proved most distressing and obstinate. The French,
it was said, sent from Egypt to France 1000 blind men.
The number sent home from the English army was very
 considerable likewise. Of the Indian army 50 were sent
 home invalids from blindness; most of whom were from the'
 10th and 88th regiments.
    ** The disease, I think," says the author, " might gene
 rally be resolved into, 1st, either of Cullen's two species",
 the ophthalmia tarsi and the ophthalmia mcrhbranarum ;
 2dly, to a combination of these two ; or, 3dly, to a species;
 of ophthalmia, frequent in India, symptomatic of disease in
 the biliary secretion.
    " The appearance which the disease put on, particularly
 the two first species of it, was nearly what we have seen
 in other parts of the world ; except that the-symp.ioms ad
 vanced with alarming rapidity to the highest inflammatory
 stages. In most cases the attack was sudden, and very ge
 nerally at night. Speedily, the patient complained of a
 burning heat of the eye-ball, or of a sensation or needles
being passed through the eye. There was a considerable
 swelling of the ball of the eye, of the eye-lids, and some-^
times of the neighbouring parts. Almost always, there was'
 a copious flow of tears, which felt hot and scalding, and, as
 they flowed, excoriated the face down. Very frequently,
 there was a racking licad-ach and general fever. CEdema
-of the eye-lids was frequently met with in the early stage of
 the disease, and inversion of the cilia in the lasf stages.
    " The disease very often continued two or three months :
 after it had continued some time, the general health became
 much impaired. It often terminated in dbrrhcea or dysen
tery, and sometimes the patient became hectic. •
    " In the third species of the disease, which I have men
 tioned, thefe was not so much active inflammation as in the
 other two species ; and it was generally known by a yellow
 tinge of the adnata, or by dyspeptic symptoms being pre
 sent ; though, sometimes, we have seen those appearances
 absent :. and no topical application had any eil'ect in re
 moving the ophthalmia, till the gums were affected by calo
 mel, or some mercurial preparation.

                 Notices respecting New Books.               349
   " In the two first species of the disease, the inflammation,
in a great many instances, induced fever of many days du
ration, and the disease too frequently terminated in opacity
 of the cornea, or in suppuration of the eve-ball.
   " In the treatment, it appears, from the reports, that dif
ferent gentlemen followed very different modes. We said, in
general, that the European practice did not succeed. Scari
fication and astringent collyria, in the first stage, gave into
lerable pain, and generally aggravated the symptoms.
   " The practice of the natives was, to apply, in the first
stage, emollient decoctions of their plants, and poultices of
the kali. In the last stage, they rely much on the frequently
bathing of the'eye in the cold water of the Nile; they are like
wise very fond of bleeding; and I understood that some
times they 'use the actual cautery, burning behind the ear
where we usually apply blisters.
   " The practice, which appeared to be by far the most suc
cessful, was the following: >
   " For the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours after ad
mission, the eves of every patient were carefully syringed
with tepid water, which had been filtered carefully. The
svringing was performed from three to six times in the day;
the light was carefully excluded, the patient kept cool, and
every other part of the antiphlogistic regimen strictly en
forced. After the above period, a weak solution of sugar
of lead, or of camphir, or vitriolated zinc, was applied.
Where the pain was much complained of, a solution of
opium was added to the collyriuvn ; opium was applied in a
cataplasm, or two or three drops of laudanum were let f all
into the eye.
   " If there was much swelling, a saturnine poultice, or the
coagulum aluminosum, was applied to the eyes. I ob
served, that blistering a large surface, and as near as pos
sible to the seat of the pain, if kept discharging for some
time, always afforded great relief.
   " To remove the fever and to alleviate the distressing pain,
we often gave opium internally in a considerable quantity,
and with great advantage.
   <£ Setons in I lie neck and the free use of bark appeared to
he of the greatest service, when the disease was of long
standing.
   " In opacity of the cornea, and when there were specks,
several gentlemen thought highly of the aqua phagedsnica
of the old pharmacopoeias, after having divided the vessels
which went to the speck. It gave very pungent pain ; but
   Vol. 22., No. 88. Sept. ItiOo.       Z        "        1 have

350              Notices respecting New Books.
I have seen great relief from if, and also from a solution of
lunar caustic.
   " As a collyriuin in Egypt, I often gave with considerable
benefit what I found in the hands of the black doctors in
India, viz. a tea spoonful of lime-juice to four table spoon
fuls of water, or a tea spoonful of arrack to two table spoon
fuls of water. In the first stage, I would have applied
leeches, but never could procure them.
   "In Persia, Dr. Short informs me, that he was very suc
cessful in the general use of an ointment, composed of white
vitriol, tuttey, and cinnabar, after the application of leeches
and scarification.
   ** From the days of Prosper Alpinus, the salts contained
in the soil of Egypt have been supposed to be among the
principal causes of the ophthalmia of the country. Though
the various modifications of light and heat no doubt act as
existing causes ; yet to the particular soil of Egypt, and to
the constitution of the air there, we must look for the re
gular and the principal causes of this disease.
   '* In Egypt several causes occurred, which in any country,
separately applied, would be adequate to the production of
violent ophthalmia : the dry, white, dazzling soil, and
the .fine sand and dust constantly thrown about in whirl
winds and entering every crevice. If an ophthalmia is epi
demical or is endemic in Egypt, the above causes will ren
der it a very violent disease."
   The other diseases mentioned by the author as prevalent
in the Indian army, are, fever, hepatitis, or the liver com
plaint, dysentery, pneumonia and rheumatism, small-pox,
diarrhoea, scurvy, syphilis, the guinea-worm, ulcers, and
tetanus. In regard to the guinea-worm, it did not fre
quently appear in the Indian army while they were in
Egypt, but on the voyage thither it prevailed very much.
Soon after sailing from Ceylon, it made its appearance in
the-88th regiment, and by the time the army reached the
straits of Babelmandel it was in the most alarming state.
Of 3G0 men whose services might be daily required, no less
than 161 were crippled, and laid up with this loathsome
disease.
   " The disease was pretty uniform in the manner of its
appearance. The patient was first sensible of an itching;
and, on looking at the part, generally observed a small
blister: sometimes I have seen three or four small blisters,
and the part having the appearance of being stung with
nettles. When the blister was snipped, a piece of mucus
                                                             of
            1

                  Notices respecting New Books.         *    351
of the breadth of sixpence was seen underneath ; which being
 removed, the head of the worm was seen. It was in ge
 neral firmly attached, and required force to detach it from
 the parts underneath. When detached with the forceps,
 we twisted it round a ligature or piece of lint, and thus,
 often on the first day, succeeded in extracting a foot, or
 even two, of the worm. It resembled much what is called
 bobbin, and was about the same size. It was transparent
 ahd moist, a white liquid being seen in it. We continued,
 daily, extracting as much of it as would come out with gentle
 pulling. It was always dangerous to pull strongly, for fear
 of breaking the worm : it then occasioned the most acute
 pain, and there followed much swelling, with inflammation of
 the neighbouring parts, sometimes of two or three weeks
 continuance ; when the worm would shew itself at another
 part, as at first, with itching and a blister.
    " It seldom appeared to be deeply seated ; generally,'
 under the cutis, or among the tela cellulosa, when we could
 often trace it in its course, and sometimes see it : sometimes
 it was under the fascia, and but seldom among the muscles.
    " If not ushered in with fever, it was almost always at
 tended with it in its course : when there was considerable
 inflammation, it ran very high. In seven cases mortification'
 took place, and very large sloughs were cast off. In a few
 cases, there was a very considerable and alarming hae
 morrhage.
    " By presenting itself at different places, it would often
 leave two or three large, foul, and fistulous ulcers in dif
 ferent parts of a limb. When the inflammation has run
 very high, as I have often seen of the whole leg or thigh ;
 and when a profuse suppuration followed ; the worm fre
 quently has come out dead, often in pieces, with the sanies ;
 by which, probably, it had been eroded and killed.
     " Frequently, after extracting one worm from a patient,
  a second, a third, or even a fourth, would appear : after get
  ting one out of a leg, a second would appear in the other, a
  third in one hand, and a fourth in the other hand.
     " The guinea-worm, I believe, has been seen in every
  part of the body. Though the extremities appear to be its
"favourite seats, vet the face, breast, back, penis, &c. are not
  exempted from its visits. I heard of a gentleman in Bombay
  who had one in his scrotum and penis, and of a lady who
  had one in the pudenda.
     " The following I extract from my case-book and notes,
  taken on board the Minerva, by which it will be seen that
:-      i                      Z 2                            the

352              Notices respecting New Books.
the extremities are as much more frequently its principal and
first seat, as in the itch.
          Feet Legs Thighs Scrotum Groin Hands Arms Body Case
  Feb.     34     3      1                  1        —     ,9
  Mar.     70    21     5      2      a     3        — 103
  April    20      9    5     —             3          2   39
  Total 124      33     11     2      2     7          2 1S1
   " As to the causes of the appearance of the guinea-worm,
and the mode in which it is generated, I must confess thit
I have no account that I could venture to offer here.
    " In different parts of the world, the water drank is ac
cused of occasioning intestinal worms, as the taenia in Swit
zerland, and the taima and the teretes in the West Indies ;
where, likewise, I have heard the mucilaginous vegetibles
eaten assigned, as a cause of the frequent appearance of
worms. In Russia, there is a worm, the lumbricus mili-
tensis, commou near swampy grounds. In Russia jtnd in
Siberia, in the same situations, the taenia infernalis prevails.
But, after what has been here stated, we cannot bring the
water, drank on board the Minerva, or at Bombay, to ac-.
count for the guinea-worm which prevailed: in fact, the
water came from different and distant quarters, Bombay,
Ceylon, and Madras. Besides, the officers of the 88th,
and the artillery, drank the same water, and escaped.
    " No case of guinea^worm had been known among either
the Lascars or European sailors in the Minerva, when the
 Sfith and 88th embarked in her.
    " I have good reason to think that the spreading of the
guinea-worm may be stopped, whenever it does appear.
The means which we adopted appeared to succeed. Ex
treme attention to cleanliness is indispensably necessary.
    " In India the native doctors are much more successful
in getting out the worms, than Europeans. After long
feeling with their fingers, for the body of the worm, they
make an incision as nearly as they can judge over its mid
dle, and, pulling the worm by a duplicature of it, draw out
both ends of the worm at one time. I have often endea
voured to imitate this practice. My sense of touch was not
so delicate, and did not guide me so correctly as it did the
Hindoo doctors ; but I always found that when, on -cutting
                                                          down

          Royal Society of London.—Teylcrian Society.          353
  clown to it, I got on the middle of the worm, and by the
  forceps pulled this out, I could with ease extract a large
  portion, and, not unfrequently, the whole worm.
     " Leeches, astringent and sedative lotions, cataplasms,
  fomentations, &c. were applied, as required by the circum
  stances of. the case. A good deal of attention was paid
  to the disease, in all its stages ; and several experiments were
  made on the worm, which, however, it is needless to detail
  here.
     " After using a variety of articles, in the treatment of
  the guinea-worm, and making them enter the system by the
  absorbents, I think that unctuous substances succeeded the
  best, particularly mercurial ointment. Passing an electric
  cal shock through the part had no effect."
     We cannot conclude this article without expressing our
  thanks to Mr. Macgregor, for the information he has added
  to our stock of medical knowledge. Having enjoyed op
  portunities which seldom fall to the lot of medical practi
  tioners, he seems to have exerted himself as much as the
  shortness of the time would permit, to colli ct every obser
  vation that might be useful either to himself or to others in
  the same department. Many of the facts which he presents
  are new, and therefore worthy of more attention ; his re
  marks on them are judicious, and appear to be the result of
  a sound judgment united to long experience. Jn a word,
  wc do not hesitate to recommend these sketches to the notice
  of medical men in general; and we have no doubt that they
  will be found of great utility to those whose employment
  may lead them to the same countries which were visited
  by the author.
             LIV. Proceedings "6f Learned Societies.
                 ROYAL SOCIETY OP LONDON.
  In ail ingenious paper lately sent by Dr. Herschel to this
  learned body, that eminent astronomer announces a new
  discovery respecting Saturn. The form of that planet he
  has discovered to be that of a cube with its angles and
  edges truncated, which he ascribes to the attraction of the
. belt.
               TETLERIAN SOCIETY OP HAERLEM.
     This society, in the sitting of October 30, last year, pro
  posed as the subject of a prize the following question :—.
  " To discover in history, and explain briefly, what have been
                                Z3                             the

354                French NationalInstitute.
the revolutions in poetry, not only among the antient na
tions best known, but among modern nations, dating from
the epoch at which they can be reckoned among civilized
nations."
    The society desires that the author will examine whether
the revolutions, progress, and decline of poetry, as well as
the variations of its forms, among civilized nations, have
followed the progress of their moral, civil, and religious
knowledge, and of the other sciences, or have been inde
pendent of them ?
    The memoirs must be transmitted to the society, with
the proper address, before the 1st of April 1806. The
prize is a gold medal value 400 florins.
    The society renewed at the same time, and with the same
 prize; another question, before proposed, to which no suf
 ficient answer had been received:—" Does the history of
 the moral sciences prove that the application of metaphy
 sical theories has been useful to their progress ? or does it
  teach us, on the contrary, that no progress can be made in
  these sciences but by observation, experiments, the conse
  quences deduced from them, and the scientific calculations
  established on these data ? And what rules does the history
  of science prescribe in this respect, to those who wish to
  contribute in the most effectual manner to its progress ?
     The memoirs for these two prizes may be written in
  Dutch, Latin, French, English, or German ; but not in
  German characters. The address is, Aan Tylers Fundatie
  Huis} at Haerlem.
                 FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
   An Account of the Labours of the Class of the Mathema
     tical and Physical Sciences of the French National Insti
     tute from the 20th of June 1804 to the same Day 1805.
     By M. Cuvier, perpetual Secretary.
                        [Continued from p. 278.]
      M. Dessaerts has communicated a singular medical fact,
   made known to him by M. Burtini, physician of Asti. A
   young woman, after a severe indisposition, accompanied by
   a tumour irt the region of the liver, voided fourteen bladders
   of the size of an egg, the shells of which have not become
   hard, and filled with a glutinous liquor a little yellowish m
 • the middle. A report had been spread among the people
   that this young woman laid real eggs. These bladders,
   according to M. Burtini, had no appearance of bodies that
   had eve r hcen s-ii'»>?fr*H.
                                                    M. Dessaerts,

                  French National Institute.-     "         355
    M. Dessaerts, extending this latter observation to the
bladders to which naturalists have given the name 6f hy-
datides, and which they consider as real animals, thence
concludes that this opinion of naturalists is very doubtful ;
and he announces that he proposes to combat it in a memoir
which he will soon present : he flatters himself that he shall
be able to show, from powerful authority, that the melan
choly decision of the hydatides being an incurable disease,
is void of foundation.
    A great and important work in medicine has appeared
this year. It is the medical anatomy of M. Portal, in
which, besides a new and detailed description of the human
body, he has given an account of every thing he has ac
quired by long and extensive practice in regard to laesioris
of the organs, and their relation to the apparent symptoms
of different affections.
                    MATHEMATICAL PART,
           By M. Delambre, perpetual Secretary.
                           GEOMETRY.
    Huygens has given in his treatise De Horologio Oscilla-
 torio the two following theorems, which may be applied to
all solid bodies : The centre of oscillation and that of suspen
sion are always reciprocal one with the other ; the same body
 is always isochronous to itself when it oscillates around pa
 rallel axes taken at equal distances from the centres of gra
 vity. M. Biot has given to these theorems a remarkable
 extension.
    All these parallel axes form the surface of a right cylin
 der, the axis of which passe's through the centre of gravity.
 But the analytical expression under which M. Biot presents
 the theorem of Huygens showed him that an arbitrary in
 clination might be given to this axis, provided that the radius
 of the cylinder should be also changed in a proper manner.
 By these means there will be obtained, according to the
 different values of the inclination, an infinite number of
 cylinders the edges of which have the same properties as
 those of the primitive cylinder. But this is not all : the
 axis, without changing its inclination, may describe a coni
  cal surface around its primitive position, which still multi
 plies the number of the cylinders already found, as many
 times as there may be conceived ridges on the surface of
  the cone.
     The same analytical expression being of the second degree
 in regard to the radius of the cylinder, or, what amounts to
                               Z4                             th0

356               French National Institute;
the same thing, in regard to the distance of the centre of
gravity from the point of suspension, this consideration
alone conducts to a theorem analogous to the first of the
two, for which we arc indebted to Huygens;—a new proof
of the great fecunditv of algebraical expressions, when one
has the art of giving the most proper form to all their de
velopments.
      Measuring of Heights by means of the Barometer.
   The celebrated experiment devised by Pascal, and which
proved that a column of mercury decreased in proportion
as the barometer was carried to a greater height, after hav
ing proved the gravity of the air, must have made the mer
cury beconsidered as a scale capable of measuring the height
to which it is carried. But this scale being very small in
comparison of the heights which it ought to measure, it
was soon perceived that it would be necessary to improve
the construction of the barometer so far as to render sensi
ble and appreciable the smallest changes in the height of
the mercury. The necessity of avoiding or of calculating
the continual variations which the barometer experiences,
even without changing its place, presented another obstacle
much more formidable, and which seemed to take away all
hope of approaching the truth, or coming near jt. These
difficulties, however, philosophers have been able to sur
mount ; so that barometric measures, properly employed,
may vie in exactness with the trigonometrical measures, to
which they are superior on account of their facility and the
generality of the method.
   Among the different formulae given for the solution of
this problem, that of M. Laplace is distinguished by the
manner m which it has been deduced from theory ; but the
principal co-efficient, drawn from an observation which
appears not to have been free from error, might have need
of some modification. This M. Ramond has examined in
a memoir, of which we shall give some account. By his
numerous experiments made on different mountains, he
found what are the circumstances most favourable to such
observations, as well as the hours which ought to be chosen
or avoided; for there are some causes the effects of which
must be very sensible, and which, however, it is impossible
alwavs to take into account in calculations. Such are the
ascending or descending winds,which, according to M . Ra
mond, prevail almost constantly at certain hours. Some,
by Jesseuing the weight of the column of air with which
the mercury is in equilibrium^ must also lessen that column,

                   French National Institute.              357
and make heights to be considered as too great : descend
ing winds necessarily produce a contrary effect. The mo
ment when the equilibrium of the atmosphere is not dis
turbed by either of these causes must therefore be chosen,
and that moment is the middle of the day* But.M. Ra-
mond observed also, that the descending winds prevail
of'tener than others ; and he concludes that in general the
mean results of observations must give heights too small.
   To make a proper choice of the moment is not all ; no
less care and attention is requisite in the choice of the sta
tions : simultaneous observations, some made in the place
the height of which is required, and others in a fixed place
the height of which above the level of the sea is perfectly
known, are necessary. Th;;se also who wish to verify a
formula must have the same knowledge of the height of the
mountain to which the barometer is carried ; and that no
objection may he made to the conclusion, it is necessary that
the two stations should be sufficiently near, and that nothing"
interrupts the communication, so that the atmospheric va
riations which arise in the one may also take place in the
other. M. Ramond found all these advantages united in the
 Peak of Bigorre, and the town of Tarbes, w here M. Dangos,
 a celebrated astronomer, was pleased to take upon himself
 the corresponding observations. •
    It was by these means, and with these attentions, that
M. Ramond found the correction of the co-efficient of La
place ; after which he applied the formula thus corrected,
in conjunction with several other known formulae, to cal
 culate the aerostatic ascent of M. Gay-Lussac, who rose to
 the greatest height ever attained by man, since it surpasses
 that of all the mountains on the earth.
    He applies also all these formulae to the observations
 communicated to the class by M. Humboldt, and which
 were made on the highest mountains of Peru, and particu
 larly Chimboraco, several hundreds of metres above the
 point at which Condamine, the most intrepid of our acade
 micians, A\ as obliged to stop.
    It results from all these formulae, that the formula of La
 place forms a pretty exact mean between alll the other for
 mulae ; that it gives errors always very small, sometimes
 more sometimes less ; and that the sum of these errors di
 vided by the number of observations scarcelv indicates
  1-lOQdth as the ulterior correction of the co-efficient de
 termined by M. Ramond.
    This memoir is terminated by an appendix, in which are
 given models of all the calculations, tables for shortening
                                                             the

358                   French National Institute.
the operations, and reflections on some small corrections
which may be neglected in the most common circumstances.
                        Terrestrial Magnetism.
    The observations of the magnetic needle which M. Hum
boldt made with great care in the countries which he vi
sited, have given M. Biot the idea and the means of making
researches in regard to the mathematical theory of terres
trial magnetism *.
                               GEOGRAPHY.
    The results of the attempts hitherto made by the society
in England for making discoveries in the interior parts of
 Africa are well known. By the accounts of the different
 travels it caused to be undertaken, the difficulties and danger
 which attend such expeditions are seen, and it may therefore
 be readily conceived why that part of the world is so little
 known. There was reason to think that the antients had a
 more extensive and correct knowledge of it ; and in conse
 quence of this idea the Class of the Moral and Political Sci
 ences proposed, as the subject of a prize in the year 9, a
 comparison of the geography of Ptolemy concerning the
 interior of Africa with what has been since written on it by
 modern authors and those of the middle ages. As no me
 moir was presented, and as the subject of the prize was
 withdrawn, M. Buache thought it his duty to communi
 cate to the class a detail of the researches which he had be
 fore made on the same subject. In 1787, before the forma
 tion of the English African Society, he had announced his
  opinion in regard to it, in a memoir read in a public sitting
  of the Academy of Sciences ; and 1 his opinion, contrary to
  all the ideas before received, was of such a nature as to ex
  cite the attention of geographers, had it been developed as
  it is in the new memoir which M. Buache presented to the
  class this year.
     In this memoir, which is entitled Researches in regard to
  the Interior of Libya of Ptolemy,' the author examines in
  succession, and in the order in which they are, all the de
  tails contained in the sixth and fourth books of Ptolemy;
  2nd according to the various information he has found, and
  which he discusses by presenting them under their real
  point of view, he endeavours to indicate, nearly the position
   of the different objects described by the antient geographer.
  He presents this immense labour only as a mere commen
  tary, destined to throw light on the knowledge which the
        * See his paper on this subject ia the last and present Number.
                                                                     antients

                   French National Institute.             350.
antients had acquired in regard to the interior parts of
Africa, and to furnish some information useful to new tra
vellers, and to the learned who are interested in the progress
of discovery. By allowing to the knowledge of the antients
much more extent than is generally supposed, he is obliged,
by the gross errors which he corrects, ^and of which he
shows the cause, to deny the exactness ascribed to them by
some authors. As we cannot here give an idea of this la
bour, we shall confine ourselves to the principal results.
According to the opinion of M. Buache, the knowledge of
the antients along the western coasts of Africa extended as
far as the Cape of Palms, and to the commencement of the
 Gulph of Guinea : they had only a vague idea of that gulph,
because they durst not enter it; but they sailed without dif
 ficulty as far as Sierra Leone and the banks of St. Anne,
which represent to us the Hypodromos JEthiopice ; and all
 the coast to that place was well known to them. On this
 first point M. Buache agrees with Danville and major Ren-
 nel.
     In regard to the interior of that country the antients di*
 stinguished two large rivers, the Niger and the Gir. Ac
 cording to Danville, whose opinion has been hitherto
 adopted, the Niger was that great river which waters Ni-
 gritia, directing its course from west to east ; and the Gir,
 that which waters the kingdom of Bournon from north to
 south, and which then proceeds to the Nile. According
 to M. Buache, the Niger of Ptolemy is composed of the
 river Senegal and that part of the Joliba discovered by
 Mungo Park, and the Gir is a river which waters Nigritia
 along with the Joliba. M. Buache, therefore, establishes
  on the Joliba and the Senegal the people and towns which
  Ptolemy has placed near the river Niger; and transports to
  Nigritia, on the Niger of Danville, the people and towns
  which Ptolemy indicates on the Gir. ¦
      It appears to M. Buache, that the antients carried on
  along the coasts and into the interior of Africa the same
  trade that they do at present, and in the same manner.
  They had establishments on the coast, and on the great ri
  vers which proceed thither, such as the Senegal and the
  Gambia : they extended their commerce as far as the banks
  of the Gir, but they did not penetrate beyond that river to
  wards the south. Ptolemy speaks of no town beyond the
  Gir, but gives only the names of different tribes.
      A very curious observation, which is worthy of -further
   research, is that of several tribes whose names are twice
   mentioned, and which are at considerable distances in Pto
                                                         Imey's

360                French National Institute.
lemy's map. There are six in that part of the Barbary coast
comprehended between the two Svrtes, and depending on
the kingdom of Tripoli. Such are the Astacuri, the Dolo-
pians, the Mimaci, the Samarayci, the Nigbeni, and the
Esopaei. It is well known that this part of the coast of
Africa is that by which a communication may be most
easily opened with the countrv of Nigritia, because there
are fewer deserts to be traversed, and because the kingdoms
of Fezzan, Agadez, and others, where refreshments can be
procured, are found on the route. It is to be remarked,
that it is to the south of the sources of the Gir that the
names of the above tribes are found ; and they are at a
small distance from each other, and near the coast of Bar
bary. M. Buache presumes, till further information be
obtained, that these tribes were colonics of those on the
coast of Barbary, and that the countries which they occupy
to the south of the sources of the Gir, are the most fertile
and richest of the interior of Africa. This memoir con
tains other observations equally interesting, which may af
ford encouragement to the prosecution of discoveries in this
part of the earth.
                           ASTRONOMY.
    M. Burckhardt, who received the first intelligence of the
new planet discovered by M. Harding, has constantly fol
lowed, more than any of our astronomers, the progress of
this almost imperceptible body; he has endeavoured also to
determine the elements of its orbit. On the J 6th Vende-
miairehe presented to the class an ellipsis, the great semi-
axis of which, or the mean distance from the sun, was
nearly the same as that of Ceres and Pallas, and its eccen
 tricity greater than that even of Mercurv. In regard to the
 inclination, it is much less than that of Pallas, but greater
than that of any other planet. M. Burckhardt, before he
arrived at this ellipsis, had tried a parabola, and then a circle.
Twenty days after he read a new memoir, which confirmed
all his former results ; but be gave to each element a more
approximate value. On the 3d of Nivose he made known
 to us a third ellipsis, which differs from the second only
by quantities almost insensible, and which cannot be im
proved but by means of more numerous observations, and
 made at more remote periods.
    M. Gauss, correspondent of the Institute, published also
in Germany the elements of the same planet, founded, in a
great measure, on other observations, and which differ very
little from those of M. Burckhardt.
            3                                                This

                   French National Institute.               301
   This new planet, therefore, so difficult to be seen, and
the theory of which still announces greater difficulties to
those who may wish to determine it, by calculating all the
perturbations it may experience, seems sufficiently known
to be found without much trouble, when disengaged so far
from the solar rays as to be again visible.
                      Solstitial Equinoxes.
   We gave an account the preceding year of the observa
tions made with Borda's circle at the observatory Rue de
Paradis, to determine the equinoxes and the solstices. Since
our last public sitting the same astronomer has observed two
new equinoxes and two solstices ; for the sky was too often
obscured during the latter part of Prairial : yet, as he let slip
no opportunity, we have already collected a great number of
observations of the solstice which took place in the night
between the second and third of Messidor, to be assured
that the observations which we hope still to make may pro
duce great changes in the definitive result.
   The observation of the solstices was employed by the an-
tient astronomers to determine the length of the longest
day in every climate, and the height of the pole for the
place of observation. At present, we have means much
more precise for ascertaining the height of the pole ; and
in regard to the length of the longest day, we already know
jt with more than sufficient exactness. But the solstices
are still no less interesting to astronomy, which has no other
method so natural of determining the obliquity of the eclip
tic ; that is to say, the angle formed by the planes in which
the annual and diurnal revolutions of the earth are effected ;
the fundamental element which enters into all our calcula
tions, and the fixing of which is a matter of so much deli
cacy, that observations cannot be multiplied too much to
determine properly either the precise extent it had at a given
period, or the variation which it annually experiences.
    ft results from the observations of which we here give an
account, that by a mean of twelve solstices, both of winter
and summer, the mean obliquity must have been 23° 2J'
 57" at the commencement of the 19th century, and that
it would be less by \" or 2" if we referred merely to the
last summer solstice. The annual diminution is still much
more difficult to be known, since it supposes excellent ob
servations made at two periods sufficiently distant from each
 other.. Theory would give it with more precision, were we
 not obliged to suppose a mass respecting which there still
                                                        remains

362                French National Institute.
remains sortie doubt. The observations of Lacaille, Brad
ley, and Mayer, compared with those which we have men
tioned, and those of the most celebrated modern observers,
furnish quantities the extremes of which are 44" and 56"
for the present century ; theory gives 52"; and this result
has> been adopted in the solar tables now printing.
   The observation of the equinoxes furmshes the most na
tural and most exact means of knowing the length of the
year, the apparent motion of the sun, and the point of the
heavens from which the motion of all the stars is reckoned.
The five last equinoxes, and more particularly those of the
year 13, have fully confirmed the correction of from 4"
to 5", made some years ago, in the right ascensions of the
stars, which serve as a foundation to all our calculations.
   M. Pictet, correspondent, has communicated to us the
observation of an occultation of the Pleiades by the moon,
made at the observatory of Geneva.
   An occultation of it of Scorpio, observed on the 28th of
Messidor, year 1 2, on the summit of Casuelta, a mountain
in the • kingdom of Valencia, has been found among the
papers of M. Mechain, and will appear in the 6th volume
of the Memoirs of the Class. This is the last observation
made by an astronomer whose premature loss the Institute
will long regret.
   There was found also among his papers a series oj ob
servations of the comet which he discovered at Barcelona
in 1 793 ; it i3 also printed in the 6th volume of the Me
moirs, and will soon appear.
   M. Humboldt read in one of our sittings a memoir on
the longitude of Mexico, the capital of the kingdom of the
same name.
   Geographers were little agreed in regard to the position
of that important point. The considerable difference which
M. Humboldt found between his first observations and the
last which were made by him, induced him to repeat them
as often as he could, and by different melhods. The di
stance of the moon from the stars, and the eclipses of se
veral satellites of Jupiter, constantly gave him the same re
sult ; which is incontestably preferable <o all those which
had appeared before.
                         [To be continued.]
                                                     LV. In*

                          [  363   ]
        LV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                       ANTiauiTIES.
A letter from Italy, dated August 10, says : " Mr.
Hayter, who obtained permission from the king of Naples
to unroll the manuscripts found in Hcrculaneum, begins now
to reap'the fruits of his labours and patience. The eleven
young men whom he employs for this purpose have become
very expert, and labour with more dexterity than their pre
decessors. Mr. Hayter entertains hopes that he has found
a whole Menander, Ennius, and Polybius. He has found
a Greek writer named Colotos, whose philosophical works
were before totally unknown. A valuable discovery is an
eatire copy of Epicurus, of which we had before only frag
ments. There are still 600 manuscripts in the Museum of
Portici."
   Naples, June 25.—According to the reports made to go
vernment of the state of the famous ruins of the antient
city of Paestum ; and particularly the largest of the three
temples, which having been damaged by lightning was. in
danger of falling down, orders were given for its restoration.
This design, however, having been prevented by different
obstacles, the counsellor of state charged with the depart
ment of the fine arts, M. Seralli, sent to Paestum, at the
end of the last year, don Felix Nicolassi, superintendant-
general of the search for antiquities throughout the king
dom, in order to remove the rubbish from the largest of
the three temples, to examine it, and draw up a plan for
its restoration. When the superintendant arrived along
with Antonio JBuonucci, tie drew up a plan for tlic restora
tion of this monument of antiquity ; which, being approved
by government, was carried into execution in the course of
the present year. During his stay at Paestum, while super
intending the works undertaken for removing the rubbish
which disfigured this antient monument, M. Nicolassi
caused researches by digging to be made in several places,
which were attended with the best success. He found, in
different tombs into which he entered, bronze arms, the
sculpture of which was perfect, and which were highly in
teresting on account of the very remote period to which they
belonged, fie found there also bronze urns of the most
elegant form ; some of baked clay, exceedingly curious,
buth in regard to their form, the subjects represented on
                                                        thfilD',

364                       Harthguake,
them, and the perfection of the design : in a word, a great
number of military instruments and utensils, used for sacred
Is well as domestic purposes. Exact descriptions of these
articles, as well as' of the paintings found in these tombs,
are to be published.
   Government, no less attentive to the preservation of the
objects of antiquitv which exist in the environs of Puzzoli,
has charged M. Nieolassi to clear away the ruins which
encumber the temple of Jupiter Serapis. The labour lias
been already begun; and this antient temple will soon be
entirelv discovered, and freed from the stagnant water
formed around it, and which occasioned the greatest incon
venience in regard to the salubrity of the air in that country.
                         EARTHaUAKE.
Messrs. Wombvvell, Gautier, and Co., a highly respectable
   mercantile firm in the city, have favoured us with the
   following particular account of the earthquake that took
   place in the kingdom of Naples, the 26th of Julv, and
   the eruption of Mount Vesuvius on the 12th of August,
   as transmitted to them by Mr. Falconnet, a merchant of
   veracity, and much respected at Naples :
   " Naples, dugust 13.—The following particulars of the
dreadful earthquake, on the 26th July, as received by go
vernment, down to the 29th"July, are the most accurate that
have yet appeared. I procured a copy to be sent to you
this post for your information, that of your friends, and
correspondents. Although 1 expressed to you bv my for.mer
letter my regret that no eruption of Mount Vesuvius took
place, and that, on the contrary, the little columns of fire
that arose' now and then were less since the earthquake,
and how desirable it was that a vent should be given by an
eruption to the inflammable matter that seemed to exist in
 the bowels of the earth, I did not expect to have this day to
announce to you, that my wishes were accomplished last
night, bv an abundant eruption of lava from Mount Vesu
vius; which, though we did not feel any fresh shock of earth
quake since Julv 26, yet now relieves us, in my humble
opinion, from any further apprehension of new shocks.
    " In the course of yesterday, till seven o'clock in the
evening, Vesuvius was very quiet, emitting but little smoke ;
it tb.cn increased, with flames at intervals : past nine o'clock,
they became frequent, and 1 observed, when they fell, that
the, mouth of Vesuvius appeared still as a furnace. I was
then on the terrace of my country house, at St. Jeriv, west
tram Vesuvius, and very near it. Mrs. Falconnet had just

                            Earthquahe.                        365
' left me to sit down to supper in the dining-room next the
  terrace, and wished me to come ;—but the scene before me
  kept me some minutes longer.—I joined her, ami had not
  sat down a minute when her English maid called to us that
  the eruption was beginning. In an instant we were on the
  terrace, and observed its having overflowed on the same
  side as last year, and rushed down with such rapidity as to
  run more than a mile in. ten minutes, and in a very short
  time it reached the valley towards Torre del Greco. This
  stream of lava was immense, and extended with amazing
 rapidity over the country ; it divided itself in three branches,,
 one of which, beyond the Torre del Greco, surrounded the
  country-house of the cardinal archbishop of Naples, and be
 fore morning reached the sea, and continued running into
 it. The stream of lava is much diminished ; but when it
 broke out last night, about ten minutes after ten o'clock,
 until twelve, it was a grand and splendid sight ; and as it
  ran from north to south, and I was west of it, it repre
  sented the back scenery of Hell at an opera ; figure to your
  self an immense sheet of flames rising at least half a mile
 from the ground, and crowned by a black cloud which
  vanished by degrees.
     " Many very valuable vineyards' and farm-houses have
  been destroyed ; and as the lava rushed out with very little
  noise and great rapiditv, I am afraid some habitations on
  the brow of the hill will have been surrounded before the
  people were aware of the danger, or had time io escape : but
  a great part of the lava ran on that of last year, 1 779, which
  renders the mischief less. It surprises many strangers, ho\V
  people will cultivate and live on such a spot, as the lava con
  stantly takes that direction, south and south-east; but the
  land is so very productive, that the temptation is not easily
  combated.
     " All my family were perfectly composed during the
 whole of the eruption, and returned quietly to bed at mid
  night, as I had often taught them to wish for it since the
  earthquake, as a security from new shocks.
     " One cannot but regret that such a beautiful country as
  this, blessed with an admirable soil, fine situation healthy
  climate, and pure sky, should be liable to such drawbacks
  and convulsions of nature. But in this world we cannot
  expect enjoyments without some alloy, and we must sub
  mit to Providence, who has perhaps decreed in its wisdom,
  that a people too much inclined to vices and immorality,
  should be now and then recalled to a sense of its duties by
     Vol. 22. No. 68. Sept. 1S05. A a                        such

 365                         Earthquake.
 such uncommon events, which happen when least thought
 of.       I am truly, sir, your most obedient servant,
                                 (Signed)      J. L. Falconnet,
     " It is now eleven o'clock in the evening, and before
  closing this letter I lpoked at the lava : the stream con
 tinues, but it is nothing in comparison to last night. I
  heard a few hours ago, that there was an eruption of ^Etna
  in Sicily, but T could not trace that report to its source.
  Our last letters from Sicily make no mention of it, though
 much alarmed by an intense heat, that lasted five days* and
 in great apprehensions."
  Particulars of the Damages caused ly the Earthquake of
     Friday, July'26, from Reports to the Sep-elary of State's
     Office, down to the 29(h July.
                                                    Families Total
    Towns and Villages.          Damages.          perished, dead.
 Isernia                        destroyed             339 1506
  Castel Petroso,                  ditto              131     443
 Cantallipa,                       ditto              142     568
 Santo Massimo                     ditto               74     22^
 Tresolone,                  part destroyed          390 1440
 St. Angelo inGrotta,              ditto               43     174
 Carpinone,                        ditto              1Q3     579
 Baranella,                        ditto              180     720
 Sassano,                  entirely destroyed^     inhabitants lost
 Bassano,                    become a lake            220     672
 St. Arigejo di kombardi, part destroyed,           no particnlars.
 Camelli,                  a volcano opened              ditto.
                                                      ]772 632Q
         , Other Places, with general Information.
    Bassano, destroyed, and was the centre of the earthr
 quake, which extended in a circuit of 150 miles. The folr
 lowing places were also destroyed :r—Rucca Mandolfi, Mac-
 chia Godena, Mirabello, yinghiatura, and other villages
 round.
    The following places partly destroyed :—Campobasso,
^Savernaj Supino, Ducameno, Santa-buono, Cojle Dan-
 ehese, Castor Petrone, Civita Narva, Bolino, and other
 villages round.
    N.B. Of the different places in Abruzzo, and the Con-
tado di Molise, that have suffered, no particulars are aa yet
 given, ho certain account having as yet been received of the
 number of families or persons dead or missing ; but as
many are supposed to be dead that are missing, the hum-
 per is likely to be less,, at least we hope sq.
             3          '                                   ASTRO

                      Astronomy.— Vaccination.
                           ASTRONOMY.
 Talk of the right Ascension and Declination of Ceres and
                     Pallas for October 1805.
                       Ceres. . - -            Pallas.
                    AR.       Dec] . N.     AR.      Decl.S.
       1805     ti   m          o    /   h   m    ¦    o   '
     Oct. 2         58 16s     22 51     5    8 24    16 40
           5    7  , 1 32      22 55    *0  10 20     17 37
           8   0     4 36      22 59     0  12    0   18 34
          11   0      7 32     23     3  0  13 28     19 32
         14    4    10 16      23     8  0  14 40    20 . 30
         17    0    12 52      23 13 :   0  15 40    21 27
         20    0    15 16     23 IS      0  16 24    22 25
         23    0    17 32      23 24    •0  16 48    23 23
      . 26     0    10 36      23 31     Q  17    0  24 19
         29    0    21 24      23 39     6  16 52    25 14
                          VACCINATION.
Certificate of the Evidence of Mr. Jesty, the Inocttlator oj
            his Family for the Cow-pock in 1774.
   Mr. Benjamin Jesty, of Downshay in the isle of Pur-
fceck, -having, agreeably to an invitation from the Medical
Establishment ef the Original Vaccine Institution, Broad-
street, GoWen Square, visited London in August 1805, to
¦communicate certain facts relating to the cow-pock inocu-
iation: We think it a matter of justice to himself, and be
neficial to the public, to attest, that, among other facts, he
has afforded decisive evidence of his having vaccinated his
wife and two sons, Robert and Benjamin, in the year 1 774,
who were thereby rendered unsusceptible of the small-pox ;
as appears from the exposure of all the three parties to that
disease frequently during the course of 31 years ; and from
the inoculation of the two sons for the small-pox 15 years
ago—That he was led to undertake this novel practice in
1774, to counteract the small pox, at that time prevalent
at Yetminster (where he then resided), from knowing the
common opinion of the country ever since he was a boy,
now above sixty years ago, that persons who had gone
through the cow-pock naturally, i. e. by taking it from
cows, were unsusceptible of the small-pox—By himself
being incapable of taking the small-pox, having gone
through the cow-pock many years before—From having
personally known many individuals, who, after the cow-

363                        Vaccination.
pock, could not have the small-pox excited—From believ
ing that the cow -pock was an affection free from danger—.
And from his opinion that by the cow-pock inoculation he
should avoid ingrafting various diseases of the human con
stitution, such as " the evil, madness, lues, and many bad
humours," as he called them.
   The remarkably vigorous health of Mr. .Testy, his wife,
and two sons, now 31 years subsequent to the cow-pock ;
and his own healthy appearance, at this time 70 years of
age, aTord a singularly strong proof of the harmlessness of
that affection. But the public must with particular in
terest hear that, during the late visit to town, Mr. Robert
.Testy very willingly submitted publicly to inoculation for
the small-pox in the most rigorous manner, and after the
most efficacious mode, without having been infected.
   The circumstances in which Mr. Jesty purposely insti
tuted the vaccine pock inoculation in his own family, viz.
without any precedent, but merely from reasoning upon
the nature of the affection among cows; and from know- .
iirg its effects in the casual way among men; his exemption
from the prevailing popular prejudices ; and his disregard
of the clamorous reproaches of his neighbours, in our
opinion well entitle him to the respect of the public for his
superior strength of mind : but, further,his conduct in again
furnishing such decisive proofs ofthe permanentanti-variolous
efficacy of the cow-pock in the present discontented state
of many families, by submitting to inoculation, justly
 claims at least the gratitude of the country.—As a testi
mony of our personal regard, and to commemorate so ex
 traordinary a facl as that of preventing the small-pox by
inoculating for the cow-pock 31 vea-s ago, at our request a
three-quarters length picture of Mr. Jesty is painted by
 that excellent artist Mr. Sharp, to be preserved at the
 Original Vaccine Pock Institution.
               John Heaviside,!> ~,treasurers.
               Thomas Payne,
                          'earson, "\
               George Pearson,
                           NiHELtj .5-
               Laurencec Nihell,           Physicians.
                                      . VPhysicit
               Thomas Nn  Kelson, J
               Thomas    Kkate,          1J- r,    ...     c
               .T-           p '
                J HOMPSON ronsTEu,       J Consulting Surgeons.fe
               Joseph
                r       Constantine        Caupue,")     c
                                                    ' J- Surgeons.
               John Doratt,                            y     °
               Francis Rivers, ~j                                 .
               Everard Brands, vVisiting Apothecaries.
               Philip De Bruyn,J
                                                           finsbuby

          Finslttry Dispehsary.—List 'of Patents.         3Gg
                   FINSBURY DISPENSARY.
   At the late election for Surgeon to this Institution the
numbers were ; for Mr. Taunton 330; for Mr. Smith 143.
—-Majority in favour of the former, 207.
   Mr. Taunton's Lectures on Anatomy and Physiology
will commence at the Finsbury Dispensary, on Saturday,
October 3.
         LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   James Noble, of Coggershall, in the county of Essex,
worsted-spinner ; for a machine for discharging a wool-
comb or combs, by separating the tears from the noiles,
and drawing what is commonly called a sliver or slivers
from the comb or combs after or before the combs are
worked, or the wool is combed upon the same.
   William Kent, of the borough of Plymouth, in the
county of Devon, merchant and agent ; for certain addi
tions and improvements in a sort of candlestick (in common
use), which will be found to prevent accidental fires in the
use of candles, by which so many valuable lives are lost,
and such immense property consumed ; and which will not
be confined to chamber use, but, being made on a larger
scale, will be found equally useful in shops, warehouses,
oil and spirit cellars, and other places where the use of a
candle is found necessary.
   Arthur Woolf, of Wood-street, Spa Fields, in the county
of Middlesex, engineer ; for certain improvements in steam-
engines.
   James Boaz, of the city of Glasgow, in Scotland, civil
engineer ; for a new and improved method of raising water,
and working machinery by means of steam. '
   Alexander Wilson, of Tichborne-street, Piccadilly, in the
county of Middlesex, gun-maker ; for ceitain improve
ments applicable to shot-belts and powder-flasks, and to
fire-arms of all descriptions.
   Benjamin Batley, of Queen-street, in the city of London,
sugar refiner; for a new and improved method of refining
 sugars.
   Henry Edward Witherby, of Islington, in the county of
Middlesex, gentleman ; for an apparatus for purifying and
improving water and other liquors by filtration.
   Johan Gottlieb Frederic Schmidt, of Greek-street, Soho,
in the county of Middlesex, gentleman, and Robert Dick
inson, of Tavistock-street, Covent Garden, gentleman ; for
methods of sustaining animal life and combustion for a
great length of time, at considerable depths beneath the
 surface of the sea, or other bodies gf water, in such a man-
                            Aa3                          ' nei

  3*6           List of Patents for New Inventions*
  ner as to enable a person making use of such mean*, to*
  exist, and to move from place to place, at the bottom of the
  sea, or at any required depth between the surface and the
  bottom, with much more facility and advantage than by any-
  other apparatus or contrivance which has been hitherto in
  vented for that purpose.
      Peter Marsland, of Heaton Norris, in the county of Lan
  caster, cotton spinner ; for improvements m sizing cotton
  yarn.
      Peter Mars-land, of Heaton Norris, in the county df Lan
  caster, cotton spinner; for an improvement in the process
  of dyeing silk, woollen, worsted, mohair, furhair, cotton,
  and linen, or any one or more of them, as well in a part-
  manufactured as in an unmanufactured or raw state.
     ThomaS Chapman, of Witham in Hoktemess, in the
  county of York, thrashing-machine-maker; for a mill for
  tearing, crushing, and preparing oak-bark to be used 'by
  tanners in the process of tanning of hides.
     Henry Maudslay, of Margaret-street, Cavendish-square,
  in the county of Middlesex, mechanist : for a process,,
  upon an? improved construction., for printing &$ calicos, and
  various other articles.
     William Wilkinson, of Needham Market, in the county
  of Suffolk ; for improved pantiles for covering houses an*
  other buildings.
     William Seott,; of the London Gfctss Works, East Smith-
  field, in the cotmty of M iddlesex, glass manufacturer ; for
 certain improvements in the mamufacturing and working o'if
 various kinds of glass.
¦ Thomas Johnson, late of Stockport, in the cotmty of
 Chester, but now of Preston in the county of Lancaster,
 weaver ; and James Kay, of Preston, aforesaid, machine
 maker ; for an improved machine or loom idr weaving;
 cotton and other good* by power.
     William Dcverell, of Blackwail, in the cotmty of Mld^^*
 dlesCx, engineer; for certain improvements on the steam-
 engine.
     Samuel Caldwell', of Hathem, in the county of Leices
 ter ; for new machinery and apparatus to be attached or
 annexed to certain plain frames or machines called stock
 ing-frames, plain piece-frames, or any other plain frames-
•for the purpose of working, making, or manufacturing
 silk, cotton, mohair, worsted, or any other sort of stuff
 whatsoever, into plain hose, or any plain sort of piece-work
whatsoever, whereby these frames will work, make or-
 manufacture all kinds of phiiu stockings and plain piece
 work by mechanical machinery and motion. • •
                                                     METEOR-

                      CONTENTS
                              OP THE           - * '
      TWENTY-SECOND VOLUME.
  t. EXTRACT of two Lettersfrom Captain Vox Krusen-
     STERWj Commander of the Russian Expedition to Japan,
     dated the Harbour of St. Peter and St. Paul, July 19j
     and August 20, 1804              .*"                       3
 Hi Same Account of a terrible Hurricane which began to
     the Windward of the Caribbee Islands on the 3d of Sep
     tember 1804, and proceeded North- westwardly over the
     Virgin Islands and Bahamas on the 4th, 5th, and 6th,
     until it reached Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina, on
     the 7tk, 8t/i, and 9th ; and of' a furious Gale from the
     North-east which prevailed at the same time, and pro
     ceeded South-westwardly until it met the former : show
     ing that Storms of the most destructive Violence some
     times arise to Windward, and bear down every Thing be
    fore tliem in their Passage to Leeward                     14
  III. Twenty-second Communication from Dr. ThoRnton
     relative to Pneumatic Medicine                            25
  IV. On the Action of Platina and Mercury upon each
     other. By Richard Chenevix, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.A.
     cWc                                                       26
  V. An Account of some analytical Experiments on a mineral
     Production from Devonshire, consisting principally of
     Alumine and Water. By Humphry Dayv, Esq. F.R.S.
     Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution :         35
  VT. Experiments on Wootz. By Mr. David Mcshbt 40
  VII. An Essay on Medical Entomology. By F. Chau-
     meton, Physician to the Army                      . . . . 49
  VIII. Short Account of Travels between the Tropics, by
     Messrs. Humboldt and Bonpi.and, in 1799, 1800,
     18()1, 1802, 1803, and 1804. By J. C. Delame-
     THKRIE                                                    54
  IX. An Account of Sutton Spa, near Shrewsbury. By
     Dr. Evans                                                 61
  X. On the Blight or Mildetv of Wheat                         69
  XL On the Origin of Stones that have fallen from the
     Atmosphere.      By Charles Hutton> LL.D. arid
      F.R.S.                      ;V.                          71
  XII.. Description of a PlouSh-ear which offers the least
     possible Resistance, and wh$ch may be easily constructed.
      By Mr. Jefferson, President of the United States of
     America                   -..;"               ,           79
¦ Vol. .32. No. 68. Sept. 1803.           a- .

                       '  . CONTENTS.
    XIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies             '. Page 85
    XIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles               93
    XV. Letter to.M. Lacepede, of Paris,.on tlie Natural
        History of North America.         By Benjamin Smith
        Bauton, M. D. Professor of Materia Medicu, Natural
        History, and Botany, in , the University of Pennsyl-
  >." "tanla                                                   97
    XVI. On the Action of Platina and Mercury upon each
        other. By Richard Chenevix, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.A.
        <5#C                                                  103
    XVII. Observations on the polishing of Glass, and on tlie
        Amalgam usedfor silvering Mirrors. By B. G. Sage 112
    XVIII. Extract of two Letters from Captain Von Kru-
        senstkun, Commander of the Russian Expedition to
        Japan, dated the Harbour of .St. Peter and St. Paul,
        July 19, and August' 20, 1804                         115
    XIX. Extract from a Memoir of M. Pavsse, principal
        Preparer of Medicines at the Camp of Utrecht, on the
       manufacturing, on a large Scale, of some Oxides of
        Mercury. By M. Parmentieu                             123
    XX. Second Extract from a Memoir of M. Paysse, prin
       cipal Preparer of Medicines at the Camp of Utrecht, on
  ,' the Method of manufacturing, on a large Scale, some
     - Oxlles if M. imry. £y ill. Parmentier .                132
   XXI. Facts relative to a nondescript Aquatic Animal. By
       Mr John Sn art, Optician                               1*5
  'XXII. On Elasticity. By Alexander Tilloch. An
       Essay read htfore the Askesian Society in the Session
       1802-3                     .."                         138
   XXIII. 0"' the , Production of Muriatts by the Galvanic
     , 'Decomposition ;of IVater : with a second Letter on the
       Subject ft out Mr. W. Peel, of Cambridge               152
  XXIV. Memoif: on some zoological Fuels applicable to tke
- Theory of the Earth. Read in the Physical and Mailie-
    , matical Class of'the French National Institute on the 22<f
-• of October 1804. By M. Peron, Naturalist to t/ie Ex
       pedition for making Discoveries in Australasia .... 15o
 -XXV. Short Account of the Life of the late Dr.
. Phiesti.ey                                                  166
   XXVI. Notices respecting New Publications                  171
   XXVH. Proceedings- of Leaq-ned Societies                   172
  XXV I II. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles. .... 178
 'XXIX.- Account of Experiments made on a Mineral called
       Cerite, and on the particular Substance which it contains,
*, and which lias been considered as a new Metal. By
       21. Y'avouelix                                         19s
                                      . '           XXX. Mir-

                        CONTENTS.
¦XXX. Memoir on some zoological Facts applicable to the
   Theory of the Earth. Read in the Physical and Mathe
  matical Class of tlie French National Institute on the 22d
  of October 1804. By M. Peron, Naturalist to the Ex
  pedition for making Discoveries in Australasia .... 200
XXXI. Letter to M. Lacepede, of Paris, on the Natural
   History of North America.        By Benjamin Smith
  Barton, M.D. Professor of Materia Medica, Natural
   History, and Botany, in the University of Pennsylvania
                                                         204
XXXII. On feeding Cattle with green Food; together
   with other ingenious and valuable Observations in Agri
  culture. By Mr. Edward Powrs                           212
XXXIII. New Process for decomposing Sulphate of Burytes
   in order to prepare the Muriate of that Earth ; with a
   Method of preparing the Muriate. By M. Gokttling
                                                         218
XXXIV. Report on the Means of measuring the initial
   Velocity of Projectiles thrown from Cannon, both in an
   inclined and a horizontal Direction. Read in the Phy
   sical and Mathematical Class of the French National
   Institute in the Month of December 1S04               220
XXXV. On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants-, the
   Birth of these Organs, and the organic Relation between
   the Trunk and tlie Branches: in a Letter from G. L.
   Koeler, M. D. Professor of Botany and the Materia
   Medica in the Provisional School of Medicine at Mentz,
   to M. Ventenat, Member of the French National In
   stitute                                               231
XXXVI. Method of obviating tlie Necessity of lifting
   Ships. By Mr. Robert Seppings, of Chatham Yard 242
 XXXVII. On the Variations of tlie Terrestrial Magnetism
   in different Latitudes. By Messieurs Humboldt and
   Biot. Read by M. Biot, in tlie Mathematical and
   Physical Class of the French National Institute
   Frimaire, An 13. (1 7th December 1804.)               248
 XXXVII [. Account of a Case of Hydrofrfiobia successfully
   treated by copious Bleeding and Mercury. In two Let
   ters from. Dr. Robert Burton, of Bent, in tlie State
   of Virginia, to Dr. Benjamin Rush, of Philadelphia
                                                          257
 XXXIX. Hints respecting a speedy Decomposition of lVattr
   by Means of Galvanism. By Mr. William Wilson
                                                         2fio
 XL. New Observations on Volcanoes and their Lam. By
   G. A. Deluc                                           et)2
           1                                      XLI. Pro

                         CONTENTS*
 XLt. Proceedings of Learned Societies               , . , . sf-i
 XLII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles ... . .'. . . 279
 XLIII. Extract from a Memoir entitled " Considerations
   on Colours, and several of their singular Appearances.'*
   Bead in the Mathematical and Physical Class of the
   French National Institute, Ventose 13, An 13. Bif
   C. A. Pkieur                                               289
 XLIV. On the Variations of the Terrestrial Magnetism
   in different Latitudes. By Messrs. Humboldt and
   Biot. Read by M. Biot in the Mathematical and'
   Physical Class of the French National Institute 26tk
   Frimaire, An 13. (17 th December 1804.)                   299
XLV. Concerning the State in which the trite Sap of
   Trees is deposited during Winter, In a Letter front
   Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. to the Right Hon,
    Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S                        30g
XLVI. Description of the Coming-up Glass Telescope, as
   made by Mr. Thomas Jones, Mathematical, Optical,
   and Philosophical Instrument Maher j Pupil of the late
   Mr. Ramsden                                               3 19
XLVII. On the Buds and Ramifications of Plants; the
   Birth of these Organs, and the organic Relation between
   ihe Trunk and the Branches t in a Letter from G. L<
   Koeler, M. D. Professor of Botany and the Materia
. Medica in the Provisional School of Medicine at Meiitx,
   to M. Ventenat, Member of the French National In*
   stitute                                                   321
XLV1II. Progress of Vaccination in India                     327
XLIX. Memoir on a new Genus of Mammalia called Hy*
   dromis. By E. Geoffroi (Saint-Hilaihe) .... 328
L. Physico-meckanical Experiments and Discissions of the
   Phcenomena observable in that casual Product of Art the •
   Hand Granade, Prince Rupert's Drop, or Glass Tear-
   By Mr. John Snart, Optician                               334
LI. Twenty-third Communication from Dr. Thornton
                                                             33gf
LIT. A simple Method ofmaking Tubes of Elastic Gum or
   Caoutchouc, to avoid tlie Expense of Solution in JEiher
                                                             340
LIT I. .Notices respecting New Books                         340
LIV. Proceedings of Learned Societies                        353
LV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles                  363
                                                           THE

                            Meteorology.                           371
                    METEOROLOGICAL TABLE
              Bv Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                        For September 1805.
               Thermometer.
Days of the     u               Height of
  Month.     Is      90        the Barom.                 Weather.
                                 Inches.     fc. a Bo
             is                             O b*
 Aug. 2       61°   72°    61° 29- 97          48°    Fair
         28   62    69     64      •98         30     Cloudy
         29   63    71     64 30- 03           41     Fair
         30   64    71     63 29-98            34     Pair
         31   64    69     64      •72          25    Cloudy
  Sept. 1     63    68     58      •68         42     Showery
          2   57    64     58      •96          34    Cloudy
          3   61    69     56      •85         34     Cloudy
          4   60    69     64      •72          35    Cloudy
          5   63    70     57      •69         40     Fair
              60    69     58      •50         40     Fair,with thun
                                                      der and rain in
                                                      the morning
          7   60    66 58          •36          17 Stormy
          8   59    67 55          •62          25 Showery
          f   56    66 56          •95          39 Cloudy
         10   57    67 58 30-16                40 Fair
         !1   56    70 64          •06          36 Fair
         12   64    70 55          •05          25 Showery
         13   54    69 56          •10          30 Fair
         M    57    71 57          •19         45 Fair
         15   55    71 55          •16          27 Fair
         16   54    72 59 29-96                 37 Fair
         17   61    70 57          ¦96          32 Fair
         18   60    75     68      •98          42 Fair
         10   64    71 64          •89          22 Showery, witfe
                                                        thunder at
                                                        night
         SO   57    66 55 I 30-12               51 Fair
         21   56    65 54 29-80                 26 Showery
         22   55    56' 51         -93          10 Showery
         23   53    58 49 30-10                 12 Showery
         24"  47    57 42 I        -11         45 Fair
         25   41    59 54          -16          35 Fair
         26   56    63 • 55 I      -15          27 Cloudy
             N. B. The barometer's height is taken at noon.

                            C 31* J
                INDEX to VOL. XXII.
Acid, formic. On,              49 Barytcs. On,                   2 18
Africa. Travels in,          287  Batey's patent,                 369
Africa. On interior of,      358  Berg/nan's projected journey,
Agriculture. On, 63, 79, 90,                                      188
                             2f2  Berzelius's discovery of cerite,
America, North. Nat. hist, of,                                    193
                         97, 204- Bevan's patent,                 191
America, South. Travels in, 54    Biot on formation of water by
American Indians of Asiatic ori      compression, 173; on mag
   gin,                      209     netism,                248, 299
Analysis of a mineral from Der    Birds. On,                      204
   byshire, 35 ; of milk, 176 ;   Biography. Life of Priestley, 1 66
   of smut of wheat, 177;' of     Blight of wheat. On,              63
   guano, 177; of opium, 178;     Blunt's patent,                 191
   of cerite,                193  Bolschoi's (Dr.) captivity and
Animal life. Patent for sustain       ransom,                     186
   ing,                   , 369   Boaz's patent,                  369
Animal substances. Experiments     Bonpland's travels,              5i
   on,.                       173  Bossut on velocity of projectiles,
Antiquities,            188,363                                   220
Antoni on velocity of musket      Books. New,          171, 284,340
   balls,                    2 28 Botany,                           90
Ants. On, .                    49  Bramah's patent,                 95
Aptera. On the,                50  Bread made of the flowering
Aquatic animal. New,         1 35     rush,          t            284
Arcy (a") on velocity of projec    Bridles- Patent for,           190
   tiles,                    227   British Institution. The,        88
Artillery. On,               220   Brodic's patent,                191
Arts, fine. Academy of,        90  Brunei's patent,               190
Arts, fine. A prize question, 92   Burtons (Dr.) case of hydro
Asirtoomy* 93, 190, 353, 360,         phobia,                     257
                 r
Atmosphere free" from        367
                       hydrogen,   Caldwell's patent,             370
                              »74  Combustion. Patent for maintain-
Axletrees. Patent for,         9;     jnKj '                      369
                                   Candlesticks. Patent,          369
Barber's patent,             287 Cannon balls. Velocity of, 220
Barometer. On the,            357 Caoutchouc. Tubes made of, 340
Barton (Dr.) to M. Lacepede,       Carey's meteorological table, 96,
                         97, 204                       192, 288, 371
                                                            Carriages.

                                                               ,
                             INDEX.                                     373
Carriages, Patent for wheel,         Filtration ofwater. Patent, 369
                          190, 191   Firearms. Patent,                  369
Cattle. On feeding,            212   Fire-places. Patent for improv
Ceres. Tables of, 93,190,367            ing.            .            . 9S
Cerite. Discovery and analyses       Flushing. Society of Sciences
    of,       '                 193     at,                              90
Cerium. A new metal, 174, 193        Flowering rush makes good
Chapman's patent,              3',0     bread,                          284
Charcoal converted into tannin,      Fontana. Death of,                   94
                               271   Formica. On the,                    49
Cbaumeton on medical entomo          Fourcroy's analysis of njilk, 176;
    logy.                        49     of smut of wheat, 177 ; of
Chenevix on platina and mer             guano,                          177
    cury,                  26, 103   French National Institute, 172,
Cinnabar. Preparation of, 1 23;                                  274. 354
    native, found in Virginia, 210
 Clouds. On stones from the, 7 1     Galvanism. Muriate of potash
 Cobalt. New metal found in, 93          produced by, I 53, and muri
 Collins's patent,             287      atic acid, 179; speedy de
 Colours. On,                  289       composition of water by, 260
Consumption cured by hydro-          Geqffroi on mammalia,              328
    azotic gas,                   25 Geography,                         358
 Consumption. Cure for,         339   Giesecke's projected journey, 1 88
 Copper found in America, 210         Glass. On polishing,              112
Corn. Patent for reaping, 287         Glass-working. Patent for, 370
 Cowan's patent,               287    Glue. On,                         274
Coypou. On the,                 330   Goetling on baryte?,              218
 Cr,i/f. On the,                  5I  Grapes. Sugar made from, 177
 Currying of leather. On,       273   Grobert's way of measuring ve
                                         locity of projectiles,         220
 Davy. Analyses by,               35 Guinea worm. On,                   350
 De iths,                         94
 Deluc on volcanoes,            262 Harp. Patent for tuning,              95
 Devercll's patent,             370 Hatchett on artificial tannin, 271
 Dickinson's patent,            369 Hsith/s. Barometric measure-
 Diseases cured,            25,257       ment of,                       346
 Dodd's patent,                   95 Henry on the radical of muriatic
 Dying. Patent for,             370      acid,        •               ' 183
                                      Herman's projected journey, 188
 Earth. On the theory of the,         Hisenger's discovery of cerite,
                           155, 200                                      '93
 Earthquake at Naples,          364 Hobson's patent,               95, 191
 Edwards's patent,         190, >91 Hdrrock's patent,                    19 1
 Elasticity. Tilloch on,         138 Humboldt's travels,                  54
 Elliot'* patent,                190 Humboldt on magnetism, 248
 Entomology, medical, 49 ; Ame Hurricane. Account of a,                    14
     rican,                      206 Hutton (Dr.) on stones from
  Evans's (Dt.) description of           the clouds,                       71
     Sutton Spa,                  61 Huiton on velocity of projectiles,
  Far/us. On iize of,           217                               ' ' 227
                                                                 Ilydromis.

3-7*                        INDEX.
Hydromis. On the.             33i   Marquesa hhnds. The new, 6
Hydrophobia cured,            257   Marshal on blight of wheat, 68
                                    MarslmJ's patent,               370
Indigo treated with nitric acid,    Mathematics,                   355
                              173   Mathey's machine for measuring
Institution, Formation of the          velocity of musket balls, 228
   Londotrt                    $5,  Maudslay's patent,             3/0
Institution, British. Formation     Medical and Chirurg';cal Society.'
   of,                          83     Institution of,              279
Institutions. New, in America,      Medical entomology. On,           49
                                89  Medicine, 355, 2 J, 63, 257, 339
Iridium. A new metal,         273   Metals. New,                    174
Iron abundant in North Ame          Mercury. Action of, on platina,
   rica,                      210      26, 1 03 ; oxides of, to pre
                                       pare,                  133, 132
Japan. Expedition to, I, 115        Meteorology, 96, 192, 288, 371
Jefferson (President). On the,      Mitals. New,          53, 193,273
                                79  Mildew of -wheat. On,             68
Jtsty the inoculator,         367   Milk analysed,                  1 76
jfubb's patent,                 95  Miller's patent,                191
Johnson s patent,             370   Minerals. American,            3>0
Jones on the coming-up glass, 3 1 9 Mirrors. On the manufacturing
                                      of,                          lit
Kay's patent,                 370   Mitehill (Dr.) on American
Kent's patent,                369     winds,                          14
Knight on sap of trees,       309   Monge on velocity of projectiles,
Koeler on plants,             231                                  220
Krusmstern's (Von) expedition       Moral Sciences. A prize ques
   to Japan,               1*113       tion,                       354
                                    Mountains. On declivities of.
Languages of the American           Muriate of baryta. To prepare,
   tribes,                    209                                  218
Lava. On,                     262   Muriate of potash produced by
Lead found in America,        210     galvanism,                    1 53
Learned Societies, 85, 172, 271,    Muriate of soda excreted from
                              353      the human skin,              1S4
Lectures,               285, 369    Muriatic acid. On the elements
Life-buoy. Patent,            191     of,                152, 179, 183
Locks. Patent for,            191   Mushel on wootz,                  4O
London Institution. Formation of,   Musical instruments. Patent for
                                      tuning,                         95
Loom. Patent,           191,370     Musket balls. Velocity of, 2^3
Luminous rays. Qn,            289
                                    Natural history. A' prize ques
M'Gregor's Medical Sketches,          tion,                           91
                              34° Natural history of North Amc-
Magnetism. Variations of, 248,         eica,           .       97, 204
                              299 New Holland. Facts respecting,
Mammalia. New genus of, 328                                   157, 200
Manuscripts. Antient,         363 Noble's patent,                  369
                                                                Nickel.

                              INDEX,                               375
Nickel. New metal found in, 93        Prussia. Prize question by king
Nicolan. A new metal,              93    of.                         93
                                      Publications. New, 17 1, 284
Ogiers patent,                   191
Oniscus. On the,                   53 Ramsden's coming-up glass, 319
Ophthalmia. On, '               349   Rattlesnakes. On,             2pG
Opium analysed,                  178  Rhodium. A "<-'"' metal,      273
Ornithology,                     204  Roldns's method of determining
Oviparous quadrupeds:           20;      the velocity of musket balls,
                                                                    227
Pacch'ioni on radical of muriatic Rowntree's patent,                 95
   acid,                         179 Royal Society. London, 271,353
fieslum. Antient city of, 363 Rumfurd on producing heat by
fannies. Patent,                 370     solar rays, 172; on velocity
Pallas. Ascension and declina            of projectiles,            227
   tion of,         93, 19,0, 367 Rupert's drops. On,               334
Palladium for sale,              1 90 Russian embassy to Japan, 1, 1 15;
Paper. Patent for,                 95    to China,                  187
Parmeuticr on oxides of mercu
   ry,                    123, 132 Saddle. Patent,                  19 r
Parke's travels,                 287 Sage on polishing and silvering
Parrots. On,                     204     minors,                    nz
Patents. List of, 95, 190, 287, Saturn. Form of,                    353
                                369 Sawing mills. Patent for, 190
Peel on production of muriates Sciences and fine arts. A prize
   from water by Galvanism,              question,                   91
                                 M3 Scorpion. On the,                50
Permit on the theory of the Scott's patent,                         370
   earth,                 155, 200 Segu'm's analyses of opium, 178
Pidgcon's patent,                191 Seguin on glue,                274
Plague. On treatment of, 340 Seetzen's travels,                     287
Plants. Physiology of, 231,321 Seppings's method of suspending
Plutina. Action of, on mercury,          ships,                     242
   26, 103 ; experiments on, 273 Sheathing of ships. Patent for,
Plough. Jefferson on the,          79                               191
P/ucknett's patent,             .287 Ships. To suspend,            242
Pneumatic medicine,         25, 339 Ship's sails. Patent,           287
Poetry. A prize question, 353 Silex. Origin of, in vegetables,
Pompeii. Further discoveries at,
                                 188 Silvering of mirrors. On, 1 1 2
Potash produced by Galvanism, Slater's patent,                      190
                                 153 Smut of wheat analysed,        177
Pomys's agricultural remarks,         Snart on a nondescript aquatic
                                312     animal,                     135
Priestley. Life of,             1 66 — on Rupert's drops, 334
Prieur on colours,              289 Societies. Learned, 85, 172,271,
Priming. Patent,                370                                353.
Prismatic colours. On,          289 Solar rays. Force {of, in pro
Prize questions,      9 1 , 93, 3 53    ducing heat,                172
projectiles, Measuring velocity Steam. Patent fcr generating,
   Of,                          220                                 191
                                                                Steam*

37«5                           INDEX.
Steam-engine Itilers. Patent, 191        Vaccination, 189,279,327,367
Steam-engine. Patent for, 369,           Van Diemen't jLand. On, 157,
                                                                           200
Stevens's patent,                191 Vanquelin's analysis of milk, 176;
Stirrups. Patent for,            191        of smut of wheat, 177; of
Stockings. Patent,         287,370          guano, 177; of cerite, 193
Stvne in the blodder. On,         51 Ventilator. Patent,                   287
Stones- Jrom the clouds. On, 7 1 Violin. Patent for tuning, 95
Storms. On allaying, by means Volcanoes. On,                               262
   of oil,                        91 Voyage to Kamtschatka, 4, 1 1 5
Sugar made from beet-root and
   grapes,                       177 Water produced from its ele
Sugars. Patent for refining, 369            ments by pressure,             1 73.
Sulphate ef barytes. To decom If'aler-gladiole mzk.e$goo&bre?.d,
   pose,                         21 8                                      284
Sutton Spa. Account of,           61 Wilkinson's patent,                   370
Swallows. Torpidity of, 204 Wilson on Galvanism,                           260
                                         Wilson's patent,                  369
Tannin. To produce,by art, 271 Window-frame. Patent,
Tanning. Patent respecting, 370 Winds. Mitch ill on,                         14
Telescope. A new,                319 Witberbys patent,                     369
Tcnnant's discovery of iridium, Wolaston's discovery of palla
                                 2,3        dium,                          272
 Ttylerian Society, Haerlem, 353 Wood-louse. On the,                         53
Thornton (Dr.) on pneumatic Woof's patent,                                 369
   medicine,                 25,339 Wooll-comhing. Patent,                 369
Tillcch on elasticity, 138; on Woolx. Experiments on,                        40
   production of muriates by
    Galvanism,                   152 Tellow /ever. A prize question,
 Timber. Observations on, 309                                                93
 Tinfoil. Manufacture of, 113
 Travels,        54, 186, 187, 287 Zink. Patent for manufacturing,
 Trees. On sap of,               309                                         95
 Tales of elastic gum. To make, Zoology, 97, 155, 200, 204, 328
                                 340 Zoophytes. On,                  1 55, 200
                END OF THE TWENTY-SECOND VOLUME.
           Printed by R. Taylor and Co., (si, Stive Lane, Fleet itrut.







Tkilo.lfag.Vol TXTT.Tl.JV.


I
I




I




