The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015035394306
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.









                                      THE
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE                                                             :
                               COMPREHENDING
         THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                 THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                    GEOLOGY, AGRICULTURE,
            MANUFACTURES AND COMMERCE.
               BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
                    MjU.A.      F.S.A. Edin.  and Perth, &c.
   ** Nec aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex sc fila gignunt, nec Hotter
Tilior quia ex a 'eni» libunus ut apes." Jus i . Lirs. MtmH, J%JU. lib. i. cap. 1.
                                VOL. XXXV.
       For JANUARY,           FEBRUARY, MARCH, APRIL, MAY,
                                 and JUNE, 1810.
                                   LONDON:
         PRINTED      BY RICHARD TAYLOR AND CO., SHOE LANS:
    And sold by Richardson s ; Cadell and Da vies; Longman, Hurst,
         Rees, and Orme , Vexnor, Hood, and Sharpe; Murray;
             Highley; Sherwood and Co.; Harding; London:
                     Constable and Co. Edinburgh: Brash
                          and Run, and Niven, Glasgow:
                           4c Gilbert & Houses, Dublin.


           ~
         i    •
                4 ?.
          •S3- fc"
                      CONTENTS
                                     •
                                OP THE
            THIRTY-FIFTH VOLUME.
         e  Means      of counteracting the Effects produced ly
    the Formation      of the Gases found in Coal Mines . .          3
 On Expectorated Matter.          Abridged from    the Philosophical
   Transactions     for   1809                                      12
 Memoir on the lest Method of decomposing the Chromate
   of Iron, obtaining Oxide of Chrome, preparing Chromic
   Acid, and on some Combinations of the latter              ... 20
 Observations    on loaded and unloaded Barges, Boats, Beams,
   or floating Bodies descending with Streams or Currents,
   and why the heavier End will go foremost            . .   . .    31
 On Naevi Materni                                                   35
 Memoir on      the   Mineralogical Geography of        the Environs
   of Paris                                                        ,36
Account    of an   extensive   Organic Lesion of the Brain, tho
   racic   and abdominal Viscera, unaccompanied ly the
   Symptoms usually observed in similar Affections                  59
     Dr. PEARSON'S Proposal for an Institution for obtain
                                                       ....
 On
   ing Mn equal Temperature in Houses            . .                62
Description     of   a new Cupping Instrument          . .   . .    81
 On that Power      of  the  Eye,  by   which it is adjusted to see
   Objects distinctly at different Distances           . .   . .    82
 On a native Arseniate       of Lead   . .                   , ,    87
Description     of  a reflective Goniometer                         94
.Chemical Analysis       of a Black Sand, from     the river Dee, m
   Alerdeenshire                                                    98
Analysis of the Gray Copper Ore of Airthrey, in Stirling
   shire                                                           105
Vol.35. No. ] 46. June 1810.                   a                 Hints

                            CONTENTS.
 Hints     on the Subject  of Animal   Secretions      . .    . .   108
  Geological Remarks and Queries on Messrs. Cuvier and
      Brogniart's Memoir on the Mineral Geography
                                                                  of the
      Environs of Paris                                             113
 Report on a new Navigable Canal proposed to be cut from
       Okeham to Stamford, and from thence to the Town of
      Boston                                                        140
 On Crystallography.        By M. Hauv. Translated from the
      last Paris Edition o/"Aii TraitedeMineralogie, 145, 187>
                                                      261, 342, 452
 On a hard Artificial Stone that generates a considerable
      Quantity of Heat during its Consolidation ; with (he Ap
     plication of this Fact to the Came of Vulcanic Fires           153
 On Injuries     of the Brain                                       1 61
 On Salmon-Leaps                                                    163
 On Platina and Native Palladium from Brasil             .    . .   164
 On an Improvement in the Manner           of dividing astronomical
     Instruments                                                    1 68
 On     M. Bemetzrieder's          erroneous    Calculations     of  the
     Magnitudes     of certain musical Intervals       . .    ..    i75
 On the Culture       of Parsnips,   and their Utility     in feeding
      Cattle                                                        176
 Analysis of the Carbonated Chalybeate Well, lately disco
     vered at Middleton Hall, the Seat of Sic William Pax-
     ton, Kt.t near Llanurthney in Carmarthenshire                  1/9
 On the Preparation     of a Fibrous  Substance from Bean Stalks,
     applicable to the Uses for which Hemp is employed 180
 On tlie Identify    of Columbium and Tantalum .. .. 201
 Description of a Method offitting up in a portable Form the
    Electric Column lately invented by J. A. De Luc, Esq.
     Also an Account of several Experiments made with it 205
 On the comparative Influence       of Male    and Female Parents
     on their Offspring    .. ..      ..                            210
 On the Fossil Bones     of Horses   und  IVild Boars        ..     213
* - ;      •*
                                                              Extract

                             CONTENTS.
Extract from a Memoir          by  M. MATHIEU,        on the Discovery
  of   several Blocks     of Orbicular Granite recently found in
   Corsica                                                            222
On the Torpidity      of Animals                                      241
Description    of & Hydro-pneumatic          Table   for  collecting and
   transferring Gases, and for experimenting on permanently
   elastic Fluids                                                     247
On Salmon Fry         :  in Answer    to a Correspondent        . .    25 1
On the supposed Fresh-water Origin of tke Gypsum Strata
   in the Environs of Paris ; on the Geological Characters
   and Relations of the Alum Shales on tfie Northern Coasts
   of Yorkshire:        and on the Orbicular          Blocks   of Sienite
   on   Mount- Sorrel      Hill,  in Leicestershire                    256
On a Method         of examining      the Divisions     of astronomical
   Instruments                                                         277
 On Aximuthal Refraction                                               28?
Second     Vindication      of Dr. Herschel's Theory of Coloured
   Sings, in Answer to an anonymous              Reviewer        . .   289
Report      made    to the    French     Institute   on a   Memuir       of
    M. DELAROCHE           on the  Air-lladder of Fishes         . .   291
Description of an improved Apparatus               for  the  Decomposi
    tion of Potash and Soda                                            321
 On the Composition and Decomposition of Forces.                    Trans
    lated from " Traile elementaire do Staiique, par GAS-
    PARD MONGE                                                         323
 Description of the French Telegraphs used on the Coasts of
    Flanders, &c. with Observations on the same, and a Plan
    of a Polygrammatic Ttlegraph           on a new Construction 339
 Account    of I fie Whynn Dykes in the Neighbourhood of the
     Giant's Causeway, Ballycastle, and Belfast                   . . 364
 The Bakerian Lecture        for 1 809. On some new Electro-che
    mical Researches on various Objects, particularly the me-
     tallic Bootes, from tlie Alkalies, and Earths, and on some
     Combinations     of Hydrogen                                       401
                                                                 Qbserva-

                           CONTENTS.
 Observations respecting a New Scale          for  the  Thermome
   ter .                                                         416
 On the Properties    of Furze or Wliins                         427
Additional Observations for        the Purpose  of ascertaining   the
    Value   of growing Timber at different and distant Periods
   of   Time                           ,                         428
A List    of about Five Hundred Collieries in and near      to Der
   byshire                       ..        ..                   431
The Croonian Lecture. .          ..                        ..   439
 Comparative Tables      of  the Beats   of the Tempered Conso
   nances    in  M.   Kirnberger's     and the Isotonic or Equal
   Temperament Systems         of Tuning ; with Remarks      on   the
   common     System used     by Organ    Tuners,  compared     with
   that   of M.  Kirnberger                                     448
Notices respecting New Books . .          ..   66, 302, 382, 467
Proceedings    of Learned   Societies 74, 154, 225, 303,   383,460
Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles        76, 157, 232, 317,
                                                          399>  468
List of New Patents            . .   79, 158, 237, 319, 399, 470
Meteorological     Tables   .. ..    80, 160, 240, 320, 400, 473
                                                              THE

                                THE
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
 I.  On (he Means of counteracting the Effects produced by
      the Formation of the Gases Jotind in Co/ul Mines.
                          To  Mr.   Tilloch.
SIR,   J.  AM induced to request you to lay the following
pages     before   the public, from a desire to put a subject of
much importance in a train for investigation.             Little has
hitherto been written on the subject, calculated to do away
the frequency of the dreadful accidents to which miners are
incident ; and what has been written has come from the
pens of those who were not every way qualified to do justice
to what they have taken in hand.
    As the manner of working mines varies according to cir
cumstances, many things herein will appear to some as
redundant, while to others much will seem to be omitted.
But let it be remembered that I -Jay no claim to general
knowledge: what will be advanced is chiefly the result of
practical observation in a particular district.
    To men of considerable experience in mining, probably,
nothing will be found worthy of attention : but if a few in
dividuals should chance to reap any benefit, or should it
prove the means of preventing one single accident, my end
will, in no small .degree, be obtained. With regard to the
experimental part, it may be proper ID observe, that my
situation renders it in many instances impossible to pro
cure apparatus of the best kinds ; and hence, if any inac
curacies should chance to he discovered           by the scientific
reader,    it is hoped ample   allowances    will be made.
    In endeavouring to accomplish the important and de
sirable object before us, we ought to adopt those measures
which have a tendency to prevent the accumulation of the
    Vol. 35. No. 141 . Jan. 1810.               A 3         noxious

4                            On preventing Occidents
noxious gases            ;   for wherever they are suffered              to accumu-
1late,  there is continual danger*.
    I do not know of any vehicle, neither do I think it pos-
 sihle to devise one, at all comparable to that with which
Nature has wisely provided us, namely, atmospheric air.
   This offers itself so abundantly, and requires such simple
arrangements to convey and apply it to the purpose, that we
may be considered as extremely deficient in our duty, if we
do not make the best use of               it,
                                           before we turn our attention
to matters of speculation.              In fact, no contrivances can
supply its place.       A salubrious atmosphere so necessary        is
to the healthy action of the human system, that in mines
where       due proportion of its viial principle in
                a                                                      given       a
space       sometimes wanting,
            is                              it   the cause of numbers
                                                 is
lingering out      life of diseasef.
                         a
    Every remedy which tends materially to increase the ex
pense of working           mine, or which throws considerable
                               a
obstacles in the way of getting and conveying the minerals
out of the mine, cannot on these accounts in the present
day be adopted.        Of this kind we may reckon the schemes
for neutralizing    or   destroying the gases               by
                                                        chemical agency;
such,   for  instance,     as the one of oxy-murraiic               acid for
destroying^re-dawi//, proppsed                  Dr.
                                                 by  Trotter        The ex
                                                                         f.
pense attending       such       process
                                   a         would     be  enormous, the
mode of practice unmanageable', and the remedy,                         could if   it
be successfully employed, would be worse than the disease.
The quantity of hydrogen gas, or^re-rfflmp, evolved during
one day          mine subject to
                    in
                     a                          it, almost incredible to
                                                      is
persons unacquainted         with    the  fact     and; as we cannot rea
 sonably expect      to   procure     chemical      reagents at        much        a
 cheaper  rate  than    this gas may      be   obtained    artificially, the
 idea of applying them to this purpose must therefore be
 entirely abandoned.
    There are also other modes which might be adopted,
 such as procuring light accompanied                       by
                                                           heat below the
                                                                a
 temperature requisite        to   fire  the    inflammable     gas; or                 by
    * This requires no         because accidents can never happen but where
                       proof,
 there     is              of gas.
                an accumulation
    The idea of preventing their formation     too ridiculous to deserve the
                                                 is
 least notice.
    t   Working in mines, where Jirt-damp     very prevalent,
                                                is                the occasion of
                                                                         is
 vii'lc-ni headachs, and sometimes of sore eyes.    Ck'.kt-ilsimp      considered
                                                                              is
 as producing asthmas,    headachs, &c.
    \   " A Proposal for destroying the Fire- and Choke-damps of Coal Mines,
 &c., &c., on the Principles of modern Chemistry, by T. Trotter." New
 castle,
                                                                                   forming

                  from Fire- damp in Mines*                       A~
 forming an insulated atmosphere round the flame of a lamp
or a candle; admitting the air of the mine thereto in such
proportion, and so diluted with the insulated and incom
bustible air, as to prevent explosiom
     This last plan has often been proposed 5 and I under
stand that a gentleman of Sundcrland has completed a
 contrivance of this kind.        Although these modes of ob
 taining the end in view are in a great measure free1 from,
 the difficulties inseparable from reagents,         yet there are
 others which render them also objectionable.
     With regard to the first method, the only one with which
 I am acquainted is the steel mill as it is called, which
 consists of a number of flints, so placed with respect to a
 circular steel pulley or wheel, to which a handle is fixed,
 that, when it is turned, a considerable quantity of light is
 given out.     The manual labour attendant on this plan, to
 gether with the expense of renewing the apparatus,          (to say
 nothing of the imperfect light procured,) renders it inappli
 cable to ordinary purposes.         Indeed I believe it is seldom
 or ever used, except in peculiar situations, when a part of
 the mine is incapable of ventilation, without great expense
 or difficulty. Moreover, it cannot be considered as entirely
 free from danger of exploding the gas; and that this has
 actually happened, 1 am well informed.
     Reflectors are sometimes used to convey light, in thril
  ling (or thurling) between two shafts of no great depth,
 or for other works of a like nature, where the quantity of
foe-damp is considerable, and incapable of being carried
  off with facility.
     Concerning lamps constructed so as to burn in an insu
  lated atmosphere, nothing deduced from practice can be
  said. They must necessarily be expensive, and extremely
  liable to be broken by pieces of coal, &c., flying from the
  workmen, or from accidental falls; and should this happen
 in a part of the mine where the gas. was accumulated in a
  quantity sufficient to render the use of such a lamp neces
  sary, what would he the consequence ? Besides, compli
  cated machinery is    ill   calculated for ignorant and careless
  miners:   an   instrument of this nature must needs require
  nice adjustment and frequent trimming, which last could
  not be done with perfect safet" where any danger was to be
  apprehended.       In short, men who have ever been accus
  tomed to the use of     a    candle, and a   piece of clay as the
  ready  means   of  fixing
                         it   where   circu.n*tances  require, will
  not willingly be incumbered with     a    lamp,  even  of com
                                                           a
  mon construction.       Thereis   another   serious  objection to
                                A3                               be

 6                   On preventing Occidents
 be urged against all the foregoing modes of obtaining light,
 namely, the pre-supposed want of a sufficient quantity of
 oxygen in the atmosphere j this, added to the positive bad
 qualities of the gases present in such situations, would
 greatly endanger the health and lives of the workmen.
    Let  us  now turn our attention to the more practicable
 and effectual  plan of ventilation ; and in pursuing this sub
ject  we  will commence   with the first opening of a colliery.
    It should be understood, that hydrogen and carbonic
 acid gases are often met with in sinking shafts of consider
able depth, as in many instances such are evolved for a
length or- time in great quantities from fissures in the strata,
 If two shafts are sunk near together, thrilling occasionally
through from one to the other is of great utility ; but iit
some instances this is by no means sufficient to produce the
desired effect.    Should this bo Hie case, air-pipes of large
diameter must be extended from the bottom of the sinking
 shaft, through the last thril into the adjoining shaft, in
the bottom of which, providing it is not deeper than the
thril last made, (in which case a scaffold will be necessary,)
a fire ought to be constantly kept burning : by this means
pure air will descend the sinking shaft, carrying with it the
extricated gases up the pipes into the adjoining shaft,
whose column of air will be rarefied by the fire. I conceive
this method to he superior to that of building a cupola, in
which a fire is placed, upon the ascending shaft; because,
if the chimney be not somewhat near the size or diameter
of the shaft, the current of air will be impeded thereby.
Besides, a rarefied column of air in a deep shaft has a
greater tendency to produce a quicker current, than the
column of air in a chimney, beyond doubt.
    When no communication can readily be had with an
 other shaft, it is sometimes customary to partition the
sinking shaft with boards down the middle. This, though
 a simple, is an expensive plan ; and if the temperature
occasioned by the workmen is the only means of pro
ducing a circulation, how must it be carried on, when the
men are not at work ?      I ain^ aware that where there are
 pumps working, these would, in some measure, remedy this
seeming defect, especially by occasionally turning or spill
ing the water lifted down from the top to the bottom of
 the shaft, for a short time.
    If wooden air-pipes, of about 15 inches diameter, are
put down the sinking shaft, and the upper ends of them are
ixed to the ash-pit of the engine boiler, (which, for an
engine capable of lifting the water of a deep shaft, is of
                                                   considerable

                   from Fire-damp in Mines.                    1
 considerable size,) and the ash-pit is purposely constructed,
 by being closed in front, and provided with a door, through
 which the ashes may be removed, all the air required for
 combustion must necessarily be forced up the pipes out of
 the shaft, owing to the great rarefaction existing in the
 ash-pit and engine chimney.      The fire bars should in this
 case be far asunder, and be kept very clean, in order to
 allow a greater quantity of air to pass through their inter
 stices;
    Another plan consists in the use of llast cylinders,
worked by the engine. Though these are generally con
structed so as to force air down the pipes, yet I should re
commend the reverse mode, because it will frequently oc
 cur that the air will be foul in some parts of the shaft
and yet be salubrious at the bottom : besides, the down
ward blast prevents the conveying feeders or jets of gases
from particular fissures directly out of the shaft, by turning
them into the air- pipes.    Of the methods above detailed,
the second, by thrilling, appears to me to have a decided
advantage, from its constant and extensive powers of venti
lation.
    We will now suppose the shaft or shafts to be sunk
down, and a direct communication formed in the mine,
and shall now touch upon such a course of proceedings as
ought to be adopted to ensure the working of the mine
with safety.
    It is generally customary to begin with driving two pa
rallel headings or levels, pretty near to each other, inter
secting the pillar betwixt them by thrils, as often as occa
sion requires, taking care to make up or closely stop. the
last but one after them in succession. One of these levels is
called the air-way, or wind-gate ; and the other, the wag
gon-way, or passage through which the produce 6f the
mine is conveyed to the shaft ; and these are extended to
the boundary fixed upon for the workings*
    When other headings are made to communicate with
these at ritiht angles, or in any other direction, it is neces
sary to place a close- shutting door, in order to turn the
current of air, out of its course, through one branching
heading, and back along another.       But there is such a va
riety in the modes of working mines, each of which is
adapted to peculiar circumstances, that it would be tedious
to detail them particularly ; neither is it absolutely neces
sary.
    As a great deal of expense may be spared and many ac
cidents avoided, in situations where /ire-damp is prevalent,
                               A4 .                          by

8                         On preventing Occidents
by having these headings properly constructed, it may not
be amiss to state generally what should be observed in
forming them.
   The first thing to be attended to               is,
                                            to have the air- and
waggon-ways of sufficient width and height, so as to ad
                          a
mit an abundant quantity of air to carry off the extricated
gases    and
         ;      proportioning them,
                  in                     would b« well to attend
                                              it
to the extent and number of air- ways, Sec., or the area
of mine required to be got or worked to shaft and like   a        ;
wise to the quantity of gas likely to be evolved.        In thin
mines of coal, this ought to be an important consideration.
No passages or headings,       situations where the workings
                                  in
are likely to be extensive, ought to be less than four feet
and  a  half square.   There       lateral friction occasioned
                                     is   a
by  air passing through apertures of every description, and.
this    in proportion to the area of their sides,       smooth;   if
     is is                by
and     increased      the roughness and irregularity of the
surface passed over, as well as               by
                                        contractions*.    There
are other obstructions to     regular
                                 a     circulation,  such as  thp
opening of doors, men or horses, &c. &c., passing                      in   a
direction contrary to the current of air; and these circum
stances render capacious air-ways indispensable.
   Secondly. Every part of such air- and waggon- ways should
be made as secure as possible for, when they are left in an
                                       ;
unfinished and temporary state, they must needs, ere long,
be repaired, at an additional expense, to say nothing of the
hindrances and accidents to which such slovenly manage
ment     liable.
         is
   Thirdly. Thrills should be made nearly as large as the
air-ways      number of contractions of this kind would ren
              ;   a
der  a  capacious air-way of no service.       When they arc
made up, great attention should be paid to their being air
tight, otherwise the air will be lost, and the current thereby
considerably diminished.
   Fourthly, Doors for the purpose of turning the air
should be well made, very tight, and firmly fixed. They
are sometimes constructed with springs, &c., so as to shut
of themselves    but as the most simple contrivances arc
                      ;
found to answer best, these do not generally obtain. There
is   amethod of construction, which appears to me to be
capable of answering very well, namely, swing doors, which
if properly framed together, and suspended         double cenby
tres, will shut of themselves, and open wLth little trouble;
  * Any person may satisfy himself of the truth of this, by noting th* re-
pular current of air through the windings of coal mine, and then causing
                                               a
the air to past directly between the two thalts.
                                                                       they

                                       Mines,
                     from Fire-dump in                                       $
they should be hung at about two-thirds of their length
from their bottom end, and counterbalanced so as to act
against the current of air. In mines where horses are used,
a man will thrust them open without delay, and they will
immediately shut after him. Common doors, such as shut
one way, are on many accounts the best ; but they are apt
to be left open in situations where persons are not expressly
appointed to attend them, and indeed blown open by the
air acting in a contrary direcuon, owing to the sudden im
pulses of blasts, or shots fired, See. &c.
   Lastly. Great care ought to be taken to preserve the
air-ways, &c. in good repair; and should any part of
them give way, no time must be lost in securing them,
and removing the rubbish, that there lie no obstruction to
free  ventilation*.
     When all the headingsare completed, or as many of
them     are deemed necessary,
           as                    it is customary to proceed
in working the mine; but, for reasons already stated, it
would be departing frowi my original intention to say any
thing upon this      head.
   Indeed, to an intelligent miner, who has an abundant
supply of air at his back, little difficulty will arise in turn
ing it effectually to his purpose.
   Ventilating the waste or old workings, so as to prevent
an accumulation of damp, is a matter of importance.           In
thin mines it is riot necessary to do it for any length of
time,- as the roof and floor soon gradually close together :
in others, where the roof\$ rock, and of such thickness as
to stand under any circumstances, it may be practised with
ease: it is in mines of four feet thick and upwards, whose
superior strata are not capable of supporting themselves for
a considerable width, that the greatest difficulties arise. To
leave sufficient pillars of coal would frequently be to bury
the profits of a colliery, and at the same time destroy an
amazing quantity of valuable fuel.
   Thin pillars are in general required to ventilate the
workings, and these are for the most part left : where they
happen to stand until a general weight or settlement of the
 •
   •   I
       have known instances, where the air-ways have been so much neg
lected in this particular, at to put a complete stop to the circulation of air ;
and, as might very naturally he expected, several misfortunes happened in
consequence. The     ill  effects attending such unpardonable inattention are
almost incalculable :— loss of men's lives, loss of time, expense incurred in
repairs rendered more difficult to accomplish from damages sustained by
explosions   the invariable advance in men's wages, as some compensation
                ;
for the great danger* lo which they are exposed, may all be placed to this-
•ccovat.
                                                                    superior

 JO                           On preventing Accidents
 superior strata takes place, and the waste Jills vp, it it
 well, as then no damp will accumulate, and thereby en
danger the lives of the neighbouring workmen.
    Too much caution cannot be observed, by men who are
working near such old hollows, never to introduce their
candles into any cavities which may happen to be pene
trated, but immediately extinguish them and retire, until
proper means can be adopted to ensure safety.            What ac
cidents have occurred for want of this simple precaution*!
    It may be, and in fact            is,
                                  at times necessary, owing to
increase of temperature or levity in the atmosphere, to ob
tain  a  greater supply of air than     wanted in the ordinary
                                             is
course of things, or, more properly speaking, to preserve an
uniform circulation.
    Here we have an admirable contrivance, whose powers
are unlimited     ;and this consists     rarefying the column of
                                             in
air in the ascending shaft by means of           fire. There ap
                                                  ,   a
pears to be       adifference of opinion as to the best mode of
accomplishing this. Some build          chimney or cupola upon
                                             a
or near to the shaft, making the top thereof so close that
the air must pass up the chimney, at the bottom of which
   fireis  placed    others hang,      means of
                                            by        chain, &c,
a a
                      :                                       a
   circular grate filled with burning fuel, down the shaft                       j
and some fix          grate in the bottom of the shaft, in
                      a                                                          a
heading, driven        few yards for the purpose while others
                          a                               ;
cut   a  groove in the shaft side, which, when built up in
front, forms      achimney.
    If we are to judge of the comparative merit of the fore
going plans from their respective powers of rarefaction,
we must give to the last method but one             decided prefe
                                                          a
rence. By         we are enabled to produce the greatest diffe
                 it
rence in weight between the two columns of air, on which
ventilation solely depends        and ;   the grate be placed
                                                 if                              a
tolerable height, and opposite to the current of air passing
into the shaft, we shall obtain the quickest draught for the
fire. The chimney not only greatly increases the effects of
the fire, but        sort of guard to the ropes, which might
                  by is
                          a
be damaged         coming too near the naked fire.
  I    shall conclude this imperfect sketch, with offering                       a
few general remarks, which, to those wbo put them in
practice, will not be found useless.
    In all cases where danger from fire-damp              to be apis
prehended, the miners should never work naked.                  not    It   is
   * This   very common trick of miners, owing to an idle curiosity; and
            is
            a
but too many have paid dearly for their temerity and want of considera
tion.

                  from Fire-damp in Mines.                     11
so much the depth of the burn as the extent of       it,
                                                      which
proves  fatal:   covering
                 a         of thin  flannel would  be found
almost invariably to confine the injury to the face and ex
tremities. Some miners cannot afford to do this, and others           i
will not, considering clothing as an incumbrance; but
where men's lives and the interest of the proprietors
are so much at stake,      itought to become a  matter of com
pulsion.
    Should it  so happen, that through some unforeseen ac
cident an explosion takes place, the persons in immediate
 danger ought to throw themselves down, covering them
 selves as well as the spur of the occasion will permit, and
 then with all speed make their nearest way to that part of
 the mine from whence the air proceeds, taking care to
 creep as low as possible   :   by this means, suffocation from
 the azote, which remains after combustion, will be avoid
 ed. Should any one be so unfortunate as to fall thus for
 want of respirable air, or     by the choke-damp, every exer
 tion ought to be made to cltiise the air to circulate through
 the place, so as to enable the sufferer to be brought out       ;
  and when this       effected, resuscitating means should be
                      is
 immediately employed.         Instances often occur, of men
 being stifled   bythe azotic gas, who were little or none the
  worse from the effects of the explosion.
     In every instance, where miner penetrates any new or
                                 a
  neglected cavity whatever, the precautions before men
  tioned ought to be strictly observed, whether the mine be
  much subject to Jire-danip or not.
     The practice of laying scaffolds over or in    a   shaft, in
  order to do some necessary repairs, without being cautious
  to ventilate the underside, should be carefully avoided  ;  ter
  rible explosions have been known to follow this negligent
  practice.
     These and other similar remarks, which will occur to
  every one conversant with mining business,
                                                    if   properly
  modified, would form      a code of rules, with which every
   miner should be acquainted.
   December 19, 1809.
    *m*   We shallat all times be glad to receive papers of the
 above description from practical men, on the subject of their
 pursuits, and shall think little of our trouble in rounding a-
 period, or correcting grammatical inaccuracies, for such as
 may chance to need this assistance, owing to the devotion
 if their time to other important objects.      Editor.
                                                           II.   On

                                  t    12    1
 II.   On Expectorated Matter.                 By George Pearsoh,
    M.D., F.R.S. Abridged from the Philosophical Tram-
     actions for 1809.
" The         attention of physiologists has been very much
withdrawn, for the last half century, from the consideration
of the different states of the circulating and secreted fluids,
in consequence of the opinion that the nervous and fibrous
or muscular systems can afford satisfactory interpretations
of the phaenomena of living beings ; and on account of the
disgust produced by the visionary properties and groundless
hypotheses, originating in the humoural doctrines of Galen.
But late experiments have manifested, that various things
taken into the stomach can be made at pleasure to produce
 considerable effects, by impregnating sensibly the blood
and urine, as well as the milk, sweat, and perhaps saliva.
Further, the fine experiments of Professor Colman have
shown, that the contagious glanders may be excited in the
ass by the transfusion of the blood of a glandered horse,
and the matter from the nose of the glandered ass can
 produce this disease in the horse or the ass*. Hence I ap
prehend it is reasonable to expect, that the further investi
gation of the properties of the animal fluids will afford
 gratifying instruction to the researcher in natural science,
 and important practical infqrmation to the physician.
     " On the present occasion, I desire the honour of com
 municating the knowledge I may have acquired, by inves
 tigating the properties of expectorated                matter secreted by
 the bronchial membrane.              The appearances of this sub
 stance serve to regulate the judgement of the physician con
 cerning several diseases of the lungs ; but especially of that
 of pulmonary tubercles, which yearly destroys 120,000 to
 140,000 subjects of the United Kingdom.                      It is fit that  I
 remark, that I do not notice in this paper the ingenious
 experiments of several learned chemists, because by so
 doing I should be led into a detail of too great extent for
 my design.
     " The numerous varieties of expectorated matter, ac
 cording to my observation, may be arranged and characte
 rized under the following seven heads :
     " I. The jelly-like semi transparent kind of ablueish hue,
 excreted in the healthy state.
    * Mr.  Colman alleges, that there is not a sufficient quantity of blood, i«
 a single glandered ass, to excite the  glanders by the transfusion of blood
feto the norte.
                                                                   «  II. The

                        On Expectorated Matter.                   IS
      " II.  The thin mucilage-like         transparent matter, so
  copiously expectorated       in bronchial catarrhs.
      " III. The thick opaque straw-coloured, or white and
  very tenacious matter, coughed up in a great variety of
  bronchial and pulmonary affections ; especially in that of
  tubercles.
      " IV. Puriform nutter secreted without any division of
  continuity, or«breach of surface ot" the bronchial membrane,
  very commonly occurring in pulmonarv consumptions.
      " V. The matter which consists of opaque viscid masses,
  together with transparent fluid; or the second sort above
  stated, with nodules of the third or fourth kind.
      " VI. Pus from the vomicae of tubercles.
      " Vil. Pus from vomicae by simple inflammation of the
  lungs, and without tubercles.
      " Other kinds of matter are occasionally coughed up,
  such as calculi — masses of self-coagulated lymph — serous
  fluid — blood itself — and perhaps the vascular substance of
  the lungs ; but I do not write on these matters, because
  th^y either do not belong to any particular recognized dis
  ease ; or they are rare occurrences in some well known
  disease, and are too obvious to require description.
                "  § I.   Senw'ile or obvious Properties.
      "  1. The jelly-like matter, as already said, is excreted
  in   the best health, as well as sometimes in disease.        It is
  mostly coughed, or hawked up, in a morning soon after a
  night's repose, during which it seems to accumulate.             A
  few masses,     or nodules, then appear of the consistence of
  jelly, and of the size of a pea to a hazle nut. It is also at
  any time liable to be excreted, in consequence of various
  extraneous matters irritating the fauces, to the amount of
   a few nodules.       It is of a grayish colour or inclining to
   blue, with black specks ; and it is rarely whitish in no
   dules. The consistence is that of jelly, but of much greater
   tenacity.    It has a barely perceivable taste of common salt,
   or muriate of soda.        It commonly floats on water, but by
•
   agitation to disengage air bubbles, it sinks.          It has no
   smell.    To the naked eye, or assisted by a single magni
   fier, this matter seldom appears uniform, but consists of a
   mixture of opaque and transparent masses of irregular fi
   gures.    With the compound microscope, spherical parti
   cles were perceived, though few in number, when duly
   diluted. The presence of an alkali I could in no instance
   perceive, by means of the usuail tests, namely, turmeric
                                                              paper,

 14                          On Expectorated Matter.
   paper, litmus paper slightly reddened by vinegar, and cloth
  stained with violel juice ; nor was an acid denoted by means
  or' liunus paper, except when I had reason to believe ^t was
  derived from various acid substances taken with the food,
  or drink, adhering to the inside of the mouth and fauces.
      " 2. The mucilage-like expectorated matter, according to
  my observation, occurs much less frequently than the other
  sorts.   It appears suddenly in great abundance in certain
  bronchial catarrhs.      I have seen it to the amount of two or
 three pints       twenty -four hours.
                   iii                            also se'creted, but
                                                     It      is
  less copiously, in paroxysms of spasmodic asthma, and of
  the hooping-cough        and but rarely in pneumonic or pleu
                              ;
 ritic inflammations, and in some chronical organic diseases
 of the heart and lungs.
     " This matter         transparent uniform fluid of the con
                             is
                             a
 sistence of white of egg or of mucilage compounded of
                                        ;        a
 about one part of arabic gum, and four or five parts of
 water.     It is colourless — has    fleshy smell — has
                                             a               brackish a
 taste. After standing eight or ten hours,             deposit takes
                                                                  a
 place of fibrous, leaf-like, or curdy masses, some of which
 are seen suspended in the clear fluid.         In some cases no
 dules of opaque thick ropy- matter, at certain times, ac
 company this mucilage-like matter.             Under the simple
 magui fieri perceived irregular figured masses partly in motion
 and partly suspended. With the microscope, globules were
 seen ;   but larger considerably than those of the blood, and
 much less numerous.          With the usual tests there were no
 indications "ef alkali nor of acid, provided the matter was un
 mixed with other things.         usually floated, or was suspend
                                        It
ed in water, when first expectorated         but on standing in the
                                                     ;
water  it  fell to the bottom, evidently owing to the disen
gagement of air-bubbles.
     " By standing exposed to the air in warm weather,                        it
sooner grew fcetid than pus of abscesses           without becom
                                                              ;
ing opaque. Neither could render            I  opaque or thicker,
                                                         it
by exposure to        stream of oxygeri gas for an hour
                         a                                      or        ;   by
exposure of      itin ajar of this gas for    month.     a
     " 3. The opaque ropy matter above mentioned.
    " 1st.    It   secreted most copiously
                   is                                    in
                                                that very common,
and extensively epidemial disease of our climate, the winter-
cough, occasioned             by
                            tubercles, to the amount of half                  a
pint to pint in twenty-four hcurs; especially during the
          a
winter season for several successive years, and sometimes
during the whole of          long life, after the age of forty or
                               a
fifty years. sdly.           Itoften the expectorated matter of
                                   is
                                                                   the

                       On Expectorated Matter.                     15
the pulmonary consumption of young persons, also oc
casioned by tubercles, but frequently mistaken for the pus
of abscesses or vomicae.          3dly. It appears, oftentimes, in
pneumonic        or bronchial inflammation   with fever, seemingly
being     a beneficial  discharge  ; as well as in some instances
at the close of a fever without concomitant inflammation
of the lungs. 4thly. A severe paroxysm of spasmodic
asthma is often terminated in the excretion of this kind of
matter.        5thly. A secreted substance of this sort is some
 times expectorated in various chronical organic diseases of
 the lungs, the heart, aorta, and parts contiguous to the
 lungs, which occasion difficult transmission of blood through
 them.
     " In all these instances the matter by expectoration is of
 the consistence of thick cream, or of thin toasted cheese;
 so tough as to hang in the form of a rope, four or five
 inches in length, on pouring it from one vessel into an
 other.      Its aggregation is such that it is readily detached in
 large masses from the vitreous surface of vessels.         It is not
 unusual for small black, or reddish spots, and streaks, to
 appear on the surface of this sort of expectorated substance.
 A pretty large bulk of it is seldom throughout uniform ;
  but it is frothy, and exhibits opaque masses of various hues
  with transparent matter interposed. The colour.is yellow
  ish, straw-coloured, and white, or gray : it also, though
  seldom, is greenish and blueish. The taste asserted by pa
  tients, is, -in their own terms, various, namely, saltish,
  nasty, iaintish, sweetish, luscious, or like that of a sweet
  oyster, — a sharp or sour taste is the most rare.        The only
  smell which I have perceived is that of flesh, but very fre
  quently there is none. When any offensive or pungent
   smell was perceived,        immediately after expectoration, I
   have always found that it was owing either to the foulness
   of the vessel in which it was received ; or it was from ex
   traneous matters in the mouth, and from decayed teeth.
      " This opaque viscid substance, being duly diluted with
   distilled water, was examined with microscopes of common
   as well as of very great powers : by me.Mis of any of them
   crowds of spherical particles were seen passing to and fro,
   in currents, not unlike those of the blood ; except that they
   were larger.      These globules I could not destroy, nor alter
   in form, by trituration ; nor by long boiling in water; nor
    by exsiccation, and again dissolving in water ; nor even by
    coagulation with mineral and vegetable acids, with alcohol,
    with sulphuric ether, or with tannin, and alum ; nor by
    mixture with caustic alkalies in a proportion which leaves the
                                                                liquor

 1C                   On Expectorated Matter.
 liquor turhid   ;  nor for some time after the putrefactive pro
 cess had appeared.      But these globules disappear with such a
 proportion    of  sulphuric  acid as detaches charcoal ; or of ni
 tric acid, and of liquid potash, as produce a clear solution :
 also hy charring by fire.         It is perhaps superfluous to re
 mark, that these atomic globules are quite different from
 the air bubbles usually entangled in this kind of matter, as
 perceived by the microscope ; the latter differ much. from
the former, in being of far greater magnitude — in being less
 numerous — in being transparent, and disappearing on agi
tation, or heating the matter, or even by mere standing.
    " For the most part this expectorated substance swims
 on water; but by agitation or stirring to disengage air
bubbles, or by merely standing, it sinks.              Some of the"
lumps suddenly hawked up, immediately fall to the bottom
of a vessel of water. No signs of either acid, or alkali,
appeared on the trials of this matter with well known re
agents, provided it was free from extraneous matter; but
it was apt to betray acidity from things taken with the food
or drink.
    " 4. Puriform matter. I have seen this matter expec
torated in several diseases in the quantity of two or three
ounces to half a pint in twenty-four hours, on some rare
occasions, without any breach of surface.               I believe it
would be considered by every one to be pus, having the
properties commonly admitted to be those of this sub
stance.     It will, however, perhaps, only be just to call it
purifurm, for the present, as it appears to me probable,
that I shall hereafter be able to show that it possesses pro
perties not belonging to pus of abscesses, although in the
obvious, or sensible properties, it is similar to such pus.
Accordingly this expectorated matter is not only opaque,
white, or yellowish, and thick as the richest cream, but
it also has not more tenacity than cream. It is not apt to
entangle air, and therefore it immediately mingles with
water, rendering it milky ; and presently subsides to the
bottom, leaving the water clear, or at least whey-coloured.
It appears to the naked eye uniform in its texture ; and nearly
so under the simple lens : but under the microscope thou
sands of globules similar to those of the blood are seen,
which are indestructible as those above related belonging
to another kind of expectorated matter.
    " The substance, of which I am now speaking, is most
frequently excreted in the latter stages of pulmonary phthi
sis, for many weeks successively.            It is taken for granted
that this matter     is from  a  breach of surface or uleeration j
                                                                 but

                     On Expectorated Matter.                    \J
but on examination after death, such a state was not found,
in many instances, under my observation, although the
lungs were as usual full of tubercles and vomicae.           This
puriform matter is occasionally expectorated in certain other
diseases.     The last summer my colleague, Dr. Nevinson,
furnished me with several ounces of this sort of substance,
but of a greenish hue, and of the consistence of thin cream ;
which was expectorated by a woman in the third week
From the attack of the measles.         In a few days she died.
On examination of the lungs very carefully, by the excel
lent house surgeon of St. George's hospital, Mr. Dawes,
no ulceration could he discovered in the trachea or in the
bronchial tubes ; nor were any tubercles or abscesses found
in the kings. The patient, according to my information,
had expectorated more than a pint of this fluid every twenty-
four hours for a week before, death. In another hospital
case, a man laboured under a cough with spitting of mat
ter, which all who saw it called pus, and as usual it was
considered to arise from an ulceration, or suppurated tu
bercles ; but, on examination after death, the disease was
ascertained to be condensation of the lungs, to the con
 sistence of liver, with water in the cavities of the chest,
 and nothing more.        -
    " 5. Opaque viscid matter of a third, and perhaps fourth
 sort, above distinguished, appearing in nodules, and irre
 gular-figured masses, mixed with transparent slimy matter
 of "the second sort.
       It is not unusual to see ihe mixture of these two different
 kinds, from severe fits of coughing in that constant epidemy
 of the British islands, the winter chronical pneumonia.
    " Different parts of the bronchial membrane being in
 different states, may account for the secretion of the two
 different matters. This seems more probable than that these
 different matters should be secreted from the same part ;
 although it is true that the same part does secrete at one
 period transparent thin slime, and at another an opaque
 thick matter. The former is occasioned by great irritation
 of the membrane, and the latter is the effect of a more
 gradual secretion with much less irritation.
     " For the sake of brevity, 1 avoid a further description.
 The practical application of these observations, however
 important, would not be suitable in this place.
    ** The sixth and seventh kinds of
                                         expectorated substances
 being secreted after bl quite different manner, and being
 very different in their nature from the preceding five kinds,
 I shall not give an account of them in this paper." ,
     Vol. 35. No. 141. Jan. 1810.               B             (The

18                     On Expectorated Matter.
   [The author then describes at large, and with much pre
cision, the effects produced on expectorated matter by the
agency of caloric ; of alcohol of wine, of water ; and of
acetous acid     — also some experiments with different objects
from any of these : but we confine the remaining part of
the present extract to his Conclusions, as containing that
kind of information which will be most acceptable to the
generality of our readers.]
                            "   Conclusions.
     "   1.   From
             the preceding experiments and observations,
and from others which I might have related, it does not
appear that the various kinds of expectorated matter, page 1 2,
differ in the ingredients of their composition, but merely
in the proportion of them to one another.
    " 2. It has been shown that expectorated matter consists
of coagulable, or, as it is also now frequently termed, albu
minous animal substance, and of water impregnated with
several saline and earthy bodies ; — that the largest proportion
of the animal substance, which may justly be called an
oxide, amounts to one-twelfth, and in some very rare cases
to one-tenth of the expectorated matter, reduced to a brittle
state by evaporation ; and that the smallest proportion of
this oxide, in rare instances, amounts to one forty-fifth of
the expectorated matter; but that the usual proportions of
it vary between one-twentieth and one-sixteenth of this
coagulable oxide to the evaporable water, that          between  is,
five and six per cent, of the expectorated matter.
    " 3. The impregnating substances have been shown to
be muriate of soda, varying commonly between one and                              a
half to two and half per 1000 of the expectorated matter—
                       a
 Potash varying between one-half and three-fourths of                             a
 part per 1000 — Phosphate of lime about half part of 1000   a
—Ammonia, united probably to the phosphoric acid phos                  ;
phate, perhaps of magnesia; carbonate of lime          sulphate;
                                                             ;   a
verifiable matter, or perhaps silica; and oxide of iron. But
 the whole of these last six substances scarcely amounting
 to one part       1000 of the expectorated matter,
                  in                                       would       it
 be useless to estimate the proportion of each of them.                      It   is
 very probable that the proportions and quantities of these
 ingredients vary much more than now represented             dif            in
 ferent states of disease and health *.            It
                                                  very probable
                                                        is
 also, that some of the ingredients may occasionally be ab-
   * In one case, the opaque expectorated matter in pulmonary consump
                                                     a
tion having beeu exsiccated to brittleuess, became almott liquid after night'i
                                                                        a
•iposure to the air.
                                                                             aeut,

                    On Expectorated Matter.                   l$
sent, and others of a different kind be present, agreeably
to the different states,  on different occasions of the other
secretions.
   " 4. It is manifest that the different states of consistence
of expectorated matter are owing to the proportion of al
buminous orcoagulable oxide ; but I purposely avoid giving
an account of the different conditions of health, on which
the differences of consistence depend.
   " 5. The thicker the matter, the smaller I commonly
found the quantity of saline impregnation.          Hence, in
sudden and copious secretions of the bronchial membrane,
the matter is asserted to be salt, and to feel hot.    In such
instances, the proportion of coagulable matter was small,
but that of the saline impregnations, particularly of the
muriate of soda, and neutralized potash, so great, that the
exsiccated expectorated substance tasted very salt, and pre
sently grew moist, or even partially deliquesced ; but the
opaque ropy or puriform matter afforded a much larger
proportion 'of exsiccated residue, which was but slightly
salt, and generally only became soft on exposure to the
air. This property of growing moist depends upon the
potash.
    " 6. Each of the human fluids, according to my experi
ments, contains neutralized potash ; at least, this is the fact
of the blood, dropsy fluid, pus of abscesses, and pus se
creted without breach of surface; the fluid effused by vesi
cating with cantharides; the urine; and in course in the
very abundant secretion from the nose by a catarrh.         The
alkali being united to oxide of animal matter in these fluids,
it is easily demonstrable.
   " 7- Although [ think I have discovered many proper
ties by which expectorated secretion     may be distinguished
from expectorated pus, I shall not speak of them, on this
occasion, further than just to observe that the saline im
pregnation of pus, particularly that of potash, and muriate
of soda, is in very much less proportion than in expectorated
secretion ; and hence it dots not become moist after exsic
cation, on exposure to the air.
   " 8. It has been, I believe, uniformly asserted, that the
circulating and secreted fluids are' impregnated with soda;
that it is especially in the matter secreted by the bronchial'
membrane. The experiments of others must confirm or
disprove mine. It seernS, however, much more reasonable,'
that the human fluids should he found to contain potash
than soda, united to some oxide or destructible acid; be-'
cause the former alkali is daily introduced with the vege-
                                li 2                       table

SO              On the best Method       of decomposing
table food,     and with the drink of fermented liquor; and it
is as little likely to be destroyed, as the muriate of soda also
induced in the very same way. But our food and drink do
not, commonly at least, contain the soda united to a de
structible acid, or an oxide.
    *'
       9. It is plain, from the precvding experiments, that
expectorated matter belongs to the class of coagulable fluids,
and not of gelatinizable, or, as commonly asserted, mu
 cous fluids.      It differs from the coagulable fluid, serum of
blood,    in  forming a much thicker fluid with a much larger
proportion of water : for serum, and also the water of blis
 ters, is quite liquid, although they afford, on exsiccation,
one-twelfth to one-eleventh of their weight of brittle resi
due, while some kinds of expectorated matter, of the con
sistence of mucilage, afford only one-fortieth of dry residue,
and others of the consistence of thin paste afford only one-
fourteenth of residue.
    " 1O. But for the unavoidable extent of this paper, I
should trouble the learned Society with various other con
clusions and remarks, especially concerning the glnlularity
of expectorated matter, which seems to indicate organiza
tion. Although Antonius Van Lewenhoeck, above a cen
tury ago, discovered the globularity of the blood, and even
noticed it in other animal fluids, neither he, nor any other
person, as far as I know, investigated the subject in any
fluid but the blood, till by Mr. Home's acuteness and in
dustry, at a very early period of life, it was observed in
pus. I have in this paper related, that expectorated matter,
especially the opaque ropy kind, as well as the puriform,
is full of globules, and that, except by such agents as de
stroy charcoal, they are scarcely destructible.             Do these
spherical particles consist chiefly of organized carbonaceous
Blatter?"
III.   Memoir on the lest Method of decomposing the Cfiro-
    male
            of Iron, obtaining Oxide of Chrome, preparing
    Chromic Acid, and on some Combinations of t/ie latter.
    By M. VAoauELiN *.
 W HEN       I made my first experiments on chrome, I had
mch    a small quantity at my command that it was impossi
ble to vary them so as to bring all its properties before uiy
view.
                 *
                   From Anuaitt dt Chimit, tome Izx. p. TO.
                                                                The

                  the Chromate   of Iron, &c.               91
    The importance, however, of the oxide of chrome, on
account of its beauty and solidity as a green pigment for
earthenware, and in forming imitations of emerald, added
to the discovery of large quantities of chromate in the de
partment of the Var, determined me to resume the subject,
and to study the properties of chrome at greater length. In
the experiments about to be detailed I was assisted by
M. Robiquet, an eminent chemist of Paris.
        Process for decomposing the Chromate of Iron.
    Chromate of iron is generally employed in order to pro
cure a large quantity of the oxide of chrome : this ore has
for its matrix a kind of steatite, which, from its colour and
some other physical properties, might be confounded to a
certain extent with chromate itself, the more easily because
these two substances at first sight seem to form one and the
same mass : after a little attention, however, we find that
the matrix is composed of long and pearl-like lamina:,
whereas chromale of iron is very fine grained, shining, and
denser than the matrix.
    I had formerly employed, in preparing the oxide of
chrome, three parts of nftre to one of the ore reduced to
 fine powder ; but I have since found this proportion was
by far too large : indeed, as we can isolate the matrix but
very imperfectly, it happens that the nitre, by means of
 the alkali which it sets free, attacks not only the chromate
 of iron, but also the altimine and silex, which are there in
 large proportions ; and thus the chromate of potash is mixed
 with an alkaline solution of all these earths, from which
 two inconveniences result: in the first place, we are under
 the necessity of employing, in the separation of these
 earths and the saturation of the excess of alkali, a great
 quantity of nitric acid, and if it happens that we go beyond
 the quantity of acid necessary to the exact saturation of the
 potash, we redissolve a portion of silex, but principally of
 alumine : in the second place, these earths, on being pre
 cipitated, carry down with them chromate of potash, which
 cannot be freed from them by washing: a third incon
 venience occurs, particularly when we operate on a large
 scale, and when the heat is necessarily long continued,
 — this excess of alkali attacks the crucible and melts it.
 Thus the ceconomy and success of the operation require that
 we should employ only one half part of nitre to one of chro
 mate : by these means the mass does not enter into fusion,
 and the chromate is well attacked.      It has often happened
                                B 3                        that

S3             On the lest Method   of decomposing
 that the potash has been entirely saturated with chromic
 acid.
    This decomposition being effected, the mass is to be
well lixiviated, the residue is then to be treated, when hot,
with muriatic acid diluted in water, which takes up the
iron, magnesia, alumine, and silex, divided by the action
of the potash and the subtraction of the chromic acid.
   The solution being terminated, the acid liquor is speedily
decanted, otherwise it would go into a jelly, and it would
then be very difficult to separate the undecomposed chro-
mate : the latter is to be once more treated as at first ; but
instead of employing the same quantity of nitre, a fourth
part will be sufficient.    When the chromate of iron is en
tirely decomposed, we mix the solutions of alkaline chro
mate, in order to saturate them by the nitric acid, after
which it is proper to crystallize this chromate, as well in
order to separate some portions of earth which would have
been dissolved by the excess of acid, as to take up a little
chromate of iron, which is separated in brown dust by the
progress of evaporation.      We redissolve in water, filter,
and precipitate the liquor by a solution of nitrate of mer
cury at tbeminimum, containing the least possible quantity
of acid in excess.
   Even supposing that the chromate of potash has been
purified as we have indicated, i. e. that it contains neither
earthy substance nor muriate, the eliminate of mercury is
precipitated in a more or less intense colour, according to
the state of concentration of the solutions, their tempera
ture, and excess of acid. In some circumstances the mole
cules of this salt, by approaching each other more slowly,
assume more aggregation, even crystallize, and thereby
acquire a deeper red colour.      We may also remark that
the first portions precipitated are the palest, because, in pro
portion as we subtract chromic acid, it has the same effect
on chromate of potash as if we diluted the liquor. To con
clude, the colour has no influence on the quality of the
chromate of mercury.
   When the mercurial solution is employed at the mini
mum of oxidation, and as neutral as possible, there re
mains nothing in the mother water except nitrate of potash
and nitrate of mercury when a superabundance of these
has been introduced : but in general these mother waters
retain an amethyst colour, and yield with the alkalis a pale
green precipitate, which, when heated, leaves oxide of
chrome.
                                                          I have

                             the Ckromate           of Iron, &c.                     33
    I have attentively examined this precipitate, in order to
 become better acquainted with its nature and properties.
    When treated cold with caustic alkali it dissolves, and
communicates a fine green colour to the liquor: a red pow
der remained which presented all the characters of oxide of
mercury at the maximum. The alkaline solution, being                                fil
tered and subjected to ebullition, deposited  great quantity   a
 of green flakes of oxide of chrome, and preserved            fine          a
golden yellow colour: this was chromate of potash.
    Having diluted       waterin portien of the precipitate ob
                                           a
tained       the alkali of the above mother waters,
             by                                        remarked    I
that it  was composed of two different substances; the first
was flaky and light; the second, which always occupied the
bottom of the mixture, was formed of small crystals of                               a
violet brown.      These last presented the following proper
ties:   1st, When thrown on burning charcoal, they are
entirely volatilized and condensed        small purple needles
                                                        in
on such cold bodies as are exposed to their fumes.            2d,
When heated more slowly              retort, they furnish mer
                                               in   a
cury, and leave green oxide of chrome as          residue    they
                                                               a            :
are dissolved        weak nitric acid, communicating to
                        in                                                       it
                                                                                 a
fine yellow colour:        we pour into this solution nitrate of
                                  if
mercury at the minimum, common chromate of mercury                                   is
precipitated. 3d, When we treat this substance            caustic      by
                                                                       a
alkali, the latter acquires yellow colour, and
                                       a             red powder    a
remains which        oxide of mercury at the maximum, while
                        is
the common chromate of mercury gives black oxide              the           by
same process.
    The greenish precipitate obtained         the saturation of the
                                                         by
mother waters,          means of an alkali, contains therefore
                             by
green oxide and chromate of mercury at the maximum.
    From what      above stated, we may easily explain what
                    is
takes place   when   the mother waters, although containing
mercury   in  excess, nevertheless give       precipitate of chro
                                                         a
mate of mercury        the addition
                             by      or fresh  nitrate. The reason
of this      is,
            that although the nitrate of meicury at the maxi
mum precipitates the chromate of potash,              requires but
                                                              it                     a
very small quantity    of acid    order  toin
                                            he  dissolved    this in   :
cliued me to think formerly     that  this  precipitation   had   not
taken place, because the mercurial solution, con taming always
an excess of acid, and being rarely at the perfect minimum,
the chromate at the maximum, on account of an excess of
acid,   is
         kept     solution; but when we add
                   in                                fresh quantity
                                                               a
of nitrate of mercury, the portion at the minimum takes off
the chromic acid from the red oxide which is deposited                          :   if
                                           B    4                  on

54            On the lest Method     of decomposing
on the contrary we add alkali, we precipitate this chromate
at the maximum.
    It now remains to explain how oxide of chrome is found
in this precipitate: — the following experiment'seems adapted
to give a demonstration of it.       When we treat chromate of
mercury     at the minimum,    by the  nitric acid, the solution
is effected without the extrication of nitrous gas ; but if we
reduce the quantity of alkali necessary for the saturation of
the acid, we obtain in the first place a brownish-red sedi
ment formed of chromate of mercury at the maximum :
the solution by this subtraction becomes green, and preci
pitates, on the addition of a fresh quantity of alkali, green
oxide of chrome, which is easily n dissolved in an excess of
caustic alkali.     In this case, to all appearance, a portion
of the chromic acid is de-oxygenated in order to hyper-
oxidate the mercury, from which result chromate at the
maximum and oxide of chrome.
    It is therefore certain that the chromate of mercury at
the maximum, found in the mother water, may arise from
two causes : either it results from the mercurial solution,
if it contains oxide at the maximum, or it proceeds from
the solution of the nitrate at the minimum, on account of
the excess of acid, and then it is found mixed with oxide
of chrome.
    The solubility of the oxide of chrome in the alkali fur
nishes the explanation of what passes, when on lixiviating
cold, the product of the decomposition of the chromate of
iron by nitre, we obtain agreen liquor which becomes yellow
on ebullition; this is because the green oxide is deposited,
 which lays us under the necessity of filtrating these lixi-
 viums before heating them, in order to separate this oxide
 in the state of purity. This last phenomenon inclines us tp
 think, with M.Godon de St.Memin, that the chromate of
 iron, so called in commerce, contains chrome in the state
 of oxide; for it is improbable that the chromic acid is re
 duced at the same time with the nitre. What still confirms
 the opinion of M. Godon       is, that the acids extract a  green
 oxide only from the chromate of iron.
    To return to the subject. We shall observe that       it    es
                                                               is
 sential to wash the chromate of mercury with         a  good  deal
 of water, in order to free  it  completely from the nitrate of
 potash, which,      by the calcination of mercurial chromate,
 would again form chromate of potash, which produces                a
 commencement of fusion in the oxide of chrome, conse
 quently gives ita   deeper shade, and renders  it heavier, which
                                                                    we

                    the Chromate   of Iron, &?c.              23
we may avoid when the chromate of mercury is prepared
with proper care.
    It is sufficient, in order to obtain the oxide of chrome
very pure and of a very fine colour, to heat strongly in a
well luted earthen retort the pure chromate of mercury, un
til no more oxygen is extricated, and to keep up the fire so
much the longer in proportion to the depth of the shade
we wish to obtain : it seems that there really exist two
kinds of oxide of chrome, for by heating it a very long
time the green is so weakened, that it passes to a dead-
leaf yellow.
        Combination     of the Chromic Acid with Barytes.
    In order    to prepare the chromate of barytes, we em
ploy    with   success   chromate of potash well purified and
very   neutral   ; we  mix  with it nitrate of barytes until no
more precipitate is produced : we must collect the latter,
decant the liquor, and wash several times, until it is en
tirely freed from all extraneous saline particles.
     No harm is done by employing great quantities of water,
even warm, in order to wash the salt, for it is not very
soluble.
              Analysis    of the Chromate of Barytes.
    Five grammes of this salt, dissolved in the nitric acid and
precipitated by sulphuric acid, gave four grammes and four
tenths of sulphate of barytes. Admitting with M. Klaproth
68 parts of barytes in 100 parts of sulphate, we shall have,
in 100 parts of chromate of barytes, 62-2 of base, and 37-4
of acid.
     According to this account, the five grammes of chromate
pf barytes contain one gramme 87 centiemes of concrete
acid, and the latter converted to the state of green oxide by
a strong calcination, is reduced to one gramme 56 cen
tiemes, which gives a difference between the quantity of
oxygen contained in 100 pans of oxide and 100 parts of
acid of 16'6, i. e. in order to convert 100 parts of oxide of
chrome into acid, we must combine with it 16-6 of oxygen.
     In order to effect the analysis of the chromate of barytes,
 we must dissolve it in weak nitric acid, aided by a little
 heat, and pour into the solution sulphuric acid in excess ;
 we then wash the sulphate of barytes, and weigh it after
having dried and calcined it.
     With the same view, we may gently evaporate the li-
        to dryness, in order to drive off the nitric acid ; re-
   issolvc the residue in water, saturate it with ammonia,
3uor
                                                             and

tS               On the lest Met hod     of decomposing
and calcine strongly in order to evaporate the sulphate of
ammonia and completely decompose the chromate of am
monia : lastly, weigh the oxide of chrome.     The latter,
when boiled with nitric acid, ought to give uo sign of sul
phuric acid with the nitrate of barytes.
   If the proportions or' the chromate of barytes which we
have obtained are very exact, as there is every reason to
believe they are, the same analysis may serve for those of
other chromates which are soluble in water.
            Process for obtaining tJie Chromic Acid pure.
     Among  the various methods which may be employed for
preparing this acid, the most preferable, in our opinion,
consists in decomposing the chromate of barytes by the sul
phuric acid : all other processes were attended with more or
It'ss difficulties.
    We must therefore dissolve the chromate of barytes in
weak nitrous acid ; afterwards carefully precipitate it by
means of sulphuric acid, so that all the salt may be decom
posed without the sulphuric acid being in excess.         If by
chance we exceed this point, we must separate the superabun
dance of the acid by barytes water. We shall then find whe
ther we have seized the point at which the precipitate formed
by chromic acid in barytes water is redissolved entirely in
nitric acid, and at which the sulphuric acid does not disturb
this chromic acid.
    We then filter the liquor and carefully evaporate      par      it,
ticularly towards the latter part of the operation, that we
may not decompose the chromic acid            this evaporation
                                                    :
must be repeated several times to dryness,       order to expel
                                                        in
all the nitric acid.
    When the chromic acid       highly concentrated, irregular
                               is
 (mammelonntes)     masses are formed,  in which we see small"
red crystals grouped together, but they are not permanent
in the air, as they attract humidity from it.
    The chromic acid thus purified      of is deep red colour,
                                                    a
has     very acid, but austere and metallic tasie;        solu     it
     in a
                                                                   is
ble      alcohol, which speedily decomposes                  it,
                                                    for the so
lution becomes green.
Easy Method        of
                   determining the Quantity     Chromic of                Acid
       combined or mixed u>ilh several Saline Substances.
   We must put into the solution containing chromic acid
a slight excess of nitric acid, the salt be not of itself so
                                    if
luble nor acid   we must then pour in
                  :                      little hydro-sulphu-
                                                a
rct of ammonia, and macerate for some time in      close flask,
                                                              a
                                                          after

                       the Chromate     of Iron, &c.                    27
 after which we must boil in order to drive off ihe super
 abundant sulphuretted hydrogen, filter in order to separate
 the sulphur, pour into the filtered liquor some drops of
 caustic potash, and thus obtain the sreen oxide of chrome ;
 filter again, wash carefully, dry and calcine care-fully.             On
 adding to the quantity of. oxide obtained the 16-6 centiemes
 of its weight, we have the quantity of chromic acid which
 any given salt contained.            We may easily see that in this
 operation the sulphuretted hydrogen makes the chromic
 acid pass to the state of greeYi oxide, which the excess of
 acid takes up again in proportion as it is precipitated : if
 some portions of it remain, we succeed in separating it from
 the sulphur by ebullition, which serves at the same time to
 drive t»fF the sulphuretted hydrogen.               The potash after
 wards added only serves to decompose the salt of chrome
 which is formed.
             Action of Sulphurous Add         on Chromic     Acid.
       If into chromic acid we pour a great quantity of sulphu
  rous acid, its yellowish-red colour passes to a dirty brown ;
 and if at this period we pour caustic alkali into the liquor,
  we obtain a reddish-brown precipitate, which is dissolved
'in the acids.
       A greater quantity of sulphurous acid immediately changes
  the red colour of the chromic acid to a pale green. Thus
  it should seem that two kinds of oxide of chrome exist,
  but which scarcely differ in the quantity of oxygen*.
                Action of tlie Acids on Oxide of Chrome.
       In general the oxide of chrome obtained by the calcina
  tion of the'chromate of mercury is attacked by the acids
   with very great difficulty : we at length succeed, however,
   in dissolving it     ; but in order to form          combinations     we
   made use       of the oxide obtained from the decomposition of
   the chromate of potash by means of the hydro-sulphuret,
   according .to the process above described.              We have seen
   that this oxide, when recently precipitated, is dissolved
   with the greatest facility even in the weakest acids.
        The sulphate of chrome presented nothing remarkable;
   we merely observed that it is easily decomposed by heat ;
   for, when slightly calcined, it is no longer redissolved in
   water.
       • We obtain an oxide similar to that which is produced
                                                              by sulphurous
   acid in the former case, by passing oxygenized muriatic acid into an acid
   solution of green oxide of chrome, and into which we gradually pour a
   little potash.
                                                                        The

38            On the lest Method    of decomposing
    The muriate is so far remarkable, that when evaporated
to dryness, it gives a red powder which attracts humidity
from the air; its solution is of a One green colour.       If we
calcine it rather strongly, it gives out a smell of oxygenized
muriatic acid, acquires a great bulk, and is transferred into
small micaceous brilliant yellow fibres: finally, if we heat
it still more, it is totally converted into green oxide.
    We boiled several times, and in large quantities, nitric
acid over oxide of chrome recently precipitated, and it was
completely dissolved; but when we separated the oxide by
means of caustic potash, the supernatant liquor was co
lourless : the contrary is the case when we evaporate lo
dryness and slightly calcine: by redissolving in water, the
latter assumes a reddish colour; and after the separation of
the oxide, the liquor remains of a fine golden yellow.
    We also dissolved oxide of chrome in phosphoric and in
oxalic acids: the first combination was of a splendid eme
rald green colour, and the other, when viewed in the mass,
presented an amethyst hue. Sulphurous acid also dissolves
oxide of chrome with great facility.
       Action of the Caustic Alkalis  on Oxide   of Chrome.
    If into a solution of chrome      a little diluted we pour
caustic potash in a quantity above what is necessary for the
saturation of the acid, the oxide is redissolved in this al
kali. We also obtain an alkaline solution of oxide of
chrome on taking it recently precipitated, diluting it with
a little water, and dissolving in this water some pieces of
caustic potash ; on afterwards diluting the combination
with water and filtering, we obtain a liquor of a fine green,
which, on ebullition, deposits the oxide it contains, and
the liquor remains colourless.
                       Chromate  of Potash.
    There are two kinds of chromate of potash; the one neu
tral is of a citron yellow, and crystallize* in small prisms.
This salt, on the addition of heat, assumes a fine red, hut
returns to its natural colour when cooled. The second has
 an excess of acid ; its colour is orange-red, and it crystal
 lizes in beautiful prisms of the same colour.
                     Chromate   of Ammonia.
    When    we saturate ammonia by the chromic acid, and
 abandon the liquor to a spontaneous evaporation, an ar
 borescent salt is formed out of the liquor, composed of tufts
of fine yellow    : sometimes it is presented     in the form  of
                                                           pearl

                    the Chromate   of Iron, ^c,                 29
pearl-like laminae.       To conclude, this salt is easily decom
posed by heat; even when it is dissolved, brown flakes are
separated, which arc oxide of chrome, and which become
green by calcination.
                         Chromate   of Lime.
     Chromic acid forms a very soluble salt with lime ; its so
lution furnishes by evaporation silky flakes of a yellowish
brown, which are easily dissolved in water: this salt is de
composed by the fixed alkalis.
                       Chromate  of Magnesia.
     Magnesia easily    combines   with chromic acid : the salt
which results from it is very soluble in water; the solution
crystallizes in prisms with six faces perfectly transparent,
and of a fine topaz yellow : when they are in considerable
quantity the colour is orange yellow.
     Magnesia is separated from the chromic acid by the fixed
caustic alkalis and the alkaline earths.
                         Metallic Chromales.                      •
   •
     If into a  solution of sulphate of iron    at the minimum
we pour chromate of potash, we obtain a fawn-coloured
precipitate, which, when treated with caustic alkali, gives
no trace of chromic acid : this precipitate is dissolved with
great facility in muriatic acid, from which the alkali sepa
 rates it completely without the least trace of alkaline chro
mate remaining.         The nitric acid dissolves a part of the
 precipitate, and assumes a fine green colour : this precipi
 tate therefore is not a chromate of iron, but a mixture or
combination of oxide of iron and oxide of chrome, which
seems to resemble strongly what is presented to us by na
 ture.
     It is evident from the result of this experiment, that the
chromic acid has been decomposed by the oxide of iron,
 which, in passing to the maximum, has reduced the other
 to the minimum, or to the state of green oxide. If we
 wished therefore to form chromate of iron, it would be
 necessary to employ this last metal saturated with oxygen,
 in order that it may not be able to act upon that of the
 chrome.
                          Chromate of Lead.
     This combination assumes different shades, according U
 the manner in which it has been prepared.
     If the chromate of potash be neutral, we obtain an
 orange-yellow colour; if it has an excess of acid, the co
                                                              lour

 30        On decomposing    the Chromate     of Iron,  c3*r.
 lour is deep citron yellow : if the alkali on the contrary be
 predominant, the shade is a reddish yellow, and sometimes
 a fine deep red : the shades also vary in proportion as we
 operate in the hot or cold manner.
     Chromate of lead made with a solution slightly acid is
 that which is most in request by painters, and it is in fact
 the most solid.     We may heighten its colour, either by a
 little alkali, or by precipitating it hot with acetate of lead.
 In the latter case it should seem that a part of the acetic
acid is separated, and that the oxide of lead which it aban
 dons is united to the common chromate and heightens its
colour.
     We should conceive that the eliminates which contain .
 an excess of oxide of lead must be more alterable by sulphu
 rous vapours than those in which this oxide is saturated by
the chromic acid.
                       Chromate   of Copper.
     The simplest way of forming chromate of copper is to
mix a solution of neutral chromate of potash with a solu
tion of sulphate of copper: a brownish-yellow precipitate
is formed, which, when well washed and dried, assumes a
bistre brown colour.
                       Chromate    of Silver.
     Chromate of silver is prepared by decomposing nitrate of
Silver by neutral chromate of potash : a reddish-brown
precipitate is produced when the operation is performed with
heat, and of a purple-red when done in the eold : lastly,
it is of a carmine-red colour if the solution of chromate of
potash contains a slight excess of acid : in the latter case
the precipitate is not so quickly formed, and is less abun
dant, but it is crystallized in small semitransparent grains.
    This salt becomes brown on exposure to light; it is so
luble in the nitric acid, and from which the muriatic acid
separates the oxide of silver.
     Uses to which the Preparations    of Chrome are applied.
    This oxide is now generally employed in the porcelain
manufactories throughout France.           It supports better than
any other metal, and without undergoing any alteration,
the intense heat employed to prepare' hard porcelain : it
produces an extremely beautiful green, which has not yet
been obtained with any of the other metals.
    A very fine enamel resembling in colour the emerald of
Peru is made with the oxide of chrome.             Another enamel
                                                                 is

                      On Floating Bodies, &C.                               31
is also made with         it,
                          which, when applied upon copper or
silver,  furnishes    a colour    precisely similar to that of fine
gold,   and  imitates  this  bright metal extremely well when
applied   in ihin  leaves   to  other metals:     colour which,
                                                   a                        I
think, cannot be obtained in the same degree of perfection
with any other metal.
 I    shall not dwell upon the different varieties of chromates
of  lead  used in painting      they are already well known to
                                :
artists, and are in great request on account of their beau
tiful colours, the facility with which they may be applied,
and their great inalterability.
  It   is very probable that several other metallic chromates
 would also furnish beautiful colours          they were properly
                                              if
examined        by
                painters.
IV.  Qbservations on loaded and unloaded Barges, Boats,
   Beams, or floating Bodies descending with Streams or
   Currents, and why the heavier End will go foremost.
   By GEORGE ORB, Esq.
IN  addition to what        1have already said on this subject,             I
now submit what follows to the consideration of scieniific
men and as my object
      :                           an endeavour to attain the truth
                                    is
on so interesting     'asubject,     Iam ever ready to admit my
errors where     I am wrong, but hope that reason and good
temper, free from peevishness and personality, will ever
regulate the discussion of philosophical subjects.
   When boiiies of the description alluded to, or                 in
                                                                fact any
                                                                            is, it,
bodies that are specifically lighter than water, float in
there are two powers always opposed to each other, that
the specific g'avities of the fluid and of the floating body                  ;
and in proportion as these differ more or less,                the same
                                                              in
proportion   will  the  two  bodies   oppose   each  other   for
                                                              :   the less
specifically heavy any      floating   body  is,  the less power    will     it
possess  to contend    against  the  fluid in its endeavours   to  sink  or
descend     and of course
            ;                    will follow lhat will float nearer
                                it                  it
the surface. When water            perfectly at rest,
                                    is                   ithas found its
level, and its surface presents         horizontal plane
                                         a                ;  or        in
                                                                     other
 words, all its particles press or gravitate towards he centre    I
of the earth in perpendicular and right lines but on any  ;
change from this slate of rest taking place, the particles of
water are,        the force of gravitation, put in motion, and
                 by
will endeavour to find their level again, or continue to move
on an inclined plane; and all bodies suspended                 the fluid,
                                                              in
or floating on the surface more or lese deep, being subject
                                                                      "to

32                 On Floating Bodies, &fc.
 to the same laws of gravitation, take their direction with
 the moving fluid, and thus pass down the same inclined
 plane, wiih a motion more or less accelerated as such bo
 dies are heavier or lighter ; that is, as they possess a greaier
 or less power to overcome the resistance that may be op
 posed to them.
     I think it is manifest from what is here said, that the
 motion which takes place with regard to both fluid and
 solid, is owing to the attraction of gravitation ; and as the
 velocities of bodies arising from this power are greatest in
 descending the perpendicular to the plane of the horizon,
so it will follow that these velocities will be diminished un
til the line, along which they may descend, being carried
 from the perpendicular round the whole quadrant or right
 angle, arrives at the level or parallel to the horizon, where,
 if The power of descending be totally opposed, or the centre
 of gravity altogether supported, no motion will take place.
 Hence it will follow that the velocity of a stream, river, or
current, and of course of bodies that float in them, will be
greater or less, as the inclination of the plane on which
they descend departs more or less from the line bounding
the horizontal plane.
    Loaded barges, beams of heavy wood, &c, without
towing, and that float with the tide, will "make a quicker
 progress than the tide ; the same will take place in a river
or str.am where there is no tide. Captain liurney having
asked the bargemen on the Thames the reason of this, their
 reply was,
              " That loaded barges had more hold of the tide
from their floating deeper than unloaded ones." This was
bi t a bad way of accounting for it ; but some reason must
b: assigned by those who continually observed this, and
who were ignorant of the real cause of it.
    The reason of this quicker progress seems to me to be
this: any solid floating in a fluid, and descending with      it,
acts altogether in one mass    ;   and its particles thus acting
together conspire     to overcome  the resistance they meet, and
to divide the fluid, which, easily yielding to any pressure,
will make way for the body in its descent pressing forward.
Besides, the particles of the fluid do not act  in  conjunction,
and being easily separated they will roll about and impede
each other   by   their friction, not only against each other,
but also against the sides of the river, and the bed on which
they descend. To this, may be added, that less friction takes
place between the fluid and solid, as they attract each o'her
less, than between the innumerable particles of the fluid     ;
consequently the solid will glide on, or slip through the
                                                          liquid

                     On Floating Bodies,   &e.                    S3
  liquid body with a greater degree of velocity than the fluid,
  under the circumstances already enumerated, can attain.
      Captain B. says, this greater progressive motion in the
  floating body is not owing to a more rapid under-current.
  I  think not, but to the causes already assigned.        Captain
  B. says, the surface of the ocean is an inclined plane.          I
  have stated in some letters several months ago in the Phi
 losophical Magazine, that the surface of the ocean, owing
 to the attraction of gravitation and its laws, and to the im
 pression of the winds, &c., consists of an infinity of in
 clined planes, or ascents and descents.
      No collision could take place between a heavier and
 lighter barge or body passing London bridge with the ebb
 of the tide, let them be ever so near, provided the heavier
 body were foremost, because on its descent it will, from
 its greater weight, acquire a momentum which will carry it
 on more rapidly than the lighter body; but if the lighter
 body were foremost and very near, ii might be overtaken,
 and a collision take place.
     When the wind mows strong into any bay, or against
 an embayed coast, there must be an Under-current, because
 the wind prevents the return of the accumulated water
 along the surface. All pressure on bodies floating with
 streams must, whether the pressure be perpendicular or
 oblique, increase their progress :—if the pressure be perpen
 dicular, it adds to the weight, and consequently to their
 power of overcoming resistance on the part of the fluid : if
 the pressure be oblique, and in direction of the motion, it
 will, besides increasing the weight, give impulse.
     The reason why ships at sea that are deeply loaded make
less progress on a voyage than those that are lighter, and
which seems to be in contradiction to what was last stated,
seems to me to arise from the following cause : that is,
that what they gain by their gravity over a lighter vessel in
descending from the top of the wave or inclined plane, they
lose in ascending the next ; for it is manifest that the sur
face of the ocean consists of innumerable inclined planes,
or ascents and descents; but in a river or running stream
the whole progress is on a descent.
    Two pieces of wood of the same kind and of the same
weight, but of different shapes, the one, for instance, a cy
linder with all its transverse diameters equal, the other of a
conical form, with its transverse diameters or lines all unequal,
would, in my ppinion, differ considerably in their progress
in the same fluid, the cone making greater way than the
cylinder ; and to this I presume it may be principally at-
    VoL 35. No. I4h Jan. 1810.               C            tributed

                     On Floating Bodies, tlfc.
  tributed    why  one ship    sails better than another, and
  which, on    some future occasion,   L may attempt to demon
  strate.
      Timber used at sea to find the direction of any current
  ought to be in its shape conical, and a good deal so, but
  the base of the cone to be rounded, or the sharp angles taken
  ofl", in order that it may pass more fairly through the water;
  for wood of this shape will take the direction better, and
  be more easily observed : in such cases there should always
  be two conical timbers, and if they both take the same di
  rection, the tendency of the current is certainly proved.
  No experiments can be made on this subject with South
  Sea clubs, such as captain B. used, nor with anything
  that will sink in water, that is, with any body specifically
  heavier than water.
      Supposing a barge loaded at one end and empty at the
  other, and without a helm, if it floated in a fair and regu
  lar stream without currents, it would certainly proceed
  with the heavy end foremost, for the same reasons that a
  conical piece of wood, or even a cylindrical one loaded at
, one end, would go with their heavy end foremost in a
   fluid, though originally placed in a contrary direction : it
   would be the same with the cone and cylinder, if placed
  across a dry inclined plane ; that end containing the greatest
   quantity of matter, from its power of overcoming resist
   ance, would always have a tendency to be foremost.       The
   inclined plane of rivers and streams must, from the number
   of inequalities at bottom, be a very irregular one — the cur
   rent will partake of those irregularities, and the motion' of
   bodies that float in them must be affected by them in a cer
   tain degree.
       Lastly, Does a body floating down a stream or current,
   and which has a quicker progress than the stream or cur
   rent, receive any addition to its motion from the motion
   of the fluid ? I think it does not ; that it is only indebted
    to the fluid for its suspension, but that it is to its own
   gravity, and acting in one mass, that it is indebted for its
   greater progress. On the contrary, I think it loses in its
   velocity or progressive motion ; for though the floating
   body be specifically lighter than the water, and of course
   one would imagine that it would move slower, still, owing
    to the causes already enumerated, its progress is quicker :
   but there is a drawback on this progress ; because, if the
   solid overtake the water, part of its force must be wasted
   against that body which moves slower, but in the same di
    rection. This case h analogous to that of two balls moving

                           On Ncevi MaternL                        35
 In    the same direction with different velocities ; that with
 the greater velocity, on overtaking the other, communicates
 part of its force, and of course loses so much in its ve
 locity.
                         V. On Ncevi Maternl.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
 SIR, J. HE last Number of your Philosophical Magazine
 contains a discussion, by one of your ingenious correspon
 dents, in support of the old prejudice that certain congeni
 tal marks or excrescences, commonly called ncevi maternit
 originate from the influence of the mind of the parent. As
 the paper, no doubt, was written with a serious object,            I
 comply with the writer's request in forwarding to you for
 publication some observations on the subject.
      It is agreed that ncevi materni resemble known objects in
 nothing more than form; although, as ENCEPS (the wri
 ter's signature) observes, " more than one volume lias been
 filled with reputed instances of the effects of the, mother's
 imagination upon her offspring." The forms, however, of
 ncevi materni in general are so far from having a resem
 blance to any known object, that the experience of practi
 tioners, who are in the daily habits of operating on some,
 and seeing many others, proves as much as extensive ex
 perience can prove, that the .relations of ncevi materni re
 sembling a bunch of grapes, or a bit of bacon, are to be
 classed with the idle talcs of the nursery.          Even Enceps
 himself     "  was for a long time prepossessed with the same
 notion," viz. that such fanciful forms of ncevi materni were
 "   idle tales," till a case " was related to him by an intelligent
 friend who had seen a child born with only one leg, as
 well as its mother, who declared her firm belief that the
 cause of this imperfection in her child was a violent fright
 which she experienced from seeing a beggar suddenly un
 cover the wounded stump of his ihigh."            This, however,
 is not an example of ncevus maternus, but of monstrosity.
 iNow I will seriously ask Enceps, at what period of preg
 nancy this unfortunate mother received such a violent
fright. In the latter months of pregnancy, after the limbs of
 the foetus had been formed ?          The separation of a limb,
 and its still more extraordinary annihilation, must then be
 explained as the effects of imagination, — or in the early
 months of pregnancy, lefore the ovum had become organ-
                                  C2                            ized!

36                On the Mineralogical Geography
ized ! The imagination must then be supposed to act on- a
part of the foetus before such a part had any existence. The
common opinion is, that monstrosity depends on original
conformation of the ovum ; nor is it by any means intelli
gible that a metamorphosis or annihilation of any part of
 the foetus can take place from an impression on the imagi
 nation of the parent.
     I have said that Enceps's object in writing was not
 levity ; but when I came to the tale of the cat and the
 kittens, my suspicions were somewhat roused.           A preg    "
 nant she cat" had its tail trodden upon, and lo! when she
 littered she had an even number of kittens ; otherwise the
 surprising things that did happen, could not have happen
 ed — that " half of her kittens had their tails bent in the
middle!" and that halfhad^noi.          The circumstance which
 roused my suspicion was the gravity with which Enceps
 says
        " this fact (or rather this tale) seems to be very im
 portant, and to prove nearly lo a demonstration, that the
 imagination of pregnant females has the power of acting on
 the bodily conformation of their young ! !"
     As a medical man, I had reason to hope that the old
 prejudice of the perfection of the foetus being in anywise
 contingent on the imagination of the parent was at an endj
 and having long been a reader of your respectable Maga
 zine, I could not observe Enceps's reasoning in favour of
 such a prejudice, without presuming that it was subject to
 animadversion.
                 I remain, sir, your humble servant,
                                                            CHIRURGICUS.
December,       1809.
VI.    Memoir on the Mineralogical Geography of the Envi
         of Paris. By Messrs. CUVIER and BROGNIART*.
     rons,
  JL HE country in which Paris is situated is perhap*
 one of the most remarkable hitherto observed, from the
.Succession of the various soils which compose        and from  it,
 the extraordinary remains of ancient organizations which                    it
 contains    myriads of sea shells, regularly alternated with
              :
 fresh-water shells, form the principal mass      bones of ter
                                                            :
 restrial animals, entirely unknown even with respect to their
genera, fill certain parts   other bones of species remarkable
                                 :
from their size, and the counterparts of which are only
             * Anrudfi iu Mtufam d'Hittoire
                                            Naturellc, tome xi. p. 293.
                                                                          found

                    I
                      of the Environs of Paris.                    37
   found in very distant countries, are scattered in the strata
   nearest the surface : a strongly- marked character of a great
  eruption proceeding from the south-east is imprinted on
  the forms of the eminences and the directions of the val
  leys : in short, there is no district better adapted for making
  us acquainted with the final revolutions which put a ter
 mination to the formation of our continent.
      This country has nevertheless been very little studied
 under this point of view ; and although so long inhabited
 by many enlightened men, whatever has been written- on
 the subject has been confined to some detached fragments,
 and almost all of them areeither exclusively mineralogical,
 without any regard to organized fossils, er purely geologi
 cal, without reference to the position of these fossils.
     A memoir of Lamanon, on the gypsums and their
 fossil bones, may perhaps form the only exception to this
 classification : we are bound, however, to acknowledge that
 the excellent description of Montniartre by M. Desmarets,
 the information given by the same author as to the basin
 of the Seine, in the Encyclopedie Mctkodique, the mi
 neralogical essay on the department of Paris by M. Gillet-
 Laumont, the extensive researches on the fossil shells of
 the environs of Paris by M. Lamarck, and the geological
 description of the same district by M. Coupe, have been
 advantageously consulted, and have several times directed
our steps.
     We presume to think that the task of which we are about
to present the class with a sketch, will not be without in
terest, notwithstanding the works above alluded to.
     Four years ago we commenced our labours; and although
we have persevered in them by making numerous excur
sions, collecting specimens and information from every
quarter, we are far from thinking we have done enough,
and we earnestly desire that our readers may not confound
the abridgement which we are about to give, with the full
details which we propose to publish.            Some circumstances
compel us to present this abridgement at this moment, and
to assign a date* to such tedious and laborious researches,
before the happy period at which we shall think them
brought to a conclusion.
     From the nature of their object, our sketches were li
mited according to the nature or the soil, and not according
to arbitrary divisions.                                         /
    We thought it right therefore, in the first place, to de-
             * Thii Memoir was printed in Jan. 1S09.-Ed.it.
                                  C  3                      tcrmine

38            On the Mineralogical Geography
termlne the physical boundaries of the district which it was
our object to study.
  • The basin of the Seine is
                                 separated for a long space
from that of the Loire by an extensive high plain, the
greater part of which vulgarly bears the name of Beauce,
and the middle and driest part of which extends from the
north-west to the south-east, over an extent of more than
forty leagues, from Courville to Montargis.
    This plain is bounded towards the north-west by a higher,
and in particular a more broken district, from which the
rivers Eure, Aure, lion, Rille, Orne, Mayenne, Sarte,
Huine, and Loire, arise. The highest part of this district
is between Sees and Mortagnes, and which formerly com
posed the province of Perche, and a part of Basse-Nor-
mandie, and which now belongs to the department of the
Orne.
   The line of separation between Beauce and Perche passes
close by the towns of Bonnevalle, Alluye, Iliers, Cour
ville, Pontgonin, and Verneuil.
   On all other sides the plain of Beauce overlooks every
surrounding district.
  Its slope towards the Loire is not interesting to our sub
ject.
   The slope towards the Seine is divided into two incli
 nations, one of which on the west looks towards the Eure,
and the other on the east looks towards the Seine.
   The first proceeds from Dreux towards Mantes.
   The other begins from the neighbourhood of Mantes,
passes by Marly,       Meudon, Palaiseau, Marcoussy, the
Ferte-Alais, Fontainebleau, Nemours, &c.
   But it must not be concluded that these two inclined planes
are straight or uniform ; on the contrary, they are in all direc
tions unequal and rugged, to such a degree that, if this vast
plain were surrounded with water, its edges would furnish
gulfs, capes, and straits, and would be every where sur
rounded by small islands.
   In the same manner in our environs, the long mountain
on which are situated the woods of St. Cloud, Ville-
d'Avray, Marly, and Aluets, and which extends from St.
Cloud to the confluence of the river Maulde in the Seine,
would form an island separated from the rest by the strait
in which Versailles is situated, the little valley of Sevres,
and the great valley containing the park of Versailles.
   The other mountain in the form of a       figleaf, on which
are situated Bellevue, Meudon, the woods of Verriere, and
those of Chaville, would form     a   second island separated

                    of the Environs  of Paris.                39
from the continent by the valley of Bievre and that       of the
hills of Jouy.
   But afterwards, from St. Cyr to Orleans, there is no
longer any complete interruption, although the rivers Bievre,
Ivette, Orge, Etampes, Essonne, and Loing, cut deeply
into the continent on the east coast, wtiile the rivers of
Vesgre, Voise, and Eure, do the same towards the west.
   The most rugged ami uneven part of the surface, and
that which would furnish most islands, would he what is
vulgarly called the G'ltino'n Francois, and particularly that
part in which the forest of Fontainebleau is situated.
   The slopes of this immense platform are generally very
abrupt ; and all the ravines which we find in them, as well
as those of the valleys, and the wells dug in the high party,
show that its physical nature is the same every where,
being formed of one prodigious mass of fine sand which
covers the whole surface, passing equally over all the other
soils or inferior platforms which this great plain overlooks.
   The edge of this platform towards the Seine, from the
Maulde to Nemours, will therefore form the natural limit
of the basin which we arc about to examine.
   From below its two extremities, i. e. towards the Maulde
and a little beyond Nemours,          immediately issue two
portions  of  a platform   of chalk,  which   extends in every
direction and to a great distance, in order lo form the whole
of Haute Normandie, I'icardy, and Champagne.
   The interior edges of this great girdle, which pass from
the east by Montereau, Sezanne, and Epernay ; from the
west by Montfort, Mantes, Gisors, and Chaumont, in order
to approach Compiegne, and which form at the north-east
a considerable re-entering angle which embraces the whole
of the Laonnois, complete, together with the sandy coast
now described, the natural limit of our basin.
   But there is this great difference, that the sandy platform
which comes from Beauce is higher than the others, and
is consequently the most modern, and finishes completely
the stretch of coast which we have marked ; while, on the
contrary, the platform of chalk is naturally more ancient
and lower than the rest, only ceasing to appear outside of
the girdle above mentioned ; but so far from being at an
end, it visibly sinks under all the other strata : we find it in
short wherever we dig sufficiently deep under the latter,
and it even rises up in some places, piercing as it were
through the other strata.
   We may therefore conclude that the materials which
•ompose the basin of Paris, in the directions to which our
                               C4                      inquiries

4O               On the Mineralogical Geography
inquiries were limited, have been deposiled in a vast hollow
or gulf, the bottom of which was of chalk.
    This gulf perhaps formed a complete circle, or a kind
 of great Take ; but we cannot ascertain this, in consequence
 of its edges on the south-west having been covered, as well
 as the materials of which they were composed, by the great
 sandy platform first mentioned.
    We may add that this great sandy platform is not the
 only one which has covered the chalk ; there are several in
Champagne and Picardy, which, although smaller, are of
a similar nature, and may have been formed at the same
lime. Like        they are placed immediately over the chalk,
                 it,
in the places where the latter was so high as not to admit of
its being covered with the materials ot the basin of Paris.
    We shall in the first place describe the chalk, the most
ancient of the substances which we have         our environs,
                                                in
and conclude with the sandy platform, the most recent of
our geological productions.
    In the intermedium between these two extremes we shall
speak of less voluminous but more varied substances, which
had covered the great cavity of the chalk before the platform
of sand was deposited on some of them.
   These substances may be divided into two soils (elages).
   The first (which covers the chalk wherever was not suf
                                                 it
ficiently high, and which has filled the whole of the bottom
of the gulf,)     isitself subdivided into two parts of equal
level, and placed not upon one another, hut end to end         :
viz.
   The platform of siliceous lime containing no shells.
   The platform of lime with coarse shells.
   We are sufficiently well acquainted with the limits of
this soil on the chalky side, because the chalk does not
cover it; but these limits are marked in several places by
the second soil, and        bythe great sandy platform which
forms the third, and which covers       a  great part of the two
others.
   The second sqil will be named gypso-marley.
   It is  not generally spread, but merely scattered from
space to space, and as       were
                            it     by   spots
                                            ;    these spots also
are very different from each other in thickness, and in the
details of their composition.
   These two intermediate soils as well as the two extreme
soils are covered, and all the vacuities which they have
left are partly filled,by   fifth sort of soil, mixed also with
                            a
marie   andsilex,  and which we ca\\ fresh-water soil, because
it abounds  in  fresh-water shells only.
                                                            We

                    of the Environs ofjJPar is.               41
    We have the honour to present the class with the first of
 a series of mineralogical charts, in -which each kind of soil
 js coloured differently.
    The sand is fawn-coloured; gypsum blue; shelly lime
yellow; siliceous lime violet; chalk red colour; fresh
water soil green streaked with white. We have here marked
in plain green, the worn or alluvial sands which have not
been tranquilly deposited, but brought from other quarters
by currents; and in dark brown the peaty soils formed along
 the rivulets and round the pools of water.
    This chart, ore of the principal results of our travels, ig
 complete in the coloured part, and we have only left un-
 eoloured that with which we are not yet sufficiently ac
quainted.
    Such are'the great masses of which our district is com
posed, and which form the different strata.          But on sub
dividing each stratum we may attain still greater precision,
and obtain still more rigorous mineralogical determinations,
which will give so many as ten distinct kinds of strata, uf
which we shall now present a rapid enumeration.
           •
              ARTICLE     I.  Formation  of Chalk,
    Chalk forms in the environs of Paris,       as in almost all
those places where it has been observed,        a mass  in which
the strata are frequently so indistinct that we are almost
inclined to doubt whether it was formed by beds, if we did
not see these beds interrupted by silex, which, by their per
fectly horizontal position, their parallelism, their continui
ties, and their frequency, indicate successive and almost pe
riodical depositions.
    Their respective distance varies according to the place : a£
Meudon they are about two metres (78| Eng. inches) from,
each other, and the space comprehended between any two
beds of silex does not contain any detached pieces of this
stone. At Bougival the beds are divided, and the silex it
much less abundant.
    The chalk which contains flints is not pure carbonated
lime : it contains, according to M. Bouillon Lagrange, about
O-ll of magnesia and 0- 19 of silex, the greatest part ofwhich
is in the state of sand, which we may separate by washing.
The fossils found in it are not numerous, in comparison
with those which we observe in the strata of coarse lime
stone (which almost immediately cover the chalk), but they
are entirely different from these fossils, not only in thp
ppepies, but even in the genera.

 48             On the Miner&logical Geography
    On adding those which we       observed  ourselves, to those
 which have been collected by       M.  Defrance, we extend to
 the number of fifty the vario'us species of fossils with
 which we are acquainted in the chalk, of the soils which
 »re the objects of our study.
    All the species of these fossils have not been as yet de
 termined, and we shall give in our subsequent detailed Me
moirs their precise enumeration and determination:            we
 shall content ourselves with saying on the present occasion,
 |hat we have found
    Two lituoliles.
    Three vermiculites.
    Some belenmites, which, according to M. Defrance, are
different from those which accompany the ammonites of
compact lime.
    Some fragments of shells, which, from their tubular form
and fibrous structure, cannot be referred to any other than
the genus pinna : but if we were to infer from the thickness
of these fragments the size of the individuals to which they
must have belonged, we must conclude that these testacea
must have been monstrous. We measured pieces 12 milli
metres ('47 inches) thick,_\vhile the thickness of the largest
 kinds of pinna known is only two millimetres (-08 inches).
    One muscle shell.
   Two oyster ditto.
    A species of the pinna genus.
    A cranium.
   Three anomiies (tercbratulcs).
    One spirorbis.
    Some ananchitei, the crustaceous envelope of which has
remained calcareous and assumed the sparry texture, while
the middle part only is changed into silex.
    Some porpytes.
   Five or six different pofypiers : one of them seems to
belong to the genus caryophylltea, and another to the genus
millepora.    This last is generally brown, and in the stale
of oxidated iron, resulting from the decomposition of
pyrites.
   Lastly, some teeth of squali.
   We shall observe with M. Defrance, that there has not
been found in chalk any univalve shell with a simple and
regular spire. This fact is the more remarkable, as we
meet with these shells in great abundance, some metres
(39'38 inches) above the chalk, in calcareous strata also,
but of a different structure.
   Among the quarries and hills of chalk which we have
                                                        visited.

                           of   the Environs        of Paris.                      43
visited, we shall mention Meudon. The chalk is here co
vered by plastic clay and coarse limestone.           The upper part
of this mass is as it were broken, and presents a kind
of rubble (Irtthe), the fragments of which are chalk, and
the intervals clay.
    The highest part of the mass of chalk appeared to us to he
above the glassaork of Sevres.           It is 15 metres (49-}. feet)
above the Seine. This disposition raises up all the strata of
soil which surmount                  it,
                               and seems at the same time to                       di
minish their thickness.        The mass of stone          sensibly in
                                                                    is
clined towards the banks of the river.
    At Bougival, near Marly, the chalk almost entirely ex is
posed in some places, being only covered                             by
                                                            calcareous
stones of    avery   fine grain,  but in   fragments    more    or less
large,   and scattered    in   marley asand,   which      almost  pure
                                                                    is
at the top.
    Amidst these fragments we find geodites, of yellowish-              a
white limestone, compact and fine grained, with sparry
 laminse, and small avitieii strewed with very small crystals
                                c
 pf carbonated lime. The paste of these geodites contains                            a
multitude of small spiral univalve shells            which seems to
                                                               ;
prove   that this  limestone   does  not  belong   to  the chalk for-
jnation.
    Among these geoditee we found one, which presented                               a
 large cavity fringed with long and acute limpid crystals,
 ppwards of two centimetres (-79 inches) long.
    Mechanical division alone informed us, that these crystals
 belonged to the species of sulphated strontian, and              more         a
 attentive examination of their form instructed us that they
 constituted     new variety.
                  a               M. Hauy, to whom we com
 municated the circumstance, called             apotamous sulphated
                                                        it
ftrontian.
     These  crystals present rhomboidal prisms with four
panes,  the  angles of which are the same with those of the
prism  of the  unitary, or blunted (emoussce) varieties, &c.,
t.e. 77°     and 102° 58'. They are terminated
             2'                                     pyramids             by
with four   faces and very acute.  The angle of incidence of
the faces of this pyramid on the adjacent panes     161° 16'.            is
The faces are produced        decrement    by
                                            two ranges to the
                                                a              by
left and right of the angle     of the subtractive molecule.
                                                E
This   is  law which had not hitherto been recognized in
            a
the varieties of sulphated strontian examined, to this day.
 Its sign will        be   E    Ez   'E.
     The crystals of strontian hitherto                      observed    in   the envi
 rons of Paris         are extremely small,             and fringe the sides         of

 44                     On the Mineralogical Geography
some of the geodites of strontian found in the green marles
of gypsous formation  ; but we have not as yet seen any of
them so large and so well defined.
                   ARTICLE       II.         Formation     of Plat tic Argil.
   Almost the whole surface of the mass of chalk is covered
with a stratum of plastic clay which has some very remark
able common characters, although it presents sensible dif
 ferences in various points.
    This clay is unctuous, to the touch tenacious, and con
 tains silex, but very little lime; so that it does not effer
 vesce with the acids.      It is even absolutely infusible in a
 porcelain furnace when it does not contain too great a
 proportion of iron.
    It varies considerably in colour : —at Moret in the forest
 of Dreux, it is very white : at Montereau, Houdan, and
 Conde, it is gray : pure slate gray, slate gray mixed with
 red, and almost pure red, throughout the whole south of
 Paris, from Gentilly to Meudon.
    This plastic clay                  is,
                             according to its various qualities,
employed in making porcelain, s>tone-ware, crucibles, or
common red earthenware.                never effervescent nor fu
                                                 It   is
sible. The red colour, the pyritous grains, the portions of
silex, the small fragments of chalk, and the crystals of
selenite which       sometimes contains, are the only defects
                        it
found in it.
    This stratum varies much in thickness            in some parts  :
it   is1C metres (52£ feel) and upwards; in others           forms           it
only thin covering of one or two decimetres
          a                                           or inches).       (4   8
    It seems almost certain, that no marine nor terrestrial
fossil     found
              is      this clay, at least we have not seen any,
                         in
either in the different strata we examined         their respective
                                                                  in
positions, or on the large heaps which we repeatedly ex
amined, in the numerous manufactories, in which                                   it   is
used     besides which, the workmen who dig up this article
          ;
in the south of Paris assured us, that they never found in                             it
any shells, bones, wood, or vegetables.
   Dolomieu, who discovered this same bed of clay be
tween the chalk and the coarse limestone in the elbow
formed             by
               the Seine        front of Rolleboise, says indeed
                                         in
that fragments of bituminous wood have been found in                                   it,
and that they have been even taken for coal              but he re       ;
marks,    that these  small  woody portions   have  been found in
pieces -rolled down from the bank, which may have en
veloped them            at
                       period posterior to the primitive deposit
                             a
ef this clay.
                                                                                   The

                 bf   the Environs     of Parts.              45
    The places mentioned above prove, that this stratum of
clay is very extensive, and preserves throughout its vvhol«
extent its principal characters of formation and position.
    If we compare the descriptions we have given of the
beds of chalk and beds of plastic clay, we shall remark :
1st, That not only we do not find in the clay any of the
fossils met with in the chalk, but we do not even find any
fossil in it.  2d, That there is no insensible passage be
tween the chalk and the clay, since the parts of the bed of
clay most adjacent to the chalk do not contain lime more
than the other parts.
  "
•   It appears to us that we may conclude from these obser
vations, in the first place, that the liquid which has depo
sited the bed of plastic clay was very different from that
which deposited the chalk, since it does not contain car
bonated lime in any sensible quantity, and since none of
the animals live there which inhabited the waters that de
posited the chalk.     Secondly, that there must necessarily
have been a distinctly-marked separation, and perhaps even
a long period of time between the deposit of the chalk and
that of the clay, since there is no transition between these
two kinds of soil.    The kind of broken fragments of chalk
and clay which we remarked at Meudon * even seems to
prove that the chalk was solid when the clay was deposited.
This earth is insinuated between the fragments of chalk
produced on the surface of the chalky soil by the motion of
the waters, or by some other cause.
    The two kinds of soil which we have described have been
 produced, therefore, under completely different and even
well-defined circumstances.      They are the results of the
most distinct and best characterized formations which can
be found in geology, since they differ in their chemical na
ture, in the kind of stratification, and above all in the kind
 of fossils which we meet with in them.
ARTICLE   III.   Formation     of Sand and of coarse Limeslont.
   The coarse limestone does not always immediately cover
the clay, being frequently separated by a stratum of sand
of various thickness. We cannot say whether this sand
belongs to the formation of the calcareous earth, or to that
of the clay. We have not found shells in           it,
                                                 in the few
places where we have observed        it,
                                   which would give       an
                                                           it
                              See pxg* 4s.
                          *
                                                     argillaceous

46                On (he Mineratogical Geography
 argillaceous formation ; but the lowest calcareous stratum
being generally sandy and always filled with shells, we do
not as yet know if this sand be different from the first, or
if   it be the same formation.      What would lead us to sup
pose    that it  was differentis,  that  the sand next the clay*
which we have seen,      is   generally very pure, although of      a
red or blueish gray colour    3   it   refractory, and frequently
                                       is
in very coarse grains.
    The calcareous formation reckoned from this sand com    is
posed of alternate strata of coarse limestone, pi ore or less
hard, of argillaceous marie, and even leafy clay in very
thin strata, and of calcareous marie but    j    it  must not be
supposed that these various strata are placed there by
chance, and without following some general law they         :
uniformly follow the same order of superposition in the
considerable extent of soil which we have examined.             lu
some places several of them are entirely wanting, or are
very thin; but that which was the lowest in one district
never becomes the uppermost in any other.
   This constancy in the order of superposition of the thin
nest strata, and over an extent of 12 myriametres (74-J- miles)
at least,    isin our opinion one of the most remarkable facts
which we have established. From this there ought to result
most interesting consequences to the arts and to geology.
   The means which we have employed for ascertaining, in
the midst of so great    a  number of calcareous beds,       stra
                                                           is a
tum already observed in       a   very distant district,    taken
from the nature of the fossils contained in each stratum,
these fossils being generally the same in the corresponding
strata, and present differences of species sufficiently re
markable between one system of strata and the other. This
is   a mark which has not as yet deceived us.
    It must not be thought, however, that the difference
between one stratum and another             equally well marked
                                            is
with that between the chalk and the limestone. If this was
the case, we should have an equal number of distinct forma
tions    ;but the characteristic fossils of one stratum become
less numerous     in  the next superior stratum, and disappear
completely in the rest, or are replaced gradually     by new fos
sils which had not as yet appeared.
   We now proceed to point out (following the same course)
the principal systems of strata whi:h may be observed in
the coarse limestone.       In the detailed Memoir about to be
published will be found the complete description, stratum
by   stratum, of the numerous quarries which we have ob
served in order to procure materials for our publication.
                                                                  Th*

                    of the Environs of Paris.                    4?
   The lowermost strata of calcareous formation are the
best characterized : they are very sandy and frequently
even, rather sandy than calcareous.     When they are solid,
they are decomposed and fall into dust on the first ex
posure : this kind of stone therefore is not fit to be used.
   The shelly limestone which composes           it,
                                                  and even the
sand which sometimes supplies its place, almost always
contain green earth in powder or in small grains.          ThU
earth, from our experiments, appears t*> be analogous to
terra veronica.  It   owes its colour to iron   ;   itfound in
                                                           is
the lower strata only     we do not find
                          :                 it in the chalk, in
the clay, nor in the middle or upper calcareous strata, and
we may regard its presence as      a certain indication of the
proximity of plastic clay, and consequently of chalk.
But what characterizes still more particularly this system
of strata, is  the prodigious quantity of fossil shells which
it contains.    In order to give an idea of the number of
species which these strata contain,    it  will be sufficient to
say that M. Defrance has found more than six hundred
 species, all of which have been described              M. La
                                                            by
marck.
     We have to remark that most of the shells of the lowest
of these strata are much further removed from the present
existing species, than those of the upper strata. We shall
mention    among the fossils peculiar to these lower strata,
periwinkles, oysters, muscles, pinnae, calyptreae, pyrulae,
large tellines, tcrcbella:, porpytes, madrepores, and parti
cularly nummulites and fungites.
    Such arc the names of the most remarkable shells in
this stratum :'we ought to remark that       itwas not in the
depot of Grignon alone that we gathered the specimen*
we have described     ; such examples would not have charac
 terized the system of strata which we wish to make our
readers acquainted with       we chose them from the quarries
                               :
 of Sevres, Meudon, Issy, Vaugirard, Gentilly in the strata
                                                       ;
 of Guespelle; in those of Pallery near Chaumont, &c.
    It in this same stratum that we find the cameriaes.
      is
 They are either    by
                     themselves or mixed with madrepores and
 the preceding shells.      They are always the lowest, and
 consequently the   first  which  are deposited on the chalky
 formation ;  but this     not the case every where. We have
                          is
 found some of them near Villers-Cotteret,               in
                                                    the valley
 of Vaucienne and at Chantilly on the declivity of the
                ;
 mountain.     They are mixed here with shells in good pre
 servation, and with coarse grains of quartz, which, to
 gether, make    it   a kind of puddingstune, on Mount Ga-
                                                        nelon

  48             On tlie Mineratogical Geography^
 nelori near Compiegne,          and    Mount Ouin near Gl-
  sors, &c.
     Another character peculiar to the shells of this straturrt
 is, that they are mostly very entire and well preserved, be
 ing easily detached from their rock, and some of them
 have preserved their pearly state.         In all the preceding
 places,  and  in others,  this is less  remarkable   ; because we
 ascertained that the sandy calcareous strata, which contairi
 these shells, immediately follow the plastic clay which covers
 the chalk ; and it is by these multiplied observations that
 we recognized the generality of the scale which we have
 laid down.
    The other systems of strata are less distinct, and we
 have not as yet been able to arrange the numerous obser
 vations which we have made, in order to establish with
 precision the succession of the different fossils which ought
 to characterize them.      We can announce, however, thai,
 from our inspection of the quarries to the south and west
 of Paris, from Gcntilly to Villepreux and Saint-Germain,
 the strata above those which we have described succeed
 each other in the following order.
     1. A soft stratum frequently of a greenish colour, this is
 called the green lank by the workmen.           It frequently ex
hibits on its lower surface brownish marks of leaves and
stalks of vegetables.
    2. Gray or yellowish strata, sometimes soft, sometime*
very hard, and containing chiefly roundish venuses, cam-
preys, and particularly tuberculated cerites, which last are
sometimes in prodigious quantity.          The upper and middle
part   of this stratum,  frequently  hard,   is a very good stone
building, and is known by the name of the rock.
    3. Lastly, and towards the upper part, a stratum, not
thick but hard, which is remarkable from the prodigious
quantity of small long and striated tellines which it pre
sents in its seams.      These tellines are laid horizontally,
and closely wedged against each other. They are generally
white.
    Above these last strata of coarse limestone we find hard
calcareous marks divided into fragments, the faces of which
are generally covered with a yellow coating and with black
dendrites.     These marles are separated by soft calcareous
marles, by argillaceous marles, and by calcareous sand, which
is sometimes agglutinated, and it contains horny silex with
horizontal zones. We refer to this system the stratum of
the quarries of Neuilly, in which we find crystals of quartz
and rhomboidal crystals of variegated          carbonate of lime.
                                                               Bui

                    of the  Environs of   Pan*                  49
    But what characterizes more particularly this last system
 of  strata of calcareous formation, is the absence of every
 shell and of every other fossil.
    It results from the observations which we have related:
    1st, That the fossils of coarse limestone have been de
posited slowly and in a. calm sea, since these fossils are
deposited by regular and distinct strata ; that they are not
indiscriminately mixed, and that must of them are in a
state of perfect preservation, however delicate may be their
texture; the points of the prickly shells being very often
unbroken.
    2dly, That these fossils are entirely different from those of
the chalk.
    3dly, That in proportion as the strata of this 'formation
were deposited, the number of the species of shells dimi
nished until no more are found. The waters which formed
these strata either have not contained any, or have lost the
property of preserving them.
    There can be no doubt that things went on very differently
in these seas from what they do at present in the waters of
the present day ; where no strata are formed, the species of
shells found in them are always the same in the same regions;
we do not find, for example, since we began to fish for
oysters on the shores of Concale, that this kind of shell-fish
has been replaced by other kinds.
                ART. IV.     Gypsous Formation,
   The soil which we are now about to describe, is one of
the clearest examples of what is meant by the word forma
tion.     Here we find strata very different from each other
in their chemical nature, but evidently formed together.
   The soil which we call gypsous is not composed of gyp
sum alone, it consists of alternate strata of gypsum and of
argillaceous and calcareous marie. These strata have pursued
an order of superposition, which has been always the same,
in the great gypsous girdle which we have studied, and
which extends from Meaux to Triel and Grisy.                Some
strata are wanting in certain districts ; but those which re
main are always in the same respective position.
   The gypsum is placed immediately above the limestone,
and it is impossible to doubt this superposition.      The posi
tion of the gypsunijjquarries of Clamart, Meudon, and Ville-
d'Avray, is above coarse limestone wrought in the same
places; that of the quarries of the mountain of Triel, the
superposition of which is still more evident; lastly, a well
    Vol. 35. No. 141. Jan. 1810.              D               dug

SO                On the Mineralogical Geography
dug in the garden of M. Lopez at Fontenay-aux-Roses,
which first passed through the gypsum, and afterwards
the limestone, are ample proofs of the position of the
gypsum on the limestone.
    The gypsous hillocks have a peculiar appearance, which
renders them conspicuous at a great distance. : as they are
always placed upon the limestone, they form on 'he higher
eminence a kind of second conical or elongated hillock,
always distinctly marked.
    We shall exhibit the details of this formation, by taking,
as an example, the          mountain which presents the most
complete     collection   of  strata; and although Montmartre
has been already well described, it is still the best and the
most interesting example that can be selected.
    We have recognized, both at Montmartre and on the
hillocks which seem to form the continuation of this emi
 nence, three masses of gypsum.            The lowermost is com
 posed   of alternate  and   thin  strata  of gypsum, frequently
 selenitous, of solid calcareous marks, and of very scaly
 argillaceous marles. It is in the former that we chiefly see
 the coarse crystals of lenticular yellowish gypsum, and it
 is in the latter that we find the menilite silex.       We are not
 acquainted with any fossil in this mass, which is the third,
 of the quarries;
    The second or intermediate mass differs from the forer
 going only because the gypsous beds are thicker, and the
 marley strata are less numerous. We ought to remark that
 among these masses, that which is argillaceous, compact, and
 of a marbled gray appearance, serve* for building-stone. It
 is chiefly in this mass, that fossil shell- fish have been seen.
 No other fossils, however, are found in it; but sulphated
 sirontian has lately been discovered in        it,in scattered frag
 ments, in the lower part of the marble-like marie.
    The superficial mass, which the workmen call the first,
is  in every respect the most remarkable, and the most im
 portant.        is, besides, much more extensive than the rest,
                 It
 since it   isin some places 2-5 metres (82 feet) thick, inter
  rupted only         by
                       small number of marley strata; and in
                           a
  some places, as at Dammartin and Montmorency,              it    sir
                                                                  is
 tualed almost immediately under the vegetable earth.
     The lowermost beds of gypsum          in  this first mass con
 tain silex.    The silex and gypsum seem as           if    mutually
 dissolved in each other.        The intermediate -bed* are na
 turally divided into coarse prisms, with several planes,
 which M. Desmarets has drawn extremely well. They
 are called ihe high, pillars.      Finally, the uppermost strata
                                                                       are

                            of the   Environs      of Paris.                       41
are interlaid with marie : they are but thin, and are alter
nated with strata of marie ; there are generally five such,
which are continued to great distances.
   But these facts, which are already known, are not th«
most important : we mention them only that they may be
brought under view at one glance.                     The fossils which this
mass contains, and those contained in the marie that covers
it,  present observations of      different interest.
                                          a
    It   in this first mass that we daily find the skeletons of
         is
unknown birds and of quadrupeds, which have been already
described       one of us (M. Cuvier)
               by                                   in
                                               separate memoir*.
                                                         a
To the northward of Paris they are in the gypsous mass
itself; here they have preserved their solidity, and are only
surrounded by very thin stratum of calcareous marie
                        a                                       but           ;
in the quarries to the southward, they are frequently           the           in
marie which separates the gypsous strata           they have then
                                                              :
a   great degree of friability.     We shall not revert to the
manner in which they are situated in the mass upon their          ;
state of preservation, species, See. these objects having been
sufficiently developed in the Memoirs which we have men
tioned. We have also found in this mass, bones of tortoise.
 and skeletons of fish.
    But what      much more remarkable, and much more im
                   is
portant from the consequences that result from                 that    it,   is,
we find, although very rarely, fresh-water shells.         Indeed,
 one only      sufficient to demonstrate the truth of the opi
              is
nion of Lamanon and some other naturalists, who think
 that the gypsums of Montmartre, and of the other hillocks
of the basin of Paris, have been crystallized in fresh-water
lakes. We shall relate new facts in confirmation of this.
    In the last place, the superficial mass essentially charac
                                                         is
terized       the presence of the skeletons of mammiferae.
              by
These fossil bones serve to point          out where
                                                it       occurs in it
isolated masses       for we have never been able to discover
                        ;
that they have been found in the lower masses.
    Above the gypsum are placed strong strata of marie,
 sometimes calcareous, and sometimes argillaceous.
    It   in the lower beds, and in white and friable calca
         is                                    a
reous mass, that we have at various times met with trunks
of palm- trees converted into silex. They were lying flat,
and of large bulk.
          a                     It this same system of strata that
                                     is   in
we found (but only         at  Romainville) shells of the genus
lymnea    and  planorbes,-    which  seem to differ     no respectin
ftom the species      now  existing  in our marshes.    One of us
baa already communicated this important fact to the class.
                        *   Published in .limale* du Muilum,
                                               D2                                  It

52               On the Miner alogical Geography
Tt proves that these marles are of fresh-water formation,
like   the gypsums which they cover.
     Above these white marles are also seen very numerous
and frequently thick argillaceous or calcareous marles, in
which no fossil has been as yet discovered.
     We afterwards met with a small bed six decimetres (24
inches) thick, of a scaly yellowish marie, which contains
towards its lower part scraps of earthy sulphated strontian,
and a little above a thin bed of small elongated telhnes, which
are lying flat, packed closely into each other.            This bed,
which seems to be unimportant,           is nevertheless  remarkable
in the first place from its great extent : we have observed it
over a space more than ten leagues (27| miles) long and more
than four (1 1 miles) broad, always in the same place and of the
same thickness.        It isjso thin, that we ought to know pre
cisely   where  it lies, in order to find it out. Secondly, because
it serves as a limit to the fresh-water formations, and indi
cates the sudden commencement of a new marine formation.
     In fact, all the shells which we meet with above this bed
of tellines are also marine.
     We find at first, and immediately afterwards, a strong
and constant stratum of greenish argillaceous earth, which
 from its thickness, colour, and continuity, may be recog
nized at a great distance. It serves as a guide to the tellines,
 since it is beneath it that we find them.             It contains no
 other fossil, but merely argillo-calcareous geodites and
 scraps of sulphated strontian.          This earth is employed in
 the manufacture of coarse pottery.
     The four or five beds of marie which succeed the green
 earths are not thick, nor do they seem to contain fossils ;
 but these beds are immediately covered by a stratum of yel
 low argillaceous marie, which is strewed with fragments
 of sea shells which briong to the genera cerites, trochi,
 mactres, venus, cardium, &c. We also meet with frag
 ments of the bones of a thornbaek.
     Almost all the beds of marie which succeed the latter
  present fossil sea shells, but they are bivalves only; and
 the last strata (those which are immediately below argilla
  ceous sand) contain two very distinct oyster beds.              The
  first and lowermost is composed of very thick large oyster-
 shells: some of them exceed a decimetre (4 inches) in length.
 Afterwards comes a stratum of whitish marie, without shells,
 then a second very strong oyster bed, bnt subdivided into
  several beds. These oyster shells are brown, much smaller
 and thinner than the above.          These last beds of oysters are
 very frequent,      and  we   have   not perhaps seen them twice

                     of  the Environs     of Paris,           53
  fail, in the numerous hillocks of gypsum which we have
  examined. The gypsous formation is frequently terminated
  by a mass, more or less thick, of argillaceous sand, which
  contains no shells.
     Such are the strata which generally compose the gypsous
 formation. We were at first led to divide it into two, and to
 separate the history of the marine niarles of the top from
those of the gypsum, and of the fresh-water marles at the
bottom ; but the strata are so similar to each other, and
accompany each other so constantly, that we have thought
it right merely to point out this division witho.ut making it
in reality.
     It now remains to say a few words, as to the principal
 differences presented by the hillocks which belong to this
 formation.      The gypsous hillocks form a kind of long and
broad zone directed from the south-east to the north-east,
 over a breadth of about six leagues (l6|miles). It seems that
 in this zone it is only the eminences of the centre which
 present distinctly the three masses of gypsum. Those of the
 edges, such as the plaster quarries of Clamart, Bogneux,
 Antoni, Mont Valerian, Grisy, &c, and those of the
 extremities, such as the plaster quarries of Chelles and
Triel, possess only a single mass. This mass seems to us
to be analogous to that which the workmen call the first,
i. e. the most superficial, since we find in it the fossils of
the mammiferai which characterize it; and since we do not
 find, in its marles, those coarse and numerous crystals of
 lenticular gypsum which we observe in the marles of the
 second and of the third mass.
     Sometimes the marles above, are almost entirely wanting;
sometimes the gypsum itself is totally wanting, or reduced
to a thin hed.        In the first case the formation is repre
sented by the green niarles, accompanied with strontian.
The gypsous formations of the park of Versailles near Saint
Cyr, those of Viroflay, are in the former state, and those
of Meudon and Ville-d'Avray are in the latter.
'
    We ought to mention here what has been said of
another work *, namely, that the gypsous soil of the en
virons of Paris cannot be referred with accuracy to any of
the formations described by M. Werner or his followers.
We have on the above occasion assigned our reasons, which
it  is needless  to repeat.
                » Brogniart, Min£ralogie, torn. i. p. 177.
                                  D   3

*4                   On the M'meralogicat   Geography
      ART. V.         Formation   of Sea- Sand and of   Freestone.
     This soil   is not extensive, and seems to form a succession
to the formation of the marles of gypsum.                 We should
even have brought them together, if it had         accompanied
them    asconstantly as the marles accompany the gypsum,
and if it had not been frequently separated by a consider
able argillaceous mass, stripped of every fossil, and very
different in its nature from that which we are now about to
describe.
   What we have said, shows that this formation generally
covers the gypsous formation.        It consists in beds of sili
ceous sand, frequently very pure and agglutinated into free-
Stone, which contains sea shells of various kinds, and all
of them of the same kind as those of Grignon. We have
here recognized the same oysters, the same calyptreas, the
                                         l
same tellines, and the same ceritcs.       Sometimes the shells
themselves exist, and are in a calcareous state, while in
other places nothing remains of them but the external im
pressions or moulds.
   We found this freestone and sea sand on the top of Mont-
martre, at Romainville, at Saint Prix near Montmorency.,
Longjumeau, &c. In these last we also remark fossil
balam.
   We cannot help reflecting, when looking at these free
stones, filled with the same shells as those ot Grignon, on the
singular circumstances that must have presided over the
formation of the strata we have examined.         On beginning
with the strata after the chalk, we may represent to our
selves in the first place a sea which has deposited an im
mense mass of chalk and mollusc! of a particular species.
This precipitation of chalk and the shells which accompany
it, suddenly ceases. Strata of a totally different nature suc
ceed    it,and nothing else     then deposited but clay and
                                   is
sand without any organized body.           Another sea returns         :
this last contains    prodigious quantity of testaceous mol-
                         a
lusci, all of them different from those of the chalk.                 It
forms at bottom thick beds, in        great measure composed
                                        a
of the testaceous envelopes of these mollusci but this pro
                                                    ;
duction of shells gradually diminishes, and also suddenly
ceases.    The soil seems then to have been covered with
fresh water alternate utrata of gypsum and of marie are
                 ;
formed, which surround both the bones of the animals
which these waters nourished, and the bones of those which
lived on their shores.
                                                                     The

                                of the Environs of Partit                     55
   The sea seems to have returned a third time, producing
some species of bivalve and turbinated shells ; but very soon
after the same sea gives birth to oysters only.   Lastly, the
productions of the lowermost second sea reappear, and we
find on the top of Montmartre the same shells which were
found at Grignon, and in the bottom of the quarries                            at
Gentilly        and   Meudon.
               ART. VI.          Formation   of siliceous Limestone.
   The formation of which we have spoken is parallel,
as it were, to that of the siliceous limestone. It is neither
situate above nor below, but on one side of       aud seems  it,
to retain its place in the immense extent of soil which                        it
covers to the west and south-west of Paris.
   This soil    placAJ immediately above some plastic clays.
                     is
It    formed of distinct beds of limestone, sometimes soft
     is
and white, and sometimes gray and compact, and very fine
 grained, penetrated with silex which seems to have filtered
 in every direction. As
                                                                         by
                                   often porous, this silex,
                                      it
                                      is                                 fil
 tering  into   the  Cavities, has   fringed their sides with tufted
 stalactites (mamelonSes] variously coloured, or with very
 short crystals of quartz, almost without any prism, but
 clear and limpid.       This disposition       very remarkable at
                                                    is
 Champigny.        The  compact    limestone   thus  penetrated with
 silex yields, on being burnt, lime of very good quality.
                                                     a
    But the distinguishing character of this singular for
mation, which no person had remarked before we did,
although         covers considerable extent of soil,
                it                a                               this,
                                                                    is
 namely,      that     contains
                          -it      neither   marine    nor  fluviatile
fossils   ; at least we have not been able to discover any iu
the great number of places where we have examined                 with  it
the most scrupulous attention.
  It       in this soil that we find the stones known
          is                                                        the  by
name of burrstones (meulierei)            these stones, the origin,
                                              :
formation, and situation of which were unknown to most
mineralogists, seem to be the siliceous impression of the                     si
liceous limestone. The silex, stripped of its calcareous parts
by an unknown cause, must have left, and does in fact
leave, porous but hard masses, the cavities of which still
contain argillaceous marie, which present no trace of strati
fication. We have made true artificial burrstones                  by
                                                               throw
ing this siliceous limestone into nitric acid. We shall ex
plain in our full Memoir the various districts of soil which
are formed of this limestone.           We shall finish its general
                                 D           4                 history

j(J          On the Miner alogical    Geography
history by saying, that it is frequently exposed on the «ur-
face of the earth, but frequently also it is covered with ar
gillaceous marles, with freestone without shells, and finally
with alluvial soil. Such is the nature of the soil of the
forests of Fontainebleau.
      ART. VII.    Formation   of Freestone without Shells.
  The freestone without shells, in whatever place it i»
found, is always either the last or the penultimate formation.
It constantly covers the rest, and is never covered, except
by the formation of alluvial soil.    Its beds are frequently
very thick, and mixed with beds of sand of the same na
ture. The sand which supports the upper beds, has been
sometimes washed out by the water ; the beds are then
broken, and have rolled over the flanks of the hillocks which
they formed : of this kind are the freestones of the forest
of Fontainebleau, of Palaiseau, &c.
   Not only do this freestone and sand contain no fossils,
but they are frequently very pure, and furnish sands much
esteemed in the arts, and which are gathered at Etampes,
Fontainebleau, Aumont, 8cc.
   They are sometimes, however, either altered by a mixture
of argil, or coloured by oxides of iron, or impregnated
with carbonated lime which has penetrated them by infil
tration when they are covered by the calcareous soil of fresh
water : this is still the case with the freestone of several
parts of the forest of Fontainebleau.
      ART. VIII.     Formation   of the Fresh-water Soil.
   This formation constantly covers all the foregoing. The
rock which has resulted from it resembles, in point of struc
ture and other external properties, siliceous limestone, i. e,
it is sometimes compact, sometimes white and soft, but al
most always penetrated with siliceous infiltration.       The
same silex, sometimes opaque and yellowish,         sometimes
brown and translucid like pyromatic silex, in some places
completely fills the place of the limestone : finally, this
formation gives, like the sixth, burrstones, the origin of
which has one and the same cause.
    What exclusively therefore characterizes this formation     is,
on the one hand the presence of shells, which are evidently
of fresh-water origin, and similar in every respect to those
which we find in our marshes. These shells are lymneje
and three kinds of planorbcs.    We also find in this forma
                                                              tion

                     of the Environs of Paris.                    57
tton small round hollow bodies (caneles) which M. de La
marck has called gyrogonites. We are not acquainted with
any analogous existing species : but their position informs
us, that the organized body of which they formed part lived
in fresh water.
   The second character of this formation is the facility
which the limestone composing it has of being dissolved ill
water, however hard it may seem at the moment of its
being taken out of the quarry.           Hence it is used as marie,
fertilizing   the  soil  at  Trappe   near   Versailles, and other
places.
    We refer to this formation, but rather with hesitation,
the sands of the eminences which contain wood and parts
of vegetables changed into silex. We were led to make
this junction, by observing the siliceous wood and vegetables,
which we find towards the top of the hillocks of Longju-
meau. The same sand which contains these vegetables, also
contains silex filled with coarse lymneae and planorbes.
    The fresh-water soil, although always superficial, is not
found in every situation, but rather towards the summits of
the eminences, and on the great platforms as well a*s in the
bottoms of the valleys ; if it exists in the latter situations,
it has been covered by the soil which constitutes the ninth
and last formation.          Besides, it is extremely common
throughout     the  whole   of  the environs of Paris, and proba
bly   at distances  much    further  off than we have visited. It
seems to us astonishing, that so few naturalists have paid
attention to the subject ; we know no other person than
 M. Coupe who has mentioned it.
    The presence of this soil pre-supposes, in the fresh water
which then existed, properties which we ho longer find in
those now in existence. The waters in our marshes and
lakes deposit nothing but friable slime.           We have not re
marked in any of them the property possessed by the fresh
 waters of the old world to form thick depots of yellowish
 and hard limestone, of white marles and silex, frequently
 very homogeneous, enveloping all the ruins of the orga
 nized bodies which lived in these waters, and even brirtging
 them to the siliceous and calcareous nature of their en
 velopes.
   ARTICLE      IX.  Formation     of Alluvium (Atterissement).      •
    Not knowing how         to designate this formation, we have
 given it the name of alluvium, which indicates a mixture of
 matter deposited by fresh water.         In fact, the slime of al-
                                                           luviation

58        Minera logical Geography of the Envuons of Para*
 Juviation is composed of sand of all colours, marie, or evert
of   the mixture of these three substances, impregnated with
 carbon, which gives it a brown and even black appear
 ance.    It contains rounded flints ; but what characterizes
 it more particularly        the remains of the huge organized
                                       is,
 bodies with which        abounds. it     in this formation that
                                             It   is
 we find large trunks of trees, bones of elephants, of oxen,
 antelopes, and other large mammiferse.
    It    also to this formation that we may ascribe the ac
         is
 cumulation of flints at the bottom of valleys and probably
                                                       ;
also those of some plains, such as the Bois de Boulogne, the
plain of Nanterre at Chateu, and certain parts of the forest
 of St. Germain.
    This alluvium        not only found in the bottom of our
                                  is
present valleys, but         has covered valleys or excavations
                                        it
which have been since rilled up. We may observe this ar
rangement in the deep cutting made near Seran, for the ca
nal of Ourque. This cutting shows an ancient cavity, filled
•with the substances which compose the alluvium,        and    it   is
in this kind of marshy bottom that we have found bones of
elephants and large trunks of trees.
    It    to the existence of these ruins of organized bodies
         is
which are not yet entirely decomposed, that we ought to
ascribe the dangerous and frequently pestilential emana
tions which are extricated from these soils, when they are
stirred up for the first time since the period of their forma
tion for
      ;        itthe same with this formation, which appears
                    is
to be so modern, as with all those others which we have
examined.      Although very modern in comparison with the
other soils,        still anterior to any historic asra; and we
                    it   is
may say, that the alluvium of the old does not in any re
spect resemble that of the present world, since the wood
and animals found                      in
                           them are entirely different, not only
from the animals of the countries where they are found de
posited, but also from all those hitherto known.*
     :...•*«                  •
                                                           VII. Ac-
                                  '
H

 VII.    .Account      of an   extensive      Organic    Lesion    ~of   the
    Brain, thoracic and aldominal Viscera, unaccompanied
    ty tlie Symptoms usually observed in similar Affections.
    By JOHN TAUNTON, Esq. Lecturer on Anatomy, Surgeon
    to the City and Finslury Dispensaries, and to the City
    Truss Society,       &c.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
jSiR, AN the course of my various communications to your
Journal, 1 have more than once had occasion to describe
 cases of injuries to vital parts, which are generally sup
 posed to produce a. suspension if not a total deprivation of
 the reasoning faculties *.
    In detailing the remarkable appearances I am ahout to
 lay before the public, it is not my wish to be regarded as
 espousing a doctrine contrary to the generally received opi
 nions respecting the connexion that subsists between the
 organic structure and intellectual faculties of mankind :—
 I am anxious, however, that the anomalies which daily fall
 under the observation of medical practitioners may excite
 them to further inquiries. It has been my lotto wit ness cases
 in which the bones of the cranium have been so demolished,
 that large portions of the brain escaped from the wound;
 and on other occasions besides the one I am about to de
 tail, I have found tumours of an inch and upwards in di
 ameter, formed on the surface and substance of that viscus,
 and yet no symptoms of mental derangement, stupor, or
 even loss of sight,          hearing, &c., supervened. On the
 other hand, I am free to admit, that I have seen lesions of
 this description, nay even the most trifling depressious of
the skull, producing all the disagreeable consequences which
we are taught to expect from injuries of the head.                      May
there not be some chasm in the theory of physiologists on
 this point* which is reserved to future observers to fill
up?
    In November last I was called to a M. De la Roche, a
foreigner, who described his age as 6". He detailed the
 circumstances of his case, with a firmness and precision,
 which perhaps no patient, labouring untler such a compli
 cation of disorders, ever before evinced.               On examination.
 I found a fistulous sinus in the glutii muscles, which he
 informed me had existed for many years : he had long
complained of great pain in the left cavity of the thorax,
   * Sec Philosophical  Magazine,  vol. Ktli. p. 169, and vol. ux. p. 363.
                                                                       often

   6O                  Account  of an extensive
  often placing his hand on the affected part :— in other re
  spects his health had been previously good.         He was re
  garded as a most active man : he had a general knowledge
  of literature and science ; spoke several languages ; was
  distinguished for the facility with which he could converse
  upon most subjects, and reasoned so closely that his intel
  lectual powers were generally regarded as of a superior kind.
 He had been repeatedly employed by the late Mr. Pitt on
 missions to various parts of the continent, and had invent
 ed several improvements in mechanics, which had gained
 him considerable notoriety.
     About two months previous to my seeing him he had
 been seized with what was pronounced by a medical gen
 tleman who visited him, to be peritoneal inflammation.
 This gentleman having discontinued his attendance, I was
 sent for by the patient ; not so much with a view to admi
 nister any professional aid, as to express my consent to
 "  anatomize his body
                           " after his dissolution, which he
 never ceased to contemplate as rapidly approaching, with a
 firmness of mind peculiar to himself.        This singular, and
 I believe almost unprecedented request, was even com
 mitted to writing by the patient, and delivered to a parti
 cular friend.
    On further inquiry 1^ learned that he felt considerable
 pain also in the abdomen, and on applying my hand ex
 ternally I felt a tumour in the scrobiculus cordis, extending
 to about midway between that part and the umbilicus ; but
 this tumour was not sensible to the mere casual touch. His
 pulse was good, and did not indicate inflammation ; but he
appeared to be gradually sinking; he took but little nourish
ment, and did not rest well.
    The medicines administered were opiates with aperients,
 which afforded some temporary relief. A few days previous
to his death he had several convulsive fits: he lost the use
of his left side before death ; but the circulation and heat
in that part of his body were uninterrupted; the lower ex
tremities at this time also became ahasarcous. He con
 tinued perfectly sensible to the moment of his dissolution.
                  '
                    Examination of the Body.
    On sawing off    the upper part of the cranium,    the bones
appeared perfectly diaphanous ; — the membranes and surface
of the brain were in their natural state. The general sub
stance of the brain was firm.
    On separating    the hemispheres,   there appeared attached
to the right hemisphere a dark-coloured       tumour of at least
                                                             an

                   Organic Lesion       of the Brain, &c.                  61
an inch in diameter ; it was of a granulated, fibrous and
grumotis consistence.              Within the substance of the same
hemisphere there appeared several other tumours, which,
on being cut into, exhibited nearly the same appearances.
The general substance of the brain was firm and sound :
the olfactory nerves were uncommonly firm, not having the
usual fibrous texture, but rather resembling^pieces of nar
row tape, of a dead white colour j the other nerves were
 equally firm.
       In the thorax the left lung was entirely obliterated, ap
 parently resulting from long continued inflammation.                     The
 right lung and the heart were in their natural state.                    The
 coronary arteries were ossified to a considerable extent*.
       In the abdomen there was about three quarts of a dark-
  coloured serous fluid; the viscera were of a very, dark co
  lour. The structure of the alimentary canal was not in
 jured: the kidneys, bladder, and spleen, were in the na
  tural state : the liver was completely scirrhous: the pan
  creas was also scirrhous, which must have formed the tu
  mour felt while the patient was alive. The gall bladder was
  much distended with bile.
        There were no symptoms of a scirrhous pancreas during
   life.
        With respect to the diseased appearances of the trunk in
   the above case, perhaps little doubt can arise ; but it may
                                      I
   not be improper, before conclude, to call the attention
   of my fellow practitioners to the peculiar state of the brain.
        The tumours in this organ were exhibited in various
    stages of progression to the size of the largest, and that
   which       was first described.       The whole of them must have
    existed for many years, and it will perhaps be difficult to ex
    plain — Why these tumours did not produce symptoms of
    compression, considering the space they occupied? Grave
    we to suppose that absorption of the surrounding parts took
    place in unison with the growth of the tumour ?
                 *                              1 am, &c.,
                                                        JOHN
        * Although this otnfication was extensive, no symptoms of angina pec-
    toris rould  be traced as having ever existed.  Several preparations in my
     possession, when considered with reference to the histories of the patients,
     furnish results perfectly analogous.
        f The preparations of the various diseaied parts in the above case are
     preserved La my Museum, where they may bs seen.
                                                                    VIII.     On

                              [   62  ]
 VJII.    On Dr. PEARSON'S Proposal for an Institution       for
           obtaining an equal Temperature in Houses.
                         To   Mr. Tilloch.
 SIR, JL WAS much gratified by Dr. Pearson's letter in your
 last number, announcing the probable erection of a large
 building, capable of having its atmosphere kept at an equable
 temperature, for the use of consumptive patients. Though
 no medical man myself, I have more than once had my
 attention directed to this subject ; and I have long been of
 opinion, that such a building as Dr. Pearson alludes to,
 would be, in most cases, a palliative, if not remedy, superior
 to the removals to a milder foreign climate, which are so
 frequently painfully undertaken.       That a combination of
 the architectural and philosophical sciences existing in
 England is adequate to the erection of a building, iu which
 the air could be constantly maintained of a temperature as
mild as that of Montpellier or Madeira, and of which the
 superior equability would more than compensate for any
 slight deficiency in freshness and purity, there can be no
 reasonable doubt ; and how infinitely more, if this could
 be effected, a quiet residence at home, surrounded by at
 tentive friends, must contribute to the care and restoration
 of a sufferer by a consumptive attack, than a harassing
 voyage, succeeded by an uncomfortable sojourn amongst
 strangers, need not be pointed out.
     But, though I entertain sanguine hopes that, under the
 auspices of Dr. Pearson and the eminent architect he re
fers to, the consumptive rich may be shortly accommodated
 unongst us with a splendid erection of another Albany,
 of which while the air is as mild and balsamic as that of
 southern France, the extent and arrangements will admit
 of the indulgence of fashionable habits, and combine within
 itself the luxurious enjoyments and comforts of home, with
 the healthful influence of foreign climes; it would greatly
 detract from my satisfaction, iff conceived that these bless
 ings were to be confined to the rich, and that the con
  struction of a splendid and expensive edifice was a. sine qud
 non to their attainment.       I am persuaded, however, both
 from Dr. Pearson's hints and my own observations, that at
 least the remedy of a mild and equable temperature may be
 compassed by persons in the middle station of life, in their
 own houses, and at an expense not exceeding what they
 would of necessity expend in applications far less effica
 cious.    The first essential seems to be merely a suite of two
                                                             air-

                 On  Dr. Pearson's Proposal,     J3*c.          63
air-tight apartments      and an anti-room opening into each
other,    and   having   no  other communication with the rest
of the house than through the anti-room. Of these the
first would serve for a sitting-, the innermost as a lodging-
room.       It is quite obvious, that all attempts at maintain
ing    an equable temperature must be nugatory, if the patient
have to pass from his sitting- to his lodging-room through
a cold windy passage or staircase ; and if the atmosphere
of both be not kept at the same degree of warmth. There
are few houses of modern construction that could not sup
ply two rooms on the same floor opening into each other :
 and as the an ti- room, which is essential for the purpose
of preventing a cold draught of air on opening the door of
the outer apartment, and for renewing the air of that
apartment gradually, may be very small, there are few
houses which would not admit of its erection on the stair
head of the first floor.       The next essential is to make the
rooms air-tight. This may be readily accomplished by
double windows, the outer closely caulked, by walls accu
rately plastered and papered, and doors tightly fitting and
 listed if necessary.       An equable temperature is the third
 essential.     In effecting this, fires in an open stove seem
 clearly inadmissible, if from no other cause than this,
 that in an air-tight apartment it is almost impossible to
 prevent their smoking ; besides which, it is equally diffi
 cult to regulate their heat properly.         Stoves of all kinds
 are open to the last objection,, and frequently cause an
 unpleasant and unwholesome smell, evevi when the smoke
 does not escape.       Steam would doubtless be the most ef
 fectual and elegant, as well as simple and perhaps cheap
 mode of heating the apartments. All that is wanted is a
 plain and intelligible description of the mode of its appli
 cation, which could be practised by any ordinary workman.
 Here 1 confess my ignorance : indeed my chief reason for
 now addressing you is to. request of Dr. Pearson, or some
 other of your intelligent correspondents, the requisite in
 formation.       We were, told long ago, that some eminent
 cabinet-maker was able to warm a large suite of rooms, even
 the garrets of his warehouse, from the steair: of a single
 copper ; and I understand steam is applied also in warming
  the Royal Institution : so that the practicability of applying
  it in this way is undoubted. What is wanted is the man
 ner of its application, on a small scale, in private houses.
  I should conceive that a boiler, which might be fixed on
 one side of the kitchen-fire, would heat water sufficient to
 warm the air of two moderate-sized rooms.             From this
                                                             boiler

/
  64        On  Dr. Pearson's Proposal for   an Institution
  boiler a tin pipe might be conducted, being wrapped with
  wool, or some non-conducting substance, until its en
  trance into the apartment to be warmed, and then unco
  vered to give out its heat.      If sufficiently long or wide,
  and made always to incline towards the boiler, I should
  conceive that the greater part of the steam would condense
  and run back into the boiler; but of course there ought to
  be some outlet or valve to prevent the pipe's bursting. The
  chief data wanting are the size of the boiler and quantity
  of water necessary to heat a given space; the proper dia
  meter of the pipe, the length to which it ought to extend
  in the room to be warmed, and its situation, whether near
  the floor or the cieling, &c. &c. It is clear, that as little
  of the steam ought to escape uncondensed as possible ; and
  for this purpose, the tube in the room should be either very
  long or very wide, but which I know not.            If the appa
  ratus could be so contrived that the condensed water would
  return to the boiler, it would be a material point; for the
  great difficulty in adopting such plans is the impossibility
  of getting servants to attend to any directions which re
  quire frequent and precise observance.       It is on this ac
  count that the steam-boiler should be immoveably fixed,
  and constantly heated without any particular care.
      A steam apparatus, something on the plan above de
  scribed, would, I conceive, be far more effectual, as well as
  less troublesome, than the pots of hot water temporarily
  used by Dr. Pearson : and a simple and cheap mode of
  applying it is highly desirable, not merely as a mode of
  heating the apartments of consumptive patients, but for
  general adoption in many other cases ; in particular, for
  heating rooms where collections of plants, &c. are to be
  kept dry, but free from the dust and dirt which an open
  fire never fails to make.      In concluding this part of the
  subject,   I wish to  inquire whether the Pennsylvanian stove,
  invented by Dr. Franklin, and which, from his discoveries,
  stems to combine the warmth and cleanliness of a stove
  with a sight of the fire, so essential to an Englishman's
  comfort, has ever been adopted in this country, or had a
  fair trial given to it ?
     Though there can be little doubt that a suite of rooms
  warmed in the manner indicated above would be a very
  good succedaneum        during an English winter for an ex
  pensive voyage    to Madeira  or Lisbon, and though they who
                                                  horrors
  sumption would deem the consequent confinement as a
  trifling price for the advantage derived ; it is not to be de
                                                              nied

        for     obtaining an equal Temperature in Houses.              65
   nied that it would be found very difficult to induce con
   sumptively-inclined patients to forgo the pleasure of out
   door exercise, and submit to such a confining regimen.
   But it has long struck me, that means might be devised to
  enable this numerous class, who purchase every sunny
  walk in winter with the risk of their existence, to enjoy
  their present liberty with far less danger. It is well known,
  that the great source of harm to persons with tender lungs
  is the sudden and great changes of temperature, especially
  fromcold to heat, which no one who stirs out in an Eng
 lish winter can well avoid.      The succession of a cold frosty
 air to the hot temperature     induced by a large fire and tea ;
 then perhaps a walk on the sunny side of a street, ex
 changed for the piercing cold of the shaded and exposed
 side ; and the whole ended by entering into a hot room,
 and, rushing to a large fire, where the irritability, or whatever
 we call  it, of the body      extraordinarily condensed: — such
                              is
is   the succession which thousands are every winter repeat
 edly exposing themselves to       :And can we wonder at the
 result to those who are of       consumptive habit?
                                   a                        But how
 to avoid these changes and yet stir from home           isthe ques
 tion. In one way this may be certainly effected —        :       by
                                                                  the
application of       handkerchief to the mouth and nose, so as
                      a
 to prevent the air from ever passing into the lungs when in
its coldest state, much of the danger of short excursions
in   the open air may he prevented.         Of this fact      I have
had ocular demonstration in the case of              afriend, who,
before his adoption of this plan, had constant and severe
colds through every winter, but, since he pursued             it,has
been nearly     ifnot altogether free from them.           And this
gentleman        now able comfortably to accept winter invita-<
                is
lions, which formerly he was under the necessity of de
clining, or of looking forward to with horror.
    But would       not be practicable to invent
                     it                              asubstitute for
the pocket-handkerchief,       which       tiresome to hold, and
                                           it   is
loo closely confines the breath       Might not kind of mask
                                       ?             a
consisting of        frame, which should closely apply to the
                     a
lower part of the face, covered with three or four thick
nesses of gauze, be very advantageously employed for the
same end   ?   Such     veil would,
                          a           conceive, constantly keep
                                       I
the lungs in an atmosphere never much below sixty, while
the interstices of the gauze would readily admit of the re
quisite quantity of air, which, thus gradually mixed with
the interior warmer mass, could never, even in the coldest
weather, cool the membrane of the lungs so as to make                  it
dangerous to come into        awarm room, or approach         a fire.
     Vol. 35. No. 141. Jan. 1810.              E                Tic

60                Notices respecting  New Books.
The only objection      that I can see, is the ridiculous figure
that persons furnished with such masks would at first be
thought to cut.       But this would soon have an end. The
adoption of such veils by a few of the great would be suffi
cient to induce even the robust to wear them ; and in re
ality there would be much less to laugh at than there was
at the first use of umbrellas, inasmuch as a man's lungs
are somewhat better worth protecting than his coat.
    I shall be glad if these hasty and indigested hints prove
of any value in furthering the laudable view s of Dr. Pearson.
                  I am, sir, your most humble servant,
January 15, 1810.                                       CfiNEPS.
               IX.   Notices respecting New Books.
"   The Rudiments of Cliemis'lry ; illustrated ly Experiments,
    and eight Copper-pfate Engravings of Chemical Appa
    ratus." By SAMUEJ- PAUKES.           Price 5s. in Boards.
 J. HERE is much to commend in this little volume, which
contains ihe principal chemical facts, detailed with pre
cision and perspicuity, and illustrated with apposite expe
riments : but after the luminous discoveries of Mr. Davy,
— discoveries which have entirely changed the relation and
dependence of the various facts which constitute chemical
science, — we cannot but express our surprise that Mr. Parkej
should have adopted such an arrangement as the following:—
Introduction; Atmospheric Air; Caloric ; Water; Earths;
Alkalies; Acids; Salts; Simple Combustibles; Metals;
Oxides ; Combustion ; Chemical Affinity. In typography
and mechanical structure the present work is an exact pic
 ture of Blair's Grammar
                               of Chemistry, nor could a better
model have been followed for an elementary work of thi$
 kind ; but justice demands that we should add, it is far more
correct in its detail of facts.
 •*
    An Essay on the Effects of Carbonate, and other Pre
    parations of Iron, upon Cancer : with an Inquiry into the
    Nature of thai and other Diseases to which it bears a Re
    lation." By RICHARD CABMICHAKI, Surgeon. Second
    Edition, considerably enlarged and improved,             8vo,
    Dublin printed, and sold by MURRAY, Londoii.
    Though subjects of medicine may find their way to the
 public by publications confined to that science, yet, as a
 branch of natural philosophy, we have always been ready
 id receive a selection.    The disease to which thia work re
                                                              fers

                  Notices respecting New Books,                67'
 fers is too well known in its fatality to require any intro
ductory remarks, but the remedies have for the most /tart
been concealed from the public.        Hence, solitary success
 ful case* only having been published with care, the faculty
have been unable to judge of the comparative value of a
remedy they could know but imperfectly.        Nothing there
fore could be more desirable than a performance like Mr.
Carmichael's, nor could any thing be ushered into the
world with more modesty or propriety.           "  When   I first
published," says    the author,   "  my Essay on  the Effects  of
Carbonate of Iron upon Cancer, there was nothing I so
much dreaded as the too sanguine expectation of the public,
and that a remedy that succeeded in one instance would
be required in every other to overcome this disease in all its
stages, or be rejected as useless because it could not per
form impossibilities.     My own hopes were but moderate,
and I was careful that they should not wander far beyond
the certainty of my experience ; but my experience was so
circumscribed, that I could merely guess at the virtues of
the medicine rather than appreciate its value.         This is a
misfortune I have not now to complain of; — many and va
rious are the cases a short interval has brought within my
care or observation — alike in their symptoms, however dif
ferent their circumstances — and variable the event of suc
cess or disappointment.      But if experience has taught me,
that in particular instances the medicine may prove ineffi
cacious, and must, where the ravages of the malady arc
great and extensive, yet I had almost universally the satis
faction of discovering its efficacy, wherever the cancerous
mass was not very much enlarged : and even wken this was
the case, instances were not wanting of a perfect recovery,
and seldom indeed did it happen that the disease was unal-
leviated by the medicine."
    It is no small compliment to the author, that his pro
posed remedy has been pretty generally adopted by many
of the most eminent of the London faculty, and that thi*
adoption it becoming daily more general.
    The plan pursued in the arrangement of the work is as
follqws :
    1st. A detail of the most remarkable cases within the
author's knowledge. —These are subdivided into such as
were cured by iron — such as were alleviated, and such as
were neither cured nor alleviated.
    2d. The opinions of the ancients and moderns concern
ing cancer.
    3d. Consideration of the nature of cancer.
                                E  8                        4th.

68                Notices respecting New Books.
    4th. Treatment of cancer.
    These are followed by some miscellaneous remarks on
the predisposition to cancer, and its connexion with other
diseases ; and an attempt to answer the queries of the so
ciety formed in London for the cure of cancer.
     The cases of cancer cured by preparations of iron amount
to 30, all well authenticated; and many of them com-
municaled to the author from various respectable sources.
     The number alleviated is eleven, and those in which the
remedy produced no good effects are seven.
     We shall pass over the account of the ancient opinions
 concerning cancer, and even of the moderns.           Of the lat-
 ier our author remarks :
     " Theories founded on such uncertain arguments scarcely
 deserve attention, only that they prove how frequently the
 symptoms of this disorder have given the notion of its pro
 duction by the action of living animals. They seem to have
 nearly dropped into oblivion, till revived by Dr. Adams,
 who supports with much ingenuity and appearance of truth,
 opinions peculiar to himself on this subject.       As the foun
 dation of this theory, he premises, that hydatids possess
 the simplest form in which animal life can well he sup
  posed to exist ; and as the experiments of Doctor Hunter
 only prove in them a contractile force, which is allowed to
  he sufficient evidence of their life ; so if a similar property
  can be proved in the contents of a cancerous tumour, .their
  separate vitality is equally dcducible.
     " In. cancerous breasts, he remarks, there is always found
  a quantity of yellow greenish fat , \vhich is contained in
  cysts, these together he denominates Carcinomatous Hy
  datids ; and to prove their contractile power, he directs the
                                           '
  following experiment to be made.           Immediately after the
  operation, take the amputated part, and cut it in a trans
  verse, or indeed in any direction, and wherever you dis
  cover this fatty appearance, you will see the surface at firs^
  smooth under your knife.       In an ftistant after you will find
  a papillary appearance all over this yellow green surface.
  Each of these papillae you will find the contents of a cap
  sule, the contraction of which has produced' this conical
  figure.'
     " The other observations in support of his theory chiefly
  tend to prove, that those parts usually affected with cancer
  are endued with but little powers of life; and which there
  fore we would, a priori, suppose to be best adapted for the
  nidus and support of beings possessing a separate existence.
  Among those are the organs subservient to the preservation
                                                                  of

                  Notices respecting New Books.               69
 of the species and not necessary to the existence of the in
dividual, as the breasts and uterus in women and the testi
cles in men, which are most suceptihle of the disease at that
period of life when they .become useless, and consequently
                                                                 '
possess but a small portion of vitality ; however, that the
Cancerous    predisposition may be anticipated by Injuries,
which render them entirely or in part incapable of per
forming their usual functions.
   "  As to the scirrhous structure which forms the most
considerable portion of cancer, and possesses somewhat
the appearance of softened cartilage, he argues, that ' if
careinomata pass through the same stages as Dr. J. Hunter
has remarked of the common or lymphatic hydatid, is it
not probable that on the death of any of them suppuration
will follow, and that this suppuration may expose the
living hydatids in such a manner that many of them,
may die from not being surrounded by living animal mat
ter?    To prevent this, he conceives a fungus is formed,
which incloses individuals or clusters of them in separate
compartments, so that the death of one set produces no
effect on the rest.'     However, the Doctor does not inform
us whether this fungus is produced by the hydatids for their
own preservation, or by the surrounding parts for the pur
pose of preventing the departure of those troublesome visi
tors ; if the latter is the case, it at least proves, that we do
not always profit by the assistance of the vis medicatrix
naturae.
    " But when the mind rests a length of time on any fa
vourite theory, it is too apt to seize only the evidence that
may confirm, and to neglect altogether that which may
subvert the opinions it has formed : thus the ingenious au
thor, who has the merit of opening a new field of inquiry,
overlooks some obvious circumstances that are strongly
adverse to his theory, which appears to me to have its
foundation in the following circumstances; viz. the colour,
the quantity, and the consistence of the yellow greenish fat
above taken notice of, together with its accumulation in
capsules, and the papillary appearance expressive of motion
 observable on dividing it by a transverse section.
    " But these appearances seem to be merely the effects of
 the deranged actions of the animal ceconomy ; except the
one evincing a contractile power in what he terms' capsules,
but which, notwithstanding repeated inrestigation, 1 never
 could perceive.    The colour of the fat in cancerous breasts,
that Doctor Adams seems to lay so much stress on, may
 be produced by animal hepatic air, which Doctor. Crawford
                                Ea                    '.has

                   Notices respecting New Books.
has proved to be ' capable of imparting to the fat of animal*
recently killed a green colour,' and that this very air united
with ammonia escapes in great abundance from cancerous
as well as other malignant ulcers *."
    ** I have thus,"
                         says our author,
                                             " extensively consi
dered the opinions of Dr. Adams, which, notwithstanding
the objections that occur, appear to explain the phsenomena
of the disease more satisfactorily than any that have yet
been offered; and I confess I cannot but agree with him
in the fundamental part of his theory, the independent life
of cancer ; but my sentiments are somewhat different con
cerning the part in which that life is resident."
     Mr. Carmichael then proceeds to offer his opinion of
cancer as a parasytic animal (a term, we believe, first used
by Doctor Adams). This leads to a very interesting history
of parasytic plants and animals, which lie traces through all
 the writings of Darwin, Willdenow, Hunter, and several
others.
     In the succeeding chapter the author enters more parti
 cularly into the evidence of the vitality of cancer. The first
 of these is, that the cancerous substance has no communi
 cating vessels with the parts in which it grows, and the in
 sensibility of the person in whom it Ends a nidus to any
 injury confined to the cancerous mass.            2d. That carci
 noma arises in parts naturally endued with little life, or
 which, from their nature, are more inclined to run into
 decomposition, particularly the organs in each sex subser
 vient to generation, after the period is passed in which they
 can be used for such purposes. 3d. From the fair presump
 tion that when suppuration takes place, it is not of the can
 cerous substance itself, but of the neighbouring parts, which
 are stimulated to suppuration by the previous death of one
 part of the carcinomatous mass, according to a law first
  discovered by Mr. Hunter, thai a living animal confined
  within the substance of another animal does not stimulate           .
 to suppuration ; but that the same animal when dead sti
 mulates like any other extraneous substance. 4th. "The
 origin of carcinoma first commencing in a point —the forma
  tion of cysts in its texture, containing a fluid — those cysts
  evincing a contractile power, by a forcible expulsion of their
  contents on being punctured, are all circumstances which
  strongly impress the idea that carcinoma is possessed of in
  dividual life."     In this division the author enters much
     * Experiments and Observation* on the Matter of Cancer, &£.,  by
  A.  Crawford, MJJ.
                                                                 into

                   Notices respecting New Books.                jt
   into the general relation between hydadds and cancer.
   5th. The locality of the disease.    6th. The peculiar kind of
  pain, which is sometimes compared by the patient to the
  gnawing of an animal.
      " Such ate the facts," concludes Mr. C., l< that lead
  me to adopt the unnatural hypothesis that cancer enjoys an
  independent animal existence in the body on which it preys;
  and when another theory offers itself that so precisely meets
  every circumstance, and so perspicuously disentangles every
  difficulty of this obscure and intricate disease, I shall with
  out hesitation relinquish opinions that I confess are difficult
  to digest, and most difficult to him whoSe reading has beeri
  most extensive.     Vain indeed would be any effort to render
  them palatable td minds versed in systems of every branch
  of philosophy, if they had not previously learned the vanity
  of all human knowledge, and the futility of attempting to1
  embrace within systems the infinite variety of nature.''
      We cannot help remarking, that most if not all these ar
  guments in favour of the vitality of cancer are urged by
  Dr. Adams. The second indeed— that ca'rcinoma arises rrt
  parts naturally endued with1 little life, is somewhat diffe
  rently stated by that author. In accounting" for the breasts,
  ovaries, uterus, and testicles becoming the nidus for hy-
  datids in general, as well as for what he calls carcinumatous
  hydatids, Dr. Adams assumes as a cause, that such parts
  are not necessary for the existence of the supporting ani
  mal,- and that after a certain time they become useless for
 those offices for which onry they are destined. —That by
 injury that uselessness may be anticipated, and that in some
 females who are barren, the parts ab initio being useless,
 the breast becomes the nidus for cancer at a very early pe
  riod. —The last argument produced by Mr. Carmichael we
 think might be omitted. Gnawing pain is a very common,
 tenti for rheumatism — darting is a much more usual de
 scription for cancer among the unhappy sufferers.           We
 mean not by these remarks to detract from the candour
 or merits of the author. He seems to have omitted scarcely
 any other opportunity of introducing Dr. Adams's name,
 and always with respect : and as to his own opinions, it
 must be admitted that they stand on the fairest ground —
                                                  '
 the sitcess of a generally adopted practice.
     Mr. C. next enters on the " treatment of cancers." In
 this most important part, and which, notwithstanditig the
-envy of some of our contemporaries, we think We may
 ti'uly call his own, as far as any philosophical view 6f the
                               E 4                        nubject

7*  .           Notices respecting New Books.
subject extends, we are ready to give every credit to the
ingenious author.     Our limits will not permit us to follow
him through the whole, but we -cannot help remarking,
that every part shows equal industry and genius.— After
remarking the various unsuccessful attempts hitherto made,
he engages in an inquiry concerning the uses of iron in the
system — The diseases arising from an excess of the oxide
of iron — Those arising from a deficiency of the same From
all these, many valuable inductions follow on cancer and
some other equally deplorable diseases.
   The work concludes with an attempt at answering the
queries of the medical committee of the society for investi
gating the nature and cure of cancer, and the plan of
a hospital in Dublin for the reception of cancerous pa
tients. Of the first, we cannot help lamenting that we hear
so little of a society which seemed at one time to promise
BO much.      The author's answers of course respect princi
pally passages referred to in his work.    OF the second, we
cannot help regretting that the inconvenience remarked by
Dr. Adams, in his Treatise on the Cancerous Breast, should
be so\soon forgotten.     Can there be a more dreary prospect
for cancerous subjects, than to be constant witnesses of
its frequent fatality, and the agonies of their fellow-suffer
ers ? Would not the funds of such an institution be better
employed in supporting the patients among their friends,
and administering remedies, than in erecting expensive
buildings ? We cannot, by these few remarks, be sus
pected of a wish to detract from the merit of a work which
does equal honour to the head and heart of the author.
 Practical and descriptive Essays     on the Economy of Fuel
    and Management of Heat. Essay First. By ROBERTSON
    BUCHANNAN, Civil Engineer. 8vo. With 2 Engravings.
    The public having given a very favourable reception to a
 short Essay on llic Warming of Mills and other Buildings
by Steam, published by Mr. Buchannan in 18O7, and of
 which we took notice in our xxixth vol. p. 2/2, instead of
merely reprinting that Essay, he has been induced to ex
 tend his plan 10 a series of Essays under the above title, of
 which, the first, consisting of 28O pages, has just made its
appearance. It is divided into three parts. PART I. — Meets
of Heat —Means of Measuring il — Fuel, &c. — Section 1,
 Heat, Thermometers, Tables; 2, Expansion of Solids and
Liquids, Tables; 3, Specific Heat of Gases, Liquids and
                                                        Solids,

                 Notices respecting New Books.                f>
Solids, Tables ; 4, Combustion, various Kinds of Fuel ;
5, Motion of Heat on the conducting Power of Bodies,
Refrigeration ; 6, Ebullition, Steam, Tables of Expansion
of Air, Water, and other Liquids ; 7, Ignition. PART II.
—Heating Mills and other Buildings by Steam : —Section
1, Proportionate Size of Boilers; 2,<|Proportion of Steam-
Pipes for Heating a given Space; 3, Substance and Surface
of the Pipes ; 4. General Observations respecting Arrange
ment, &c. ; 5, Of the Method of connecting the Pipes ;
6, Description of the Boiler with its Apparatus ; 7, Sy
phons; 8, Arrangements in actual Use in Mills, Dwell
ings, and Baths.        PART III.— Drying and Heating by
Steam applied to     Manufactures,    &c.
   The volume before      us exhibits   in a condensed yet per
spicuous    manner    the  principal   laws  which regulate the
phasnomena of heat, including all the recent discoveries of
modern philosophers, and the test practical application of
them which we have yet met with to the various purposes
coming within the plan of the author. To civil engineers,
and others whose professional avocations embrace such
objects as Mr. Buchannan has illustrated, we cannot re-
Commend it in terms beyond its merits.
   Mr. T. Woodfall, assistant secretary to the Society for
the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce,
has announced his intention to publish, by subscription, in
Q volumes, 8vo, the whole of the very valuable papers on
Agriculture which have been brought before the Society.
The approbation given by the Society to these documents,
 which embrace every subject connected with agriculture,
and extensive details of valuable experiments and observa
tions, cannot fail to recommend the present undertaking to
 the notice of the public.
   Mr. Ayshford, member of           the Royal College of Sur
 geons,   and  assistant  surgeon  in the Royal Artillery, has in
 the press An Epitome of Anatomy, comprised in a series
 of tables. The work will form a thin quarto volume ; and
 as its object is to furnish a copious vocabulary for the stu
 dent of anatomy, perspicuity and simplicity of arrangement
 have beca chiefly aimed at by the author.
                                                         X. Pro

 T4                        Royal Society;
              X.  Proceedings   of Learned Societies.
  i
                         ROYAL    SOCIETY.
 JANUARY      11, — The president in the chair.     This society'
 having   assembled    after the  holidays,  a summary    of Mr.
 Home's observations on dissecting ihe man who lately died
 in the hospital in consequence of the bite of a rattle-snake
 was read. Mr. Home related all the symptoms from the time
 the patient was bitten till his death, which corresponded
 with those observed by Dr. Russel at Aleppo, and were ;
 torpor in the part, swelled arm, pain, fever, delirium ; low
 rapid pulse, generally 100, mortification and death after IB
days' suffering.     On opening the body, the blood in the
pericardium    had  a frothy appearance, and the skin of the
 arm separated entirely from the muscles, as observed by
Dr. R. Mr. H. related two or three other cases of the
 bites of snakes terminating in the same manner and with
similar effects.
    The evenings of the      18th and «5th were occupied in
reading a very long and1 important paper on the compara
 tive qualities and strength of British and foreign' culinary
 salt, by Dr. Henry, of Manchester.            After stating the
 popular prejudice in favour of the supposed superior strength
of foreign salt, compared with British, Dr. H. proceeded1
to detail the general process of preparing salt in different
parts of England and Scotland, compared with the sea or
bay-salt from St. Ubes, which is vulgarly believed to pre
serve meat better than English bay-salt.           To ascertain
if there could be any reason for this belief, Dr. H. ana
lysed specimens from all the mines and manufactories of
the common salt of commerce, and found their results so
analogous, as to render any great difference in their curative
powers almost impossible.        The results of his experiments
he drew up in a tabular fonn, exhibiting the constituent prin
ciples of the salt of various places ; in 1000 parts he found
the quantity of muriate of soda to vary only from 935 to
988, the lowest and highest in any culinary salt.          In the
foreign1 salt he generally found two or three parts more of
muriate of soda than in the British ; but this advantage was
more than counterbalanced by the extra quantity of sul
phates of lime and magnesia in foreign salt : the latter sub
stances also exist in British salt, But generally in much
less proportions, particularly the sulphate of lime.      Hence
Dr. H. concluded that our native salt is in every respect
equal to foreign salt for the preservation of provisions., and
                                                             that

                     Society of Antiquaries.                    74
        the vulgar prejudice against it should be instantly re
moved by every rational and practicable means, as injurious
to the commerce and prosperity of the kingdom.
    In  the process of manufacturing,     he observed   that in the
North of Scotland,    where the fire to the pans is allowed to be
come low by neglecton Sunday s, a species of very strong salt
has been produced in consequence, which has obtained the
name of     " Sunday salt," which he thinks even more pow
erful than any foreign salt. The cause of this superiority
he attributes to the slowness of evaporation, which makes
the grain of the salt larger.     Large-grained salt is best for
curing dry meat, as it dissolves more gradually, and always
affording fresh supplies of saline moisture; small-grained*
on the contrary, is best for making brine. The decrepita
tion of all salt Dr. H. found nearly alike ; the water of
crystallization being in very small quantities, not exceeding
two or three per cent, in salt dried at the usual temperature
of 212. The specific gravity is also very little different;
that of St. Ubes was lyCS, while the British varied from
SO-23 to 20-68.
     In concluding, the author related some of the tedious and
complex operations which he adopted in these researches,
in order to ascertain the relative and constituent principle!
of the various kinds of common salt. Luna cornea, or
muriate of silver, was one of his principal tests ; but the
experiments to detect the sulphates of magnesia and of lime
were tedious and complex, especially in ascertaining the
presence of au ammoniacal sulphate of magnesia. Among
 many other curious experiments by this able operator, he
ascertained the compatibility of sulphate of soda and sulphate
of magnesia in the same liquid, contrary to the chemical
 axiom laid down by Mr. Kirwan.             It was not, however,
 till after two days digesting that a very small quantity of
 these salts was found to be partially united, and from this
 experiment the author does not seem disposed to question
 the truth or utility of Mr. Kirwan's position in regard (6
 •alts in their natural state.
                   SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES.
      Some curious particulars respecting the former perquisites
 at the Board   of Green Cloth, and the conduct of Sir Gil
 bert Talbot, keeper of the king's plate during the reign of
 William III., were read. The only useful facts which this
 paper established were, that in former as well as the present
 times, avarice, intrigue, violent passions, ;uid love of places
 and perquisites prevailed.
                                                                Mr*

 78                                       Hernia.
  cup of an equal diameter with that of the orifice of the
  hernia.    This cup may be of porcelain, earthenware, or
  glass,  in  order that the liquor which it is to contain may
  not penetrate          it,
                      nor lose any of its virtue, nor undergo
  any alteration.    The edges of this cup are widened little,           is a
  that they may not incommode the patient when                      it
                                                                placed
  in the truss.         to be filled with wool, which must be
                          It   is
  changed every other day.
     " About two, three, or four hundred snails, according to
  the sizej are then to be procured, and kept in place where    a
  they may derive nutriment, because only two or three are
  used every day, or six or eight       they are small.
                                               if            They are
  more easily procured, and of           better quality, in spring,
                                               a
  which       the most favourable season for this business.
               is
      " The patient every day before he rises, and after he                         "•>
  in bed, takes away the cup from the truss, and with pin                       a
  wounds the snail at intervals in different places.            From
  each wound the snail gives out, through the opening               his       in
  shell, sometimes blueish sometimes gray-coloured water,
                               a                       a
 which must be caught on the wool in the cup. If the snail
  only gives out     thick froth,
                          a            must be thrown aside and
                                              it
  Another taken instead.
     " The cup being sufficiently filled with liquor to be               is
  placed on the part affected, always very exactly                  in
                                                             the same
  situation     ;   then to be covered with
                    it   is                       while linen cloth,
                                                           a
  and apply on       the ball of the truss.
                         it                     This truss, without
  being too tight, must be sufficiently so to prevent the fluid
  from escaping between the edge of the cup and the skin in
  any posture.
     " During this treatment, which will last three or four
  months or more, the patient need not be kept to any par
  ticular regimen.     The only precautions necessary, are to
  shave the part once every four days, and never to leave the
  hernia long uncovered, in order to avoid cold.             To press
  more or less with the hand on the truss whenever the pa
  tient   isgoing to cough or sneeze, or make any effort what
  ever.    If the cup rubs off the skin on account of being
  badly made, or on account of the hair being suffered to
  grow too long, this treatment must be suspended until the
  skin     well again.
          is             In this case the patient will take away
  the truss altogether,       can be done without the intestines
                                    if
                                     it
  escaping through the opening            this will depend on the
                                                   ;
  position in which he       accustomed to lie in his bed. Du
                                    is
  ring the day he will wear the truss dry,                 by
                                                   filling the conca-
. vity with wool and putting        bit of cloth on the hernia.
                                          a
     " By this kind of treatment common hernia may be
                                                   a
                                                                 cured

                     Lectures.— Patents.                     79
cured in three or, at most, four months, unless something
else ails the patient which tends to prevent the aperture
from closing.       The cure will be found complete when, by
applying the finger to the place, we find it closed or almost
closed.
    "  Although the aperture be closed, it will be proper for
the patient to continue wearing his truss six weeks or two
months longer, because it is indispensably requisite that
the wound should be left to close before the muscles which
encompass the place are permitted to enjoy their natural
 action.     An unforeseen effort may be productive of more
 mischief than had occurred heretofore, if the opening be
 abandoned too early to itself whilst moistened with this
 anliherniacal liquor."      S.
                           LECTURES.
       >. '
                 St. Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals..
     The Spring Courses of Lectures at these adjoining hos
 pitals commence the beginning of February, viz.
     At St. Thomas's.— Analomy and the Operations of Sur
 gery, by Mr. Cline and Mr. Cooper.              Principles and
 Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Cooper.
     At Gwy'.s,t-Praclice of Medicine, by Dr. Babington
 and Dr. Curry. — Chemistry, by Dr. Babington, Dr. Mar-
 cet, and Mr. Allen.— ^Experimental Philosophy, by Mr.
  Allen. — Theory of Medicine, and Materia Medica, by Dr.
  Curry and Dr. Cholmeley. —Midwifery, and Diseases of
  Women and Children, by Dr. Haighton. — Physiology, or
  Laws of the Animal CEconomy, by Dr. Haighton. — Struc
  ture and Diseases of the Teeth, by Mr. Fox.
      N. B. These several lectures are so arranged, that no
  two of them interfere in the hours of attendance ; and the
  whole is calculated to form a Complete Course of Medical
  and Chirurgical Instruction.        Terms and other particulars
  may be     learnt at the respective hospitals.
            LIST   OF PATENTS     FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
      To William Cotton of Limehouse, manufacturer, for a
   new and improved method of regulating the texture of all
   kinds of cloth in the process of weaving. — Jan. .15, 1810.
      To Wiltiam Murdock of Soho Foundry, in the county
   of Stafford, engineer, for a process for boring and forming
            cylinders, columns, and circular disks out of solid
     locks and slabs of stone of any kind or description. —
   Eipes,
   January    li.
                                                      METEOR*-

                                                                   Meteorology.
                                           METEOROLOGICAL                                    TABLE,
                     By Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                                                    For January 1810.
                         Thermometer.
                                                                            Height of         DegrcesofDry.
Days of the
                                                        o'clock,
                     o'Clock,
                                Morning.
                                                                            the-Barom.                                 Weather*
                                            Noon.                  Night.
                                                                                              nessby Leslie's
    Month.
I                                                                            Inches.
                                                                                                                            !;«)'¦• -irw
                     8
                                                                                                                       1
                                                        n
    Dec.   27        43°                   39°           38°                29-82                    0          Rain
           28        35                    38           38                  30-05                 10            Fair
           29 43                           47           43                  29-53                   0           Rate-
           30 43                           46           44                      •70               15            Cloudy
           31        47                    50           46                      •90               12            Cloudy-
                                                                                        >¦
    Jan.   l         47                    49           48                  30-   lO             10             Cloudy
             2       47               ,    47           44                      •15                 0           Small rain
             3       44                    49           45                     •14                15            Fair
                     45                    47           44                     •29                              Small rain
             6 5 4
                                                                                                    0
                     46                    45           42                     •30                     9.       Cloudy
                     43                    47           41                     •31                10            Cliijidj;           V.
                     40                    43           40                     •20                14            Cloudy
             8 7                           40           40
                     39                                                     29'95                12             Cloudy,
             946                           47.          41                     •80                 4            Rain
           10 40                            44          40                     •90              10              Fair
           11 45                            40          43                     •85                  9           Cloudy
           V9 43
                1
                                            44          40                     •86              10              Cloudy
           13 34
                :
                                           '34          26                     •91              12              ""oudv
           14        27                    29           24                     •92              14              Fair
           15        27                    28           23                     •85              10              Fair
           16        20                    26           19                     '70                0             Snow
                                                                                                                                     *
                                           30                                                                   Fair
     •
                                                        26
                                                                                                                              '
         ¦•'¦17> 18:                                                           •96                 7                        \
           18        28                    34           25                  30-20                 0             Snow
           19        25                    29           24                     •21                 2            Cloudy
           SO   .    20                    22           29                     •05               0
                                                                                                                                     .".'.u
           21        30                    31           30                  29-96                               Fair
                                                                                                 4 0 0 0 7
           22        3,1                   34,          3*                     •90                              Cloudy
                                                                                                                                -
           23        34                    38           35                  30-08                               Cloudy,.,           .,.
           24        35                    36           35                     •19                              Cloudy
           25        35                    35           34                     •23                              Cloudy
           26        32             '
                                           33           33                     •20                5             Cloudy
X'              \
                .         .
                                                    i      .
              M- B. The Barometer's height                                         is   taken at one o'clock.

                                t   si   j
       XII.  Description      of a new Cupping Instrument.
             By Robert Healy, M. B., Dublin.
                                                  No. 1, Clarendon Street,
                                                          Dublin.
                           To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,   I  take the liberty of communicating to you a new
 method of performing the operation of cupping, without
 the assistance of the svr'nige, which I have tried, and find to
 succeed.    If you think it worthy of holding a place in your
very instructive Magazine, your inserting it will oblige your
obedient servant,                           Robert Healy, M.B.
                   Description    of the Instriiment.
    The instrument consists of two parts, namely, a hollow
Vessel  A, (1*1. II.) which may contain about half-a-pint of
 water, made of very thin sheet- copper, or tin, with a stop
 cock soldered into it. The end of the stopcock should ex
 tend a quarter or half an inch within the vessel A, for a
 reason that will be assigned, The other part of the instru
ment is the cupping glass B, made in the usual way, which
 is to be adapted to the stopcock, with a screw of a coarse
thread. —The instrument is to be used in the following man
 ner: the glass is to be unscrewed from A, a little air is to
be drawn from the latter by the assistance of the mouth,
the cock is then immediately to be turned to prevent the
external air from rushing in. Ether or spirits is to be
placed in a wine-glass.        The mouth of the stopcock is then
to be inverted into the liquid so deep, that by turning the
cock a sufficient quantity may be drawn up : a drachm of
either liquid will be found sufficient. The vessel A is next to
be heated to convert the liquid into vapour : as soon as the
vapour has filled the vessel, this must be refrigerated in &
vessel of cold water, previously turningithe cock to prevent
the influx of air.      A vacuum is produced in proportion to
the size of the vessel, and in a very few minutes.                  The
cupping glass     is then  to  be  screwed    to  the   stopcock, and
placed  over   the   wound     made   by  the  lancet  or  leech. We
may adjust      the   suction   by turning      the cock,    and have a
          or sudden flow of blood.            If the vessel A be of
  arge dimensions, and the patient complains of the suction,
fjradual
we must turn the cock, and either admit the blood to flow
into the glass, or unscrew one turn of the ball from the
glass, and admit the air to pass through the thread of the
screw into the glass. The reason of extending the stop-
    Vol. 35. No. ±42. Feb. 1810.                     F             cock

82              On tlie Adjustment      of the Eye     to see
cock so far within the ball is to prevent the liquid in the
ball from passing into the cupping glass when the stop
cock is opened.
   November    14,  1809.
XIII.      On that Power of the Eye, ly which it is adjusted to
    see  Objects distinctly at different Distances.              By Ex.
    Walker, Esq.
                      [Continued from vol. xxix. p. 340.]
I. From        observations made on the human eye at different
 ages,   it appears to undergo a gradual change from infancy
to   old  age.     For when a child of three or four years old at
 tentively   views    a very small object it is held close to the
 eye,   not  further    off than two or three inches* The reason
is this : m the early part of life the iria, being flexible, hai
 the power of contracting the pupil to a smaller dimension
 than at any future perriod ; consequently a child can see a
 small object at a less distance than a grown person : but by
 degrees this power of the iris decreases, as the rest of the
 body becomes less flexible ; and the eye, if a good one,
gradually becomes longer-sighted.
    It is generally supposed, however, that the pupil of a
 child's eye is larger than that of a grown person's : but this
 is true only when the iris is in a state of relaxation ; for it
 is well known, that the pupil always contracts in viewing
 a near object.       To suppose that a child can see a small ob
ject    at  two    or  three inches distance with a large pupil i»
 contrary to the laws of dioptrics, because the rays of light
 would then enter the eye in a diverging state, and conse
 quently form an indistinct picture of the object upon the
 retina.
    Dr. Jurin observes, that " children read much nearer
 than grown persons, for their eyes arc smaller, and the
 least distance any person can sec distinctly at, is propor
 tional to the length of the eye*."
    But to show that this rule is erroneous, let us suppose
 that the nearest distance of distinct vision of an eye is 18-
 inches ; then this eye, according to the Doctor's rule, must
 be six times as large as the eye of a child that can see di-
 •tinctly at the distance of three inches ; which is contrary
 to experience. It also appears from the eyes of birds that the
               * EmyondUtiuctandindiitinct       Vision, p. 147.
                                                                 Doctor's

                    t)ljecls 'distinctly at different         Distances*.
Doctor's rule is erroneous ; for it is well known that lar
birds of prey can see objects at a distance, far beyond the
limits of distinct vision of the human eye; and there are
small birds that can see minute objects at a very great di
stance.
   Now, as the eyes of birds are much smaller than those
of men, it is evident that the utmost distance of distinct
vision does not depend upon the length of the axis of the
eye.
    The nearest distance at which a grown person with $
 good eye can see distinctly, may in general be about six or
 Seven inches ; but this distance increases with age, until
 hear objects appear indistinct.
    This increase in the focal distance of the eye is gene
 rally supposed to be owing to the humours of the eye be
 coming too flat through age, so that the rays which fall
 upon the eye, from ail object at a short distance, converge
 to a point behind the retina, and thus cause indistinct vi
 sion. But this theory                     is,
                                believe, unsupported
                                             I               single         by
                                                                             a
clear and decisive experiment.
    That the humours of the eye may waste and the eye grow
 flatter, when every other part of the human frame            upon               is
 the decline, may be supposed with some appearance of rea
son; but that the humours of the eye of child should de        a
 cay and the eye grow flatter while every other part of its
body        advancing towards perfection,
           is                                        theory which
                                                               is   a
cannot be so readily admitted.         For, as the eye undergoes
   gradual change through life, this effect must be produced
in aevery stage of             it,
                           the same cause.
                                      by       Hence this theory
requires further investigation.
    II. Those who have written on the properties of the hu
man eye inform us, that "             good eye v?e-*'s an object
                                                 if  a
at the least distance     can be seen distinctly, and then at
                                     it
twice that distance, and then at an infinite distance, there
is  about the same alteration made in the figure of the eye
between     the two last cases, as there        between the two
                                                              is
first.
    " For let BCD (PI. II.) be the axis of the eye infinitely
                               E
produced        ;C, B  D,    E, the three distances of the ob
                               B           B B
ject from the cornea A         and     A, DA, EA, three rays
                                           ;          C
falling upon any given point of the cornea whereof               A  ;                 E
is  parallel to the axis.
       "
       Now to produce distinct vision of the points C, D, E;
it   isplain that every one of the rays     A, DA,        A, must
                                                          C              E
be successively refracted to the same point          upon the re    F,
tina, where         cut
                     it    the eye's axis.
                          is          by      At first let us sup-
                                                 F   2                                pose

84           On the Adjustment         of the Eye           to see
pose the point F to be given, or the length of the axis B F
to be immutable, and then the quantity of the refraction of
each ray must be varied.   And because the distance                      CD
is supposed equal to C B, or C A, the angle C A D is equal
to C D A, and consequently to DAE. Therefore, con
ceiving each ray to come back again from the fixed point
F, to the points C, D, P^, successively ; the whole quantity
of its refractions must first be lessened by the angle CAD,
and then by the equal angle DAE; and so the changes of
the figures of the refracting surfaces must be much the
same when the object is removed from C to D, as when it
is removed from D to E*."
   Hence it inay be demonstrated, that objects at varioui
distances, as C, D, and E, may be seen distinctly with
out any alteration in the humours of the eye, or in its out
ward form.
    1. It has been proved    in a former paper f, that when a
good eye views an object at the least distance it can be seen
distinctly, the rays which enter the pupil are parallel, or
such as differ very little from being so ; whence it is evi
dent, that the rays from the object C falling upon the eye
at B are parallel.
   2. Rays issuing from the object E, a planet or a star, at
an infinite distance are parallel, consequently the angle
DAE is infinitely small: and
   3. As the angle C D A is equal to the angle DAE, the
angle CD A is infinitely small ; therefore the line DA co
incides with the line DB, and the rays falling upon the
eye from D must also be parallel ; consequently the ray*
from the object D, and also those from E and C, are re
fracted to the same point F upon the retina : for parallel
rays falling upon the eye near the axis of vision have the
same focus, whether they come from objects that are near
or remote. Whence it is evident that vision perfectly di
stinct is produced only by parallel rays ; but the means by
which the eye admits such rays only as are parallel, or
nearly so, and rejects the rest, come next to be considered.
   III. — If a small circular object be viewed with too large
a pupil, which may be done by placing the object much
within the limits of distinct vision, it will appear larger
than perfect vision would represent                   it,   by
                                                   penumbra of   a
light, which   is called the circle        of
                                      dissipation.
   Now if    the pupil be contracted,      means of  byperfora       a
             * Smith's Optict, Remarks, p.      2.
          f    Philosopbic»l   Magazine,   vol. xxiz. p. 348.
                                                                         tioB

              Objects distinctly      at different Distances.                   85
lion made in a card of such magnitude as to prevent the
lateral rays from "entering the eye, the object will appear
distinct. .But if the aperture in the card be made as large as
the pupil, the circle of dissipation will appear as large as
before.
   This circle of dissipation is formed by those rays which
enter the eye remote from the axis of the crystalline lens.
Thus, when the pupjl is too large for distinct vision, the
most refrangible of those side rays will cross one another in.
the vitreous humour, and, by falling upon the retina in a
diverging state, will be dispersed over a larger space than,
the true image, and consequently form a penumbra round
it ; and the least refrangible rays of the same pencil will be
dispersed over the interior parts of the circle ; whence that
indistinctness of vision which is experienced by people ad
vanced in years.
   No writer has paid more attention to the theory of distinct
and indistinct vision than Dr. Jurin. This philosopher says,
that " the radius of dissipation              is,
                                         cceteris paribus, always
proportional   to  the  radius  of   the  pupil. Consequently,
when the pupil       narrow, the radius
                       is                             of
                                               dissipation and the
penumbra arising    from  the  dissipation  will  be smaller, that
is, vision will be rendered either distinct, or at least less
indistinct than     would otherwise be *."
                       it
    IV. —Many philosophers have maintained that we have
                                                                                by
the power of viewing objects at different distances,                            a
conformation of the eye for this purpose, independent of                         a
Variation in the pupil    but they vary much in their opi^
                            ;
nions respecting the means             which this effect
                                          by                  pro          is
duced.
   Dr. Matthew Young        says,         that       " the
                                                     power of seeing
distinctly at different distances         does not depend on the cry
stalline.
   "   This     evident," he says, " from the experiments
                  is
rnade on     person who had been couched for cataract, and
              a                                              a
 by the assistance of the same convex lens, applied to that
eye, could see distinctly at different distances f."
   But Dr, Portertield      of opinion, that the change made
                                 is
in the eye must be          in
                         the crystalline; fora person who had
been couched of      cataract was under the necessity -of using
                        a
glasses of different degrees of convexity, for seeing objects
distinctly at different distances         J.
   These two alleged facts may both be true, but the con-
          *   Jurin'i Essay on distinct and indistinct Vision, p.   145.
         f    Dr. M. Young's Analysis of Nat. Pfaih p. 375.
          ,   See PorterfielJ on the  K
                                      , ,-. vol.i.p. -..>•(, 435.
                                          F3                               elusion

85            Ow the Adjustment      of tlie Eye, &c.
elusion drawn by Dr. Porterfield seems to be erroneoui
 (although it has been used, not only by himself, bui by
other writers, as an unanswerable argument to prove that
the eye is adjusted by means of the crystalline lens,) ;
for if the iris of the person's eye mentioned by Dr. Sorter-
 field received any injury from the operation of couching,
 the adjustment of that eye would be imperfect, and require
 glasses of different degrees of convexity for viewing objects
 at different distances ; as it is well known, that persons who
 read with spectacles of very convex lenses require glasses
 of a less degree of convexity to view remote objects ; still
 the less convex, the more remote the object.
    But if the operation mentioned by Dr. Young was per
formed without doing any injury to the iris, that person
would still be able to see objects distinctly at different di
stances, by the assistance of the same convex lens applied
to that eye ; because the iris is the only organ by which the
eye is adjusted to distinct vision.           It is a physical truth,
which any one may convince himself of by trial, that no
mental exertion can change the adjustment of the eye,
when every part of the iris is covered. This may be tried
by viewing objects through a hole in a card, made rather
less than the pupil in its most contracted state.
    V. — Sir Isaac Newton was of opinion, that the humours
of the eye decay or shrink by old age, which causes the eye
of the short-sighted to grow flatter till it comes to a due
figure.    For short-sighted men sec remote objects best in
old age*.     And this opinion has been adopted by some of
pur best writers on the theory of vision.           But let opinions
give place to facts.
    Mr. Adams says, " It is generally supposed, that the
short-sighted become less so as they advance in years, as
the natural shrinking and decay in the humours of the eye
lessen its convexity, and thus adapt it better for viewing
distant objects : but among the great number of short-
kiighu-d that I have accommodated with glasses, I have ever
found the reverse of this theory to be true, and the eyes of
the myopes never required glasses less concave, but gene
rally more concave, as they grew older, to enable them to
see at the same distance f.
    Hence it is evident, that the humours of the eyes of the
short-sighted undergo no change as they grow older, and
that vision generally becomes less perfect.          For, as the iris
}oses some part of its contracting power with age, the pu-
                   * See Newton's Optics, p. 13.
                   | Adams oo Vision, p. 126,
                                                                  PU

                    On a native Arseniate           of Lead.               8J
pil becomes larger, the circle of dissipation increases, and
consequently remote objects appear less distinct than they
did in the early part of life.
   VI. — From this investigation it manifestly appears, that
the eye is in reality no more than a machine or a fixed and
determinate form, without any power to alter its outward
dimensions, or lo move any of its internal humours ; and
that the only adjustment necessary to form a distinct pic
ture of an object upon the retina (whether1 the object be
near or remote) is to prevent diverging rays from entering
the eye, and to admit such only as art- nearly parallel.
   This office is performed by the iris, which contracts th«
pupil to exclude the side rays when we view near objects,
and enlarges this aperture to give us a distinct view of such
remote objects as are but faintly illuminated : it is also
well known, that whenever the eye is exposed to a strong
light, the pupil contracts, but it expands as the light de
creases.
   These contractions and dilatations of the pupil, according
to the distancesof objects and strength of light in which
they are seen, are directed by that volition of the mind
which presides over and regulates all the other motions of
the eye.
                                                                Ez. WALKER.
Lynn, Januarys,    181O,
XIV.     On a native Arseniate of Lead. By the Reverend
     WILLIAM GREGOR      Communicated ly CHARLES HAT
     CHET, Esq., F.R.S.*
                                     I,
_L HAT the oxide of lead and the arsenic acid might be
found in the state of natural combination,
                                                                'is
                                                    supposition a
highly probable, from the strong affinity which subsists
between these two substances. But the existence of such a
compound has not, as conceive, hitherto been established
                             I
by  such proofs, as entitle    to be ranked amongst the de
                                  it
cided cases of mineralogical science.         trust, therefore,
                                                       I
that the   observations, which   haveIthe  honour    of submit
ting  to the Socie:y, on  newa   ore
                                   f of lead lately discovered
  * From Philosophical Transactions for     1809,    Part II.
  -f-   Itnew at least to tlie miners in Cornwall
             is                                 ;   nor was there, previously
to this discovery, any ore resembling  it  to be found in that splendid collec
tion of minerals, which my valuable friend Philip Rashleigh, esq., liai 10
\iberally formed, and as liberally employed iu the promotion of science.
                                     F4                                    in

 88              On a native Arseniate   of Lead.
 in the county of Cornwall, so justly celebrated as well for
 the variety as for the richness of its mineral productions,
 will not be deemed superfluous.
    This mineral was raised in the mine called Huel-Unity,
 a very rich copper mine, in the parish of Gwennap.         Ac
 cording to the information with which I have been favoured
by Mr. William Davy, a very intelligent and experienced
miner in that district, it was found in a lode south of Huel-
 Unity principal lode, at the depth of fifty fathoms below
the surface, which lode underlay about two feet in the
fathom south : at the depth above mentioned, this lode fell
in or formed a junction with another small lode or vein to
the south, and when the junction took place this lead ore
\vas found.    The veins of it are, in general, from six to
ten inches wide, and they diverge on going west. Some
particles of this lead ore have been found in the southern
part, after the separation of the lodes ; but the northern
lode does not contain any until the junction takes place.
This ore is intermixed with some native copper, very rich
gray copper, and black copper ore, and some is mixed with
quartz.     The walls of both veins are killas.
                        II. Description,
   This mineral   is regularly crystallized.   The form of its
most perfect crystals is an hexahcdral prism ; they are of
different sizes, from one-tenth of an inch in diameter to
the size of a hair.    The longest which I have seen do not
exceed three-tenths of an inch in length : these terminate
in a plane, at right angles, with the axis of the prism ; but
the crystals of a smaller size are frequently drawn out into
a very taper acumination,     which appears to be a six-sided
pyramid.     A number of smaller crystals are often closely
packed together in bundles, which are bent in different di
rections, and terminate in a point.          The larger crystals
either stand alone, or adhere, on their lateral planes, to the
gangue, or are confusedly matted together in a mass.
    Some of them are hollow, as if an internal nucleus had
been destroyed ; and sometimes this internal nucleus over
tops the external laminae.      The gangue is a white quartz,
which frequently exhibits on its surface the appearance of
a partial decomposition.
   The red octahedral copper ore, and the copper into which
that ore passes, are often intermingled with the crystals of
this lead ore and imbedded in them.
   The colour of these crystals consists of a variety of tint*
of yellow.    Some are of a beautiful wine yellow resembling

                 On a native Arseniate of Lead.               89
the Brazilian topaz : this, in the greater number of speci
mens, passes into a delicate Isabella- colour : whilst, in other
cases, we have the honey-yellow mingled with brown hues
of different intensities: so that \ve meet with crystals re
sembling dark brown sugar-candy, or common resin.
    Some or the crystals are beautifully transparent, whilst
others possess this quality in part only, at their extremities,
or in inferior degrees throughout their whole k'ligths.
    The external lustre, in some specimens, is vitreous; in
others, resinous: but in some instances their surface is           ,
partially covered by tender and delicate filaments of a silky
lustre.    These filaments are sometimes found in a separate
state loosely adhering to quartz ; and they form a variety of
this fossil.
    The crystals vary as to hardness. The angular frag
ments of the most transparent are sufficiently hard to scratch
gjass.
    This mineral is easily reduced to powder, which has the
 appearance of pounded resin ; it contracts a yellower tint
 by long exposure to the air.
    The specific gravity of the purest crystals, taken at the
 temperature of 50° Fahrenheit, was 6*41.                      ,
                               in.
    A  fragment of crystal,  exposed to the flame of the blow
 pipe  in  a gold spoon,  melted into a brownish-yellow mass,
 which on cooling did not assume any angular figure. It
 remained in a state of ignition apparently unaltered ; but
 when a piece of it was exposed to the flame on charcoal, a
 rapid decomposition took place, arsenical vapours were ex
 tricated, and globules of a metal, possessing the common
 properties of kad, were left behind.
     This mineral, in a state of tine powder, is soluble in
 nitric acid, even without the aid of heat. Care, however,
  must be taken, that it docs not concrete into lumps.        Thtf
  vessel therefore which contains it must be frequently shaken,
  and the nitrate of lead produced must be, from time to
  time, dissolved in water, and poured ofl' from the residuum.
  The process of solution is, however, accelerated by a di
  gesting heat. Some silica remains, which, as the quantity
  of it is variable according to circumstances, appears not to
  be an essential ingredient of tins fossil.
     The nitric solution is colourless ; its transparency is not
  disturbed by nitrate of barytes.    Nitrate ot silver renders it
  turbid, and a small quantity of white curdly matter is de^
  posited. . Sulphuric acid and the liquid sulphates produce
                                                          copious

 go                   On a native Arseniate       of Lead,
 copious   precipitates of a white heavy matter.     If the fluid
be poured   off from this subsided matter, and it be freed
from the superfluous sulphuric acid, by the means of nitrate
of barytes, it will yield, on the affusion of liquid nitrate of
lead, an abundant white precipitate, which, urged by the
flame of the blow-pipe on a support of charcoal, resolves
itself into reduced lead and arsenical vapours.
   These preliminary experiments led me to the probable
conclusion, that this fossil chiefly consisted of oxide of lead,
arsenic acid, and a small quantity of the muriatic acid.
                              •
                                  IV. Analysis.
                                       A.
    1 . Fifty grains, carefully selected from crystals of a pale
 Isabella-colour, were reduced to a fine powder, and exposed
 to a low red heat for about an hour.      Their weight was di
minished by 0-15 of a grain.
    2. The yellowish powder was now transferred to a vessel
of pure silver, and mixed with a lixivium containing fifty
grains of potash, prepared by the means of alcohol ; a quan
tity, which I had previously ascertained to be sufficient to
effect a complete decomposition of this mineral.        The ley
was gradually evaporated to dryness in a sand-bath.         The
soluble part was extracted by distilled water, and poured off
from a yellowish white matter, which was sufficiently edul
corated (o).
    3. Liquid nitrate of ammonia was now dropped into the
alkaline fluid, as long as it produced any cloudiness : the
clear fluid was now decanted from a small quantity of white
matter, which had subsided, and rendered acid by nitric
acid ; ammonia, added to excess, produced a slight turbid-
ness. These precipitates, after sufficient edulccjalion, were
added to the yellowish white residuum (a),
    4. The liquid was now rendered slightly acid by nitric
acid, and a solution of nitrate* of lead in distilled water
was dropped into        it,
                        as long as    separated any precipitate.
                                          it
The clear fluid was poured off, and evaporated nearly to
dryness, and      small quantity of white matter, thus ob
                  a
tained, was added to the former precipitate, which driedA
   • If the colourless
                       liquid ovy -nitratr of lead be dropped into  a  dilute so
lution of arsenic acid, or of arseniate of potash acidulated Ity nitric acid, no
immediate precipitation of an arseniate of lead   is  produced; but crystalline
grains are, after time, gradually deposited ai the bottom o{ the vessel. But
                 a
liquid nitrate of lead causes an immediate and abundant precipitate from
these same dilute solutions.  These two combinations therefore must be
different.
                                                                           ao*

                On a native Arsenlate  of Lead.              91
and exposed to a low red heat, weighed, whilst still warm,
40-8, which, according to the proportion of 33 : UK), esta
blished by Mr. Chenevix, implies 13*46 of arsenic acid.
1> 5. The superfluous lead was now separated from the fluid
by sulphate of soda, and filtered off. Ammonia precipi
tated a minute portjon of flaky matter ; it weighed, after
ignition, 0-2 of a grain ; it consisted of silica and oxide of
lead, and must be attributed to the nitrate of lead employed,
                               B.
    1. The yellowish white residuum (a) (A, § 2.) was dis
solved without effervescence in nitric acid, except a minute
portion of silica, which, after ignition, = 0-28.      Awhile
heavy matter was thrown down from this solution, by
liquid sulphate of soda.    The clear decanted fluid was eva
porated to a small volume, and sulphate of soda produced
a further separation of white matter j it was sulphate of lend,
which, after exposure to a low red heat, and weighed,
whilst warm, = 47'5, which, upon the supposition that
one hundred parts of sulphate of lead contain 69-74 of lead
 + 3-48 of oxygen, is equivalent to 34'77 of oxide of lead.
    2. The fluid, now freed from lead, deposited, on the affu
sion of ammonia, a greenish matter, which, after ignition,
became red, and = 0-033 of a grain. It was oxide of iron.
                                    '
                               C.
    1. One hundred grains of larger crystals, some of which
were   hollow, and the surfaces of which, wen: sliirhtly and
partially covered with silky filaments, treated in the same
way yielded o,5'283 of sulphate of lead, equivalent to 69-76
of oxide, and 80 of arseniate of lead, which indicates 26-40
of arsenic acid. The oxide of iron, in this case, amounted
to only -05 of a grain, and the residuary silica was in too
small a quantity to be weighed.
   2. I have endeavoured to decompose this fossil by boiling
it to dryness in a solution of four times its weight of the
purest subcarbonate of potash, and exposing the dry mass,
for a very short time, to a low red heat ; but I found, that
only a part of the arsenic acid had united to the alkali ; the
larger portion of it was detected in the nitric solution of the
residuum ; but the relative proportions of the oxide and the
acid, were found to correspond almost exactly with the
foregoing statement of them.
   3. I found also, that carbonate of ammonia precipitated
this mineral, in an unaltered state, from its solution in
                                                         nitric

 92               On a native Arseniate of Lead.
nitric acid : as no arsenic acid had united with the precipi
tant.    The solution bf the nitrate of ammonia was evapo-»
rated to dryness, and exposed to a red beat in a platina
crucible • bu.t nothing was left, except a slight trace of
oxide of lead. We may infer from hence, the absence of
both the fixed alkalies.
    4. I found in one specimen only of this fossil any no-?
table difference in the relative proportions of the oxide of
lead and of the acid to which it is united.      It consisted of
crystals confusedly matted together in a more compact mass
than this fossil generally assumes.       One hundred grains
were dissolved in nitric acid ; the marine acid was separated
by nitrate of silver, and any redundant silver by muriate of
 ammonia.      The lead was separated by sulphuric acid, and
the superfluous portion of that acid by nitrate of barytes,
and the arsenic acid was combined with the oxide of lead
by the affusion of nitrate of. lead.     The muriate of silver
 = 9'8 ; the sulphate of lead = 97'G, and the arseniate of
lead = 72, equivalent to 1-63 of muriatic acid, 71'46of
oxide of lead, and 23*88 of arsenic acid, respectively. The
quartz = 0'35, and the oxide of iron Q-2, nearly.
    Another portion taken from the same specimen, treated
with an alkali, gave very nearly a similar result.
                               D.
    Tt will now be necessary for me to speak concerning an
ingredient of this fossil, which I may have seemed to over
look. I mean the muriatic acid : 1 have found some diffi
culty in ascertaining the proportion which it bears to the
other constituent parts, and from a cause which I did not
suspect.     I considered that the only sure mode of deter
mining    this point, was to have recourse to nitrate of silver,
which might effect a direct separation of the marine acid
from the nitric solution of this>fossil.      But I found, in
many experiments upon given quantities        of   this mineral,
that the results, which I derived from this most valuable
chemical test, were variable and uncertain.
    At last, I was enabled to trace the error.and uncertainty
up to two sources. In the first place, I found that the mu
riate of silver was more abundant in the cases where I
employed a vessel with a long neck for the solution, and
did not expose it to heat.
    I concluded, therefore, that when the process was con
ducted under different circumstances, the predominating
                                                           masi

                  On a native Arseniate  of Lead.              93
mass of nitric acid produced its effect, and volatilized a
portion of the muriatic.
    Another source of error I found in the following anoma
lous circumstance, viz. a simultaneous precipitation of a
portion of arseniate of lead takes place with that of the mu
riate of silver.    Whatever combination this may be, it is a
weak one, and may be severed by nitric acid, which dis
solves the arseniate and leaves the muriate ; or by ammonia,
which takes up the muriate, to the exclusion of the arseniate.
    The conclusion to which many experiments have led me
is this, that the muriate of silver produced in the nitric so
lution of one hundred grains of arseniate of lead by nitrate
of silver, amounts to about 9'5.
                                E.
    In order to prove that the acid, which is combined witfi
the oxide of lead in this mineral, is the arsenic acid, and
that it is not combined with phosphoric, I decomposed
some of its acid, which had been combined with lead in
the foregoing experiments, by means of sulphuric acid, and
filtered off the sulphate of lead.      The fluid which passed
through the filter was evaporated nearly to dry ness, and it
assumed the appearance ot crystalline grains.         Some of it
was exposed to the flame of the blow-pipe in a gold spoon ;
at first it became like a white dry powder, which melted
before an increased heat : placed on charcoal and ignited,
it was totally dissipated in arsenical fumes.
    Some of it was dissolved in water, and, dropped into
liquid sulphate of titanium, a white precipitate was pro-
duced : combined with soda, it precipitated silver from the
 nitrate of silver, of a brick colour.       It precipitated mer
 cury from its nitrate, of a yellowish colour, which after
 wards became reddish. This precipitate, exposed to the
•flame of the blow-pipe      on charcoal, exhibited the same
 phenomena as arseniate of mercury.
     I precipitated magnesia from its muriate, and redissolved
 it by carbonate of ammonia, perfectly saturated with car
 bonic acid. I divided this liquid into two portions, and
 dropped into both a solution of the combination of the acid
 of this mineral and soda. No precipitate was produced. I
 dropped    into one of the vessels some liquid phosphate of
 ioda, and a separation of saline matter was instantly pro
 duced.     I soon, however, found, that this mode of di
 stinguishing the phosphoric from the arsenic acid could not
 be depended upon.      For in the other vessel, in which no
 phosphate of soda had been dropped, in a short time, saline
                                                             tufts

 04           toescriplion    of a reflective Goniometer.
tufts made their appearance, and an abundant deposition of
saline matter was formed.      I found also, that if the solu
tion had been more concentrated, the precipitation would
have immediately taken place.
    On making a comparative experiment with arsenic acid,
I  found that it forms a triple salt with ammonia and mag
nesia, analogous to the phosphoric salt described by Dr.
Wollaston. The figure of the arsenical salt, as far as I could
determine it from a confused crystallization, is a trihedral
prism.
    We are therefore, I think, authorized from the experi
ments herein detailed, to conclude, that the fossil which is
the subject of this paper is an arseniate of lead, and that,
if we state that the relative proportion of the constituent
parts of it is in one hundred, as follows, we shall not be
far from the truth :
                Oxide of lead       •      69-76
                Arsenic acid        -      26'4O
                Muriatic acid       -       1'58
   The silica and the oxide of iron, which account for a
portion of the loss, and the alumina and copper which are
sometimes found in an analysis of this fossil, I do not con
ceive to be essential to it.
   The existence of a minute portion of muriatic acid as a
constant ingredient of        it,  curious fact: and
                                    is   a                still             it   is
more curious, when we consider          in connexion with the
                                              it
analogy that, in this particular,   maintains with the natural
                                          it
phosphates of lead.
XV.   Description      of a reflective Goniometer.                By WILLIAM
         HYDE WOLLASTON,              M.D., Sec.                 R.S.*
.T ROM   the advances that have been made of late years in
crystallography,     very large proportion of mineral sub
                     a
stances may now be recognized,          we can ascertain the
                                                  if
angular dimensions of their external forms, or the relative
position of those surfaces that are exposed     fracture. But    by
though the modifications of tetrahedrons, of cubes, and of
those other regular solids, to which the adventitious aid of
geometry could be correctly applied, have been determined
with the utmost precision, yet       has been often
                                             it        subject              a
of regret, that our instruments for measuring the angles of
crystals are not possessed of equal accuracy, and that in
applying the goniometer to small crystals, where the radim
         *   From Philosophical   Trafliactions    for   1809,   Part II.
                                                                                      in

            Description   of a reflective Goniomelef.               J)5
In contact with the surface       is necessarily very short, the
measures, even when taken with a steady hand, will often
deviate too much from the truth to aid us in determining
the species to which a suhstance belongs.
     A means of remedying this defect has lately occurred to
me, by which in most cases the inclination of surfaces may
be measured as exactly as is wanted for common purposes ;
and when the surfaces are sufficiently smooth to reflect a
distinct image of distant objects, the position effaces only
•jJj-th of an inch in breadth may be determined with as much
precision as those of any larger crystals.
     For this purpose, the ray of light reflected from the sur
face is employed as radius, instead of the surface itself, and
accordingly for a radius of ^th of an inch, we may sub
stitute either the distance of the eye from the crystal, which
would naturally be about twelve or fifteen inches ; or for
greater accuracy we may, by a second mode, substitute
the distance of objects seen at a hundred or more yards
from us.
     The instrument which I use, consists of a circle gradu
ated on its edge, and mounted on a horizontal axle, sup
ported by an upright pillar (Plate II). This axle being
perforated, admits the passage of a smaller axle through             it,
to which any crystal of moderate size may be attached              bya
          of wax, with its edge, or intersection of the surfaces,
   orizontal and parallel to the axis of motion.
 Eiece
     This position of the crystal    is   first adjusted, so that    by
 turning the smaller axle, each of the two surfaces, whose
 inclination is   to be measured, will reflect the same light to
 the eye.
     The circleis    then set to zero, or 180°,        by
                                                        an index at
 tached to the pillar that supports it.
     The small axle  is   ihen turned till the further surface re
 flects the light of candle, or other definite object, to the
                     a
 eye; and lastly, (the eye being kept steadily in the same
 place) the circle  is   turned by  its larger axle, till the second
 surface reflects the same light. This second surface         is thus
 ascertained to be in the same position as the former surface
 had been.       The angle through which the circle has moved,
is    in fact the supplement to the inclination of the surfaces      ;
  but as the graduations on its margin are numbered accord
 ingly in an inverted order, the angle       is  correctly shown     by
 the index, without need of any computation.
     It  may here be observed, that    it   is    byno means neces-
  •ary to have a    clean uniform fracture for this application of
  the instrument to the structure of laminated substances       ;  for
                                                                since

9<J            Description       of a reflective Goniometef.
since all those small portions of a shattered surface, that
are parallel to one another (though not in the same plane)^
glisten at once with the same light, the angle of an irregu
lar fracture may be determined nearly as well, as when the
reflecting fragments are actually in the same plane.
    In this method of taking the measure of an angle, when
 the eye and candle arc only ten or twelve inches distant, a
 small error may arise from parallax, if the intersection of
 the planes or edge of the crystal be not accurately in a line
 with the axis of motion*; but such an error may be ren
dered insensible, even in that mode of using the instru
ment, hy due care in placing the crystal ; and when the
surfaces are sufficiently smooth to reflect a distinct image
of objects, all error from the same source may be entirely
obviated by another method of using it.
    For this purpose, if the eye be brought within about an
inch of the reflecting surface, the reflected image of some
distant chimney may be seen inverted beneath its true place,
and by turning the small axle may be brought to correspond
apparently with the bottom of the house (or with some
other distant horizontal line).      In this position the surface
accurately   bisects the angle,   which   the height of that house
subtends at the eye (or rather at the reflecting surface) ; then,
by turning the whole circle and crystal together, the other
surface, however small, may be brought exactly into the
same position ; and the angle of the surfaces may thus be
measured, with a degree of precision which has not hitherto
been expected in goniometry.
   The accuracy, indeed, of this instrument is such, that a
circle of moderate dimensions, with a vernier adapted to                      it>
will probably afford corrections to many former observa
tions.     Ihave already remarked one instance of mistake         a
that prevails respecting the common carbonate of lime,
and   Iam induced to mention             it,
                                      because this substance                 is
very likely  to be  employed   as    test
                                        a   of the correctness of
•uch   agoniometer,         by
                           any  one who       not convinced of its
                                                      is
accuracy   from    distinct
                   a         conception    of the principles of its
construction.
   The inclination of the surfaces of primitive crystal of
                                                       a
carbonate of lime        stated, with great appearance of pre
                         is
   * cannot omit mentioning;, that Mr. Sowerby had thought of employing
   I
reflection for this purpose, nearly at the same time as myself; hut did not
succeed to his satisfaction, in consequence of an attempt to fir the positio*
of the eye. For when the line of sight    is   determined bya    point connected
with the apparatus, the radius employed     is  thereby limited to the extent of
          uiuei if, and the error from parallax    manifestly increased.
   ii
the
   c
   st
   r                                             is
                                                                       CLSlODj

                     Description      of a reflective Goniometer.                      gj
cision, to be 104° 28' 4O" : a result deduced from the sup
posed position of its axis at an angle of 45° with each of the
surfaces, and from other seducing circumstances of appa
rent harmony by simple ratios.        But however strong the
presumption might    be  that this angle, which by measure
ment approaches to 45°, is actually so, it must nevertheless
be in fact about 45° 20' ; for I find the inclination of the
Surfaces to each other is very nearly, if not accurately, 105°,
as it was formerly determined to be by Huygens *; and
since the measure of the superficial angle given by Sir Isaac
Newton t corresponds with this determination of Huygens,
his evidence may be considered as a further confirmation of
the same result; for it may be presumed, that he would not
adopt the measures of others, without a careful examina
tion.
                 IN THE ANNEXED PLATE,
    a    (>. the principal circle of the goniometer graduated
               Is
on its edge.
  c   c. The axle of the circle.
    d.    Amilled head           by
                            which the circle     turned.         is
    ee. The small axle for turning the crystal, without mov
ing the circle.
 f.     A milled head on the small axle.
    g. A brass plate supported                     by
                                       the pillar, and graduated
as   a vernier to every five minutes.
     h. The extremity of small spring,
                                   a            which the circle by
is  stopped at 80°, without the trouble of reading off.
                      1
 i   i and      kAre two centres of motion, the one horizon
                     k.
tal, the other vertical for adjusting the position of crystal                a         :
one turned            by
                  the handle     the other
                                        /,                   by
                                               the milled head m.
    The crystal being attached to screw-head at the point n
                                                    a
(in the centre of alt the motions), with one of its surfaces
as nearly parallel as may be to the milled head m,            next               is
rendered truly parallel to the axis                     by
                                           turning the handle                         /
till the reflected image of horizontal line
                                        a           seen to be ho     is
rizontal.
   By means of the milled head/, the second surface then                         is
brought into the position of the first; and   the reflected           if
image from this surface        found not to be horizontal,
                                      is                                              it
                                                                                      is
rendered so           hy
                turning   the   milled head m    and since thia   ;
motion      parallel
                is   to the   first surface,  docs not derange   it
the preceding adjustment.
 '    Huygenii       Opera Reliqua, torn.   i.   p. 73*— Tract, de Lumint.
f    Newton's Optics, 8vo. p. 529. Qu. 25, concerning Iceland Crystal.
Vol. 35. No.              142. Feb. 1810.                    G             XVI.

                                 [    98    3
XVI.     Cliemical Analysis of a Black Sand, from the Kivef
   Dee, in Alerdeenshire. By THOMAS THOMSON, M.D.,
   Lecturer on Chemistry, Edinburgh*.
 -L HE specimen which formed the subject of the first of the
following analyses was brought from the banks of the
river Dorr, about seven years ago, by my friend Mr. James
Mill, who at that t'rme resided in Aberdeenshire. By him
I was informed that considerable quantities of it are found
in different parts of the bed of that river, — that it is called
by the inhabitants iron-sand, — and that they use it for
sanding newly written paper.               I tried some experiments in~
the year 1 800, in order to ascertain its nature ; hut was
too little skilled at that time, both in mineralogy and prac
tical chemistry, to manage an analysis of any considerable
difficulty.
    The black powder is mixed with a good many small "
whitish, reddish, and brownish grains, which, when ex-
amined by means of a glass, prove to be pieces of quartz,
felspar, and mica.          From this it would appear, that the
sand of the river Dee consists chiefly of the detritus of gra
nite or gneiss.
    When a magnet is passed over the sand, some of the
black grains adhere to it, and are by this means easily ob
tained separate.       But after all that can be attracted by the
magnet     is  removed,    the greater part of the black powder
stillremains. This residue is indeed attracted by a power
ful magnet, but so very feebly, that it is not possible by
means of it to separate it from the grains of sand with
which it is mixed. Thus we learn, that the black matter
 consists of two distinct substances ; one of which is power*
fully attracted by the magnet, the other not. As this se
cond substance was obviously specifically heavier than the
grains of sand with which it was mixed, I placed a quan
tity of the powder on an inclined plane, and by exposing it
cautiously, and repeatedly, to a jet of water, I succeeded
in washing away most of the grains of sand, and ihus ob
tained it in a slate of tolerable purity.
    The first of these minerals we may call iron-sand, and
 the second i$erine, as they belong to mineral species which
oryctoenosts have distinguished by these names.
                               I. Iron- Sand.
    The iron-    sand is much smaller in quantity than              the ise-
          '  From Transactions   of .Royal Society, Edinburgh, 1807.
                                                                       rine,

         Analysis of a Black Sand from      the River Dee.       99
     e, and does not exceed one-fourth of the mixture at
 most.    Its colour is iron-black.    It is in very small angu
 lar grains, commonly pretty sharp-edged, and sometimes
 having ihe shape of imperfect octahedrons.         The surface is
 rough;    the lustre is  feebly glimmering     and  metallic; the
 fracture, from the smallness of the grains, could not be
 accurately ascertained, but it seemed to be conchoidal.
 Opake, semi-hard, brittle, easily reduced to powder. Pow
 der has a grayish-black colour ; powerfully attracted by the
 magnet; specific gravity 4'76.'>.
     1. As acids were not found to act upon this mineral, 10O
 grains of it were reduced to a fine powder, mixed with
 twice its weight of carbonate of potash, and exposed for
 two hours to a red heat in a porcelain crucible. The mass,
•being softened in water, was digested in muriatic acid. By
 repeating this process twice, the whole was Dissolved in
muriatic acid, except a brownish-white matter, which
being dried in the open air weighed \9\ crains.
    2. The muriatic acid solution, which had a deep yellow
ish-brown colour, was concentrated almost to dryness, and
 then diluted wilh water. It assumed a milky appearance;
but nothing was precipitated.       Being boiled for some time,
and (hen set aside, a curdy-like matter fell.          It was of a
milk-white colour, weighed, when dry, seven grains, and
possessed the properties of oxide of titanium.
    3. The residual liquid being supersaturated with am
monia, a dark reddish-brown matter precipitated, which
being separated by the filter, dried, drenched in oil, and
heated to redness, assumed the appearance of a black mat
ter, strongly attracted by the magnet.           It weighed 93-7
grains, and was oxide of iron.
    4. The 19-5 grains of residual powder, being mixed with
four times its weight of carbonate of soda, and exposed for
two hours to a red heat, in a platinum crucible, and after
wards heated with muriatic acid, was all dissolved, except
about a grain of blackish matter, which was set aside.
    5. The muriatic solution being concentrated by evapo
ration, a little white matter was separated.          It weighed
one-fourth of a grain, and possessed the characters of oxide
of titanium.
    6. When evaporated to dryness, and redissolved in water,
a white powder remained, which proved to be silica, and
which, after being heated to redness, weighed one grain.
    7. The watery solution being supersaturated with potash,
and boiled for a few minutes, was thrown upon a filter, to
                               G.2                        separate

100                Analysis of a Black Sand,
separate a reddish-brown    matter, which had been precipi
tated. The clear liquid which passed through the filter
was mixed with a solution of sal ammoniac.        A soft white
matter slowly subsided.      It was alumina, and, after being
heated to redness, weighed half a grain.
    8. The brown-coloured matter which had been precipi
tated by the potash, when dried upon the steam-bath,
weighed 20'2 grains.       It dissolved with effervescence in
muriatic acid. The solution had the appearance of the yolk
of an egg. When boiled for some time, and then diluted
with water, it became white, and let fall a cnrdy precipi
tate, which weighed, when dry, 4-6 grains, and possessed
the properties of oxide of titanium.
    9. The residual liquor being mixed with an excess of am
monia, let fall a brown matter, which, after being dried,
drenched in oil, and heated to redness, weighed six grains.
It was strongly attracted by the magnet, but was of too
light a colour to be pure oxide of iron. I therefore dis
solved it in muriatic acid, and placed it on the sand-bath,
in a porcelain capsule. When very much concentrated by
evaporation, small white needles began to make their ap
 pearance in it.    The addition of hot-water made them dis
appear; but they were again formed when the liquor be
 came sufficiently concentrated.      These crystals, when se
 parated^ weighed 1-3 grains, and proved, on examination,
 to be white oxide of arsenic. During the solution of the
 lix grains in muriatic acid, a portion of black matter sepa
 rated.   It weighed O-2 grains, and was totally dissipated
 before the blow-pipe in a white smoke.         Hence, it must,
 have been arsenic. These 1-5 grains are equivalant to ra
 ther more than one grain of metallic arsenic. Thus, it ap
 pears, that the six grains contained one grain of arsenic,
 which explains the whiteness of their colour. The rest was
 iron. It can scarcely be doubted, that the proportion of
 arsenic present was originally greater.       Some of it must
 have been driven off when the iron oxide was heated with
 oil.
     10. The insoluble residue (No. 4.) was with great diffi
 culty dissolved- in sulphuric acid.    When the solution was
 mixed with ammonia, a white powder fell, which weighed
 O-8 grains.    It was accidentally lost, before I examined its
 properties.  But  I have no doubt, from its appearance, that
 it was oxide of titanium.
     11. Thus, from the 10O grains of iron-sand, the follow
 ing constituents have been extracted by analysis :
                                                         Black

            from    the River Dee, in Alerdeemhlre.             101
             Black oxide of iron,       -      98-7O
             White oxide of titanium,          12-65
             Arsenic,       -                    1 'GO
             Silica and alumina,        -        1 -5O
                                    Total,    113-85
 Here there is an excess of nearly 14 grains, owing, without
doubt, to the combination of oxygen with the iron and the
 titanium during the analysis.
     Had the iron in the ore been in the metallic state, the
excess of weight, instead of 1 4, could not have been less
than 30. For the black oxide is known to be a compound
 of ipo metal and 37 oxygen. Hence, I think, it follows,
that the iron in our ore must have been in the state of an
oxide, and that it must have contained less oxygen than
black oxide of iron.      A good many trials, both on iron-
sand, and on some of the other magnetic ores of iron, in
 duce me to conclude, that the iron in most of them is com
 bined wi.th between 17 and 18 percent, of oxygen.           Thii
compound, hitherto almost overlooked by chemists, I con
sider as the real protoxide of iron.    Thenard has lately de
monstrated the existence of an oxide intermediate between
the black and the red ; so that we are now acquainted with
four oxides of this metal.       But the protoxide, I presume,
does not combine with acids like the others. Analogy leads
us to presume the existence of a fifth oxide, between the
green and the red.
    As to the titanium, it is impossible to know what in
crease of weight it has sustained, because we. are neither
acquainted with it in the metallic state, nor know how
much oxygen its different oxides contain.        It is highly im->
probable, that, in iron-sand, the titanium is in the metallic
state, if it be made out that the iron is in that of an oxide.
The experiments of Vauquelin and Hecht, compared with
those of Klaproth, have taught us that there are three oxidet
of titanium, namely, the Glue, the red, and the white.
From an experiment of Vauquelin and Hecht, and from
some of my own, I am disposed to consider these oxides as
composed of the following proportions of metal and oxygen :
                              MetaL        Oxygen.
                   1. Blue,    100           16
                  2. Red,      100           33
                  3. White, 100              49
I  find, that when the white oxide of titanium is reduced to
                                 G3                            the

   102                Analysis of a Black Sand,
   the state of red oxide, it loses one-fourth of its weight ;
   and that red oxide, when raised to the state of white oxide,
   increases exactly one-third of its weight. It was the know-!
  ledge of these fac^s, that led me to the preceding numbers.
  And I think they may be used, till some more direct expe
  riment lead us to precise conclusions.
      Red oxide being the only state in which this metal has
  yet occurred separate, we may conclude that it combines,
  in this state, with metallic oxides, and that the titanium in,
  iron-sand is most probably in this state. But white oxide,
  diminished by one-fourth, gives us the equivalent quantity
  of red oxide. On that supposition, the titanium present,
  before the analysis, in the 100 grains of ore, weighed 9'5
                                              '
  grains.                                        .
     The appearance of the arsenic surprised me a good deal,
  as it was altogether unexpected-        I am disposed to ascribe
  it to some particles of arsenic pyrites which might have
 been accidentally present.         This conjecture will appear the
  more probable, when we reflect, that arsenic pvrites very
 frequently accompanies iron-sand.          Before the microscope,
 the iron-sand appears to contain some white shining par-»
  tides, which, probably, are arsenic pyrites.
     The small quantity of silica and alumina, I ascribe,
 without hesitation, to grains or quartz and felspar, which
 had adhered to the iron-sand, and been analysed along with
 it. Some such grains were actually observed and separated.
 But others, probably, escaped detection.
      12. If these suppositions be admitted as well founded,
 the iron-sand was composed of
                   Protoxide of iron,
                   Red oxide of titanium,
                   Arsenic,
                   Silica and alumina,
                  Loss,           -
                              4
                                                100-0
     The loss will not appear excessive, if we consider, that a
 portion of the arsenic must have been sublimed, before the
 presence of that metal was suspected.
     Upon the whole, I think we may consider the specimen
 of iron-sand examined, as composed of nine parts prot
 oxide of iron, and one of red oxide of titanium.         The pre
 sence   of titanium in this    ore had   been already detected by
iampadius,       though,   as   I  have  not seen his analysis.    I
 canuot say in what proportion.
                                                       }I. Iserine.

               fnm      the River Dee,      in Alerdeenshire.           103
                                 II.  Iserine.
    The colour of this ore is iron-black, with a shade of
brown.        It consists of small angular grains, rather larger
than those of the iron-sand, but very similar to them in
their appearance. Their edges are blunt ; they are smoother,
and have a stronger glimmering lustre than those of the
iron-sand.        Lustre semi-metallic,           inclining to metallic.
The fracture could not be distinctly observed, but it seemed
to be conchoidal ; at least nothing resembling 'a foliated
fracture could be perceived.               Opake, semi-hard, brittle,
easily   reduced     to  powder;     colour   of the powder unaltered ;
specific gravity      4-491*;      scarcely   attracted  by the magnet.
    1. A hundred grains of the powdered ore were mixed
with six times their weight of carbonate of soda, and ex-
posed for two hours to a red heat, in a platinum crucible.
The mass oblained, being softened with water, dissolved
completely in muriatic acid.              When the solution was con
centrated, it assumed the appearance of the yolk of an egg.
It was boiled, diluted with water, and set aside for some
time.      A white matter gradually deposited, which, when
dried on the steam- bath, weighed 53 grains, and possessed
the properties of oxide of titanium.
    2. The liquid thus freed from titanium was evaporated
to dryness, and the residue redissolved in water, acidulated                 .
with muriatic acid. A white powder remained, which,
after being heated to redness, weighed 16'8 grains, and
possessed the properties of silica.
    3. The solution was precipitated by ammonia, and the
brown matter which had separated, boiled for some time in
liquid potash. The whole was then thrown on a filter, to
separate the undissolved part, and the liquid which came
through was mixed with a solution of sal-ammoniac.                       A
white powder fell, which, after being heated to redness,
weighed 3'2 grains.           It was alumina.
    4. The brown substance collected on the filter was dried,
drenched in oil, and heated to redness.                   It was strongly
attracted by the magnet, and weighed 52 grajns.
    5. It was digested in diluted sulphuric acid; but not
being rapidly acted upon, a quantity of muriatic acid was
added, and the digestion continued.                   The whole slowly
dissolved, except a blackish matter, which became white
when exposed to a red heat, and, as far as I could judge
   * If, as the following analysis would lead us to expect, the specimen ex
amined was a mixture of four part* iserine, and one pare quartz and felspar,
the specific gravity of pute iierine should be 4-0&4.
                                        G  4

104      Analysis of a Black     Sand from the River Dee*
from its properties, was oxide of titanium, slightly
taminated with iron. It weighed 1'8 grains.
    6. The acid solution being concentrated by gentle eva
poration, a number of small yellowish-co'cured              needles
made their appearance in it.       By repeated evaporations, all
the crystals that would form were separated. They weighed
six grains.   I redissolved them in water, and added some
ammonia to the solution. A fine yellow powder fell, which
I  soon recognized to be oxide of uranium.           It weighed 4'2
grains.
    7. Thus it appears, that the 52 grains (No. 4.) attracted
by the magnet contained 46 grains of iron, and six grains
of uranium and titanium.
    8. The following are the substances separated from 10O
grains of iserine, by the preceding analysis :
                   Oxide   of titanium,       54'8
                   Oxide of iron, -          46-0
                   Oxide of uranium,           4'8
                   Silica,       -      -     1 6-8
                   Alumina,          -          3-2
                                 Total,     1 25-O
    Here is an excess of no less than 25 grains, to be ac
counted for by oxygen, which must have united to the
three metals during the process. As to the silica and alu-
jnina, there can be little hesitation in ascribing them to
grains of sand, which had been mixed with the ore. The
 pure iserine, in all probability, was composed of iron, ti
tanium, and uranium.         If we suppose that each of these
 metals existed in the state of protoxide, we must diminish
 the titanium by one-fourth, the iron by one-seventh nearly,
 and the uranium, according to Bucholz's experiments, by
 one-fifth. This would give us,
                Titanium,
                Irun,      -
                 Uranium,
                Silica and alumina        -
                                                103-9
    Here, then, is still an excess of nearly four per cent.
But this I am disposed to ascribe to the oxides of titanium
and uranium, having been only dried upon the steam-bath.
Upon the whole, it appears, that ia the specimens of iserine
                                                           analysed,

        An lysis of the Gray Copper Ort of Airthrey.                  104
analysed, the proportions of titanium and iron were nearly
equal, and that the uranium did not exceed four per cent,
The appearance of uranium surprised me a good deal.                      I
perceive, however, that it has already been detected in thig
ore, from an analysis published by Professor Jameson, in
the second volume of his Mineralogy, which, I understand,
was made by Lampadius. The specimen examined by Lam-
padius yielded very nearly 60 parts of titanium, 30 of iron,
and 10 of uranium.            Whereas, in mine, if the foreign
matter be removed, there was obtained, very nearly,
                              43 titanium,
                              48 iron,
                               4 uranium,
                            100
    But there can     be no doubt, that the iserine which         I  ana
        was  still  contaminated     with  a good deal of iron-sand j
lysed
for it was impossible to remove the whole.
 XVII.     Analysis of the Gray Copper Ore of Airthrey , in
    Stirlingshire. By THOMAS THOMSON, M.D., Edin
    burgh   *.
  J. HE copper mine of Airthrey, near Stirling, consists of a
 thin vein, which runs through the west corner of the Ochils.
It   has been      twice wrought, by two different companies ;
but, in both cases, was abandoned, alter a few years' trial.
I   went to it some years ago, and examined the ore, at the
 request of one of the proprietors.             The specimens which
 were employed for the subsequent analysis, were the purest
 that I could select, out of a considerable quantity.               I  was
 told, however, that from the lower level, which was at that
 time full of water, much richer ore had been extracted.
 But, afterwards, when the lower level was free from its water,
 I  went down to it myself, and found the ore precisely of
 the same kind as in the upper, with this difference, that it
 was more mixed with calcareous spar, and perhaps, on that
 account, more easily smelted.
    The veinstones in the Airthrey mine are sulphate of ba-
 rytes and carbonate of lime, and with these ihe ore is al
 most always more or less mixed.
    The colour is at first light steel-gray ; but the surface
 soon tarnishes, and becomes of a dark dull leaden-gray,
          » From Transactions  of Royal Society, Edinburgh, 1807.
                                                                       and

 106            Analysis of the Gray   Copper Ore
and in some places assumes a beautiful tempered steel tar
nish. Massive and disseminated. Jn some specimens, it
exhibits the appearance of imperfect crystals.           Internal
surface shining and metallic ; but, by exposure, it soon
becomes dull.      Fracture small-grained, inclining to even.
Fragments     indeterminate,  and rather blunt-edged.      Semi
hard,   the degree being almost   the same  as that of calcareous
spar ; for these two minerals reciprocally scratch each other.
Streak similar, opakc, brittle, easily frangible;         specific
gravity 4-878.
    1 . To free the ore as completely as possible from foreign
matter, it was reduced to a coarse powder, and carefully
picked.     It was then digested in diluted muriatic acid,
which dissolved a quantity of carbonate of lime, amounting
to 13 per cent, of the original weight of the ore.
    2. Thus purified, it was dried on the steam-bath, and
 100 grains of it were reduced to a fine powder, and digested
in diluted nitric acid, till every thing soluble in that men
struum was taken up. The residue was digested in the same
manner, in muriatic acid ; and when that acid ceased to
act, the residue was treated with nitro- muriatic acid till no
further solution could be produced.       The insoluble matter
was of a white colour; it weighed 6*9 grains, and was al
most entirely sulphate of barytes. No traces of sulphate of
lead, nor of oxide of antimony, could be detected in it by
the blow-pipe.
    3. The three acid solutions being mixed together, no
cloudiness appeared, nor was any change produced; a proof
that the dre contained no silver.
   4. The solution being evaporated nearly to dryness, was
diluted with water, and precipitated by muriate of barytes,
By this means, the sulphuric and arsenic acids, which had
been formed during the long-continued action of the nitric
acid on the ore, and the presence of which bad been indi
cated by re-agents, were thrown down ; for nitrate of lead,
added to the residual liquid, occasioned no precipitate ; a
proof that no arsenic acid was present.
    5. The liquid, thus freed from arsenic acid, was mixed
with an excess of ammonia.          It assumed a deep blue co
lour, while a brown matter precipitated.        It was separated
by the filter, and being dried, drenched in oil, and heated
to redness, it was totally attracted by the magnet.             It
weighed 45*5 grains, and was iron.
    6. The ammoniacal liquid was neutralized by sulphuric,
 acid, and the copper thrown down by means of an iron
 plate. It weighed 17-2 grains,
                                                          . 7- Ta

                  of Airihrey, in Stirlingshire.
    7. To ascertain the quantity of sulphur and arsenic, TOO
grains of the purified ore, in the state of a fine powder,
were put into the bottom of a coated glass-tube, and ex
posed for two hours to a red heat.         When the whole was
cold, and the bottom of the tube cut off, the ore was found
in a round solid mass, having the metallic lustre, a con-
choidal fracture, and the colour and appearance of varie~
gated copper-ore.      It had lost 16 grains of its weight.
    3, The upper part of the tube was coated with a yellow
ish-brown substance, like melted sulphur.            It weighed
 12'6 grains.     Thus, there was a Joss of 3-4 grains. A*the
 tube was long, this loss can scarcely be ascribed to sulphur
 driven off.    I rather consider it as water. For towards the
 beginning of the process, drops of water were very per-
 peptible in the tube. Whether this water was a constituent
 of the ore, or derived from the previous digestion in muri
 atic acidj cannot be determined.
     9. When the 12'6 grains of yellowish brown matter de-
 jlached from the tube were digested in hot potash-ley, the
 whole was dissolved, except a fine blackish powder, which
 weighed one grain, and was arsenic. The dissolved por
  tion I considered as sulphur.
      10. The potash solution, being mixed with nitric acid,
  four grains of sulphur fell. The remaining 7'6 grains must
  have been converted into sulphuric acid, by the action of
  the nitric acid. Accordingly, muriate of barytes occasioned
  a copious precipitate,
      11. The 84 grains of roasted ore being reduced to a fine
  powder, mixed with half their weight of pounded charcoal,
   and roasted a second time in a glass-tube, one grain of sul
   phur sub|imed.     But the tube breaking before the roasting
   had been continued long enough, the process was com
   pleted in a crucible. The roasted ore weighed 70 grains. .
       12. From the preceding analysis, we learn that the con
   stituents of the Airthrcy ore are as follows:
                        Iron
                        Copper
                        Arsenic
                        Sulphur
                       Water
                        Foreign bodies
                                           99-6
                                          100-0
                                         L                      If

   108         Hints   on the Subject      of Animal Secretions,
      If we   suppose the water and the earthy residue to be only
  Accidentally present, then the only essential constituents are
  the first four, and the ore would be a compound of
                            Iron
                            Copper
                            Arsenic
                            Sulphur
                                              100-0
      If we  compare this analysis with several analyses of gray
 copper     ore,    lately published by Klaproth, we shall find,
 that the constituents are the same in both ; but the pro
 portions of the two first ingredients are very nearly re
 versed.       Klaproth obtained from 0'4 to 0'5 of copper, and
 from 0-22 to 0'27 of iron. This renders it obvious, that
 the two ores were not in the same stale. I have little doubt,
 that the difference, however, is merely apparent, and that
 it arose, altogether, from a quantity of iron pyrites, and
 perhaps also of arsenic pyrites, which I could not separate
 from the gray copper ore which I examined.                   Both of these
 minerals could be distinctly seen in many of the specimens,
 intimately mixed with the gray copper; and I have no
 doubt that the same mixture existed, even in those speci
 mens which were selected as purest. The difference in the
 proportions of copper and arsenic, obtained by Klaproth
                                                                             *
 in his various analyses, is so considerable, as to lead to a
 suspicion, that even his specimens, in all probability, con
 tained a mixture of foreign matter.
XVIII.       Hints on the Subject of Animal Secretions.                    By
     EVERARD HOME, Esq., F.R.S.^ Communicated by the
     Society for the Improvement of Animal Chemistry J.
  J. HE    brilliant discoveries of Mr. Davy on              the powers of
electricity in producing chemical changes, suggested to me
                                                                          the
   *   Gehlen's Journ. vol. v. p. 9, 11, 13.
    f From Philosophical Transactions, for 1809, Part TI.
    j Dr. Wollaston's observations inserted in the Philosophical Magazine,
were published after thia paper had been laid before the Society.
    I was led to the present investigation, while preparing my lectures on the
Hunterian Museum, in which the secretions in different animals are to be
considered.     In September last, I engaged Mr. William Brande to assist me
in prosecuting the inquiry.     In November, I communicated my opinions to
Sir Joseph Banks, and stated that I should bring them forward in my lee-
                                                                        tore*

             Hints    on the Subject      of Animal Secretion*.
the idea that the animal secretions may be produced by the
same means.
     To prosecute this inquiry with every advantage, requires
ft knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and chemistry, rarely
to be met with in the same person. I have therefore availed
myself of the assistance of the different members of this
society, the object of which is the improvement of animal
chemistry. Their intimate acquaintance with these branches
of science renders them peculiarly fitted for such an un
dertaking.
      It is one of the rrtost important subjects to which Mr.
Davy's discoveries can be applied, and he has given it the
 consideration it deserves.
      The Voltaic battery is met with in the torpedo and elec
 trical eel ; and although it is given only as a means of
 catching their prey, and defending themselves, and there
 fore not immediately applicable to the present inquiry, yet
it furnishes two important facts : one, that a Voltaic battery
 can be formed in a living animal ; the other, that nerves are
 essentially necessary for its management ; for, in these fish,
the nerves connected with the electrical organs exceed
 those that go to all the other parts of the fish in the pro
 portion of twenty to one. The nerves are made up of an
infinite number of small fibres^ a structure so different from
 that of the electric organ, that they are evidently not fitted
 to form a Voltaic battery of high power ; but their struc
 ture appears to Mr. Davy to adapt them to receive and pre
 serve a small electrical power.
      That the nerves arranged with muscles, so as to form a
 Voltaic battery, have a power of accumulating and com-
 wres ; at that time Dr. Young's Syllabus wa» not published, and Dr. Wol-
 laston's opinions were unknown to me.
     Dr. Berzelius, professor of chemistry at Stockholm, published a work *>n
 Animal Chemistry, in (he year 1806, in the Swedish language, in which he
 Mates, in several places, that he believes the secretions in animals to depend
 upon the nerves, although he is unable to explain how the effect is produced.
 In proof of his opinion, the following experiment is adduced .
     " Trace all the nerves
                              leading to any secretory organ in a living animal,
 and divide them, being careful to injure the blood-vessels and [lie structure
  of the organ itself, as Tittle as may be : notwithstanding the continued circu
  lation of the blood, the organ will as little secrete its usual fluid, as an eye
  deprived of its nerve can see, or a muscle whose nerve has been divided can
  move. We may therefore easily conceive, that any trifling alteration in the
  nerves of a gland may materially affect its secretion, the supply of blood
  being in every way perfect."
     He says, the agency of the nerves in secretion has generally been disre
 garded, because our attention is only called to their secret mode of acting,
 when we discover the insufficiency of all other explanation.      Dr. Berzelius s
  work was shown to me by Mr. Davy while this paper wa< in the press.
                                                                   municaling

  1 16      Hints  on the Subject of Animal Secretions.
 municating electricity, is proved by the well-known
 riment of taking the two hind legs of a vivacious frog, im
 mediately after they are cut off, laying bare the crural
 nerves, applying one of these to the-exposed muscles of the
 other limb, and then when the circle is completed by rais
 ing the' other crural nerve with a glass rod, and touching
 the muscle of the limb to which it does not belong, the
 muscles of both are excited to contractions.
    There are several circumstances in the structure of the
 nerves, and their arrangements in animal bodies, which do
 not appear at all applicable to the purposes of common sen
 sation, and whtise uses have not even been devised. Among
 these are the plexuses in the branches of the par vagum
which go to the lungs, and in the nerves which go to the
limbs.     The ganglions, which connect the nerves belong
ing to the viscera with those that supply the voluntary
muscles, and the course of the nerves or' the viscera which
 keep up a connexion among themselves in so many diffe
rent ways.
    The organs of secretion are principally made up of arte
ries and veins; but there is nothing in the different modes
ill which these vessels ramify, that can in any way account
for the changes in the blood, out of which the secretions
arise. These organs are also abundantly supplied with
nerves.
    With a view to determine how far any changes could be
produced in the blood by electricity, at all similar to se
cretion, Mr. W. Brande, w ho has begun his career in ani
mal chemistry with so much success, made the following
experiments, in the suggestion of which Mr. Davy afforded
him    every assistance.
           Experiment I. Middle of January, 1809.
    The conductors from twenty-four four-inch double plate*
of copper and zinc, charged with a very weak solution of
muriatic acid/ were immersed in four ounces of blood, im
mediately on its having been withdrawn from a vein in the
arm. The temperature of the blood was kept up at 100°
during the experiment.      The apparatus was so constructed
as to admit of the products at the negative and positive
wires being separately collected and examined. When the
electrization had been carried on for a quarter of an hour,
all action seemed to have ceased.       The blood which had
surrounded the negative wire was of a deep red colour and
extremely alkaline; that surrounding the positive wire was
slightly acid, and uf a brighter hue.
                                                           In

           2] in I ^ on the Subject  of Animaf    Secretions.     Ill
    In this experiment,       the coagulation of the blood was not
materially    affected   by  the electrical power alluded to.
            Experiment IIk 8th of February, 1809.              »
    Finding it necessary to submit perfectly fluid blood to
the action of electricity, the following experiment was un
dertaken with a view of keeping it the longest possible time
in that state.
    A deer having been pithed, the abdomen was immediately
opened into, and a length of about four inches of a large
vein in the meso-colon was detached from the neighbouring
parts. Two small platina wires, connected in the usual
way with forty three-inch double plates, were inserted into
this detached portion of vein, and secured by ligatures,
 having their points at a distance of about one inch from
each other. The communication with the battery was kept
up for one quarter of an hour, a third ligature was then
tied in the centre of the detached vein, in order to cut off
the connexion between the positive and negative ends. Oa
removing the portion of the vein included by the ligatures^
 and containing the conductors, it was found that the gaseous
 products had forced out nearly the whole of the blood, at
the part through which the wires were inserted ; alkaline
 and acid matter were readily detected, but no new product
could be discovered.
     Finding the coagulation of the blood an insurmountable
 obstacle to the long-continued electrical action, the serum
 only was employed in the following experiments.
             Experiment III. I0th of March, 1809-
    The conductors from one hundred and twenty four-inch
 double plates, highfy charged, were brought within two
 inches of each other, in some recent serum of blood, ob
 tained free from the colouring matter, by carefully pouring
 it off from the coagulum. Coagulated albumen was rapidly
 separated at the negative pole, and alkaline matter evolved :
 at the positive pole, a small quantity of albumen was gra
 dually deposited, and litmus paper indicated the presence
 of acid. These are the effects produced by a high electrical
  power upon serum.
              Experiment      IV.   14th   of April,   1809.
     Was undertaken        to ascertain  the effect  of  a low power   ?
 a battery was employed, consisting of twelve four-inch
 double plates of copper and iron.            In this case, there was
 at first no appearance of coagulation at either pole ; in five
                                                              minutes,

  i 19      Hints  on the Subject of Animal SecretloTti.
 minutes, the positive wire became covered with a film of
 albumen, and in fifteen minutes a filament of about a quar
 ter of an inch in length was seen Boating in the fluid^ and
 adhering to the same wire.
               Experiment V. 6th of May, 1 809.
     Two   small  platina cups, connected by a large quantity
 of cotton well washed, and each containing one ounce of
 serum, were rendered positive and negative, by thirty double
 three-inch plates very weakly charged.       The process was
 (continued during twenty-four hours.      This power had not
been sufficient to produce coagulation at the negative pole.
 On examining the fluid in the negative cup, it was found
to consist principally of an alkaline solution of albumen.
     The fluid in the positive cup was rather turbid, it red
dened litmus, and was slightly acid to the taste. On stand
ing, it deposited a few flakes of albumen.       When evapo
rated, it afforded saline matter, with excess of acid, (super
Salts.)
     By these experiments it is ascertained, that a low nega
tive power of electricity separates from the serum of the
blood an alkaline solution of albumen ; that a low positive
power separates albumen with acid, and the salts of the
blood.     That with one degree of power, albumen is sepa
rated in a solid form j with a less degree, it is separated in
a fluid form.
    From these facts, the following queries are proposed :
     1st. That such decomposition of the blood by electricity,
may be as near an approach to secretion as could be expected
to be produced by the artificial means at present in our power.
    2d. That a weaker power of electricity, than any that
can be readily kept up by art, may be capable of separating
from the blood, the different parts of which it is composed,
and forming new combinations of the parts so separated.
    3d. That the structure of the nerves may fit them to have
a low electrical power, which can be employed for that
purpose; and as such low powers are not influenced by im
perfect conductors, as animal fluids, the nerves will not be
fobbed of their electricity by the surrounding parts.           *
    4th. That the discovery of an electricaipower,        which
Can separate albumen from the blood in a fluid state, and
another that separates it in a solid state, may explain the
mode in which different animal solids and fluids may be
produced, since, according to Mr. Hatchett's experiments,
albumen is the principal material of which auimal bodies
are composed.
                                                      5th. That

        Geological Remarks on the Stratification,   &fc.       1   13
    5th. That the nerves of the torpedo may not only keep
the electric organ under the command of the will, but
charge the battery, by secreting the fluid between the plates,
lhat is necessary for its activity.
   6th. As albumen becomes visibly coagulated, by the
effect produced from twelve four-inch double plates of cop
per and iron, a power much too low to affect even the most
delicate electrometer, may not this be occasionally employed
with advantage as a chemical test of electricity, whilst the
production of acid and alkali, affected by still inferior de
grees of electricity to those required for the coagulation of
albumen, may likewise be regarded as auxiliary tests on such
occasions ?
    If these facts and observations appear to the society to
throw any light upon the principle of secretion, it may be;
an advantage to medical science, that they should be laid
before the public, as hints for future inquiry.
XIX.   Geological Remarks and Queries on Messrs. CITVIER
  and BROGNIART'S Memoir on the Mineral Geography of
  the Environs of Paris. By Mr. JOHNFAREY,     Mineralo-
  gical Surveyor.
                       To   Mr. Tittcch.
SIR,   IT   gave me great pleasure to observe, that you nad in
the commencement of the present volume of the Philo
sophical Magazine, introduced the term "Geology" into
its title ; a science, if I may so call it,
                                          which stands perhaps
more   in  need than any other, of   a  respectable channel for
freely discussing its facts and principles; and the satisfac
tion felt, was much increased,
   I                                by  the perusal of the valu
able body of facts which you have therein presented to the
English reader, respecting the stratification in the neigh-
bsurhood of Paris.       We are informed       by
                                               the very able na
turalists who drew up the Memoir alluded to (p. 37), that
their geological survey of the environs' of Paris (which,
commenced in 1804 or 1805) was unfinished at the be
ginning of 1809, but that " some circumstances" com
pelled them at that moment, to publish an abridged account
of their labours, " and to assign date" to their laborious
                                    a
researches,    although they were not then brought to       con
clusion. What the " circumstances" were which are here
                                                           a
 alluded to, we are uninformed; but           seems material to
                                              it
 the credit of our country, and an act of justice to  a  merito-
     Vol. 35.No. 142. Fei. 1810.                H           rioug

                         Geological Remarks on the
   rious Individual to 3tate, that most of the important geolo
   gical conclusions which our ingenious neighbours on the
   continent have deduced from their recent survey, were ar
   rived at by Mr. William Smith, from an examination of
   the strata in the environs of Bath, of which he completed
    a coloured Map, such as M. Cuvier and M. Brogniart de
   scribe, and correct Sections also, about the year 1795 ; and
    that the same principles and conclusions were in the sub
    sequent years applied and verified, in a general survey made
   by Mr. Smith, of nearly all the south and east and midland
    parts of England, and of parts of Wales and Scotland, as
   many hundred besides myself, who have seen Mr. Smith's
   Maps and collection of local Specimens, can testify*,
    as well as the printed accounts which                    have repeatedly
   appeared in our newspapers             and magazines of Mr. Smith
    having publicly exhibited these Maps, accompanied by
    Sections of the British strata, at the Duke of Bedford's and
   Mr. Coke's sheep-shearings, Lord Somerville's agricultural
    f£tes, the meetings of the Smithfield Club, the Bath So
   ciety, &c. Mr. Smith's extensive collection of specimens,
   of Organic Remains in particular, which were collected by
    himself from all the various districts which he visited for
    forming his Maps, were for several years exhibited to bis
    friends in Bath, and have now for seven years past, been
   accessible in the same way, at his house, No. 15, Bucking
    ham Street, York Buildings, London.
         An opportunity having presented itself in 1801 1) of my
   studying this subject practically under Mr. Smith, and
    having since amply verified the truth and ascertained the
   great value of his discoveries in several Surveys of my own ;
   I   ventured, in June 1806, to present the public with a con-
^  rise sketch of part of Mr. Smith's discoveries, when speak
   ing of the intended Thames Archway, vol. xxv. of your
   Magazine, and some months after to enlarge somewhat
   further on these discoveries, in something more than two
   quarto page?, which are inserted into an article on Coal^
   previously written by some other person, for Dr. Rees's
   New Cyclopaedia : to these publications, and those which
   have followed!, I was principally prompted by the solici
   tations of the frienSs and well-wishers of Mr. Smith, who,
      ¦* The Rev.
                    Joseph Townsend, rector of Pcwsey in Wiltshire, was among
   those who thus profited by Mr. Smith's iabours, almost from their com*
   nencement.
       f  This was after Mr. Smith had issued printed proposals for the public*,
   lion of his work and maps of the British strata, by Debrett, in Piccadilly.
       $ Among these are, Clay Strata, Concentricity of Strata, Continent, Denuda
  tion, Excavahan of Valleys, I£xh an emis Fossils, &c, in the Cyclopaedia ; au4
  a Lutur ou Hills »iul Springs m th« MontUly Magawne.for April 1807.
                                                                     lamenting

                   Stratification       of France and England.                 1   15
lamenting the want of encouragement which suspended his
intended publication, foresaw, that at no very distant pe
riod, the free communications which he, myself, and others
had made, would produce other publications, by which the
credit of his discoveries might be lost, not only to himself,
but perhaps to our country.
   The haste with which the Memoir on the Environs of
Paris was drawn up, will be apparent to any one, who shall
sit down carefully to digest                     it,
                                       and follow the writers
through their details of the interesting geological facts which
it contains   in doing which,
                  j                found   absolutely necessary
                                            t          it
to make other arrangements of the Places' names, and of the
extraneous Fossils, than those which the writers have pre
sented, as well as to arrange the Strata described, in Table,        a
to be seen at one view and thinking that such may prove
                                :
interesting and perhaps useful to others of your readers,                      I
have transcribed them below, for insertion in your Maga
zine, in case that you should think them sufficiently suited
to the new character which        has assumed.
                                            it
   The difficulty of understanding and following M. Cuvier
and his able associate through their details,        greatly in
                                                              is
creased     the want of good descriptive Map, such as they
              by                    a
promise in their subsequent Memoir; this           have endea
                                                            I
voured to obviate, as well as my very limited know ledge of
France and its maps would allow,                       by
                                           giving the bearings,
nearly, and direct distances in English miles, of such of
the places named as      could, reckoning from the island in
                                I
the Seine in the centre of Paris.
    Geological students will find an alphabetical arrange
ment of the places where observations have been made,
with the strata and fossils annexed        and another alpha
                                                       ;
bet of the fossils, with reference to the places and strata
to which they belong, highly useful, as companions to the
sections and descriptions of the strata in their relative po
sitions, and to coloured miner logical maps, showing the
                                                 a
surface made          by
                   each soil •    term which, in the Memoir,
                                        *   a
                                                                      answer^
 *     Mr. William Martin,    in his useful work " Outline! of the Knowledge
«f   extraneous Fossils," which should be in the hands of every geological
student, defines this terra, p. 155, and remarks at the bottom of page 158,
that we are " to consider the comparative ages of soils to be marked,     in  the
first instance rather by the nature than the quantity of their organic contents,"
which, though true,       not sufficient to guard us from the Wernerian errors,
                           i*
into which h.tr.self has been betrayed in this and some other sections of hit
work, in maintaining, that the absence of organic remains, marine remain*,
marine and vegetal, and wood and skeletons, denote the relative ages of the
substances to which they belong       since experience must teach every one, ai
                                        :
iibai in part done our Paris mineral surveyors, that super-posititn alone can
                                            II
                                             2                           iuttruet

1   j8                 Geological Remarks on the
      is sometimes displaced, leaving the blocks of stone
      lying in confusion : sometimes these free-stones are
       coloured or rendered calcareous or argillaceous by in
       filtration from the covering strata, p. 39 and 56.
Tontenay-aux-Roses, 5f miles SSW. : here M. Lopez sunk
       a deep well in his garden, through the gypsum and
       coarse limestone formations, p. 50.
Ganelon Mountain, near Compiegne, NE., has (alluvial)
       puddingstone on          of coarse quartz grains and shells,
                                  it,
       &c. p. 47.
 Gentilly,   3   miles S., has pits of coloured potters' clay,
       which stratum extends in           range to Meudon
                                                    a             has:   it
       also quarries of coarse limestone that produce       in  their
       lower beds periwinkles, solens, (omitted in the transla
       tion) ovsters, muscles, pinnae, calyptrae, pyrulae, large
       tellines, tercbellae, porpytes, madrepores, nummulites,
       and fungites     ; above which are strata of green earth
       with some vegetable impressions, then gray or yel
      lowish strata containing venuses, campreys, and nume
       rous tuberculated cerites      beds of good building-stone
                                            :                                 ;
       above these       is  stratum containing an entire bed of
                              a
       small long and striated tellines         the fossils are the
                                                        :
       same  in  these -quarries as at Grignon and Meudon, and
       on the top of Montmartre. p. 44, 47, 48 and 55.
 Gisors, 35 miles NW.,is at the extreme NW". corner of the
       bason of Paris described, and adjoining the chalk                      di
       stricts. Mount Ouin, with puddingstone of quartz and
                                                a
       shellsin   it,    near this place, p. 39 and 48.
                        is
 Grignon                , has quarries of coarse limestone, whose
       lower beds contain periwinkles, and the twelve other
       kinds of shells and fossils mentioned at Geniilly, with
       the addition of cerites (as mentioned          54)   a'so the
                                                            p.   ;
       fossils agree with those of the quarries at Meudon and
       on the top of Montmartre. pages 47, 54 and 55.
 Grist/ is «ituated at one extremity of the gypsous district
       and Meaux at another            has only the first mass of
                                        ;   it
      gvp*>um
                  in its qua-ries.  p. 49  and 53.
 Guespelle'                 the strata of this place answer to
                             ,
       those of Gentilly, above, p. 47-
High Normandy province, to the north-west of Paris,                            is
      wholly composed of chalk (forming the NW. border
      of the basin of Paris), p. 39.
Houdan, iiB miles W., has pits of gray potters' or plastic
      clay.  p.  44.
Jssy,    4  miles SW.         W., has quarries of coarse lime
                              by
                                                              stone,

            Stratification   of France and England.         119
    stone, with periwinkles and the twelve other fossil re
    mains in their lower beds, that are mentioned of
     Gentilly. p. 47.
Ldonnois is a district (of chalk) NE. of Campiegne be
    tween the rivers Oyse and Aure, which bound the
    basin of Paris, and forms therein a considerable reen-
     tering angle, p. 39.
Longjumeau, 9 miles SYV. by W., has siliceous freestone
     and sand, containing the 13 kinds of sliells; &c., found
     at Gentilly and Grig/ion, with the addition of balani :
     towards the top of the hill a sand (probably alluvial)
     contains lymneae and planorbis with siliceous wood,
     and other parts of vegetables,     p. 54 and 57.
Mantes, 22 miles VVSVV., is on the NW. edge of the
     basin of Paris, and adjoins the chalk district without
     it. p. 38 and 39.
Mau/de River, which empties itself into the Seine, is at
     that place the limits of the basin of Paris, at the NW.
     end of the (alluvial) sands of Seance, which form its
     crooked boundary SE. thence to Nemours, p. 38
     and 39.
Meaux, 19 miles NE. by E., is situate at one extremity
     of the gypseous district within the basin of Paris, and
     Grissy is at another, p. 49.
Meudon. 6 miles S\V., has chalk-pits, in which are layers
    of flints about 6, feet apart, but no detached flints in
    its mass ; the upper part of the chalk is in a rubbly
    Statc, with the clay of the superior strata in its inter
    stices.   A stratum of coloured potters' clay, without
    fossils, covers the chalk here, and extends south-east
    wardly to Gaitil/y : above this clay, coarse limestone
    strata here occur, and the lower beds in the quarries
    contain calyptreae,     fungites, madrepores, muscles,
    iiiimmulites, oysters, periwinkles, pinnae, porpytes,
    pyrulas, solens, large lellines, and tcrebellas ; which
    fossils are of the same kinds as those of the quarries
    of Geiitilltj and Grignoii and' on the top of Montmar-
    tre. The gypsum soil occurs here upon the coarse
    limestone soil ; there are only thin beds of plaster in  it,
    but which are sufficient to fix the relative super-posi
    tion of these soils, pases 41, 43, 44, 47, 49, 53 and 55.
ATonhnarlre,     miles N., has had its strata and fossils de
               <2\
    scribed   by M. Desmarets    ;    has large plaster quarries
                                     it
    in  which are three principal  masses  or gypsum, the low
    est of which     without fossils,
                     is               and  has only thin beds of
    gypsum, frequently selenitous, with intervening"" strata
                              H  4                          - ot

12»                  Geological Remarks    on the
       of solid calcareous marles, that contain coarse crystals
       of lenticular yellowish gypsum ; and with very scaly
       argillaceous marles that contain menilite silex. The
       middle mass has thicker and more numerous beds of
       gypsum, the intervening solid calcareous marks have
        in them numerous coarse crystals of lenticular yellow
       ish gypsum : some of these beds, those that are
       marbled with gray and are compact and argillaceous,
        are xised for scouring- stones (not building).      It con-
     '
        tains scattered nodules (rognons) of sulphated strontian
       in its lower beds ; and it is chiefly in this mass that
        fossil fish (not shell-fish) are found.
    The upper mass is very thick, chitfly of beds of gyp
        sum, interlaid with a few marley strata : its lower
        beds of gypsum are intermixed with siliceous masses,
        its middle beds are columnar, and its upper gypsum
       beds are usually .interlaid with five str.iia of marie : this
       upper gypseous mass contains astonishing collections
        of the skeletons of birds, of quadrupeds, mammifcrse,
       and fish, tortoise bones, and a few shells, agreeing
       with those of the fresh-water fish of our lakes. A
       large mass of marles occur above these, imbedding dif
        ferent fossils (for which I must refer to page 51 and 52,
        to the Section, and to what follows herein).
    Above these marles, freestone and sand here occur, that
        contain the 13 kinds of fossil remains, mentioned at
         Gent'dly, Mendon and Grignon, with the addition of
        balani shells, pages 37, 50, 51, 52, 54 and 55.
Montmorennj* 10 miles NE., has the upper mass of gyp
       sum, and its fossiU (see Montmartre)           forming the
        surface, in some parts ; in others, it has above the
       gypsums and marles, the freestone anu sand which
       contain the 14 kinds of fossil remains that are found
       on Montmartre &c. p. 50 and 54.
Moiitereau, 22 miles SE., is at the south-eastern edge of
        the basin of Paris described by our authors, and ad
       joins the great chalk districts in Champagne : gray
        potters' clay is here dug, upon the chalk, p. 39 and 44.
Monljbrt, 18 miles W., is near the western edge of the
       basin of Paris, p. 39.
Mont Palerian                   , has plaster quarries, near the
       edge of the gypsous district, where only t the first or
        upper mass of gypsum appears, p. 53. .
jtforer-, in Dreux Forest, has pits of very white potters'
        (or pipe-)e!ay j it covers the chalk, and is without fos
       sils, p. 44.
   •                                                     Nanterre,

             Stratification  of France and England.           121
Nanterre, 7' miles NW,, has a plain covered by flint-
     gravel, p. 58.
Nemours, 32 miles SSE., is at the limits of the basin of
      Paris, and at the SE. end of the (alluvial) sands of
      Beauce, which form its crooked boundary thence NW.
      to trie mouth of the Maulde river, p. 39.
Neuilly,i\ milts NW., has quairies of stone, in which
     are found crystals of quartz and rhomboidal crystals
     of' variegated carbonate of lime, but no fossil remains,
      p. 4S.
Ouiu Mountain, near Gisors, NW., lias (alluvial) pudding-
     stone or coarse grains. of quartz -and she:!s. p. 48.
Pulaiseau               , has strata of freestone, without shells,
      alternating with sand, which is sometimes v. ashed out
      or displaced, and the blocks of stone are left in con
      fusion, p. 5f>.
Tallery, near Chaumont, has in its lower strata of coarse
      limestone and sand, the thirteen kinds of fossil remains
      that are found at Gentilly. p. 47.
Paris Environs has had its stratification and extraneous
      fossils treated of by M. Desmarets, M. Gillet-Lau-
      mont, M. Lamarck, M. Coupe, and M. Cuvier. About
      the beginning of 1805, M. Cuvier and M. Brogniart
     commenced a Mineralogical             Map of that district
     around Paris, denominated by them the Basin of Pa
     ris, in which the chalk in horizontal beds with flints,
      (being the lowest stratum there known) is wholly or
     in part covered by certain argillaceous, siliceous, cal
     careous, gypseous and alluvial strata ; the nature, cou-»
      tents and relative situations and thicknesses of which,
      it is the object of their present labours to investigate
       and explain. This basin, measuring directly from Es-
     pernay to Gisors, nearly from cast to west, is 87 English
      miles long, ami fr >m Nemours to the neighbourhood
     of Noyon (to which it nnist extend to form the reen
      tering angle that is mentioned p. 3t)), nearly south
     aad north, it is 70 miles broad. This noble and ex
     tensive field for geological investigation, has on all
      sides natural limits, which seem very crooked and in
      dented, as might be expected : on the SW. from near
       Nemours to the mouth of the Maulde river (a direct
       distance of about 45 miles), it is limited by a cover
       ing stratum of Beauce sand (which I suppose from its
      description to be alluvium), and on all its remaining
                                                             sides

 1?«                  Geological Remarks on the
      sides it is said to be bounded by the naked chalk-stra
      tum above mentioned*.         The Seine river enters the
      basin of Paris near Moiiterecm, and quits it again near
      Gisors ; its tributary rivers the Loing enters it near
      Nemours, the Marne at Espemuy ; and the Aune and
      Oyse near Compiegne, after having for some distance
      skirted its boundaries, pages 37, 39, 40 and 41.
Picardy Province, to the north of Paris, is wholly composed
      or chalk (forming the northern border of the basin
      of Paris), having isolated patches (or hummocks) of
      sand upon     it,(perhaps alluvia),     39 and 40.
                                                 p.
Rolleboise, on the banks of the Seine, has in the plastic or
      potters' clay, fragments of» bituminous wood             this
                                                                  :
                                                                          '
     clay  covers   the chalk,  and  underlays   ihe coarse  lime-
     stone, p. 44.
Romainville, 4| miles NE., has the marley strata that co
     ver the gypsum beds         and in
                                 ;         white and friable cal
                                             a
     careous stralum there, siliceous trunks of palm-trees
     of large bulk, and lymneae and planorbes shells are
     found, similar to the species that now exist in our
     marshes at this place also freestone and sand are found
                :
     that contain the 14 kinds of fossils mentioned              at
      Grigiion, and also bulani shells, p. 51 and 54.
Saint Cyr, 14 miles \VSW., has the gypsum formation, but
     no beds of plaster; green marles accompanied               by
                                                            stron-
     tian here prevail, p. 53.
Saint Germain,      1 2miles NW., has coarse limestone quar
     ries and their accompanying fossil remains (as at Gen-
     tilly), and above these       issoft green bed with marks
                                        a
     of leaves and stalks of vegetables in its lower strata              :
     on this   a freestone rock containing roundish venuses,
     campreys and numerous tuberculated cerites, and above
     that thin hard stratum whose seams abound with
           a
     small long white striated tellines. p. 48.
Saint Germain Forest has certain parts of             covered
                                                         it              by
     flint gravel, p. 58.
Saint Prix,     1
                1  miles NE., has free-stone and sand strata,
     that contain the 14 kinds of fossils mentioned at Grig-
     non, and also balani shells, p. 54.
Seran, on the canal of Ourque, has deep excavation, made
                                            a
 *    Which seems the same that once extended across the Channel to the
British shore, whereit   now found, with local interruptions, from the Isle
                         is
•f Wight to the mouth of the Thame*. S«e vol. xxxiv. p. 310.
                                                                        in

           Stratification    of France and England.         1 23
     in a marshy bottom for the canal, in alluvial soil, where
     the bones of elephants and large trunks of trees were
     found, p. 58.
Sevres, 7 miles W., has quarries of coarse limestone and
     sand, in which are found the 13 fossil remains men
     tioned at Metidon,    Near the glass-house, the mass of
     chalk (that underlays the above), is elevated near 50
     feet above the Seine, and is apparently the highest part
     of it in the basin of Paris ; the strata upon this elevated
     part seem thinner than usual, and the stone is sensibly
     inclined towards the Seine, (probably these appearances)
     are occasioned by a fault and consequent lilt of the
    ^strata, as these are the only inclining strata that are
     mentioned in all the basin of Paris) p. 43 and 4 /.
Sezanne, 48 miles SE. by E., is at the south-eastern edge
     of the basin of Paris, adjoining the extensive plains of
     chalk in Champagne, p. 39.
Trappe, 14 miles SVV., has hard siliceous limestone strata,
      which quickly perish on exposure to the air and rain ;
     and such is here used for marling the land : in these
     strata burstones (French Burs) are found, with lymneas
     and planorbes shells and gyrogonites, supposed to be
     of fresh-water origin, p. 56 and 57.
Triel,                , has piaster quarries on the mountain,
     that are situate at an extremity of the gypsous district,
     in which only the first mass of gypsum is seen (as at
     Jtntoni): beneath which are strata and quarries of coarse
     limestone (and its accompanying fossils as at Gentilly).
     p. '19 and 53.
Vaucienne Valley has madrepores, with camerines and other
     well preserved shells, and grains of coarse quartz, that
     together make a sort of puddingstone. p. 47.
Vaugirard) 2± miles SW. by W., has quarries of coarse
     limestone, with calyptrae and the 12 other kinds of
     fossil remains in their lower beds, that are mentioned
     at Aleudcn. p. 47.
Versailles Park, 14 miles SW., is situated in a strait
    between two hills (or in the inosculation of two oppo
     site valleys) where the gypsum formation has no plaster
     beds in   it, but green marles containing nodules of
     strontian prevail, p. 38 and 53.   «
    e- d'dvray,  8   miles W., has plaster quarries    insome
      places, and in others only thin strata of plaster in the
     gypsum formation       beneath which are strata and quar
                            ;
     ries of coarse limestone (and its accompanying fossils
     as at Gentilly').  p. 49 and 53.

    124               Geological Remarks on         I fie
    Vtllepreux               , has coarse limestone quarries, and
         their accompanying fossil remains, (as at Gentilly)
         with the covering strata such as occur at Saint Ger
         main, p. 48.
    Villers-Cotteret, 31 miles NE., has madrepores, with ca-
         merines and other well preserved shells, and grains of
         coarse quartz, that together make a sort of pudding-
         stone, p. 47;
    Virqflay, Q\ miles S\V. The gypsum formation has here
         no plaster beds in      it,
                               but green niarles containing stron-
         tian prevail,    53.
                          p.
    An Alphabetical List       the Fossils or Organic Remains,
      which are mentioned        by of
                               Messrs. Cuvier and Brogniart as                  ,
     found   within the Basin      Paris ivit.h the Names
                                         of    ;            the         of
      Places, and     the Strata which produce them, with Re
                     of
     ferences to the Pages      the Philosophical Magazine, and
                                  in
      Remarks in parentlieses.
Ananchites (Echini ?), the shells of calcareous spar, filled
      with black flint, in the chalk strata, p. 43.
Anomites, three Terebratula shells in the chalk strata, p. 42.
Antelopes, bones of unknown species, in the alluvium (of
      valleys), p. 58.
Bala?n shells, in the freestone at top of Montmartre, at
      Romainville, Saint Prix, Montmorency, Longjumeau,
      &c. p. 54.
Belemnites, in the chalk strata; these differ from those
     found with ammonites         compact lime*, p. 42.
                                          in
Birds, skeletons of unknown ones, at Montmartre, 8cc, in
     the first or upper gypsum mass. p. 51.
Calyptrce shells, at Chaumont, Gentilly, Grignon, Gues-
     pelle, Issy,    Longiumeau,      Meudon, Montmartre,
     Montmorency, Pallary, Romainville, Saint Prix, Se
     vres, Vaugirard, &c. in the lower beds of the coarse
     limestone, and      the freestone, p. 47, 54, and 55.
                            in
Camer'me     shells, at Chantilly, Ganelon mount, Ouin
     mount, Vaueienne, Villers-Cotteret, &c., either in the
    lower beds of the coarse limestone, or in        siliceous    a
     puddingstone. p. 47 and 48.
'   *The limestone here spoken of, does not seem to belong to the basin of
Paris, and should be verg.glad to learn, whether
              I                                     it  any where dug in
                                                         is
France    In the great argillaceous formation between the Bath Freestone
          ?
and the blue Lias soils,
                       inthis country, there    stratum of limestone called
                                               is
                                               a
by Mr. Smith the blue marle-stone, whicli contains very perfect belemnites,
 small cornu-ammoni and asteria. The limestone ot Oakham, and of Maidwcll,
 between Northampton and Market-Hal borough, belongs         believe to this
                                                              I
stratum, but never had the opportunity of collecting any specimens at the
              I
latter place.
                                                                      Camprey

             Stratification of France and England.           12S
Gamprey shells, at Gentilly,. Saint Germain, Villepreux,
      &c. in the building-stone rock above the coarse lime
      stone, p. 48.
Cardium shells are found in the yellow argillaceous marie,
      some distance above the green potter's earth of the
      gypsous soil, near its top. p. 52.
 Caryophyllcea (a poly pier) in the chalk strata, p. 42.
Cerite, shells, often in fragments, at Gentilly, Grignon,
      Meudon, Montmartre, &c, in the lower beds of the
      coarse limestone, and in the freestone, p. 54 and 55.
i                 , tuberculated, at Gentilly, Saint- Germain,
      and Villepreux, &c. in great numbers in the
                                                       building-
      stone rock, above the coarse limestone, p. 48.
-               — , often in fragments, in the yellow argilla
      ceous marie near the upper part of the gypseous for
      mation, p. 52.
Cranium, or skull, of some animal, in the chalk strata,
                                                          p. 42.
Elephants' bones of unknown species, at Scran, &c. in the
      alluvium (of valleys), p. 58.
 Fibrous shells, resembling very thick pinnae, in fragments,
      in the chalk strata, p. 42.
 Fish (not shell-fish), at Montmartre in the marbled gray
      scouring (not building) stone of the middlemost gyp
      sum mass, having scattered nodules (rognons) of sul-
      phated strontian in its lower beds. p. 50.
        skeletons, at Montmartre, Dammartin, Montmorency,
      &c, in the gypsum or intervening marks of the upper
      gypsum mass or first of the quarrymen. p. 51.
 Fresh-water shells (resembling recent species of such
                                                         shells)
      Lynineae and Planorbes, at Montmartre, Romainville,
      &c., in the upper gypsum mass, or the marles which
      cover it ; and from the decomposing stone at Trappe,
      near Versailles, (denominated fresh-water by our Au
      thors) resembling siliceous limestone, when first dug.
      p. 51 and 56.
 Fungites, at Chaumont,         Gentilly, Grignon, Guespelle,
      Issy, Meudon, Pallcry, Sevres, Vaugirard, &c, in the
      lower beds of the coarse limestone, p. 47.
  Geodes, round stones, some hollow, of a very fine-grained
      limestone, containing multitudes of small spiral uni
      valves ; whose cavities contain a new variety of
                                                            cry
      stallized sulphate of strontian, called apotamous sul-
      phated strontian ; these geodes are found in a marley
       (alluvial) sand, in some places, at Bougival near Marly,
      covering the chalk 6trata, which are theniselvts not
                                                          found

I2r}                 Geological Remarks on the
      found to contain any simple and regular spiral uni
     valves, p. 42 and 43.
Gyrogoniles, small round hollow (furrowed) bodies, re
      sembling no known recent body, found at Trappe
     near Versailles, in the decomposing soil (denominated
      fresh-water soil by our Authors) which, when fresh
     dug, resembles hard siliceous limestone, p. 57.
Leaves of vegetables and stalks, at Gentilly, Saint-Ger
     main, villepreux, &c, brownish, in the lower beds
     of the green earth, that underlay the building-stone
     rock of the coarse limestone soil. p. 48.
        - and parts of vegetables are found,       changed into
     silex, near the top of the hill at Longjuraeau, in      (al
     luvial) sand. p. 57>
Liluolites of two species,   in the chalk strata, p. 42.
LymnecB shells agreeing with recent species, at Romainville,
     in white and friable calcareous mass above the gyp
       a
     sums and at Trappe near Versailles, in
           ;                                     a   marie there
     used in agriculture, which when fresh dug resembles
     hard siliceous limestone,    p. 51, 56 and 57-
—   —— coarse shells in silex, are found in the (allu
     vial) sand, on the tops of the hills at Longjumeau.
     p. 57.
Maclre shells are found in the yellow argillaceous marie
     that 13 above the thick green potters' earth of the gyp
     seous formation, p. 52.
Madrepores, at Chaumojit, Gentilly, Grignon, Guespelle,
     Issy, Meudon, Pallery, Sevres, Vaugirard, &c., in
     the lower beds of the coarse limestone,     p. 47.
Mammiferce, bones of, at Antoni, Bagneux, Chelles, Cla-
     mart, Grisy, Montmartre, Triel, Valerain-mont, &c.
     in the upper gypseous mass.        51 and 53.
                                       p.
1              skeletons, of large unknown kinds,            are
     found in   the putrid alluvium   (of some  of  the valleys)
     of the basin of Paris,  p. 58.
Millepora,      polyper) of decomposing pyrites,
               (a                                      the chalk
                                                      in
     strata, p. 42.
Mollusci of the chalk strata are quite different from the testa
     ceous mollucsi of the strata above the chalk, p. 54.
Muscles of one particular species are found in the chalk
     strata, p. 42.
—   — — at Chaumont,      Gentilly, Grignon, Guespelle, Issy,
      Meudon, Pallery, Sevres, Vaugirard, &c, in the lower
      beds of the coarse limestone, are found to be of other
      species,  p.47.
                                                           Num-

                Stratification  of France and England.           1 27
Nummulites are found at Chaumont, Gentillyj Grignon,
        Guespelle, Issy, Meudon, Pallery, Sevres, Vaugirard,
      &c. in the lower beds of the coarse limestone strata,
      p. 47.
Oxen (bulls or cows), skeletons of unknown species, in the
       alluvium (of valleys), p. 58.
Oysters of two different species are found in the chalk
    —
       strata, p. 42.
—            at Chaumont, Gentilly, Grignon, Guespelle, Issy,
      Longjumcau, Meudon, Montmartre, Montmorency,
       Pallery, Romainville, Saint Prix, Sevres, Vaugirard,
       &c. Other kinds of oysters are found in the lower beds
       of the coarse limestone, and also in the freestone,
       p. 47, 54 and 55.
—            arc found in the marles that are immediately be
       low the argillaceous sand, at the top of the gypseous
      formation, in two beds, the lower containing large,
       and the other small oyster shells ; they are met with
       over all the district wherein the entire gypseous forma
        tion is found, p. 52.
Palm-trees, trunks of large size, are found converted into
       silex, lying along in a whitish friable calcareous mass
        above the gypsums, p. 5).
Periwinkles are found at Chaumont, Gentilly, Grignon,
        Guespelle, Issy, Meudon, Pallery, Sevres, Vaugirard,
        &c, in the lower beds of the coarse limestone, p. 47.
 Pinnce shells of a particular species are found in the chalk
        strata ; in which also, fragments of thick shells of a
        fibrous structure are found, which our Authors con
        sider as more like pinnae than any other known genus,
        p. 42.
 ¦          of different species are found at Chaumont, Gen
         tilly, Grignon, Guespelle, Issy, Meudon, Pallery,
        Sevres, Vaugirard, &c, in the lower beds of the coarse
         limestone, p. 47.                                    *
 Planorlis shells, analogous to the recent species of lakes
        and marshes, are found at Romainville, in a white
        and friable calcareous mass above the gypsums ; also,
        at Trappe near Versailles in the husbandry marie,
        which though very decomposing, resembles a hard si
         liceous limestone when fresh dug. p. 51, 56 and 57.
     '          .coarse siliceous shells are found at the tops of the
         hills at Longjumeau, in a sand (which is probably al
         luvial), p. 57.                 \
 Polypiers of five or six different sorts are found in th*
         cbaJk strata, p. 43.
                                                            Porpytts

 1  28                Geological Remarks on the
 Porpytes    of different kinds   are found  in the chalk strata.
             at Chaumont, Gentilly, Grignon, Guespelle, Tssy,
        Meudon, Pallery, Sevres, Vaugirard, &c. of different
        species from those in the chalk, are found, in the lower
        beds of the coarse limestone, p. 47.
 Pyrulce shells    are found at Chaumont,    Gentilly, Grignon,
        Guespelle, Tssy, Meudon, Pallery, Sevres, Vaugirard,
        &c. in the lower beds of the coarse limestone, p. 47-
 Quadrupeds, skeletons of, at Antoni, Bagneux, Chelles,
        Clamart, Grisy, Montmartre, Triel, Valerain-mount,
        &c. of several kinds, are found in the upper gypsum
       mass. p. 51 and 53.
¦
               , the   skeletons of various large ones, are
       found in the (valley) alluvium of the basin of Paris,
       p. 38.
 Sea-shells (resembling recent genera or species of such
       shells), viz., cardiums, cerites, mactres, oysters, ve-
       nuses, and other bivalves, are found in the marles that
       are below the argillaceous sand at the top of the gyp
       seous formation, p. 52.
 ¦¦           of various kinds abound in the lower beds of
       the coarse limestone at Chaumont, Gentilly, Grignon,
       Guespelle, Issy, Meudon, Pallary, Sevres, Vaugi
       rard, &c. p. 47 and 54.
Skark's Teeth, see Teeth.
Solence shells (omitted in the translation), at Chaumont,
       Gentilly, Grignon, Guespelle, lssy, Meudon, Pallery,
       Sevres, Vaugirard, &c. in the lower beds of the coarse
       stone, p. 47.
Spiroriis, a species of these shells is found in the chalk
       strata, p. 42.
Stalks of vegetables, see Leaves.
Teeth of Sauali are found in the chalk strata, p. 42.
Telline shells of different species are found at Chaumont,
       Gentilly, Grignon, Guespelle, Issy, Longjumeau,
       Meudon, Montmartre, Montmorency, Pallery, Ro-
       mainville, Saint Prix, Sevres, Vaugirard, &c, in the
       lower beds of the coarse limestone, p. 47 and 54.
 i        small, long, white, and striated, are found in va9t
       numbers in scams, close to each other, in a stratum
       that covers the building-stone      rock of the coarse
       limestone formation at Gentilly, Saint- Germain, Vil-
       lepreux, &c. p. 48.
. i    — small and elongated, .closely packed in a very th'm
       seam, below the thick green potters' earth of the gyp
                                                          seous

                 Stratification of France and England.           129
         seous formation ; which thin seam can be traced          in
         the quarries, over a space of 27| miles long and         H
         miles broad, p. 52.
   TereleLlce are found at Chaumont,          Gentilly, Grignon,
         Guespelle,      Issy, Meudon, Pallery,      Sevres, Vau-
        girard, &c., in the lower beds of the coarse lime
        stone, p. 47.
  Terelratula,      sec  Anomites.
  Thornback fish, fragments of the bones of, found in the
        yellow argillaceous marie, above the thick green pot
        ters' earth of the gypsous formation, p. 52.
  Tortoise bones are found at Dammartin, Montmartre,
        Montmorency, &c., in the gypsum or intervening -
        marks, of the upper gypsum mass. p. 51.
  Trees, trunks of, large palms (apparently), converted into
        silex, are found lying flat in a white and friable calca
        reous stratum, above the upper gypsum mass. p. 51.
        -, large trunks of, of unknown species are found at
       Seran, &c.,in the putrid alluvium (of the valleys). p. 58.
          see Wood.
  Trochi shells are found in the yellow argillaceous marie,
       near the upper part of the gypsous formation, p. 52.
  Vegetables, see Leaves.
  Venus shells, roundish,       are found at Gentilly, Saint-Ger
       main, Villepreux, &c., in the building-stone rock of
       the coarse limestone formation, p. 48.                        >
 •              , sometimes in fragments, are found in the yellow
       argillaceous marie near the top of the gypsous forma
       tion, p. 52.
 yermiculites, of three species, are found in the chalk strata.
       p. 42.
 IVood, bituminous, at Rolleboise, by the Seine river, in the
       potters' or plastic clay formation, in which no other
       organized remains have been found, p. 44.
 •        siliceous or petrified,, at Longjurneau, ou the tops
       of the hills in (alluvial) sand. p. 57.
         , see Trees.
    In order to supply, in some degree, the want of vertical
Sections across the basin of Paris, in some determinate di
rections, best adapted tor exhibiting the thicknesses and re
lative positions of its several strata; (which sections, it is to
be hoped, will accompany the promised Memoir of M.Cuvier
and M. Brogniart) ; I have, in the mean time, attempted
an arrangement from their abridged Memoir, which, per
haps, you may deem worth a quarto page, to enable it to
be folded out at the end of this Letter.          In this table,  I
    Vol. 35. No. 142. Pel. 1810.               I             have

 130                     Geological Remarks on     ihi
  have separated the IXth and Xth soils or formations
  bv a double line, to mark the distinction between them
   and the remaining eight soils ; which our authors seem to
  consider as composed of regular or undisturbed strata, that
  is, such as exhibit no marks of violent attrition or mecha
  nical mixture, as the alluvial soils almost invariably do ;
  and they, beside*, never underlay regular strata.
      I shall now, I hope, be excused in offering freely, a few
  of the observations which have occurred to me, in thus
  analysing the hasty but valuable Memoir of our able and
 industrious neighbours on the continent; and comparing
 it with what I know of the terrestrial stratification, and
 which is indeed fimited in a great measure to the British
  Islands.
     England present? os with the opportunity of ex
 amining the out-crop, or appearance on the surface, of a
¦vast succession of       strata, among which the fourth, or
 lowest Derbyshire limestone, is perhaps three miles of per
 pendicular depth, below the part of the chalk strata, which
 are described as the lowest that have been seen or reached
 |n the basin of Paris : for it was ascertained by Mr. Wil
 liam Smith several years ago, that 200 feet or more of the
 lower part of the chalk strata are entirely without layers or
 nodules' of flint ; and that some of these beds contain large
 cornu-ammonis,        nautili, and numerous other shells : this
 he has proved by an actual examination of very near 700
 miles in length, of the basset or out-burst of these lower
 and hard beds of chalk, without flints, reckoning from the
 Isle of Wight to the westernmost points of the chalk in
 Dorsetshire       and   Somersetshire,  and   thence for the
 north-east       angle of Norfolk ;    through Lincolnshire,
  and Yorkshire to Flamborough-Head ; and including the
                                              * from
 edges of our great southern denudation                Beachy-
 Head in Sussex, to near Petersfield and Alton in Hamp
 shire, and Farnham in Surry ; and thence again to Hythe
 in Kent. And here it may not be amiss to observe, that
 before I knew Mr. Smith, he had asceitained the peculiar
 fossils that belong to several of the thin strata, underlaying,
 the whole extent of the edges of this vast mass of chalk,
 in the same manner as the Paris strata overlay             it,
                                                       had col
 lected     a series of specimens of each fossil, marked and
  brought together from as many places; and was well en
 titled, and did in fact often exclaim, though perhaps, in
   •   This denudation  shortly mentioned in the Cyclopaedia, article Coal,
                         is
 and  further exemplified by
       is                      a manuscript section of the strata betweeu
 London and Brighton, made oy me in 1806, which    itin the hand* of many.
                                                                     other

             Stratification  of Fiance and England.             133
 I have referred, as   well as recollected by Mr. Smith's pupils
 and acquaintance,     that he considers and teaches, that the
 western edges of the several strata on the south and east
 ern parts of England, are their natural endings, and that
 such strata never did proceed further towards the north
 west than they do at present, and that all the strata are not
 entire or perhaps ever were, some having large and deep
 holes or patches wanting within their limits, as well as in
their deeply fingered or indented edges; while other strata,
 particularly about Bath, have detached parts beyond their
 continuous mass forming hummocks, or capping the adja
 cent western hills. These facts or appearances of the strata
 have accorded, generally speaking, with the several English
 districts which I, have of late years examined; but many of
 the minuter circumstances attending the holes or denudated
 patches in the strata, which have been more particularly
 tne object of my researches, such for instance as the strata
 around and under these denudations, rising on all sides to
 wards some central pointer ridge; their edges being so often
 abrupt and straight, like fractures rather than the rounded
 endings of strata; these denudations, as far at least as ob
 servations extend, being all elongated in a marked manner
 from SE. to NW., or very nearly so ; and others, besides
 those which I have elsewhere mentioned as the characters
 of denudation, and above all, the vast extent to which I
 find these denudations extending, in the southern and mid
 dle parts of England, have occasioned me to hesitate consi
 derably, as to the real distinctions,       between   the natural
 endings   and the  denudated   edges  of our strata: and it should
 seem, that the idea so natural and general among neptunists,
 of the strata having been originally level and concentric,
 may, by extending the magnitude of the denudations (to
 which no limits have yet been assigned), account for all the
 external forms of the English strata, and perhaps for the
 admirable form of its valleys, although I may again invite
 the sarcastic lash of a certain class of writers, in frankly
 owning that I am unable to guess, much less to describe
 the mechanical operations by which this has been brought
 about ; and in referring it to the finishing and all-ivise ope
 rations of Creative power, on the mass of the earth, or old
 world, as our authors have denominated it; which had been
-the theatre of such a long and astonishing series of the
 creation and extinction of animated beings, during the ac
 cumulation of its matter, for purposes which are perhaps
 to us inscrutable.
    Whether the isolated hillocks or hummocks of gypsous
                                  I 3                           and

] 34                       Geological Remarks on the
and other strata, which our authors have described in the
basin of Paris, are the detached endings of simitar and
connected strata, that lay to the south and west of Paris,
and may either be concealed by vast alluvial tracts (p. 4O),or
may occupy countries where nice observations have not yet
been made ; or, whether such hummocks be occasioned by
irregular or compound denudation*, such as I have noticed
several instances of in Derbyshire, and as Mr. Smith lias
Observed about Bath, and Dr. William Richardson in the
north of Ireland f, it is of course difficult to determine,
and its discussion must be deferred, until a numerous train
of facts are better understood.
    Our authors, it will be seen, recur to a local inundation
                                   J
or lake of fresh-water for explaining the deposition of
the matter composing their gypsous hillocks : to me, how
ever, much better evidence seems wanting, of the probable
existence of such a lake or local pool of fresh-water than
they offer, and particularly of the several successive fresh'
and salt-water inundations which they mention, at pages
 54 and 55.     Has          it,
                        or can    be proved, that fish nearly or
                                         it
exactly resembling in the genera, or even the species, those
 that are now peculiar to t\\\\tr fresh- or salt-water, may not
have had other powers and habits in the old world            and     ?
that all the animals and even birds hitherto known of the
 primitive creation, and its vegeiables also, may not have
 been adopted          by
                     their great Author, to     sub-aqueous ex
                                                      a
istence     ?And again, Who has or perhaps can, determine,
 whether the fluid surrounding the earth during its formation
 which      Ihave called aqueous above, was either fresh or
 salt, in the sense that we now use those terms Does       ? not      it
 seem more probable, that this fluid varied essentially from
 time to time in its nature and composition, and which per
 haps occasioned the extinction of the beings adapted to its
 prior state, as well as the alternations of the strata, espe-
 pecially,     the matters of the strata were ever in chemical
                if
  solution in        it,
                   as our authors seem to imply (p. 51),                   in
  • Perhaps the basin of Paris may lie within the southern verge of tlve
great south-eastern denudation of England, that reaches far into Hampshire,
and has apparently stript off all the chalk strata, from near Alton to Cologne
on the French coast.
  •f   See our 33rd volume     — EDIT.
 f     seems improbable that gypsum should be
       It                                         produce of fresh-water,
                                                  a
when we reflect, that the red soils or gypsous manes of England proujqe
both sea salt and gypsum in vast abundance, and that -...it rocks and springs
are the common accompaniments of gypsum          various other parts of the
                                                 in
world we are not told, whether there are aay brackUh or salt springs with
        :
in the basin, of Vans,
                                                                   speaking

             Stratification   of Fiance and England,           135
  speaking of the gypsums being crystallized from the waters
  of their Parisian lake ?
     The candid confession of the essential differences between
  the seas, the fresh- waters and the alluvium of the old world,
  and the seas, fresh-waters and alluvia of the present world,
  made by our authors, in the concluding paragraphs of their
  Hid, VHlth, and IXtli articles, do them credit, and give
  some weight to my suggestions above, which are not here
  made for the first time.
     Our authors say (p. 37), that " a strongly marked char
  racter of a great eruption proceeding from the south-east
'
  is imprinted on the forms of the eminences," on which
  subject it may he proper to remark, that soon after Mr. Smith
  had commenced his investigation of the British strata, he
  discovered an important law regulating all the known
  alluvia, or that which consisted of or contained the frag
  ments and ruliijuu of known strata, were movedyro?« the
  soui/i-i'sst. towards the south-west : the matters of any
  particular stratum being rarely if ever found as alluvium
  upon that stratum, but such matters are found more or less
  plentfiWly on the surface, beyond its western edge : in
  stances are numerous in England of considerable and vm-
  hroken masses of soft or clayey known strata, being moved
  many miles and lodged in the alluvia ; stones of large size
  thus moved, and scarcely at all rounded, are exceedingly
  common in some districts, and such are often lodged on
  the highest hills, but the most common state of the native
  alluvia, is in small water-worn and mixed fragments: nu
  merous hills in Bedfordshire of considerable extent are thus
  formed or raised higher, by alluvia of the chalk strata and
  those which cover    it, including a  va-*t variety of limestone
  holders that are full of shells, many of which,     if   properly
  examined, would  I    suspect agree with the coarse limestones
  of the basin of Paris my researches
                         :                 in  the midland coun
  ties, have detected many isolated patches of exactly similar
  alluvia, particularly on the height NVV. of Leicester town,
  where an immense cap of alluvial clay, so abounds with
  hard chalk and these holders of limestone, that at Burstal
  Cliff- house on the road to Tiuirnby, they have been dug
  for burning lime :   the covering matter at Chellaston gyp
  sum quarries S. of Derby,     is of this same clay but Inne-
                                                     ;
  bolders do not there so much abound, as they do near Lei
  cester and thence in isolated patches towards Market Har-
  borough, forming there the principal material for repairing
  the public road. The above with others are indications   I  think
  of vast tidal currents which have swept over all the surface
                                 I   4                         from

136               Geological Remarks on the
from SE. to NW., since or at the time, that the deposition
of regular strata ceased, as observed p. 37.
    It struck me, as among the curious circumstances of the
basin of Paris, that the strata throughout it are horizontal,
at least only one instance to the contrary is mentioned
 (p. 43), and that faults or such like derangements of the
 strata are nowhere mentioned.
    All the southern parts of Derbyshire and part of Lei
cestershire   adjoining,    abound with red earth -or gypsous
marie (entirely without fossils I believe) that is in like
manner horizontal throughout, with three exceptions only,
that 1 could discern : viz. at the S. of Burton Trent bridge
on the E. side of Cation in Croxall, and NW. of Stretton-
le-fields ; the second of these only has any considerable
inclination : although tilts of the strata are so rare in our
gypsous strata, yet many faults seem to occur in them : a
most tremendous one forms the northern limits of the gvp-
sous marie for 4O or 50 miles, and four or five isolated lime
and coal districts within     it,seem surrounded   by great faults
and to be intersected    by   numerous others, occasioning as
inclining and dislocated strata at Breedon, Cloud's hill,
Measham, &c. as can almost any where be found.
  It   is  stated by    our authors (p. 54 and 55), that their
Vth and Vlth soils are placed side       by  side of each other:
if  these be really different soils, and not the same somewhat
modified in their substances, the fossils in one of them
 also not being preserved,      (of which
                                        I    entertain some sus
picion)   a fault must, in all probability, rans;e between the
two places where these soils have been noted, which ele
vates one of the soils or depresses the other.    I    would also
here suggest as    a     query, whether their Vlllth soil be
not   a  similar repetition of part of these same soils? Its
fresh-water shells are not sufficient, I    think, to prove it au
 upper soil and in the latter part of the Memoir we are not
              ;
 presented with the same evidence of the superposition of
 the different soils as we are with. respect to the first five,
 which may however have arisen from the haste in which
 the Memoir seems to have been prepared.
 I    do not remember to have seen any where, the appear
 ance of limestone strata upon the chalk in England, or to
 have heard of any such from Mr. Smith, or otherwise        :   of
 gypsum     Ithink we may safely say that there are no strata:
 but crystals of selemte abound in the London clay, and
 there are numerous patches of plastic clay, used in some
 places on our chalk hills for pottery and brick-making,
 which seem to answer pretty well to the description of
                                                            some

            Stratification of France and England.           13?
some of that within the basin of Paris ; but we cannot        I
think infer, that this same plastic clay underlays the Lon
don clay, in the neighbourhood of London, as there is ge
nerally a sand here immediately upon the chalk, but which
varies greatly in thickness, from many yards (as in the
sand-pits by the Thames between Greenwich and Wool
wich) to a tew feet only or perhaps inches, in the borings of
some of the modern wells in and near the metropolis : still
however this sand has always I believe been found in this
district, and it has generally been forced up with great vio
lence into the well, by the water issuing from the joints in
the chalk beneath, on first pricking this spring with the au
ger, or on any after occasion when the column of water in
the wt-11 is much and suddenly diminished, as often happens
by the pumping at Meux's brewhouse and other places.
    Mr. Smith and myself have been used to consider the
London clays as regular strata, and the layers of small re
gular flattened chert-stones which it contains, as nodules
peculiar thereto, and not as rounded pebbles and indicating
an alluvial origin to these clays: I thought these conclu
sions well warranted by the regular beds of which this clav
in many places consists ; its regular layers of ludus helmonti ;
the uniformity in the shape of its chert pebbles, many of
which appear concentric in their structure, and by their
having an external coat or covering, which is nearly simi
lar in~all of them : but an able student under Mr. William
Smith, of the same standing with myself, Mr. Benjamin
Bevati of Leigh ton Buzard, Beds., whose situation as engineer
to the Grand-Junction Canal Company, has for some years
past given him better opportunities of examining the north
ern edge of the London clays than I have possessed, has for
some time held the ckys and sands above the chalk to be
alluvia, and produces instances of chert pebbles taken from
their bed on Rislip-common, Middlesex, in a pit where
sand containing layers of these pebbles has chalk in its bot
tom, to prove these pebbles to have been rounded, and
even some of them to have been broken and since partially
rounded (which is perhaps the most unerring test of round
ing, that we meet with). It has also been suggested by
 this gentleman, that the peculiar dark-coloured and uneven
 coat of these pebbles, is occasioned by a partial decomposi
tion which they have suffered, since their rounding, the
effects of which are also visible in the concentric stains
within many of them, which give them so very nearly the
appearance of original nodules.        In candour 1 ought also
 to state, that the accounts which I have collected of the
                                                       sinkings

   138              Geological Remarks on the
  •inking* of various new wells, (on some of which I have
  been consulted) near the metropolis, have exhibited less of
  regularity in the succession and thicknesses of the strata,
  than I had been led to expect : also, that at Alford in Lin
  colnshire, where numerous very shallow wells are sunk and
  holes in them bored, through this clay and the sand under
 it into the chalk, from ' whence the water rises and perpe
 tually overflows the surface, I found this clay and sand
 much thinner than it usually is about London.         It is my
 wish, to suspend entirely my opinion on the above interest
 ing questions, until many more facts are collected, and
 especially until the situations of our principal assemblages of
 fossil shells above the chalk at Hordel, Reading, Woolwich,
 in the shell marles of Suffolk, 8cc. &c. are ascertained, and
 they have been examined and minutely described by a com
 petent conchologist, and such descriptions have been care
 fully compared with the drawings and details by our authors
 and M. Lamarck : an undertaking which J wish much to
 press on the immediate attention of the societies above
 mentioned.
     If no part of the chalk be elevated more than 50 feet
 above the Seine (p. 43), it should seem probable, that the
 50 chalk fossils mentioned (p. 42) belong to about only
 one-eighth of the whole thickness of the chalk strata, at
 its top.
     In commencing a very extensive Mineralogical Survey,
 like Mr. Smith's manuscript Map of England, Wales, and
 part of Scotland, it will perhaps be best to follow his exam
ple, in selecting only such strata as usually form distinct
ranges of hillf through the country, by their bold or sudden
endings, to form his classes or principal assemblages of
itrata, that are to be distinguished each by a different co
lour in his Map and Sections, without much regarding the
mineral characters, or characteristic fossils of the several
thin strata that compose each of them, leaving these to be
enumerated and described in written details and in local
sections on a large scale.     In commencing more local, but
      considerable surveys,  such as my square of map includ
yet
ing Derbyshire, or the basin of Paris, the bold endings of
particular strata ought I think still to have a principal share
in determining the selection of such as are to have a differ
ent colour assigned to them; the other considerations should
be the width or extent of surface which is made by the se
veral strata, and the distinct mineral characters of particular
thick strata or beds : a few thin beds or strata which hap
pen to have very striking characters either in their appcar-
                                                           ance,

            Stratification   of France and England.          139
ance, economic uses, or conspicuous fossils, may have a
colour   assigned them, especially if such fall between, and
not so n.a to subdivide thick masses, selected for separate
soils, or uencra on the principles above.
    In coal-districts or others, where grit or limestone alter
nate v. ith argillaceous strata, it will be found right perhaps,
to -elei-t all the thick masses of rock, which are sufficiently
sepr.ratcd by clay-shists and other argillaceous strata, to
have different colours assigned them, either using some
general colour for the clays formed on the surface by all the
argillaceous strata, or assigning a colour to each of these
argillaceous assemblages, according to the number of the
strata and thicknesses of them, so that the map be not over
crowded. The transitions from light to heavy or dry to wet
land, made by the above two classes of strata, are the best
defined characters that sve meet with in mineralogical sur
veying : and are indeed almost the only ones by which the
farmers and occupiers of the lands can give any assistance
by their information, except while pacing over every part
of the surface with the surveyor, in answer to his questions,
as they may arise.
     The plan which M. Cuvier and M. Brogniart seem to
 have followed, in assigning colours to their soils (p. 41), and
 dividing some parts of the Paris strata into their ten forma
 tions or soils, seems to me munh inferior to the above ; and
 in particular their sea-sands, freestone without shells, and
 fresh-water soils, appear calculated to lead to no useful re
 sult, but rather to mislead. The more popular and obvious
 the divisions of the strata are made on mineralogical maps
 and sections, the sooner will the geological facts they con
 vey be understood and rendered useful; for afycr all that
 can be said, "they must, in the present state of our know
 ledge at least, be but arbitrary classes or divisions, exhibiting
 the order of super-position, principally,
     The freedom of the remarks which I have ventured to
 make on the opinions and writings of geological observers
  of such high celebrity, will I trust in candour be ascribed
  to their true motives, — a desire to render justice to a valuable
  friend and to our country, and to advance and. perfect the
  science, which of all others seems to me to claim our seri
  ous cultivation and attention. An apology may perhaps be
  necessary to your other correspondents and readers for the
  great number of your valuable pages which I have occupied.
              I am, sir,         Your obedient servant,
                                                  JOHN FABEY.
            February 12th, 181O,
                                                                '••
   Wo. IS, Upper Crown-ureet,    Weitmiaster.

                           C
XX.     Report on a new Navigable Canal proposed to le cut
   from Okeham to Staniford, and from thence to theTown of
    Boston,   By THOMAS TELFOKD, Esq.
 JL HE gentlemen of Lincoln and Rutland having for some
time been turning their attention to the discovery of the
best means for extending and improving the benefits al
ready resulting from inland navigation, in such a manner
that the greatest local advantages to the town of Stamford
may be united with the general increase of the agricultural
and commercial prosperity of a large district of surround
ing country, and having employed Mr. Telford to take a
view of the different lines of country embraced by their
plan, have received the following
                            REPORT.
     " Having, in compliance with the directions of the
committee, carefully examined the districts of country, ex
tending from Stamford westwardly to Okeham, and east-
wardly to Peterborough, Spalding, the Foss-Dyke, and
Boston ; — I shall state my ideas with regard to the sundry
lines of inland navigation, which appear best calculated
to promote the most perfect intercourse, and, consequently,
the general prosperity of the country.
     "The whole of Leicestershire being already intersected
from north to south by an inland navigation, and also
from west to east by a line of canal, passing by Melton
 Mowbray to Okeham in Rutlandshire j there now only
 remains to be considered and determined, the most ad-
viseable mode of proceeding from the last point, eastwardly,
to the ports situated upon the great bay or inlet, called the
 Wash ; and thereby opening a direct and commodious
 communication with a point on the east coast, nearly cen
 trical between the Trent and the Thames.
     " The town of Okeham, at which the last- mentioned
 canal terminates, being situated upon the summit of the
 ridge of land which occupies this part of the country,
.and from which the adjacent streams have their course to
 the river Welland, affords an opportunity of choosing a
 line of canal, either down the river Wash, or Guash, which
 falls into the river Welland, about a mile and a half below
 Stamford bridge ; or down the river Chater, which unites
 with the Welland about two miles and a half above Stam
 ford.
     " The river Wash, occupying the valley nearest to
   /                         •
                                                          the

\
  I


      Report on the proposed   Okeham and Boston Canal.     141
the town of Okeham, has induced Mr. Whitworth, in his
survey, to follow that stream to its Junction with the
Welland ; but by that line, though sufficiently regular in
its descent, being obliged to skirt the north side of the high
ridge of land which lies to the north of Stamford, an
awkward circuity is created before it can reach the town,
so that the distance by the navigation-between Stamford and
Okeham would be pearly nineteen miles.
    "  In proceeding from the sea-coast to the interior of
the country, the vessels navigating that line must either
pass at the distance of about one mile and a half from
Stamford ; or having come up to the town, must return the
same distance, along the same line, to get into the valley
of   the Wash.
    "  These circumstances, in my opinion, render that line
objectionable, and inferior to another line which may be ob
tained by means which Mr. Whitworth has himself partly
pointed out. This is by continuing the head level from
Okeham over the south field, along the before-mentioned
line, about a mile and a quarter from Okeham ; and from
thence, instead of locking down the WasK valley, to conti
nue through Egleton into Gunthorpe, and there locking
down to reduce the embankment across the Wash valley,
so that the cutting through the ridge, at Martinsthorpe, shall
afford earth sufficient for its construction. This will enable
the line to be carried into the Chater valley, without being
encumbered with a tunnel, which Mr. Whitworth, from a
cursory view, apprehended necessary.        The valley betwjeen
Gunthorpe and Martinsthorpe will also be a convenient place
to receive the feeder from the reservoir proposed to be
formed at Braunston.
    " This line, having crossed the ridge at Martinsthorpe,
should be locked down nearly to the bottom of the val
ley of the Chater, and be carried down the north side to-
near Ketton, where, in order to avoid the village, it should
cross to the south side of the valley. After passing the
village, it must be again brought to the north side, and be
continued to the most favourable point for crossing the.
river Welland, below where the Chater has fallen into it.
After crossing the Welland, the line should be carried along
the skirts of the wood, as nearly as possible, in the division
between the uplands and the meadows, and it should fall
into the river above Stamford bridge, in the most conve
nient way, to enable wharfs to be formed on each side of
the river.    For accomplishing this object the opportunitiea
are ample; without interfering with buildings.      I prefer the
                                                          south

142      Report on the proposed   Okeham   and Boston CanttL
 south bank of the river Wellantl, from near the junction
of  the Chater, because it is more favourable ground for a
 canal than the north bank, which is composed of loose
 rock ; and because, if the proposed line to Harborough
 be executed, the last-mentioned        two miles and a half
would answer the purposes of both navigations.             The
length  of  the line between   Stamford  and Okeham,   as near
ly as I can at present make out, would not exceed fifteen
mile?, being shorter than the line laid down by Mr.
Whitworth by four miles. Besides that this line arrives
at Stamford from Okeham by a shorter distance than the
Other, it will be more satisfactory to the principal land-
owners in the county of Rutland ; it bears more equally
upon the general population of that county than the other
does : and it will for ever fix, more directly, the inter
course by inland navigation through the town of Stam
ford.
     "Proceeding from Stamford towards the sea coast, it
will be necessary to continue upon and improve the present
navigation of the Welland to the second lock, being a
distance of about three miles ; but from thence to the sea,
it will cost more to render the old navigation perfect, and;
acquire a proper outlet to the sea, than will construct an
entirely new canal navigation to the town of Boston.
     "I am therefore of opinion, that, at or near the se
cond lock, a line of canal should depart from the north
bank of the Welland, and, — passing along a line between
the uplands and the. meadows to the westward of Tailing-
ton, and immediately eastward of Barholm, to the west
of Kate's'1 Bridge, — it should enter the Car Dyke, along
which it should be carried, until that ancient work ap
proaches the South forty-foot drain; and opposite Billing-
borough, or Horbling, and then should proceed along that
excellent drain, to the town of Boston.
   " From the Welland to Car Dyke, an entirely new canal
must be formed.      Its passing, as much as practicable, be
tween the uplands and meadows, will be favourable to the
adjoining properties, and afford good ground for the ne
cessary works.     Along the Car Dyke, in many places, it
has been preserved as a drain, 'and will become a part of
the proposed navigation.      It will then also form a more
perfect boundary to the fields which have always been sepa
rated by    it,
              and when they are accommodated       bynecessary
bridges, the adjacent properties will be much improved.
Along the South foriy-foot drain, with the exception
of deepening its bottom from half yard to two feet, and
                                       a
                                                     widening

     Report on the proposed Okeham and Boston Canal.         143
widening the lock at Boston, to suit the breadth and draft
of  vessels which navigate the Leicestershire canals, very lit
tle more is required to render it an excellent navigation.
    " By the canal line being carried along the Car Dyke,
it will not at all interfere with the navigations of the rivers
Glen and Bourne, because it passes above the places where
those navigations terminate : and as the waters of those
rivers will be passed under the canal, no apprehensions can.
be entertained that their usual supplies will be lessened.
    " The river Welland cannot be injured, because, during
winter and rainy seasons, the superabundance of water
will be more than sufficient for all purposes : ana, in dry
seasons, as the supplies of water for this navigation are
 proposed to be drawn from reservoirs situated near the
summits of the country,         they will be passed through
locks in the upper country, which are at least double the
depth of those in the lower country, so that unless there
is more than double the quantity of business in the Fens, to
what is carried through the upper country, no additional
water can be required. Besides, the leakage from the
upper locks will be much more than from the lower ones,
consequently the surplus water must fall into the Welland.
    "  The South forty-foot drain proprietors will have no
apprehensions of too great increase of water, in their
drain, when they consider the interest the canal proprie
 tors will have to preserve their water, by constructing very
shallow and perfect locks, and by adding to this, the great
extent of surface each lockfull has to spread over, and the
regulation which will constantly be taking place by the lock
at Boston.
    " The conservators of the port and haven of Boston,
besides the certain prospect they will have of increasing the
prosperity of the place, must be sensible of the evident
advantage of deriving additional supplies of water to assist
in scouring out and maintaining the bed of the river be
 tween Boston and the sea.
    " The communication between Stamford and Boston,
by passing along the line of division between the Upland
 and Fen countries, where the most populous market towns
 and villages are situated, will (exclusively of the thorough
 trade) be of great advantage to all the district of country
 through which it passes, and afford adequate tonnage dues
 in return ; so that, upon the whole, this appears to be an
improvement which will be generally beneficial, and will
interfere, as little as possible, with any established rights.
    " In order to render the inland navigation of this di
                                                           strict

 144    Report on the proposed  Okeham  and Boston Canal.
 strict of country, and the connections with the interior
 districts more perfect, and to afford a fair competition of
local advantages, I am of opinion that a canal should be
 carried between the Welland and the Nene : and the coun
try appears to be particularly favourable for this junction.
This line should depart from the Welland precisely where
the branch to Boston does, and in a manner similar thereto.
It should be carried in a line dividing the upland from the
flat country, arid terminating at or near Peterborough.     By
these means, the elevation would he small ; and proper
ground would be obtained for the canal works : and the
canal, being supplied with waters, which now pass partly
into the Welland and partly into the Nene, those waters
would be turned by lockage to the respective rivers, so as to
injure neither. The country through which the canal would
pass is very populous, and requires communication : and
the towns, and whole population of the valleys of the Wel
land and the Nene, would thereby have an opportunity af
forded them to benefit by the navigation of all the rivers
which fall into the great bay — with the choice of such of
them as should best suit their interest and conveniency.
    " Having, I trust, stated satisfactory reasons why the
former surveyed line of canal should be abandoned, and
having hitherto been enabled to recommend other lines only
from a general inspection of the country, the committee
will readily conceive, that, until regular and careful surveys
and sections ,have been made of the new lines, it is im
possible for me to enter into a more minute detail, either
with regard to the precise situation of the lines, or the na
ture of the works required, or to form any correct estimate
of the expense.     But if it be judged adviseable, after this
general explanation, to authorize me to proceed in getting
these surveys and sections made, no time shall be lost in
performing the service, and furnishing the committee with
all necessary data for making an application to parlia
ment.
    " In the mean time, I may venture to state, that although,
from the quantity of lockage necessary to ascend to the
canals, already made upon the summit of the country, the
expense of the line from Stamford to Okeham will be
fully equal to the general average of canals of similar di
mensions ; yet those from Stamford towards Boston and
Peterborough, from their small elevations — the favourable
nature of the ground — and from having, in the South
forty-foot drain, about fifteen miles of canal nearly com
plete, as well as great facilities in the Car Dyke, will be
                                                        greatly

                               On Crystallography.                       145
   greatly under the general average of expense : so that, upon
   the whole scheme, (embracing an inland navigation of from
   60 to 70 miles,) taking into view its extensive connexions,
   there appears a fair prospect of ample remuneration for the
   adventurers.                                    THOMAS TELFORD.
     Stamford, 8tli Jan. 1810.
      In consequence of          the foregoing Report, it was resolved,
   at a meeting of the committee held             at Stamford on the 8th
   of January, 1810, — That it appears              to this committee to
  be impracticable to go to parliament in the now ensuing
  session   for the sanction of the legislature to the plan which
  Mr. Telford has proposed, inasmuch as the necessary sur
  veys cannot be in due time prepared, nor the notices given,
  nor the plans delivered, which are required preparatory to
  the introduction of navigation bills into parliament : but
  that Mr. Telford he directed to take the steps proposed in
  his report, and that every other proper measure be pursued
  for the introduction of the bill into parliament in the session
  following.
 XXI.       On Crystallography.             By M. HAUY. Translated
   from   the last    Paris Edition of fits Traite de Mineralogie.
                      [Continued from vol. xxxiv. p. 466.]
 JLF these ridges were subject to a different law, which gave
 rise, for example, to subtractions of two ranges, the sign
                      I   * .-0
 would become         De    EPBi.        According     to this it has been
 considered    as settled,       that the decrements represented by a
 large  letter accompanied          by any cypher would not implicitly
 contain similar decrements represented by the small letter
 of the same kind, or vice versa, i. e. for example, that
 B would not implicitly contain          I, or, vice versa, that when the
  a                                      -2
 second letter would not enter into the expression of the sign
 with a different cypher, we should not use the same cypher
accompanied by a zero.               In the first case each of the two
letters expresses a decrement which is peculiar to the ridge
or to the angle which it indicates ; in the second, that which
is affected by a zero shows that the angle or the edge to
which it exclusively* relates undergoes no decrement. Thus
                i  -2 •>»
in the sign De        EPBi,        B expresses a decrement by one
                            12
 range, which only takes place on the ridges contiguous to
 the upper summit A (fig. 73) ; b indicates a decrement by
                                             *
     Vol. 35. No.       142.    Pel,  181O.          K                 t»»

J46                    On Crystallography.
two ranges, which only acts in the same way on the ridges
contiguous to the lower summit.           Finally,   the quantities e
and E ought to be thus considered independently of each
other ; the first as expressing a decrement by two ranges
on the angles e solely, and the second as indicating zero of
decrement on the angles E opposite to the foregoing.
  .'I have enlarged on the detail of the principles of «lie me
thod, in order to leave nothing to be desired, if ii were possi-.
ble, of what can be of use in enabling my readers to have a
clear idea of the art, and put an observer in possession of
the method of instantly representing a secondary crystal of
a given form.     But if any person confined hiiiistlf to the
simple comprehension of the signs employed in the system,
and was only anxious to read without I>t ^n it able to write;
them, he would only require some simple and easily under
stood rules, which we shall here succinctly explain : — they
will form a kind of recapitulation of the preceding details.
    1 . Every vowel employed in the sign of a crystal designates
the solid angle marked with the same vowel on the figwre
which represents the nucleus ; and every consonant indi
cates the ridge which bears this same consonant, or the
face the middle of which it occupies.
    2. Every vowel or every consonant is accompanied by a
cypher, the value as well as the position of which indicates
the law of decrement which the corresponding angle or edge
undergoes. We must except the three consonants P, M, T,
each of w hich, when it forms part of the sign of a crystal,
indicates that this crystal has faces parallel to that which
bears this same letter.
    3. Every letter comprehended in the sign of a crystal is
marked below with the cypher that accompanies                 it,
                                                           on all
the angles or all the edges which perform the same function
with that which on the figure    is marked immediately with
the letter in question.
    4. Every number added to      a  letter indicates      decre
                                                              a
ment, the angle or edge of which marked with this letter            is
the term of departure.   II the number be entire,       indicates
                                                         it
how many rows are subtracted       in breadth, with the condi
tion that every lamina has only the thickness of one mole
cule  5
          ifthe number be fractionary, the numerator makes
 known how many rows are subtracted           breadth, and the
                                              in
denominator how many are subtracted in height.
     5. According as the number         placed below or above
                                      it is
 the letter which it accompanies}      indicates that the decre
                                                            ment

                           On Crystallography.                            14?
 ment descends* or ascends, setting out from the angle, or
 from the edge marked with this letter. If it be placed to
 wards the top and to the right or left of the letter, it
 designates     a decrement which takes place in the lateral di
rection to the right or to the left of the angle which bears
 the same letter.
    C. When a letter is found written twice successively with
the same cypher placed on two different sides, such as 2G
 G1, or G1 "G, 2A A% or A1 2A, the two edges or the
two angles which it designates, ought^to be considered on
the figure according to the same re.ative positions, i. e.t
for example, as in the sign *G G1, the quantity *G indi
cates the effect of the decrement on the edge G situated on
the left, and the quantity G2 the effect of the decrement
on the edge situated on the right.
    7. When a letter bears the same cypher repeated both on
the right and left, as 3G!, it is applied indifferently to any
one of the ridges G which it designates.                   It is the same
with the letters which belong to the angles.
    8. The parenthesis in such         as  (OD1 F2) designates an in
termediary decrement.             The letter O expresses in the first
place, that the decrement takes piace by three rows on the
angle O, and that its effect is ascending. D F2 make known
                                                       '
that for one ridge of molecule subtracted along the side
marked D, there are two ridges subtracted along the side
marked F.
    9- Every small letter comprehended in the sign of a
crystal, indicates the angle or edge diametrically opposite to
that which bears the large letter of the same kind, or the
figure in which the small Tetter in question is omitted as su-.
perfl nous.      We must except the letter e, which is always
employed on the figure of the rhomboid, and which indi
cates, according to the principle, the angle opposite to that
which bears the letter E.
    10. When a sign contains two letters of the same kirid,
the one large and the other small, with different cyphers,
the two opposite edges or the two opposite angles to which
these letters answer, are considered as each undergoing ex-1
clusively the law of decrement indicated by the cypher
added to the letter.
   * Wf only allude hereto the general progress of decrements, to whichtliCj
particular cases refer that seem to form an exception.   For instance, if the
decrement be produced by one row on the angle at the summit of a rhom-<
boid, then the face produced will be horizontal.   But thU decrement cornel
within the description of these that are descending, and ui which it is as it
were the limit.
                                     K   2                       11. Everf

148                    On Crystallography.
   11. Every letter, whether large or small, marked with a
cypher which has a zero after         it,
                                    shows that the decrement
indicated by this cypher    isnull on the particular angle or
edge to which this letter refers.
   We have omitted the applications which would be neces
sary for understanding these rules,       they had been pre
                                                 if
sented on our first setting out.      These applications are
found already   inthe detailed explanation, which we have
previously given, of the principles of the system, and the
perusal of which      presumed to have preceded that of
                       is
these same rules.
          OF INDETERMINABLE CRYSTALLIZATION.
   When the crystalline molecules disseminated in liquid       a
experience obstacles which affect their tendency to reunite
in conformity to the laws of their mutual affinity, the
forms which result from their aggregation have no longer
that regularity which belongs to an exact and precise deter
mination. Their ridges are obliterated, their faces are
curved, their pyramids are sharpened. Hence the crystals
called lenticular, or which imitate the form of                lentil
                                                               a    ;
cylindroids, the prism of which            rounded offj acicular^
                                            is
or similar to needle;  ; &c.
    If multitude of small indeterminable crystals are so in
      a
timately connected with each other that they form only
one body, we then consider this body as           particular being,
                                                      a
and hence the substances which we call striated, fibruust
 &c, and which are formed            the junction of an infinite
                                      by
number of crystalline needles, sometimes parallel, some
times divergent, and at other times crossing              in
                                                        different  di
 rections.
   Lastly, The appellation amorphous has been given to sub
stances which present, as        itwere, the last degree of con
fused crystallization,   and the vague and indefinable form
of which is, as were, mute to the eye of the observer.
                  it
   Of Concretions. —The formation of the bodies which
\ve have hitherto mentioned, particularly of crystals pro
 perly so called, essentially depends on two conditions only        :
one of which is, that tke molecules of these bodies should
be in the state of integrant molecules         and the other, that
                                                 ;
they should be kept in suspension in              liquid capable of
                                                      a
abandoning them to the attraction which solicits them to
wards each other.       In short, every thing           regarded as
                                                          is
passing    in the same manner   as    if,
                                       the  force  of gravity being
null, the liquid was not coerced             by
                                             the sides of any sur
rounding matter, and as      if  the crystal itself remained iso

                       On Crystallography;                   149
 fated  in the liquid, without having occasion to be sup
 ported.
    This is not the case with (he bodies which we are now
 about lo consider.      The modifications which they present
 are owing to certain local circumstances, such as points of
attachment, props or moulds which influence their form.
We unite all these modifications- under the jcommon de
 nomination of concretions, which in the ordinary accepta
tion signifies a congealed or Jixed substance.
    But in order to fix in a more precise manner our ideas on
 this head, we shall comprehend under the term concre
 tions, the different bodies, the aspect of which depends,
 partly at least, on their molecules being in contact with
other bodies. We shall now give an idea of the various
 circumstances which contribute to vary this appearance;
    I. Stalactites. The water which filters into the fissures
 of stones situated in the arched part of subterranean cavi
 ties, or which oozes through the lax and porous texture of
these vaults, arrives at the surface after hollowing out certain
stony molecules which are united to it in any way. The
drops which remain suspended from the arch during a cer
tain time, undergo a desiccation, which commences on the
external surface ; and the stony molecules which the li*
quid gels rid of, exerting their attraction On each other,
and attracted at the same time by the side of the vault
which they adjoin, form in this place an initial tube, or
kind of small ring. This rudiment of tube increases and
grows longer by the intermedium of other drops, which
succeed to the first, conducting new molecules which the
orifice of the tube attracts in its turn. Sometimes this tube
preserves the form of a hollow cylinder, similar to a quill.
But frequently it increases in size, and is enveloped with
concentric layers, the matter of which is furnished by the
liquid which descends along the external surface. It then
becomes a thick cylinder or cone ; and sometimes the mo
lecules hollowed out by the drops which thus flow into -the
interior of its canal, finish by obstructing it entirely. These
different modifications are peculiarly sensible in bodies
which belong to carbonated lime.
    But a part of the liquid, on falling from the arch upon
the ground, forms there other depositations composed of
strata generally undulated, or protuberances, the figures of
which vary ad infinitum.        Lastly, the liquid which flows
along the lateral partitions gives rise to bodies, the form of
which we might compare to that of a drop of congealed
water.
                                K 3                  Stalactites

1 50                     On Crystallography*
    Stalactites are those bodies which are formed in the arch
of the vault ; and stalagmites are those which originate
from the falling of the liquid on the ground.                It is, how
ever, much more convenient to call both stalactites, as it
is sometimes difficult to distinguish between the two kinds
of formation, when the bodies under consideration have
been removed from their original position.
    2. Incrustations. In the preceding concretions, the aggre
gation of the molecules depends more especially on the
evaporation of the liquid which has flowed over them.
Other concretions, which have been called incrustations,
iufs, and sinters, proceed from a kind of precipitation of
the molecules originally suspended in the liquid.                        The
latter are sometimes deposited on the surface of different
organized bodies, particularly on those which belong to
the vegetable kingdom, and sometimes cover the inside of
certain bodies, such as sewers or drains.
    When the liquid is introduced into a subterranean cavity
of small dimensions, where it can remain, the stony mole
cules incrust the sides of this cavity, which is generally of a
round form, and sometimes end by studding it with crystals.
 This is what has been called geode. Some of these bodies
 contain a solid and moveable nucleus, or a pulverulent
 earthy matter* : of this description also are certain pieces
 of silex found in marie. Sometimes also the geode is en
 tirely filled with a matter which may be distinguished by
 the naked eye from that of which it is itself composed.
     It may also happen that a substance may be incrusted
 with crystals of a different nature, by being as if moulded
 along with them.         For instance, we are acquainted with
 crystals of metastatic carbouated             lime incrusted with
 quartz, and sometimes the quartzous envelope remains
 empty after being separated from the crystals which it
 concealed.
      3. Pseudomophoses.           There exists a third order of
 concretions which we call pseudomorphoses, i. e., bodies
 which have a false md deceitful figure ; because the sub
 stances which belong to this order present in a very remark
 able manner foreign or strange forms, which they have in
 some measure obtained from other bodies which had re
 ceived them from nature.
     When the type of this apparent transformation is a
 shell, it happens frequently enough that the shell still covers
 in whole or in part the substance, which is as if moulded
    • It it probably from this that the term geode is derived,  i. e., a body
 which contains earth.
                                                                         into

                              On Crystallography.                          1 Jf
huo      its interior*, and then nothing appears simpler than
the explanation of the fact, by the introduction of a liquid
charged with stony molecules into the cavity of the shell ;
•and this observation leads to a similar explanation of the
formation of the kinds of nuclei modelled into shells, which
we meet with isolated and stripped of every envelope.
     Sometimes the shell itself has been penetrated by another
matter generally siliceous, which has been substituted for
the cartilaginous substance               of which this shell had been
partly composed          f;   and it may happen in this very case that
the interior of the shell has remained empty.                      It is no
longer, properly speaking, a pseudomorphosis.                  It is a fossil
which has merely become more stony than it was before.
     This last kind of modification takes place equally with
 respect to the bones and to the other solid parts of animals
which are found immured in the bowels of the earth ; i. e.,
they may pass to an almost entirely stony state, by the help
of a substance which supplies the place of their cartila
 ginous part.
      The case cannot be the same with vegetable productions
 as with shells.          They have no testudo, or envelope, which
 can exist after the destruction of the interior substance,
 and serve as a mould to a stony or other substance for re
 ceiving an impression of their form.              If we supposed that
 one of these productions, such as a portion of the branch
 of a tree, were entirely destroyed, so that the' cavity which
 it occupied in the bowels of the earth remained empty, we
 could conceive that a stony matter might afterwards fill
 this cavity and there be modelled to it.                In this case the,
 new body would resemble externally the branch of a tree;
  it would have the appearance of knots and wrinkles, but
 its inside would not present any trace of organization, and
 it would only be, as it were, the statue of th« vegetable
  production, whicb it would have displaced.
      What is generally called petrified, wood is a much more
  faithful imitation of real wood.             On a transverse section
  we distinguish the appearance of concentric layers, which
  in tho living tree must have proceeded from its increasing ia
  thickness; all the principal lineaments of organization are
  preserved to such a degree, that they sometimes serve tf>
  enable us to recognize the species to which the tree be
  longed which has undergone petrifaction.
      * De I'lsle Crystal!, tome ii. p. 161.
      t We know that shells, as well as the bones of animals, are formed of
  two substances; the one calcareous, which is not susceptible of putrefaction i
  the other cartilaginous, membranous, or fleshy, which may be destroyed by
   fvroieitUtiuii.
                                         K 4                          Among

152                   On Crystallography.
     Among   the different explanations which have been given
of   this phenomenon, that which seems to be most gene
 rally admitted, although not exempt from objections, con
sists in supposing that tl\e stony matter is substituted for
jhe vegetable in proportion as the latter is decomposed ;
 and because the substitution     takes place successively, and
 as it were molecule by molecule, the stony particles, ^in
arranging themselves in the places rendered empty by the
disappearance of ihe ligneous particles, and by moulding
 themselves into the same cavities, take the impression of the
 vegetable organization, and r.opy the traits of it precisely.
    The mineral kingdom also has its pseudomorphoses.
 We find some substances of this kingdom under crystal
line forms, which are only borrowed ; and it is probable
that, in some cases at least, the new substance has been
substituted gradually for that which has ceded its place
to     as we suppose takes place with respect to petrified
     it,
wood.
    The various pseudomorphic bodies imprint their form
on the matter which surrounds them, and frequently also
the impression serves as cell for an organic substance which
                           a
is  simply   in  fossil state, or which has received
                  a                                   a  certain
degree   of alteration  only.    This takes  place in particular
with respect to the ferns and other plants of the same family,
the form of which     is moulded on a   schistous matter, as we,
shall afterwards more fully detail.
    We generally denominate petrifactions all the variously
modified substances which we have mentioned, even those
which only present impressions of animal or vegetable
productions.     Daubenton applies this term only to bodies
which, in their natural state, being partly stony and partly
cartilaginous, such as shells, have become entirely stony.
   As we merely purpose to mention few examples of the
                                        a
modifications in question, and not to unite them methodi
cally under one and the sauie point of view as several authors
have done, we bhall confine oursefves to the enunciation
of some of them in speaking of the 'substances which have
formed their secondary matter, and shall adopt the no
menclature to this method of classifying.
    We ought not to omit that there are also pseudomor
phoses, which arise from the substitution of metal
                                                a            the
                                                              in
 room of an organic body. Sulphurated iron presents se
 veral examples of this kind of metallisation.
    By referring to all that has preceded, we may define in
the following manner the different concretions of which
 we have given the description ;—
                                                          •    The

                         On       Artificial Stone.                             153
   The stalactite is a concretion composed of successive
layers of a circular or undulated form, which is the effect
of desiccation.
   The incrustation is a concretion in the form of a crust
applied to the surface or to the interior of a body. To
this we may refer the geode, which is a concretion in the
form of an envelope, spherical or nearly so, sometimes empty
and sometimes containing a nucleus.
   The pseudomorpkosis is a concretion endowed with a
form foreign to its substance, and for which it is indebted
to its molecules filling a space formerly occupied by a body
of the same form.
                              [To       be continued.]
                                                         ...         ,
XXII.   On a Hard Artificial Stone that generates a conside
  rable Quantity of Heat during its Consolidation; wit hi fie
  Application of t/iis Fact to the Cause of Volcanic Fires*.
 J. HE artificial stone about to be described presents a re--
markable example of the great degree of solidity which,
water, in certain combinations, can acquire.
    Water forms more than half the weight in the composi
tion of these stones : the other ingredients are one part of
sulphuric acid, and two parts of burnt clay (bricks or
earthen-ware) reduced to powder.
    The mixture of these substances yields, in fact, a solution
of sulphate of alumine : but when in the mixture circum
stances are favourable to their reciprocal action, h,eat is
 speedily produced, and the quantity evolved is sometimes
so considerable as to produce ignition in the mass.
    If from 25 to 30 hundred weight of materials be em
ployed, this extraordinary phenomenon lasts for more than
an hour.
  •
    The most remarkable circumstance           that            is,
                                                       no watejr          if
be added to the mixture, when the reaction of the sub
stances upon each other        the strongest, the mass, although
                                       is
still liquid, suddenly acquires        great degree of solidity:
                                                 a
-the heat which     produces
                    it            augmented, and the substance*
                                            is
 afterwards becomes almost entirely insoluble.
    This last property being acquired                     by
                                              mixture calculated
                                                               a
 to yield very soluble salts, proves that there      great pene--
                                                                         is
                                                                         a
 trarion of the earth        the water and acid, as the whole
                                  by
mass fonn3    a stony composition only.
          •   l-'roju   M.   dc   la   Metherie's    Journal    cfc Phytiyue.
                                                                                The.

1 54                                Royal Society.
   The stones here alluded to, although apparently pos
 sessing all the properties just described, are not inso
luble : they were prevented from acquiring that state, as
they would then be useless. But as this composition, with
the exception of its insolubility, has all the external cha
racters of the hardest stones, it possesses some claim to
attention. Might it not, after having been softened by a heat
superior to that of boiling water, be employed with much
advantage as a cement, or to cast into models of statues or
vases, &c. ?    Bodies formed of this artificial stone must
be protected, however, from the influence of water or
moisture.
   What also contributes to the interest excited by fhis com
position    that its analogy with the stones of solfaterra,
           is,
and the peculiar theory of its formation, will not require
us to recur to the hypothesis of subterranean fires, to ac
count for volcanic eruptions.
   In short, as water,         by
                            merely passing in an instant from
the liquid to   solid state, develops such
                 a                            considerable de
                                                     a
gree of heat, may       not be the immediate cause of volca
                          it
nic eruptions    ? May not also be to the slow and progres
                               it
sive passage of water to the solid state, that the heat found
at great depths in the interior parts of the globe     owing is   ?
Lastly, May not the heat developed in the animal and vege
table organs be also owing to water?
   The above suggestions are thrown out with       view to call
                                                         a
the attention of chemists, mineralogists, natural philoso
phers, and physiologists, to      subject which cannot fail. to
                                       a
{Strive much light from their concurrent observations.
           XXIII.    Proceedings        of   Learned Societies.
                           KOYAL       SOCIETY.
This     society on the 1st and 8th of February was occu
pied with reading     a  letter from Mr. Gibson of Manchester
to Mr. Thomas, describing an extraordinary foetus, having
two heads, only one body, two arms, two legs, and of
both sexes.      There was nothing in the physical1 organiza
tion  of  this  monster   which could apparently have impeded
the vital functions   ;   its two heads were perfectly formei
and joined    side   byside, that on the right being masculine
and that    on   the  left   feminine  both were united to one
                                           ;
spine  j and although      it  had two hearts, only one stomach
                                                            was

                   Society of Antiquaries.
was found.     The nerves from the head on the right side
passed to the right arm and leg ; those on the left to the
left arm and leg ; so that, had the creature lived, one head
and mind would have directed the right side, and the other
the left. The organs of the two sexes were very distinct,
and the uterus was found in the bladder of the male. The
author described the physical structure of this lusns 'natures
very minutely, but the details would not be interesting.
    Feb. 15. A paper on uric acid, by Mr. Brande, com
municated by the Society for improving Animal Chemistry,
was read.     The author related the effects of the alkalies
and lime on the uric acid and phosphats, in patients la
bouring under the influence of calculi, but in none of the
four cases which he stated were they successful in giving
relief or curing the disease.   Magnesia, however, had the
desired effect, and brought off in the urine great quantities
 of uric acid and phosphats, in the form of triple salts.
The discharge of these salts, after taking small closes of
magnesia, was so copious, that the patients were radically
 or effectually cured in two or three weeks. The suggestion
 to use magnesia was made by Mr. Hatchet, who knew of
nothing so capable of acting on uric acid, and experience
has confirmed his conclusion.
    Feb. 22. In consequence of the indisposition of Sir      J.
Banks, Mr. Marsdcn was in the chair, when the reading
 of a supplementary paper, by Dr. Herschel, on coloured
 concentric rings, commenced.         The present object of
 the author is to explain and elucidate the positions laid
 down in his former papers on this subject, and in some
 measure to insure to himself more completely the sole me
 rit of discovering the red bow, as Newton did the blue one.
 The introductory remarks chiefly referred to the 42d and
 43d sections of the author's preceding paper, in which the
 nature of the red rings, the transmission of light, and the
 prismatic colours, were particularly discussed. The con
 clusion of this paper was postponed till next meeting.
                  SOCIETY  OF ANTIQUARIES.
    Mr. J. A. Rcpton presented to the society a scries of de
 signs of wooden houses, windows, or other parts of building*.
 constructed of wood, in order to show the origin and pro
 gress of architecture in wood throughout England.         His
 views included the principal structures of timber in London,
  Essex, Suffolk, Norfolk, and Lincolnshire.     In the expla
  natory observations which were read to illustrate the views,
 it was slated that sash-windows were not introduced into
                                                           this

 156           Wernerian Natural History Society.
this country till the age of Charles I., and that they did not
become general before the beginning of the last century.
The sashes were originally constructed of very thick timber,
and the joinings were left in square pieces in order to add
to their strength, as it was then believed.
   As an appendage to these views, the design of Melk-
house-street, a curious old rustic building, entirely of tim
ber, near Ashford, Kent, was exhibited to the society.
The drawing was executed by the late F. Grose, and pre
sented considerable variety in its architectural ornaments.
The design was made in 1760, and has not yet been en
graved.
           WERNERIAN NATURAL HISTORY SOCIETY.
   At the meeting of this society, on Saturday the 13th of
January, the Rev. Dr. Macknight read a mineralogical ae*
count of Ben Ledi, and the environs of Loch Kettcrin.
The description of the rocks in that district (which consist
of mica-slate and clay-slate, with an overlying conglo
merate, formed at a lower level from the debris of primi
tive mountains) tended, in the author's opinion, to illus-
Irate one branch of the Wcrnerian doctrine respecting the
order of formations in the mineral kingdom.         It also ap
peared, in confirmation     of another principle in the Geo
gnosy, that the direction from SW. to NE. of the strata
composing the Highland mountains, corresponds to what
has been observed in general relative to the bearings of
the primitive strata in the crust of the earth.       Such an
uniformity of direction, it would seem, could have resulted
only from the action of powers in nature that are slow and
regular in their operation ; and must be referred to some
original law, which later discoveries render it probable
may be found to depend on the constitution of the terra
queous globe in regard to magnetism and electricity.
   At the same meeting the secretary laid before the society
a communication       from Mr. William Scoresby junior, o£
Whitby, comprising a meteorological journal of three
Greenland voyages , with remarks on the effects of the
weather on the barometer in Greenland, and on the different
 crystallizations of snow to be observed in high latitudes.
                                                  XXIV.

                               [   157   ]
       XXIV.     Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles*
           ON PROCURING AN EQUAL            TEMPERATURE.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
SIR,    \Jit  accidentally looking over a volume of the Me
dical Journal for '.801, I found a short but pleasing account
of the effects of the climate of Madeira in cases of pulmo
nary tubercles. The communication is dated in January in
the above y;ar, and is addressed by Dr. Adams, then resi
dent in that island, to a medical friend in this country. It
concludes with the following suggestions : — " These are,            I
believe, the principal inquiries you wished to make: — it is
true they are of little consequence compared to the impor
tant fact you have in view.            It is however satisfactory to
trapc probable causes, and it may be well worth yonr while
to try whether spacinus buildings, regularly heated, safely
ventilated, and large enough to admit of necessary exercise,
may not answer the purpose Jor such whose want of weans,
of courage, or of leisure, prevents their taking a voyage to a
more    genial climate."
    It is not my wish, by sending you the above, to detract'
from the claims of Dr. Pearson, with whom the same idea
seems to have originated : perhaps that truly respectable
practitioner is not even aware of the existence of the passage
in question. It is but fair, however, that the claims of others
should be recognized, when the public, as in the present in
stance, begin to reap the benefits of their suggestions.
                                                     I am, &c.
                                                             X.Y,
                              MAGNETISM.
    Mr. Leopold Vacca           has discovered a method of com
municating magnetism           to a bar of iron without a magnet.
    He takes a bar of iron of about three feet in length,
 which gives no sign of possessing any magnetic virtue
 as long as it lies in a horizontal position : but it possesses
 this in a very sensible degree when placed perpendicularly.
 These signs disappear again when it is laid down horizon
 tally, and appear again when it is lifted up vertically.
     A  small  bar of   steel   rubbed  several  times in the same
 direction, against      the extremity     of  the    other bar, when
 situated vertically,     acquires magnetism       :  whence the dis
 coverer concludes,      that magnetism may be communicated
 fo a body, without      cither a natural or an artificial magnet.
                                                              COBALT,.

      15S                   Cobalt. — Patents.
                                 COBALT.
        Those interested in the prosperity of our porcelain ma
     nufactures will rejoice to be informed that a mine of very
     excellent cobalt has been discovered in this country.   We
     have been informed by Mr. Hume of Long- Acre, to whom
     a specimen has been submitted for examination, that on
     analysis he has found it to contain nearly 30 per cent, of
     that metal.
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
        To Thomas Bayley, of Birmingham, for certain improve
     ments in sliding pulleys for window blinds, and for other
     purposes. —January 15.
        To Peter Cox, of Fairford, in the" county of Gloucester,
1 civil
          engineer, for certain improvements upon the thrashing
     machine. — January 23.
       To Joseph Manton, of Davies-street, Berkdey-square,
    gun-maker, for an improvement in telescopes. —Jan. 23.
       To David Cock, of Dean-Street, Soho, in the county of
    Middlesex, stereotype manufacturer, for vessels of a new
    construction, for melting and heating fluids. — Feb. 1.
       To Augustus Frederick de Heine, of Moor Lane, Fore-
    Street, in the city of London, gent., for certain improve
    ments on printing and stamping-presses. — Feb. J.
       To John Craigie, of Quebec, in our province of Lowet
   Canada, in North America, esq., now residing in Craven.
    Street, in the county of Middlesex, who in consequence
    of communications made to him when residing abroad, and
    certain inventions by himself, is in possession of a me
    thod of making an improved kitchen fire-place. — Feb. 1.
       To Stedman Adams, in the city of Hartford, in the state
   of Connecticut, in North America, esq., at present residing
   in Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields, in the county of
   Middlesex,     for certain improvements on steam-engines,
   and in distillation. — Feb. I.
      To William Muller, of the Hay Market, in the county
   of Middlesex, for certain improvements in the construc
   tion of pumps. — Feb. fi.
      To John Slater, of Birmingham, in the county of War
   wick, coach-spring maker, for an improvement in hanging
  and securing grind-stones from breaking in the middle
  or centre. — Feb. 12.
      To William Doughty, of Birmingham, in the county of
  Warwick, engineer, for his improvement in the combina
 tion of wheels for gaining mechanical power. — Feb. 12.
 .    To George Wyke, esq., of the city of Bath, for certain
                                                      improve-

              List of Patents for New Inventions.           .ISflf
improvements in the construction of wheel carriages of va
rious descriptions. — Feb. 12.
     To Peter Warburton, of Corbridge, in the county of
Stafford, china manufacturer, for his new method of de
corating china, porcelain, earthenware, and glass, with
native pure or adulterated gold, silver, platina, or other
metals, or fluxed, . or lawered with lead, or any other sub
stance ; which invention leaves the metals after being burned
in their metallic state.— Feb. \3~.                 <
     To Richard Witty, of the town of Kingston-upon-Hull,
gent., for certain improvements in making, arranging and
combining certain parts of rotative steam-engines, by
which means the most complex parts of the steam-engines
now in use are dispensed with and rendered unnecessary,
ami the v. hole of the mechanism made much more simple,
less exp<;nsh c, and not so liable to be out or' repair, as that
of the steam-engines now in use, and applicable to giving
motion to all sorts of mill-work or machinery. — Feb. 14.
     To Eneas Morrison of the: town of Greenock in Scot
 land, for a machine for conveying persons from th$ upper
 parrs of houses on lire, and for lowering goods from ware
houses, and r.ther purposes — Feb. 22.
     To Peter Stuart- late or' Fleet Street, in the city of Lon
 don, printer, for his method of engraving and printing
 map.-; of counties, charts, or other plans or designs, music,
 mathematical diagrams or figures on wood, metal, or any other
 substanrp, so that they may be thrown off in a common
 printing press or presses, either for books, newspapers, or
 any other printed paper whatever. — Feb. 26.
     To William, Bainbridge, of the parish of St. Andrew
 Holborn, in the city of London, musical instrument
 maker, for certain improvements on the English flute and
 flageolet.— Feb. 26.
     To Major Pratt, of Spencer Street, St. George's -in-the-
 East, in the county of Middlesex, farmer, for certain me
  thods of manufacturing machines for performing; various
  agricultural operations by mechanical powers. — Feb. 26.
     To Augustus de Heine, of Burr Street, in the county
  of Middlesex, gent., for certain apparatus by (he applica
  tion or known principles to preserve animal food, vegetable
  food, and other perishable articles, along time from perish
  ing or becoming useless. — Feb. 36.
      To Charles Je Caan, of the town of Llanelly, in the
   county of Carmarthen, gent., for certain apparatus to be
  added and united to the axle-trees and wheels 'or naves
  of wheels of carriages, so as to impede, resist, or check
  their action,— -Feb. 36,                             METEORO

160                                                        Meteorology.
                            meteorological table,
                         By Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                                                  For February               1810.
                                                                                   1 N
                             Thermometer.
                                                                                 Q       N H
                                                                                                                           J
                                                      ^2
Days   of
  Month.
            th«
                                              o
                                                      o Z
                                                      o    ¦&
                                                                Height of
                                                                the Barom.
                                                                                 So3.                  I
                                                                                                       £
                                                                                                                     Weather.
                         o'CIo
                                 Morni
                                                                 Inches.          Degrt
                         8                                                        nessb                Hygr
 Jan.       27           32               32°         31°        30-21                  0                     Cloudy
            26           31               33          30           •22                     7                  Cloudy
            2g           30               33          30           •28"                                       Cloudy
                                                                                      0 0 0 0 4 6
            30           33               33          30           •40                                        Cloudy
            31           32              43           47           •25                                        Cloudy
 Feb.       l            47              47           46           •02                                        Rain
                         46              47           44        29.90                                         Rain
             6 3 4 3 S
                         45              47           46           •70                                        Rain
                         45              46           36           •92               10                       Fair
                                                                                                              Fair
        *
                         33              45           44        30-00
                                                  '
                                                                                     10
               46                        47           44        29-96                                         Fair
                                                                                     6 0 0 0 0 0 4 7
               47                        47           46           •94                                        Cloudy
             9 8 7
               46                        47           45           •90                                        Rain
               44                        47           46           •70                                        Rain
            10 47                        50           44           "78                                        Rain
            11 44                        44           40           •81                                        Rain              ¦
            12 40                        41           40           •42                                        Rain
            13           38              42           38        28-95                                         Stormy
            14           36              39           36        29-50                 5                       Foggy
            13           35              37           30           •90                7                       Cloudy
                                         38                     30-00                                         Fair
                                                                                                                                i
            10           26                           27                           10
                                                                                                                                •
                                                                                                                                1
            17           27              35           26           •10                                        Fair
            18           27              33           36           •1   1            0 9                   Snow
            19           28              36           28        29-98                5                     Fair
            20           27              30           24        30-22                7                     Fair
            81           19              30           26           •40             10                      Fair
            22           26              34           28          •08                5                     Fair
            23           35              45           40        29-40                                      Rain
            24 40                        49        47             •50                0 0                   Small rain
                                                                                                                                1
            33           47              51        40             •46             35                       Fair
            26           37
                                                           •
              >l.B. The Barometer's height                              is   Uken atone o'clock.

                               [   161
                 XXV.      On Injuries   of the Brain.
                            To   Mr. Tillocli.
 SIR, IN the last Number Of your Magazine, there is a very-
 interesting case recorded of considerable derangement of
 the structure of the brain, thoracic and abdominal viscera.
 —The former it is my intention particularly to advert to.
    The person in whom this disease (tumours in the me
 dullary substance of the brain) existed, is noticed to have
been an acute reasoner, a man of good understanding : — in
 short, to use the author's own words, " distinguished for
 the facility with which he could converse upon most sub
jects ; and reasoned so closely that his intellectual powers
were generally regarded as of a superior kind;"
    Lately I examined the brain of a person who died of in
 sanity.     It was a female between 60 and 70 years of age,
 who, as    far as I could learn, had been deranged       for some
considerable time (at least 1O years) ; but, as I had not an
opportunity of seeing her whilst alive, cannot distinctly say
of what species : — suffice it to observe, it was of the raving
kind.
    Upon removing       the   calvaria (or upper part of the cra
nium), and raising      the dura mater, I discovered the tunica
arachnoides to be very opake ; I could easily distinguish it
upon the superior surface of the brain, which cannot be
done with facility in the natural slate, or where no disease
is present.     The vessels of the pia mater were loaded with
blood, but no effusion was apparent between the mem
branes.      Upon separating the hemispheres to observe the
corpus caliosum, I found the arteriae callosze considerably
enlarged, and in that state which precedes ossification, and
there was no appearance of raphe.              I then proceeded to
remove part of the left hemisphere, in order more readily to
examine the ventricles; in doing which I nearly cut through
 the whole of a tumour, which 1 found to be situated partly
in the cineritious and partly in the medullary substance of
the brain, opposite to the temporal fossa.
    The tumour was about the size -of a half-crown piece,
and somewhat of that shape, though inclining to oval ; it
was of a granulated appearanct, highly vascular, and around
the edge presented a dark blue colour; il was in structure
precisely similar to those (for I had an opportunity of ex
amining them in the recent state) described by Mr. Taun-
ton ; — there was an artery entering at the outer side which
was in a state of ossification.
   Vol. 35. No. 143. March 1810.                     L           It

                   On Injuries   of the Brain.
    It is necessary to observe, that the substance of the brain
was of a very soft consistence, whereas in the case related
by Mr. T. it was of a peculiar hardness.         I do not imagine
that this softness arose from the mental derangement ; as it
has occurred to my lot to examine the brain of many per
sons who have died insane, where this organ has been of
its usual texture, and sometimes unusually firm.
    Many other diseased appearances were observed .during
the dissection, but which are generally attendant in casea
of mania; 3uch as water in the ventricles, opacity of the
septum lucidum, bloody points in the medullary substance
of the brain, &c besides opakeness of the tunica arachnoides,
and turgescence of the vessels of the pia mater before men
tioned.
     The whole of the nerves arising from the brain were un
commonly firm, and the olfactory (as in the instance re
corded by Mr. T.) were in appearance similar to a piece of
narrow tape, adhering strongly to the cribriform process of
 the ethmoidal bone, and afloided some little resistance to
 the knife.
     Mr. T.'s case appears to establish the fact, of the brain,
 the most delicate organ in the whole structure of man, be
 ing capable of accommodating itself to an extraneous sub-
 stance^without producing any visible alteration in the ope
 rations of the mental faculties.      The question which seems
 naturally to arWe from this circumstance is : Whether the
 substance of the brain was not absorbed in proportion to
 the quantity of deposition secreted by the arteries? — and,
 Whether this could be effected sufficiently gradually, not
 to impede the functions of that wonderful and anomalous
 organ*? placed (as Harwood elegantly expresses               on the
                                                            it)
 doubtful confines of the material and spiritual worlds              !
     That the brain may become absorbed in proportion to
 the growth of the tumours, appears to me highly probable;
 and that these tumours (in Mr. T.'s case at least,            not
                                                                if         in
 mine)    werein   the first instance exudations   of  lymph,  which
 in course of time became organized.           It     an interesting
                                                    by is
 subject, and  I     hope will be considered         more able ana
  tomists and physiologists than myself.
     With respect to the abdominal viscera: —That the pan
  creas as well as many other of the organs contained                in
                                                                   the
  abdomen may be diseased and not suspected,               have wit
                                                            I
  nessed in several instances.   I    have in  a  number of cases
  * That the arteries performed th:« secretion in very Jo«r manner must
                                               a
be obvious, as no symptoms of compression were present during life.
                                                                         after

                                  On Salmon- Leaps.
 after death upon examination found that organ in a coi»*.-
derahle slate or' disease, where the only symptom that ex
 isted during life was a slight degree of dyspepsia.
                                                    I am yours. &c.
 Fleet Street, Feb. 10, 1810.                             T. J. IV.TTIGREW.
                         XXVI.          On Salmon- Leaps.
                                   To   Mr. Tillocli.
SIR,    W HOEVKR              carefully peruses Mr. Carr's paper " On
the ascent of salmon over the elevations in the course of
rivers called salmon-leaps," as given in your Magazine for
November last, must needs he astonished indeed at the ra
pidity of the growth of young salmon, from the period of
their being spawned to their departure out of the rivers.
As he is not precise as to the time when these occurrences
happen, I must beg leave lo state them : —The spawn is
deposited chiefly in December and January, and the salmon
depart in the beginning of April, being on an average a
space of about fourteen weeks.                      Now adtnittin<r the eggs
to be hatched         in   eight     weeks     (which I believe is much too
little), we     have     only     six  weeks     for the young fry to arrive at
the length      of   six    or   eight   inches    ; an increase which is ab
solutely    incredible,          more    especially when we consider the
comparative        want       of   food    incident to the season.
    The fact     is;  the     young fry do not descend the rivers with
the old    salmon,        in   the spring after they are spawned ; for in
the month        of  October         following they are no bigger than a
minnow.         Mr.    John       Clayton of Stockport (who is reckoned
to be one      of  the     most     experienced anglers in the kingdom),
and    others,    have      frequently caught them of the size, and
at the     time     stated,       and are fully satisfied of their being
young     salmon.          In    the   months of June and July they are
caught     about     five    or   six   inches in length: this I know to
be fact ;      and     it   is   not    till the ensuing spring that they
pass    with   the    old    ones     down    the rivers with the floods into
the sea.         Their growth             is  there   very rapid, as they are
found     on   their    return,      in  the    months of August and Sep
tember, to weigh from 14 to 50 ounces.
    This statement, if not established beyond all doubt by
incontrovertible facts, is highly probable, and accords more
with their progressive growth, and rational conjecture, than
the account given lo us by Mr. Carr.                         I am, &c.
Feb. 10, 1801.                                                    PlSCATOR.
                                            L2                     XXVII.   On

                              [     1G4        ]
XXVH.   On Vlat'ma and Native Palladium from Brasil.
   By William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. Sec.R.S.*
Although      platiria has now been known to mineralogists
for more than 60 years, yet it had not been discovered in
any othtr places than Choco and Santa Fe, whence it was
originally brought, until about two years since M.Vau-
quelin discovered it in. some gray silver ores from Guadal
canal in Estremadura.      In analysing these ores, he found
some fragments that contained as much as one-tenth of
their wpight of platina, but he did not find it accompanied
by any of the new metals that have lately been discovered
in the Peruvian ore of platina.
    The specimen which I am now about to describe is de
rived from a third source, and it is rendered the more in
teresting hy having grains of native palladium mixed with
it. This new mineral has lately been received from the
gold mines in Brasil, by H. E. Chev. de Souza Coutinho,
ambassador from the court of Portugal, resident in this
country ; and I am in hopes that some account of it may
be acceptable    to the Royal Society, although the analysis
must necessarily be very imperfect, from the small quantity
to which my experiments have unavoidably been confined.
    The general aspect of this specimen is so different from
the common ore of platina, that I could form no con
jecture of what ingredients it might be found to consist,
 its appearance was such indeed, as at first sight to induce
 a suspicion of its not being in a natural state, for it had
very much the spongy form which is given to platina from
imperfect attempts to render it malleable by means of
 arsenic.
    One circumstance, however, occasions a presumption
 that no art has been employed in giving the grains their
 present appearance; as. upon close inspection many small
 particles or gold are discernible, but there is none of the
magnetic iron sand with which the Peruvian ore abounds,
 nor any of the small hyacinths,, which I have formerly no
 ticed as accompanying that mincralf.
     It is very well known, that the common ore of platina          in,
 general consists of flattened grains, that appear so much
 worn at their surface, as to be       considerable degree po
                                          in   a
 lished, and the roughness observable in some of the larger
 grains arises from concave indentations of     reddish brown,
                                                       a
        *    From Philosophical   Transactions for 1S09, Part II.
        •f   Phil.Traus.forIS0J,p.318.
                                                                    or

       On Plalina and Native Palladium from Brasil.          165
or black colour.    The Brasilian platina, on the contrary,
has no polish, and does not appear worn; but most of the
grains seem to be small fragments of a spongy substance,
and even those which are yet entire and rounded on all
sides, present a sort of roughness totally different from that
of the former, as their surface consists of small spherical
protuberances closely coherent to each other, w ith the
interstices extremely clean, and free from any degree of
tarnish.
   The first portion that I employed for solution was taken
without any selection, and being digested with a small
quantity of nitro muriatic acid, two of the grains were acted
on much more rapidly than is usual with platina, and seem
ed to give a redder colour than that metal alone.         These
grains  were  consequently  taken  out,   washed,  and  reserved
For separate examination, and the solution was allowed to
proceed till the rest were entirely dissolved.     By the addi
tion of muriate of ammonia an abundant precipitate was
formed of a bright yellow colour.          This precipitate was
evidently platina,  and its colour satisfied  me that the grains
had not been brought into their present state from Peruvian
platina bv means of arsenic; for where arsenic has been
employed, I have observed that the indium contained in
that ore is rendered more 'Soluble than before, and hence
communicates its red colour to the precipitate.
    From the grains thus examined, there appeared not to
be any iriditun dissolved, nor any black powder containing
iridium undissolved.
    I next endeavoured, by prussiate of mercury, to ascertain
the presence of palladium ; but though a precipitate which
occurred indicated a certain quantity, it remained doubtful
whether it was derived from the grains of platina them
selves, or from the two small fragments that had been in
part dissolved before they were separated from the rest.
    By addition of ammonia to the solution, no iron was
precipitated;   and when the solution was afterwards al
lowed slowly to evaporate, I could discern no crystals or
 colour that I could ascribe to the presence of rhodium.       In
 short, it seemed that these grains arc really native platina
nearly pure.
    In order to discover whether the grains themselves con
 tained any portion of gold, I selected three of the largest,
 weighing together eight grains and a half; and after a so
 lution and precipitation, as before, by muriate of ammonia,
 I added a solution of green sulphate of iron, and obtained a
 precipitate of gold. It was, however, far too small in quan-
                               L3                             tity

168                         On Platina and
tity to he eslimated with correctness, but certainly did not
exceed the 7-i-6- of a grain.  This, it is to be observed, is
another circumstance in which the present mineral differs
from the Peruvian ore of platina, which I believe never
contains (in the ore itself) the smallest quantity of gold.
    In this experiment also, I tried to detect the existence of
palladium in the solution, and by prussiale of mercury again
ascertained   its presence; but it was in too small quantity
for estimating the proportion it bore to the whole mass.
   It may deserve to be remarked, that though neither the
Peruvian nor Brazilian grains of platina contain any silver,
yet the gold which accompanies ihtm is in each instance
so much alloyed with silver, that from about thirty small
scales of gold picked from Peruvian platina, weighing two
grains, I obtained as much as four tenths of a grain of
silver, or one fifth part of their weight.
                     Native Palladium.
     The two fragments, that had been    separated from the
first solution, next claimed my attention, and evidently de
served a careful examination.    They were each placed in
a drop of nitric acid, and each communicated a deep red
colour, which, by the tests of prussiate of mercury and
green sulphate of iron, I was satisfied arose from palladium.
The smaller fragment was then divided, and one portion
allowed to remain in the acid till it seemed completely dis
solved, and the other examined by the blow-pipe.          The
utmost heat that could be given, appeared to have no effect :
but when a small piece of sulphur was applied to                     it,   it
fused instantly;       by
                        continuance of the heat,      it parted with
(he sulphur, and became completely malleable                In short,
it  perfectly resembled   palladium   ; and   asit retained   its bril
liancy   in cooling,   judged
                       I         itto be  nearly  pure.
    Hut as the surfaces which had been acted upon               by
                                                                 nitric
acid had      adegree   of  blackness,   that  might   be  owing to
some insoluble impurity,         have since that lime dissolved
                                 I
the larger fragment for the sake of discovering the cause of
this appearance.        Hot nitric acid dissolved          by far the
greatest part     but
                  ;   there   remained    ablack  powder   on   which
a  fresh addition of this acid alone had no further effect.
But when      adrop or two of muriatic acid was added, the
whole was very soon dissolved.         By the addition of muriate
of ammonia,        became evident from the precipitate that
                  it
the residuum was principally platina.          But this precipitate,
instead of being yellow, had the deep red colour, which                    i>
usually occasioned          by
                            the presence ot iridium.        The pla
                                                                   tina

                 Native Palladium from Brasil.             167
Una reduced from this precipitate was also too black for
 pure platina, and when it was again dissolved, the solution
 was of a deep red, and the precipitate by muriate of am
monia red, as before; so that although the grains of Bra-
silian platina appear to be free from indium, as well as
from many other impurities that form part of the Peruvian
ore, yet the grains of native palladium that accompany
them, afford a trace of this ingredient, and occasion a
 presumption     that osmium and rhodium        may hereafter
 appear, when we can obtain this mineral in larger quan
tity.
    Since the whole weight of metal employed in the last
 experiment did not exceed \-fc grain, it is in vain to at
 tempt to estimate the proportion of the ingredients ; but if
•i am near the truth, in considering the quantity of the red
 precipitate as about one fifth of a grain, of which less than
half is platina, those who arc best acquainted with the in
 tense colouring; power of iridium may endeavour to form a
 conception oi the extremely small quantity that can be
 present.
    As soon as I had ascertained the existence of native pal
 ladium, I endeavoured, by examination of its external cha
 racters, to distinguish its appearance from that of the sur
 rounding substances, and I found it by no means difficult,
 although no difference of colour could besdiscerned. Hav
 ing remarked that the larger fragment appeared rather
fibrous, and that the fibres were in some degree divergent
tVom one extremity, I examined the remainder of the small
.specimen which had originally been given to me, and by
 this peculiarity of structure 1 soon detected a third frag
 ment, which upon trial proved to be the same substance.
By favour of the Chev. de Souza I was also permitted, with
 this view, to examine the specimen which remained in his
 possession, and had soon the satisfaction of discovering two
more fragments of the same mineral ; and as I was in no
one instance deceived in my choice, by attending to the
radiating fibres, I am in hopes that this external character
 will enable persons to distinguish that metal, in situations
 where they have not an opportunity of deciding by chemical
experiment.
                                L4               XXVII It   On

                                   C       168      ]
XXVIII.    On an Improvement in the Manner of dividing
   astronomical Instruments, By HENRY CAVENDISH,
   Esq.,      F.R.S*
  JL HE great inconvenience and difficulty in the 'common
 method of dividing, arises from the danger of bruising the
 divisions by putting the point of the compass into them,
 and from the difficulty of placing that point mid-way, be
 tween two scratches very near together, without its slipping
 towards one of ihcni ;. and it is this imperfection in the
 common process, which appears to have deterred Mr.
 Trough Ion from using             it,
                                    and thereby gave rise to the in
 genious   method     of dividing described in the preceding part
 of this volumcf. This induced me to consider, whether
 the above-mentioned inconvenience might not be removed,
 by  using    abeam compass with only one point, and                   mi         a
 croscope   instead   of  the oilier;   and      find,  Ithat   in the fol
 lowing    manner     of  proceeding,     we    have   no   need   of  ever
 setting the point of the compass into               division, and con
                                                             a
 sequently   that  the  great  objection     to  the old method of                     di
 viding  is entirely   removed.
    In this method,      it   necessary to have
                              is                         convenient sup
                                                                 a
 port  for the  beam    compass      and
                                       :   the  following     seems to me
 to be as convenient as any.         Let
                                                 C
                                                 C
                                                 C  (Plate  V.  Fig.     be       1   .)
the circle to be divided,          B   B
                                       B frame resting steadily on its
                                            a
face, and made to slide round on                with an adjusting mo
                                                    it
tion to bring     itto any required point          dS    :the beam com
                                                                 is
pass,   having    a point   near     and
                                       S,     microscope
                                                    a          m made to
slide from one end to the other.               This beam compass                           is
supported at       d,in such manner as to turn round on this
point as      acentre, without shake or loitering and at the            j
endi    it  reits on another support, which can readily be
lowered, so as either to let the point rest on the circle, or
to prevent its touching it.            must be observed, however,
                                           It
that as the distance of        d from the centre of the circle must
be varied, according to the magnitude of the arch to be
divided, the piece on which                     supported had best be
                                                d   is
made to slide nearer to, or further from, the centre                   but        ;
the frame must be made to bear constantly against the
edge of the circle to be divided, so that the distance of                                  d
from the centre of this circle, shall not alter                sliding the
                                                                         by
frame.
    This being premised, we will first consider the manner
of dividing        continued bisection.
                  by                              Let      and   F be twof
             • From Philosophical Transactions           for   18O9,   Part II.
         f     See Phil. Mag. vol. xxiiv. pages         8
                                                        1   ami 1K3.
                                                                                  points

     Improvement in dividing astronomical Instruments.       169
points on this limb which are to be bisected in p. Take
                     f
the distance of the microscope from the point nearly equal
to the chord of        $, and place d so that the point and the
axis of the microscope shall both be in the circle in which
the.divisions are to be cut.       Then slide the frame B B B
till the wire of the microscope bisects the point F ; and
having lowered the support at S, make a faint scratch with
the point.
     Having done this, turn the beam compass round on the
centre d till the point comes to D, where it must rest on a
support similar to that at J ; and having slid the frame till
the wire of the microscope bisects the point ft make an
other faint scratch with the point, which, if the distance of
 ihe microscope from the point has been well taken, will be
very near the former scratch ; and the point mid-way be
 tween them will he the accurate bisection of the arch Ff}
 but it is unnecessary, and better not to attempt to place a
 point between these two scratches.
      Having by these means determined the bisection at 0,
 we must bisect the arches F <p and ftp in just the same
 manner as before, except that the wire of the microscope
 must be made to bisect the interval between the two faint
 scratches, instead of bisecting a point.
      It must be observed that when the arch to be bisected is
 small, it will be necessary to use a bent point, as otherwise
 it could not be brought near enough to the axis of the mi
 croscope ; and then part of the rays, which form the image
 of the object seen by the microscope, will be intercepted
 by the point ; but I believe, that by proper management
 this may be done without either making the point too
 weak, or making the image indistinct ; but if this cannot
 be done, we may have recourse to Mr. Troughton's expe
 dient of bisecting an odd number of contiguous divisions.
      It must be observed too, that in the bisections of all the
  arches of the same magnitude, the position of the point d
  on the frame remains unaltered ; but its position must be
  altered every time the magnitude of the arch is altered.
       It is scarcely necessary to aay, that the bisections thus
  made are not intended as the real divisions, but only as
  marks from which they are to be cut.          In order to make
  the real divisions, the microscope must be placed near the
  point, and the support d must be placed so that d $ shall be
  a tangent to the circle at S.      The wire of the microscope
  must then be made to bisect one of these marks, and a
  point or division cut with the point, and the process con
  tinued till the divisions are all made.
                                                                It

1 70              On an Improvement lit the
     It is plain that in this way, without some further pre
 caution, we must depend on the microscope not altering
 its position in respect of the point during the operation ;
 for which reason I should prefer placing the axis of the
 microscope at exactly the same distance from the centre of
 motion d, as the point ; but removed from it sideways, by
 nearly the semi-diameter of the object glass; so that hav
ing made the division, we may move the beam compass till
the division comes within the field of the microscope, and
then see whether it is bisected by the wire, and consequently
see whether the microscope has altered its place.
    In the operation of bisection, as above described, it may
be observed, that if the two scratches are placed so near to
gether, that in making the second the point of the compass
runs into the burr raised by the first, there seems to be
some danger that the point may be a little deflected from
its true course; though in Bird's account of his method,
I do not find that he apprehends any inconvenience from
it.    One way of obviating this inconvenience, if it docs
exist, would be to set the beam compass not so exactly to
the true length, as that one scratch should run imo the
burr of the other ; but as this would make it more difficult
to judge of the true point of bisection, perhaps it might be
better to make one scratch extend from the circle towards
the centre, and the other from it.
    It is clear, that the entire arc of a circle cannot be divided
to degrees, without trisection and quinquesection ; and I
do not know whether our artists have recourse to this ope
ration, or whether they avoid it by some contrivance similar
to Bird's ; namely, that of laying down an arch capable of
continued bisection ; but if the method of quinquesection
is preferred, it may be performed by either of the three fol
lowing methods :
                          •First Mel/tod.
   Let a a, (Fig. 2) be the arch to he quinquesected.     Open
the beam compass to the chord of one filth of this arch ;
bring the microscope to a, and with the point make the
scratch f;   then bring the microscope to     f,
                                               and draw the
scratch e ; and in the same manner make the scratches d
and I. Then turn the beam compass half round, and hav
ing brought the microscope to a, make the scratch /3 ; and
proceeding as before, make the scratches $, t and           <p.
                                                          Then
the true position of the first quinquesection will be between
Itand  ft, distant from         one fifih of
                               by            I     and the se
                                                d fi
                          /3                       ,
cond will be distant fiom      S   by
                                 two fiiihs of     and so on.
                                                       S,
   Then,     in
              subdividing these arches, and striking the true
                                                     divisions,

          Manner of dividing astronomical Instruments.                                   171
divisions, the wire of the microscope, instead of bisecting
the interval between the two scratches, must be brought
four times nearer to /3 than to b. But in order to avoid
the confusion which would otherwise proceed from this,
it will be necessary to place marks on the limb opposite to
all those divisions, in which the interval of the scratches is
not to be bisected, showing in what proportion they are to
be divided; and these marks should be placed so as to be vi
sible through the microscope, at the same time as the
scratches.     Perhaps, the best way of forming these marks,
would be to make dots with the point of the beam com
pass contiguous to that scratch which the wire is to be
nearest to, which may be done at the time the scratch is
drawn.
    Perhaps an experienced eye might be able to place the
wire in the proper manner, between the two scratches,
without further assistance ; but the most accurate way
would be to have a moveable wire with a micrometer, in
the focus of the microscope, as well as a fixed one ; and
then having brought the fixed wire to I, bring the move-
able one to        and observe the distance of the two wires
                         /3,
by   the micrometer; then reduce the distance of the two
wires to one fifth part of this, and move the frame till the
moveable wire comes to           and then the fixed wire will be
                                              /3,
in  the proper position, that       four times nearer to
                                                    is         than                /3
to   b.
     Itwill be     great convenience, that the moveable wire
                         a
•bould be made           such manner, as to be readily distin
                                    in
guished from the fixed, without the trouble of moving it.
    In this manner of proceeding, think           careful operator
                                                          I        a
can hardly make any mistake: for              he makes any conif
siderable error       the distance of the moveable wire from
                               in
 the fixed,    will be detected
                    it                               by
                                     the fixed wire not appearing
 in the right position, in respect of the two scratches; and
as the mark        seen through the microscope, at the same
                         is
 time as the scratches, there         no danger of his mistaking
                                                     is
 v;hich scratch          to be nearest to, or at what distance
                               it   is                                                        it
is  to be placed mm it.        I
    To judge of the comparative accuracy of this method
 with that of bisection,      must be considered that tbe arches
                                         it
 «/3,     f3&c. though made with the same opening of the
               $,
compass, will not be exactly alike, owing partly to irregulari
ties  inthe brass, and partly to other causes.     Let us suppose,
therefore, that in dividing the arch         « into five parts, the
                                                              a
beam compass          opened to the exact length, but that from
                               is
 the aboveiuentioncd irregularities the arches                   Si,   a.   fl,   fi    8,
                                                                                             and

172                   On an Improvement in the
          f
                      f
and  e   are all too long by the small quantity s, and that
the arches af,      e, ea, and d b are all too short by the
same quantity, which is the supposition the most unfavour
able of any to the" exactness    of the operation; then the
error in the position of /3 = e, and the point             I
                                                errs 4s in the
same direction, and therefore the point assumed as the true
point     of quinquesection, will     be at the distance       of   ~~      from
jS,and the error in the position of this point as x            s
                                                                          If.
          same way of reasoning, the error in the position
      By the
of the point taken between     andd  = x 2§-.
                                           $     e
  In trisecting the error of each point = x         and in e   l£j
bisecting, the error =    e
                          jand in quadrisecting, the error of
the middle point = 2e.
      appears therefore that in trisecting, the greatest error
     It
we are liable to does not exceed that of bisection in greater       a
proportion than that of      to
                              4     but
                                      3
                                      J          in
                                           quinquesccling the
error of the two middle points        2f times greater than in
                                          is
bisecting.      must be considered, however, that in the
                 It
method of continued bisection, the two opposite points
must be found by quadrisection      and the error of quinque
                                       ;
section exceeds that of quadrisection       no greater propor
                                                 in
tion than that of six to five; so that we may fairly say,
that     we begin with quinquesection, this method of di
          if
viding     not greatly inferior, in point of accuracy, to that
            is
by  continued bisection.
                          Second Method.
   This differs from the foregoing,        in
                                       placing dots or scratches
in the true points of quinquesection and trisection, before
we begin to subdivide.      For this purpose, we must have                      a
microscope placed as in page 170, first par. at the same di
stance from the centre of motion as the point             and       is  ;
this microscope must be furnished with        moveable wire
                                                      a
and micrometer, as in page 171         and then having first
                                           ;
made the fixed wire of this microscope correspond exactly
with the point, we must draw the scratches      and       and
                                                           b        /3,   d
S, &c. as before, and bring the fixed wire to the true point
of quinquesection between and     b   in the manner directed
                                           /3,
in page 226, and with the point strike the scratch or dot                       ;
and    we please, we may, for further security, as soon as
       if
this     done, examine,
        is                   means of the moveable wire,
                              by
whether this intermediate scratch or dot     well placed.
                                                      is
   The advantage of this method is, that when thisns done,
we may subdivide and cut the true divisions,          making   by
the wire of the microscope bisect the intermediate scratches,
instead of being obliged to use the more troublesome ope
                                                       ration

     Manner of dividing astronomical Instruments.                                   1?3
ration of placing it in the proper proportion of distance
between the two extremes.
   This method certainly requires less attention than the
former, and on 'the whole seems to be attended with con
siderably less trouble ; but it is not quite so exact, as we
are liable to the double error of placing the intermediate
point and of subdividing from it.
    As in this method the intermediate points are placed by
means of the micrometer, there is no inconvenience in
placing the extreme scratches      and        I
                                          &c. at such       ft,                     a   di
 stance from each other, that the intermediate one shall be
 in no danger of running into the burr raised         the ex                   by
 tremes.
                                   Third Met/tod.
    Let « (Fig. 3.) be the arch to be quinquesectcd lay
       a                                                                            ;
down ihe arches al,            and
                               d     b,e, as in the first method;
                                              d
then turn the beam compass half round, and lay down the
arches a.  /3 and    /3
                      8 then, without altering the frame, move
                          ;
the moveable wire of the microscope till                 four timesit     is
nearer to  t  than to e, and, having first rubbed out the for
mer scratches, lay them down again with the compass
thus altered     :but as this method possesses not much,                                 if
any, advantage over the second,             point of ease, and
                                                       in                                 is
certainly inferior to      in exactness,
                              it                 not worth while
                                                        it    is
 saying any thing further about it.
  It    was before said*, that the centre of motion of the
beam compass         to be placed, so that the point and axis of
                     is
 the microscope shall both be in the circle in which the                                 di
 visions are made but;        necessary to consider this more ac
                               it   is
 curately. Let A£(Fig. 4.) be thecircle in which the scratches
 are to be made,      the point of the beam compass, which
                      &
 we will suppose to be exactly in this circle,       the centre on  d
 which it   turns, and Mm the wire          the focus of the mi
                                                       in
 croscope, and let m be that point in which               cut     the         is    by
 circle; and let us suppose that this point         not exactly in is is it
 the line d$, then, when the beam compass           turned round,
 the circle will cut the wire in      different point jut,, placed as
                                              a
 much on one side of           as m
                               d    S,  on the other, so that
                                                  is                                     if
 the wire   is not perpendicular to d$, the arch set off          the               by
 beam compass, after being turned round, will not be the
 same as before; but           ifperpendicular, there will be no
                                    it   is
  difference; for which reason, care should be taken to make
  the wire exactly perpendicular to d$, which              easily ex          is
  amined    by observing whether      point appears -to run along
                                              a
                                              168,

 1   74     Improvement in dividing                  astronomical Instruments.
It it,
         while the beam compass  turned   little on its centre.
                                                is          a
      also necessary to take care that the point
      is                                                 in the              8       is
arc of the circle, while the bisection        observed      the i3                        by
microscope, which may most conveniently be obtained, bv
placing     stop on the support on which that end of the
                a
beam compass rests.                    If
                           proper care, however,       taken in
                                                                             is is
placing the wire perpendicular, no great                            nicety           required
either in this or in the position of d.
    Another thing to be attended to, in making the wire
 bisect two scratches,        to take care that
                                       is              bisects them  it
 in the part where they cut the circle           for as the wire;                               is
not perpendicular to the circle, except in very small arches,
it    plain, that
     is                    bisects the scratches at the circle,
                             if   it                                                           it
will not bisect them at        distance from it.
                                        a
    There are many particulars in which my description of
 the apparatus to be employed will appear incomplete; but
as there     nothing in
                is              which seems attended with dif
                                       it
ficulty,   Ithought       best  not to enter further into particu
                                 it
lars, than was necessary to explain the principle, and to
leave the rest to any artist who may choose to try it.
     It   difficult to form
           is                     proper judgement of the con
                                            a
veniences or inconveniences of this method, without ex
perience; but, as far as          can judge,I    must have much
                                                            it
advantage,    both  in  point  of accuracy  and  ease,  over that of
dividing        the  common
                    by            beam   compasses      but      very    :           it
likely may be thought that Mr. Troughton's method                                              is
better than either.      Whether         or   not, must be left for
                                                 it   is   is
determination to experience and the judgement of artists.
Thus much, however, may be observed, that this, as well
as hi3,    free from the difficulty and inaccuracy of setting
            is
the point of      compass exactly in the centre of
                         a                                  division.        a
It also requires much less apparatus than his, and                free                is
from any danger of error, from the slipping or irregularity
in the motion of         roller
                              a    in which respect his method,
                                            ;
notwithstanding the precautions used              him,          by
                                                             perhaps          is
not entirely free from objection;           and, what with some
artists may be thought         considerable advantage,
                                       a                          free          it    is
from the danger of mistakes           computing in  table of errors, a
and in adjusting       sector according to the numbers of that
                             a
table.
                                                                             XXIX.             On

                                                 [     175          J
XXIX.               On M. Bemetzrieder's erroneous Calculations
    of    the        Magnitudes of certain musical Intervals. By
    Mr. John Farey.
                                            To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, When I                       some time ago took up my pen*, to combat
the erroneous                    principles advanced by Earl Stanhope, re
specting the accuracy of expressing musical intervals by
the difference of the lengths of strings producing the sounds,
I thought that his lordship had an exclusive claim to this
and other similar and " important musical truths," which
he has advanced j but a folio work opening the long-way
was this day put into my hands, entitled, " General In
structions in Music," by M. Bemetzrieder, printed at Lon
don, about the year 1780 (as I have been told), price one
guinea.    Who after stating, at page 92, that a major tone
— taken from a minor fourth — , or — x — produces
                                            54.
9                                                               4            4            o                  3—
(which he calls                  a   minor third) and which taken from                                 a   fifth
—,       or   —      x — produces — (which                                   he calls a major          third),
and mentioning,                      that   — and          — are ratios
                                                                        usually assigned
to the 3d. and IIId., thereon subjoins these remarks :     It is                                       "
   probable, that the facility of arithmetical calculation has
"  been preferred to geometrical exactitude: besides, the
"    difference             of   the two (major) thirds — and                                  — is no     more-
"    than      ~        (being the difference of                      ^ and ~) the 90th
u partt                 tone /u                                     = — = -—)\ which
                                                      4 x 90
              orc       .                             ——              360       u- u    J 8            •      a
**
   r                a
                                     \
                             ( because                                      /        is bet-
"
                                                          40o         405                 9
        ter perceived by the understanding                                    than by the ear ; the
*' (major) third                  — is a 90th part                  of       a tone lower than the
u third ^. The difference of the two minor thirds 4r
" and — is -^j the (minor) third    ls 7^ t0° acute:"                         -f->
for as above,           ~ — — = ~ = ~,                                       and      still proceeding        as
         lx83j                                   27   .                  .
                                         or, —
                                     8                                                  5
                            =: —                      is more than —
,
above,          ^                    j                                                by.       an 83-J- part
of the        same tone                      as above.              Now,             if   instead   of taking
the numerical differences                        of the thirds, in Mr. B.'s erroneous
    *   See pur 27th Volume,                page 198, and 33d Volume,                         page 294 and 5.—
JtDJTM.
                                                                                                    method,

   1  76                       On the Culture         of Parsnips.
  method,         the ratios had been              subtracted      thus,    ~     x    —   =
  320         80        ,    5       32        160      80    ,           ,           , ,  ,
  555
         =
              sP    and
                            T *      «7
                                          =
                                              TSF
                                                    =
                                                        71
                                                             lhe resu,ts W0H,d bc
  the major comma in both instances, instead of one beint*
  a 90th, and the other an 83J-rd part of a tone, neither of
 which are much different from one ninth part of what they
 ought to be, being altogether the produce of egregious
 blundering; for the 'major comma is known to be nearly
 the 9-±-th part of a major tone, or more exactly, 9-48141 x
 c = T.          And thus we see, that the error of a whole comma
 is said by this gentleman not to be perceivable by the ear !
 and guided as I suppose by the above erroneous principle,
 he has added to the confusion which already reigned, as to
 the names of intervals, by giving many new and absurd ones;
 fof instance,        he calls                a superfluous        second,    although
 it   exceeds a minor           third in magnitude,              5~-% he calls a          di-
 minished third, although the same is less than a minor tone,
 or comma- deficient major second, and so of many others.
 At    page     1 16  he     asserts, that 1,
                                                      ^
                                                         and         are not the      Har-
 monicals or         " replies"       of  a  sound, but         1, ~    and         !
      Hoping, Sir, that this will                be the last lime that I shall
 have toexpose          such     gross ignorance in authors, on the nature
 and fundamental principles of musical calculation,
                                             I  remain yours, &c.
Westminster,       12th March      1810.                            JOHN FaREY.
 XXX.           On the Culture of Parsnips, and their Utility in
     feeding Cattle.             By Charles Le Hardv, Esq., of the
      Jsla na of Jersey* .
Sir, Having observed                     in the book of Premiums offered by
theSociety,thal they               wished     for information on the culture of
parsnips, which             are  much      used    in the island of Jersey ; — as
having practised            it for   many years, I take the liberty to com
municate         what     I  know      on the subject, with the result of
some comparative experiments.
   . The culture of parsnips and beans is looked upon as one
of the regular courses of crops in the island. There is no
farmer, be the extent of his grounds ever so small, who
    * From Transactions nf        the Society for the Encouragement
                                                                          nf Arts, Mrivi-
factiires,  and   Commerce,     for 1809         Tlic Society voted their silver medal
to   Mr.   Le Hardy for this communicatiou.
                                                                                      does

                       On the Culture of Parsnips.        ,         177
does not yearly plant a proportionate quantity, for the pur
pose of fattening his hogs and cattle, or of feeding his milch
cows.
    A few years ago, the culture of potatoes was substituted
by some farmers to that of parsnips, and apparently with
advantage; but further experience has brought them back
again to their former practice.              Potatoes   produce more
weight and measure on a given extent of ground, and may
be cultivated with less expense ; still the parsnip is found to
answer best for the farmer's purpose. A perch of the island,
which is twenty-four square feet, will produce on an average
crop, seven cabots of potatoes, each weighing forty pounds;
the same extent in parsnips will only average six cabots,
which weigh only thirty-five pounds each, making twenty
pounds weight in favour of the potatoes ; — but they are not
so nutritious as parsnips.
    Parsnips will thrive almost any where, but better in a
deep stiff loam.         They are generally cultivated in the island
after a crop of barley, in the following manner. — At the
end of January or the beginning of February, the soil, which
requires for that purpose to he stirred from the bottom, is
either dug with spades after a skimming plough, or with
two ploughs of different shapes following one another. The
latter of the two, invented some years ago by a farmer in
the island, will go to a depth of fifteen inches.              In both
these ways the neighbouring fanners assist each other: in
the season, it is not uncommon to see forty or fifty men in
one field digging after a plough.             When the large plough
is used, less men are required, but more strength of cattle ;
two oxen and six horses are the team generally used. Those
days are reckoned days of recreation, and tend to promote
social intercourse among that class of men.
    After the ground has teen tilled in this way, it is coarsely
harrowed, and a sufficient number of women are provided
to plant beans.          These are dibbled in rows three by three
 : : : : : : : : : a' the distance of live feet from row to row.
Two women may plant one vergee in a day : two vergees
and a half being equal to an English acre. Three sixtenniers
of parsnip seed (about \ of a Winchester bushel) are then
sown upon each vergee, and the whole is finely harrowed.
     This crop now requires no attendance till the month of
May, when weeding becomes necessary.                  This is the most
expensive part of the culture.        It  is  generally done by hand,
with a small weeding fork ; and as the parsnips require to
be kept very clean, the expense is proportionate to the
quantity of weeds. This last summer four women were em-
     Vol. 35. No. 143. March 1810.                    M          ployed

   1 78              On the Culture  of Parsnips.
   ployed twenty -eight days each in weeding; about fivevergeeS.
   I tried a few perches with the hand- hoe, and thinned them
   like turnips; they proved finer than those which were
   hand-weeded. In Guernsey they make use of the spade for
   that purpose.
      In the beginning of September ihe beans are pulled up
  from among the parsnips, and about the latter end the
  digging begins. The instrument used is the common three,
  pronged fork. This work is done gradually as the^cattle
  want them, till the ground requires to be cleared for sow
  ing wheat, which after parsnips is generally done about the
  middle of December.        They are reckoned- an excellent fal
  low for that kind   of grain, and the finest crops are generally
  those which     succeed  them: as it is a tap-rooted plant, it
  does not, like the potatoe,      impoverish the surface, but
  leaves it mellow and free from weeds, to a succeeding crop.
      When parsnips require to be kept for the use of cattle,
 they are brought dry under sheds, and will keep good with-,
 out any care till the end of March. Should they require
 to be kept longer, they are laid in double rows over one
  another, their heads outward, with alternate strata of earth,
 which, when finished, have the appearance of small walls,
 or, if made circular, of small towers. Those for seed are al
 ways preserved in this manner, and sometimes carrots and
 beets for culinary purposes.
      Parsnips are not injured by frost ; after having been fro
 zen, they are fit for vegetation : the only sensible alteration
 is their acquiring a sweeter taste, and by that perhaps be
 coming more nutritive.        They are given raw to hogs and to
 horned cattle. Though horses are fond of theseroots, they
 are not suffered to eat them, as they make them languid,
 and are apt to injure their sight. Their k-aves when wet are
 so caustic as to blister the hands of the weeders, and some
 times to occasion a violent inflammation iu tbe eyes and
 udders of the cattle feeding upon them.
      Cows fed on parsnips in the winter months, give a greater
 quantity of milk and butter, and of better flavour, than
 those fed upon potatoes.       The butler is nearly equal to that
from spring grass.       Though the root of this plant has the
quality of improving that article, it must l>e observed, that
the leaves give it a very disagreeable taste, which, however,
is of no consequence when intended to be potted, as it goes
off in a short time.
     Parsnips are dangerous food for sows before they farrow,
and might occasion them to lose their litter.        Hogs may be
fattened with them in about six weeks.           It is the custom
                                                            during

        Analysis of a Carlonaled Chalyleate JVell, &c,            1 70
during that time, to thicken their swill with the meal of
 beans and oats ground together.            Pork fattened in this way
is very firm, and does not waste in boiling.
     Horned cattle may be fattened with parsnips in about
three months.          I never' knew them used for sheep.
     It is the general opinion in the island, that hogs or cattle
fed on parsnips may be brought in a condition for slaughter
ing in less lime, and with half the quantity that would
be required of potatoes.            The butchers are sensible of the
superiority     of   the   former,   and will give a halfpenny per
pound     more   for  cattle  fattened  with them, than for such as
have been fed any other way.             Upon inquiry I was inform
ed, they always contained a greater quantity of tallow.
     This I believe to be a full account of the culture and use
of the parsnip, and a just comparison with the potatoe.
Should the Society wish any further information, either on
this, or on my Telegraph, I shall think myself in duty
bound to givc.il.
                               I remain, sir,
                Your most obedient humble servant,
                                             CHARLES LE HARDY.
     The   above communication          was accompanied with certi
 ficates  of the correctness of the     statements which it contains.
XXXI.       Analysis of the Carbonated Chalybeate JVell, lately
     discovered at Middleton Hall, the Seat of Sir WILLIAM
     PAXTON, Kt., near Llanurtliney in Carmarthenshire.
     Communicated by Mr. HOWKLL. The Analytical Results
    from an Analysis of Mr. ACCUM.
M EDICINAL           waters have from time immemorial been
much resorted to by the afflicted ; and many traditionary
as well as written accounts of their virtues have been trans
mitted from one age to another.
     During the first efforts of science, accident seems to have
given some of these waters an illegitimate value, and pre
judice or fiction clothed others with mystery.
     Before the Christian sera, the effects of particular waters
 were known ; and to some, such as the fabled waters of
 Lethe, supernatural powers were attributed. Soon after the
 commencement of that sera, medicinal springs increased
 every where, and superstition found in almo9t,every situa
 tion a holy or canonized well.             The first rays of reform
 ation exposed the impotency of many, and the unchastened
 glare that too often leads into extremes, brought others de-
                                       M 8                    servedly

 180                      On the Preparation          of
servedfy into contempt.             Those individuals, however, who
had     received    benefit  from   particular springs, could not for
get    their obligations ;    and   others    being daily relieved, a series
of    evidence    presented     itself   that  could not be resisted ; and
therefore      a    few   springs      retained     their celebrity, whilst
others fell into deserved ncsiject.
     The medicinal spring under consideration has been lately
discovered in the park of Sir William Paxton, at Middletou
Hall, near Llanarthney. The medicinal effect which this
spring has already produced, bids fair to hope that this water
will occupy a very distinguished place among those f ountains
of health which can never be viewed with indifference. The
water of this spring has been analysed by Mr. Accum of
London. Omitting to state the analytical processes by which
this philosopher renders his results legitimate, it will be suf
ficient to announce the summary of the analysis, which is as
Follows :
                      Gazeous Contents in 100 Parts.
                                    -----
                                                               cubic inches.
           Carbonic acid gas              -    -   -    -   -    16*50
           Atmospheric air                                  -     4'50
                                              Cubic inches      21*
                       Solid Contents
                                       ------
                                            in 100 Parts.
                                       ------
                                                                   grains.
                                       ------
           Carbonate      of iron                                 «6*25
                                       ------
           Muriate of       soda                                  6*00
                                       ------
           Carbonate of lime                                      4-75
           Muriate of lime                                        3*25
           Sulphate of lime                                        2-00
                                                       Grains    21*25
XXXII.         On the Preparation of a Fibrous Substance from
     Bean Stalks, applicable to the Uses for which Hemp is
     employed. By the Rev. James Hall, of Walthamstow* '.
Sir, Though it has               not been attended to, nor, so far as
I know, has ever been            mentioned by any one, yet it is cer
tain that, according to its size, every bean plant contains
from 20 to 35 filaments, or fibres, running up on the out
side, under a thin membrane, from the root to the very top
    * From Transactions
                          of the Socirly for tie Encouragement nf Arts, Manu fac
 tures, and Commerce, for 1809          The Society voted their silver medal to
 Mr. Hall   for this communication.
                                                                              all

             a Fibrnut  Substance from Bean Stalks.           J6 1
 all around, the one at each of the four corners being rather
 thicker and stronger than the rest.     It is also certain that,
 next to Chinese, or sea-grass, in other words, the material
 with which hooks are sometimes fixed to the end of fishing
 lines, the filaments or hempen particles of the bean plant
are among the strongest yet discovered. These with a little
 beating, rubbing and shaking, are easily separated from the
 strawy pait, when the plant has been steeped 1O or 12 days
 in water; or is damp, and in a state approaching to fermen
 tation, or what is commonly called rotting. Washing and
 pulling it through hackles, or iron combs, first coarse and
 then finer, is necessary to the dressing of bean hemp ; and,
 so far as I have yet discovered, the easiest way of separating
 the filaments from the thin membrane that surrounds them.
    From carefully observing the medium number of bean-
plants in a square yard, in a variety of fiekls on both sides
the Tweed, as well as in Ireland, and multiplying them by
4840, the number of square yards in an acre, and then
weighing the hemp or filaments of a certain number of
these stalks, I find that there are at a medium about 2cwt.
of hemp, or these filaments, in every acre, admirably cal
culated for being converted into a thousand articles, where
strength and durability is of importance, as well as, with a
little preparation, into paper of all kinds ; even that of the
most delicate texture.
    Now since there are at least 200,000 acres of ticks, horse
and other beans, planted in Great Britain and Ireland, and
since, where there is not machinery for the purpose, the poor,
both young and old, females as well as males, belonging to
each of the 9700 parishes in England, &c. where beans are
raised, might (hemp having risen of late from 60 to 12O
pounds per ton) be advantageously employed in. peeling, or
otherwise separating these filaments from the strawy part of
the plant, after the beans have been thrashed out ; [ leave
it to the feelings of the Society for the Encouragement of
Arts, &c. to judge of the importance of the idea held out
here, not only to the poor, but to the land-holders and the
community at large.
    It is nearly twelve months since, by analysing its com
ponent parts, I discovered hemp in the bean plant. I would
have written to you. then, Sir, on the subject, and sent a
specimen, but that I was trying experiments with other
plants, as I am during my leisure hours doing at present ;
and I wished to ascertain in what degree this species of
hemp is liable to injury from different situations, and the
changes of the atmospliere.      With a view to this, I exposed
                              M 3                            one

1€2                        On the Preparation   of
 one parcel nearly 1 2 months, to all the varieties of the air
 within doors, and kept another nearly as long constantly
 under water, and find them not inlhe least injured.       The
 chief difference I perceive is, that the one kept constantly
 under water, namely the whitest of the specimens sent yo">
 has assumed a rich silky gloss, and a much more agreeable
 colour than it had before.
    But though this is the case with bean-hemp after it is
cleaned and dressed, and which, though stiff" and hard when
 dry, is pliable and easily managed when rather damp or wet,
it seems otherwise with it previous to its being separated
from the straw.        If bean -straw be kept for years under
water, or quite dry, it produces, I find, hemp as good and
fresh' as at first. But if the straw be sometimes wet and
sometimes dry, the filaments or fibres are apt to be injured.
The specimens of bean-hemp accompanying this letter, in
the form of oakum for caulking ships, having been long
exposed to the varieties of the weather, previous to being
separated from the straw, is a proof of its being considerably
injured.    If the straw of the bean was scattered thin on the
ground, and exposed to the weather for two or three
months, I have uniformly found It hat the hemp, or fibres,
are loosened, and easily separated from the strawy part,
without any other process than merely beating, rubbing and
shaking them, and perhaps this is the easiest way ofobr
taining bean hemp; but then, from being thus exposed,
and the fermentation that takes place in the strawy part,
which is of a spongy nature, communicating itself to the
fibres, or hemp, I find that these are generally less or more
injured, though not so much so, in my opinion, as to pre
vent them from being excellent materials for making paper.
    I have also found, and the importance of th'e idea will,
I  hope, be an excuse for mentioning it here, that, though
the water in which bean straw has been put to steep, in a
few days generally acquires a black colour, a blue scum
and a peculiar taste, yet cattle drink it greedily, and seemed
fattened by it.    But my experiments have hitherto been on
too limited a scale to be able, in a satisfactory manner, to
ascertain this last circumstance.     When the water in which
bean straw has been put to steep, becomes foetid, which I
find it is scarcely more apt to becom* than common stag
nant water, on being stirred by driving horses or cattle
through    it,   by stick, or in any other way set in motion,
                      a
 (as
      isthe case with all putrid water, even the ocean itself,)
the foetid particles        fly
                          off, and the effluvia dies away.
   When straw         to be steeped for bean hemp, the beans
                      is
                                                           are

                 a   FilrMS Sulstancsfrom    Bean Stalks,          183
arc to be thrashed   in a mill : the beans should be put to the
mill, not      right angli^, but op a parallel, or nearly so,
                at
 with the rollers, else ihe straw, particularly if the beani
 are very dry, is apt to be much cut.       If the straw is not
 to be steeped, on putting the beans to be thrashed at right
 angles, or nearly so, with the rollers of the mill, a certain
proportion of the fibres, or hemp, may easily be got from the
 straw, these being in general not so much cut as the straw ;
but often found torn offand hanging about it like fine sew
ing threads.     The hemp thus taken off, though its lying
 under water for months would do it no harm, requires only
 to be steeped a few minutes, drawn through a hackle and
washed, previous to iis being laid up for use. If the hemp,
or fibres, collected in this way (which is a fine light busi
ness for children, and such as are not able for hard work,
and which requires no ingenuity}, are intended only for
making paper, they require neither steeping nor hacklings,
but. only to be put up into parcels and kept dry till sent oft"
 to the manufacturer.
    The straw of beans contains a saccharine juice, and is
highly nutritive, perhaps more so than any other; and, like
clover, the primings of the vine, the loppings of the fig-
tree, &c. produces     a rich infusion,   and commonly fine
table-beer, as well as an excellent spirit by distillation.  It
is the hemp or fibres that prevents cattle from eating it.
These, like hairs in human food, make cattle dislike it.
The collecting of        it,
                        therefore, should never be neglected,
nor the boys and girls in workhouses and other places be
permitted to be idle, while business of this kind would evi
dently tend both to their own and their employers' ad
vantage.
  It   is fact, that about the generality of mills for beating
            a
and dressing hemp and flax,     large proportion,
                                     a                    in
                                                      some in
land places ooth of Great Britain and Ireland, amounting
nearly to one-half of what     carried thither,
                                    is              either left
                                                     is
there to rot, under the name of refuse, or thrown away as
of no use, because too rough and short for being spun and
converted into cloth.     Now, from the experiments      have  I
tried, and caused to be tried,    have uniformly found, that
                                     1
though too rough and short for being converted into cloth,
even of the coarsest kind, the refuse of hemp and flax, on
being beat and shaken, so as to separate the strawy from the
stringy particles, \thich can be done in    few minutes
                                              a
                                                                   by
                                                                   a
mill or hand labour, as     most convenient, becomes thereby
                               is
as soft and pliable, and as useful for making paper, as the
longest, and what       reckoned the most valuable part of the
                         is
                                    M.   4

184                      On the Preparation     of
plant, after it has been converted into cloth and worn for
years.
    In its natural state, it is true the refuse of hemp and flax
is generally of a brown and somewhat dark colour.                    But
what of that ? By the application of muriatic acid, oil of
vitriol, or other cheap ingredient, well known to the che
mist, as well as to every bleacher, such refuse, without
being in the least injured for making paper, can, in a tew
hours, if necessary, be made as white as the finest camhric.
    There are, at a medium, published in London, every
morning, 16,000 newspapers, and every evening about
 14,OOO.      Of those published every other day there are about
 }0,OOO. The Sunday newspapers amount to about 25,000,
and there are nearly 20,000 other weekly papers, making
in all the enormous sum of 245,000 per week. At a me
dium 20 newspapers are equal to one pound — hence the
 whole amount to about 3 tons per week, or 260 tons per
 annum.       But though this, perhaps, is not one-half of the
paper expended in London on periodical publications, and
 what may be called fugacious literature, and not one-fourth
 part of what is otherwise consumed in printing-houses in
 the country at large, yet there are materials enough in the
 refuse of the hemp and flax raised in Britain and Ireland for
 all this and much more.
    Nor is this all : for as the bine or straw of hops, a cir
 cumstance well known to the Society, contains an excellent
 hemp for making many articles, so also will it prove a most
 excellent material for making all kinds of paper.            And it is
 a fact, that  were   even   the one-  half of the  bine of hops raised
 in the counties of Kent Sussex, and Worcester, instead of
 being thrown away, or burnt, after the hops are picked, as
 is commonly done, steeped for ten or twelve days in water,
 and beat in the same way as is done with hemp and flax, in
 dependent of what might be got from bean-hemp, and a
 variety of articles well-known to the Society, there would
be found annually materials enough for three times the quan»
 tity of paper used in the British dominions.
                    I have the honour to be,
                          with much respect,
                                  Sir,
                             Your most humble servant,
                                                   JAMBS HALL.
          Streathun,  Ian. 9, 1809.
To C. TAYLOB, M. D. SEC.
                                                            Certificates

           a   Filrous Sulslance from Bean Stalks.                      185
    Certificates   of the Truth, of the foregoing Statement.
                                         Streatham, Surry,   Jan. 9, 1809.
  WE,    the undersigned, do hereby certify, that the speci-
ments of hemp  inclosed  and  sealed up by us, addressed to
Dr. Taylor, secretary to  the Society for the Encourage
ment of Arts, Manufactures,        and Commerce, Adelphi,
Strand,    are the produce of common   bean straw : —That we
never saw nor heard of bean hemp till lately ; when the
Rev. James Hall, who resides here at present, was trying
experiments respecting it atMr. Adams's farm, Mount Nod,
and other parts of this parish : — That, in the present ob
structed state of commerce with the continent, it appears
to us the discovery of bean hemp may be extremely useful
to the manufacture of canvass, ropes, paper, &c. ;--and that,
as it affords a new and important prospect of employment
for the poor, we think Mr. Hall, the discoverer, is deserv
ing of the approbation of the public.     We shall only add,
that as the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Ma
nufactures, and Commerce, have contributed so often in a
high degree to the e'xertion of genius, the improvement of
the arts, and the public good, we have no doubt but they
will not only take the proper steps to prosecute the discovery
and encourage the manufacture of bean hemp, but also, by
some mark of their favour, show their approbation of Mr.
Hall's merit in the discovery he has made, as well as of his
high public spirit and liberality in communicating the dis
covery to the public without reserve.
                              WILLIAM ADAMS, Mount Nod.
                              EDWARD BULLOCK, Curate.
                              WM. GARDNER, Surgeon.
                                     Streatham, Surry,       Jan. 9, 1809.
   THESE are to certify to the Secretary of the Society for
the Encouragement of Arts, &c. London, and all whom it
may concern, that having seen (at first to our astonishment)
the Rev. James Hall, who has resided here for some time
past, procuring hemp from common bean straw, steeped
some days in water, we steeped some also, and easily got
hemp from it ; there being no mystery in the matter more
than merely steeping the straw, peeling off the hemp, and
then washing and cleaning     it,   by
                                pulling through  it hackle       a
or comb.
  These are also to certify, that having tried bean hemp,
                                                      and

1 86   Preparation     of a Fibrous          Substance       from Bean Stalks.
and found it to take both wax and rosin, we have sewed
with   it,and find the fibres of which    consists in general
                                                         it
so strong, that the leather never failed to give way sooner
than the seam.     We have only to add, that as hemp has of
late become uncommonly dear, while much of               bad,
                                                                           it
                                                                           is
we anxiously wish the prosecution of the discovery, and
the appearance of bean hemp       the market in and shall, so     ;
soon as we hear of its being spun and on sale, he among
the first to purchase and use it.
                          John Houne, Shoemaker.
                           Thomas Alford, Shoemaker.
  Letter from       Mr.       Hume,      of    Long Acre,             to the Rev.
                                James        Hall.
Str,   I inclose     specimen of the bean filaments or thread
                      a
which  have been submitted to the bleaching process.     The
texture and strength seem not in the least to have been im
paired, but retain the primitive tenacity and am persuaded
                                                         j        I
this substance will prove an excellent substitute for hemp
and flax, for the manufacture of various kinds of paper,
cordage, and other materials.     did not find more difficulty
                                         I
in accomplishing   the bleaching of this than    other vege           in
tables which   have occasionally tried, and
               I                                 believe this     I
article  susceptible of still greater degree of whiteness.
        is                     a
                    remain, sir,
                    I
                       Your very obedient servant,
                                                              Jos. Hume.
Long Acre, Feb. 24,
                                              »
                      1807.
    Letter from     Mr. H. Davy              to the Rev. James             Hall.
Sir,   I    shallinclose in this paper      small quantity of the
                                                     a
bean fibres, rendered as white as possible       chemical means.
                                                             by
  It  seems to bear bleaching very well and, as to chemical
                                                         ;
properties, differs very little from hemp.
   The question, Whether           likely to be of useful applica
                                   it   is
tion,  is
        amechanical one, and must be solved          experiments  by
on its comparative strength.                      T   am, sir,
                              Your obedient humble servant,
                                                                      H. Davy.
                                                                  XXXIII.          On

                                [   187   ]
XXXIII.      On Crystallography.     By M. HAUY. . Translated
from   the Last    Paris Edition of his Traite de Mineralogie.
                        [Continued from p. 153.]
                  OP MINERALOGICAL            METHODS.
ALL the productions of nature, considered in the point of
view in which she presents them directly to our eyes, form
a picture complicated with a multitude of details, in the
midst of which the eye is lost at the first glance, and sees
every thing ai once without distinguishing any thing.
   With the view of facilitating the study of this picture,
there have been contrived, with respect to mineralogy, as
with zoology and botany, methodical distributions of the
subjects which are therein embraced ; their different parts
have been dissected in imagination, so as to form a kind of
factitious table, with which we may afterwards compare the
former, and which serves it as a kind of explanation.
   However slightly we reflect on the progress of these
methodical arrangements, we may easily perceive that they
are rounded on the faculty possessed by the human mind
of regarding certain qualities in an object, by abstracting
others ; and of raising ourselves gradually from particular
to general   ideas.
  Thus, when speaking of an oak as a determinate object
which I can point out with my linger, I make no abstrac
tion ; 1 consider in the object which I name, all the qualities
that can accord with it : in a word, I designate an indivi
dual, i. e., a being which has a particular existence. But
if,  in pronouncing the word OAK,         Ihave not seen any par
ticular oak, then     I  abitracl the idea of         particular ex
                                                        a
istence ;I    designate    in general    collection
                                          a           of individuals
similar in all their parts, and this collection       what is called
                                                        is
a  'SPECIES.
    The sense in which       I   have taken the word Oak (or
 Quercus)
             isthat which   every body attaches to       in ordinary
                                                             it
 language.     Now,     on  comparing     the   individuals    of the
species   in question  with  those  of, another   species,  to  which
the name of Holm Oak (Ilex) has been given,                    remark
                                                                  I
that the latter have the organs of the flower similarly con
 structed, and that their fruits are acorns also but that they
                                                            ;
 differ from each other in several respects, and particularly
in the form and consistence of the leaves which in the  ;
former are broad, soft, and terminated             by
                                                   round lobes, and
in the latter narrow and indented at the edges.                   can,I
 therefore, fix my attention solely on the resemblance of the
                                                                flower

   188                        On Crystallography.
  flower and the fruit in the individuals of the two species,
  keeping separate in my imagination all the parts which
  differ; and in order to adapt the nomenclature to this
  resemblance, which alone occupies my mind, I shall extend
  the name of oak to both the species.                 Referring my mind
  afterwards to the differences which I have left ou one side,
  I  shall keep an account of them in language, distinguish
 ing by the name of common oak the individuals of the
  first species, and by the name of green oak those of the
  second.       I shall then have a genus, of which the common
  oak and the green oak will be two species.
      By a new abstraction I can consider in the two oaks no
 thing but their size, ligneous consistence, and the faculty
 which they have of existing a certain number of years ; and
 observing that several kinds of productions, different from
 oaks, have also a great consistency and are very long lived,
 while a multitude of other species are of lower stature,
 more pliant, and exist a year or two only, I shall unite, un
 der one and the same idea, the first by the name of trees,
 and I shall designate in common all the others by the
 name of shrubs.          I shall thus have two great classes*, each
 of which may be subdivided into a certain number of genera,
 which will be groups of species.                   Finally, if I have no
 longer any regard but to the faculty which all these ob
jects have of vegetating, and of being nourished from the
juices of the earth, I shall include them under the general
denomination plant, and I shall thus attain, by a series of
 ideas always more abstract, the most elevated point of view
 of   the vegetable kingdom.
      Human languages present             a host of examples of similar
 abstractions, which        a natural spirit of analysis has suggested
even to the vulgar; and it is by directing their views in the
same manner that the learned have formed their systems
and methods.           They have merely subjected these methodical
 arrangements        to more precise and more rational principles ;
they     have   multiplied their divisions and subdivisions, and
have in some measure arranged them by the indication of
the characters peculiar to the objects which each division
 contains.
      We gee from what precedes, that in proportion as we
ascend into the course of abstractions, we connect together
a greater number of beings, according to the relation or
character analogous to the degree of abstraction.                   Thus the
    *  I do not pretend to establish rigorous limits here between the division*
of bodies, but merely to give   a sketch of the progress of ideas by examples
taken from familiar objects.
                                                                          idea

                           On Crystallography.                                igg
idea which the word tree expresses, embraces incomparably
more plants than that which is attached to the word oak,
and the latter has a greater latitude than the idea presented
to   the mind by the word green oak.                  Reciprocally, every
abstraction from an inferior degree compresses                           into a
smaller space the number of the objects to which it is ex
tended. What does methodizing effect then ? — It divides
and subdivides successively the assemblage of objects, ac
cording to their various characters or relations, so that, at
every division, all the characters enunciated in the preced
ing divisions being regarded as still subsisting, the method
adds the expression of a new character, a new trait of re
semblance, which detaches the objects contained in this
division.      The more the sum of the relations increases, and
the more on the contrary the number of objects with
which these relations agree are diminished, and when this
sum is the greatest possible, when it is extended to all the
faces of the objects which it includes, each of these objects
is considered as representing all the others, and we say
that all these objects are of the same species.
    On the other hand, in proportion as the degree of abs
traction is raised, the number of subdivisions which an
swers to this degree diminishes : and it was this manner of
regarding methodical order that the illustrious Bacon had
in view, when he compared Nature to a pyramid the base
of which was occupied by an almost infinite number of
 individuals : above this base rise the species formed by the
assemblage of individuals, and which are consequently ex
 tended over a narrower space than the base ; afterwards
 come successively the genera composed of species, then
 other superior genera (which answers to our orders and
 classes); until Nature, after having become narrower and
narrower, terminates in a point, or in unity*.
     We may also he able to see that the character which
 served to connect with each other the productions of one
 and the same division, distinguished them from those of
another division.          Hence, and from all that precedes, re
 sult two remarkable advantages of the method.                         The first
 is, to make us acquainted with objects not only by them
 selves but also by comparison, each of them being placed by
 the method in such a manner that it turns in some measure
 towards the rest the side in which it resembles them, and
 presents in an opposite direction that by which it ia distia-
    • Bacon, De Aupnunt.
                            Srient. t. ii.c. 13. See the work which has for
its title " Le Chri^tianisme dc Frarvjois Bacon."    Paris, an 7, t. i. p. I.
                                                                        guished

t
     1 go                     On Crystallography.
    guished from them. The second advantage                    that after is,
    we have been exercised in making applications from the
    method to       a certain number of objects already known, we
    may attain      a  knowledge even of that which would be new
     to us,   by consulting successively the characters which ac
    company each division, and                      by
                                             making use of the method
    to inquire into the subject, and to learn from the object                        it
    self the place which         itoccupies in the method.
       The series of divisions and subdivisions in mineralogical
    distributions        nearly the same as
                        is                           those which regard
                                                               ^in
    organic bodies. This series, taken                               by
                                                        descending from
    generals    to particulars,       gives the following gradation                  is
    classes, orders, genera, species, varieties.          But there                  a :
    sensible difference relative to the methods used in these
    two departments of science, relative to the manner in which
    we consider objects, or to the choice of the methods em
    ployed to classify and characterize these objects.
         Thus,     inbotany, we call species the succession of plants
    which reproduce each other.            In mineralogy, there      nei        is
    ther reproduction nor species,              we take this term in
                                                     if                               a
    rigorous acceptation. There             nothing, however, to hinder
                                                is
    us from following the example of Linnaeus, Bergman, and
    several other celebrated naturalists, in applying the word
    species in     a  wider sense, to an assemblage of inorganic
    beings   which     have  a  common basis, and the differences of
    which ought       to be  regarded as purely accidental.
       But  this   leads  us  to an important question, to which                      it
    does not seem that sufficient attention has hitherto been
    paid.    In what consists          the present case the type of the
                                       in
    species;  —   and   when   are wejustified     regarding several mi
                                                              in
    nerals as belonging to one and the same species*                            ?     It
    seems at first view as       ifchemical composition was the basis
    of this union so that the true notion of the species con
                        ;
    sists in conceiving an assemblage of minerals formed of
    the same principles united to each other according to the
    same laws.        But we shall see how much this idea            sus        is
    ceptible   of  restriction,   and  to  what   point  even we  should
    wander from our object,             inmultitude of circumstances,
                                                a
    on taking      itfor our guide, in assembling of varieties which
    ought   to  bear   one and the same specific name.
     * shall by and by recur to the reasons which induced me to apply thlf
       I
    word, rather than that of getuu.to the different objects which in the language
    received among naturalists have        common name, such as topaz, emerald,
                                            a
    garnet, &c, or, if  an acidiferous substance    alluded to, the term carbonated
                                                         is
    lime, Sulphated baryles, &c.  It   issufficient for my purpose at present to
    point out such of the divisions and subdivisions of the method to which           I
    give the denomination specie*.

                         On Crystallography.                 191
    In order   that  I may be better understood, I shall take an
example     from   feldspar. Mr. Kirwan, to whom we are in
debted for a treatise on mineralogy, in which that cele
brated author has brought together, in the development of
the science, the external characters of minerals and the
results of his own researches as well as of those of other
chemists, as to the composition of these bodies, cites 13
analyses of the substance in question, to which we may
add a 14th made by Vauquelin.            Now, -not only do the
products vary among each other in the proportions of
the same principles, but there are ingredients which are
found in certain products, and not in others.               Thus
Mr. Kirwan has procured from a reddish feldspar eleven
per cent, of harytcs and eight of magnesia ; whilst the re
sult obtained by Wieglieb in another feldspar of a red co
lour, furnished neither of these earths, but only silex and
aluminc, with a small quantity of oxide of iron and fluoric
acid. Vauquelin found about one seventh of potash in
the feldspar called adular, and in the green feldspar of
Siberia, and yet no other analysis has presented this alkali.
Besides, this expert chemist has discovered neither magnesia
nor barytes in the same mineral.
    Mr. Kirwan concludes, from .the different analyses quoted
by him, that every compound of silex and alumine (the
silex being predominant) to which is added a slight pro
portion of lime and magnesia, or of lime, of magnesia and
barytes, (but sufficient to render the whole fusible at a de
gree of heat not exceeding 140°,) would form a feldspar; and
 we ought not to hesitate in giving it this name, if at the same
 time it presents a lamellous texture. But he adds that iron
 seems in this case to be an accidental principle.
     I do not observe that this rule laid down by Mr. Kirwan
 leaves any thing to be desired, so far as simplicity and pre
cision are concerned ; but in spite of the efforts of the
 author to render it general, at the hazard of loading it with
 conditions, it is no longer applicable to the result of the
 analysis made by M. Vauquelin of the feldspar known by
 the name of adulary ; and finally, if we should undertake
 to give similar rules for all minerals, the result would be a
 complication from which it would be difficult to extricate
 ourselves, and it would even very probably, happen, that
 a rule which should have for its object such a particular
 species might be applied nearly equally well to an entirely
 different species.
     I shall not examine if all the analyses alluded to by Mr.
  Kirwan deserve an equal confidence. But we may at least
                                                        conclude

 igt                  On Crystallography.
 conclude that they indicate perceptible differences of com
position between the specimens analysed.       I could produce
other examples of a mineral, the different analyses of which
made by skilful operators have given different products ; and
we shall presently see that this must necessarily take place
in a variety of circumstances.
   Now I return, and I ask, on what foundation Mr.Kirwan
gives the name of feldspar to the various specimens which
 nave been the subjects of the analyses above mentioned.
This intimacy surely is not founded on the results of these
analyses ; since we should rather be inclined to infer, from
the differences which they have presented, that a few at
least of the substances to which they are referred, con
stitute distinct species.    In a word, it is visible that Mr.
Kirwan has tacitly supposed that, abstracting all considera
tion of the analyses, the substances in question had been
regarded as feldspars.
   On perusing what has been written by naturalists on the
subject of this mineral, we see that its place was assigned
according to a certain assemblage of characters, such as a
hardness capable of producing sparks with steel ; a leafy
texture added to its breaking into rhomboidal fragments :
a specific gravity of about 2-5 j a fusibility into a white
enamel ; &c.
   But these characters are for the most part variable to a
certain point ; and this variation may even be extended far
enough, in certain cases, by a consequence of that which
the component substances undergo.         These are so many
useful ways of assisting us to recognize bodies which be
long to one and the same species ; but in addition to their
not presenting to the mind a sufficiently simple and precise
idea of what constitutes this species, their results are not
always proper for tracing the limit which separates one
species from another : and it is on account of our being re
stricted to consulting them only, that we have confounded
the pyroxene with the amphibolus, the chabasie with
the mesotype, and so on with several other relative con
nexions, the fault of which will become evident from what
we shall say under the respective heads of the substances
to which they are referred.
   There exists a character much more solid and much
more proper by its invariability, to serve as a rallying point
to the different bodies, which belong to one and the same
species.    This is derived from the exact form of the inte
grant    molecule,  because this form subsists, without any
sensible alteration, independently of all the causes which
                                                          may

                        On Crystallography.                        Jg3
 may cause the other characters to vary. Thus, in order
 that we may not quit the example of feldspar, such in this
 substance is the arrangement of the natural joints, that the
 molecule resulting from it is an oblique-angled parallelopi-
 pedon, in .which the three plane angles which concur to the
 formation of one and the same solid angle, form among
 them a first angle of 90°, a second of 120°, and a third
 of 1110 and a half; and these angles will be constantly
 the same in specimens variously crystallized ; in those which
 will give by analysis barytes or potash, as well as in those
 which will exhibit no vestige of it.
    And not only may we estimate by observation combined
 with theory the angles of the integrant molecule, but xve
even succeed in ascertaining the relations between its di
 mensions, and there results a geometrical form perfectly
determinate, which is the same in all the individuals of
the species, and which presents as it were a fixed point in
the midst of the oscillations of all the other characters ; so
that we may even say, that in general the bodies of each
species touch closer in the results of the theory relative to
their structure than in those of chemical analysis.
     T do not pretend     to raise the character I have just
mentioned above its real importance.         1 am even led to
suspect the predilection which 1 ought naturally to have
for that character which belongs to a branch of mineralogy
which I have cultivated with particular care.          But this
predilection does not prevent me from stating a truth
tvhich I think useful to the progress of science ; which is,
that this character, borrowed from the structure, ought to
have a great influence in the distinction of the species; and
by neglecting it we deprive ourselves of one of the most
advantageous methods tor the formation of an exact and re
gular system.
    It may be objected, that the determination of the inte
grant molecule of a body is frequently a delicate operation,
which requires minute experiments, and besides presup
poses a knowledge of calculation which the whole world is
not in possession of.      But chemical analysis has also its
difficulties, and is not the affair of a moment.     It requires
a good deal of art to employ the most proper agents for
seizing and coercing principles invisible, and, if we may
be allowed the expression, impatient to escape from the
hands of the chemist: it requires art also that the operation
may take nothing from the result that belongs to          is it,
                                                            and
add nothing that   is  foreign to it; and sometimes  it    only
by   repeatedly recurring to the subject, that we succeed
  'Vol. 35. No. 143. March 1810.              N               «t

  194                        On Crystallography.
  in forming the faithful         picture    of the    relations which ex
  isted among these various principles combined with each
  other in the substance as yet untouched.                   We never pur
  chase at too high a price what contributes to the perfection
  of a science, and we ought not to calculate time when it
  is necessary to arrive at immutable truths.
      It will perhaps be said also, that a mineral substance is
  found in compact or granulous masses, which refuse to
 submit to any mechanical division.                    I shall answer, that
 frequently also these masses form a continuity with cry
  stallized substances, or such as have a lamcllated texture,
 in such a 'manner that it is visible that they are referred to
 the same species ; and as to those which we meet with in an
 insulated state, if nothing more is then wanted to determine
 them, except characters less certain than that which is de
 rived from the structure, it merely results that we ought to
 regret that this last character has not a greater generality ;
 and this very regret is a kind of avowal of its preeminence,
 in every case in which it can be employed*.
     Will it be said that there are forms of integrant mole
 cules which are common to substances of different natures?
 I shall observe, in the first place, that this does not take
 place except with respect to solids which have a peculiar
 character of regularity, in such a manner that in all the
 other cases the form of the integrant molecule is sufficient
 of itself for determining the species.              1 shall answer after
 wards, that most of the substances which have one cora-
 rnon molecule (and this may be said of all those which,
 like the ductile metals, never have a lamellous texture) may
 be easily distinguished by other characters.                 For example,
 the cube agrees besXas the integrant molecule with borated
 magnesia, muriated soda, sulphurated lead, sulphurated
 iron, &c. ; all of them ascertainable independently of me
 chanical division.
     Jn a word : all that I wish to infer from this discussion
is, that the character drawn from the structure ought to
occupy a very distinguished rank among those which are
made use of to mark the general character (triage) of
    * Sometime s the rareness of crystals is alleged as a proof of the scanty
resources furnished by the character dniwn from crystallization.           This
difficulty does not seem to be well founded, since a single crystal clearly de
fined, is sufficient to determine a multitude of irregufar masses, which, with
this crystal, would have relations indicative of an identity in nature : and, if,
by objecting that crystals are rare, it is meant to say that there are several
mineralogies! species which are never presented under crystalline forms,
I shall ask if these are properly species per se, and not on the other hand
mixed species, in the production of which different species have concurred ?
                                                                     original

                            On Crystallography.                            195
 original bodies of one and the same species.         It certainly
 has its obscure sides, and there are circumstances in which
it disappears.    But wherever it shows itself, there is a ray
of light against which we ought not to shut our eyes.
    I shall add, that, with a little expertness in applying cal
culation to theory, we may decide if a given form enters
into, or ought to be excluded from, any given species,
Thus we shall find that the cube which has been quoted
among the varieties of carbonated lime is foreign to the
crystallization of this substance*.       Now it is easy to see
of what service this adaptation of calculation muse be, in
order to separate the crystallized minerals into their re
spective species, assigning to each what belongs to           and    it,
freeing   itfrom what     might have usurped.
                            it
    All that precedes leads us to an interesting consideration
relative to the chemical composition of minerals         viz. that
                                                               :
the principles which concur to form their integrant mole
cules must, as    Ithink, be constant, both as to their quan
tities and their qualities, in such       manner that the sub
                                               a
stances which cause         variation in the products of the
                              a
analysis are foreign to the molecules, and merely interposed
among them in the mass of the mineralf. We may com
pare  a substance mixed with these' additional principles to
certain salts with which other salts are accidentally united,
as   is the case with nitre of the first formation.        When
                                                                                  *
we make this salt undergo successive          solutions and cry-
stallizations in order to purify         it,
                                       the liquid in no respect
alters the figure of its molecules;        only separates them
                                               it
from each other, and frees them from those of the other
salts which were associated        with them, and which had
gone for nothing       their composition.
                       in                       In the same way
the principles on which the differences between the analyses
 of various pieces of one and the same mineral depend,
 merely form with the substance peculiar to the latter                      a
 simple mixture, from which the integrant molecules would
come out untouched,         power were not given to us to re
                             if
 gulate,  if  we may be allowed the expression, their de-
parturej.
                                                                       From
   • ViAn under the head Carbonated Lime, the
                                                    variety which we have
called lid-in,!.
f  I   even think that, in the case in which we say that there  isan excess of
one of the principles in other respects essential to the composition of a
mineral, the superabundant pare goes for nothing in the formation of the
molecule, and. ought to be ranked among heterogeneous and purely acci
dental principles.
 t   These are the accidental principles which produce     a variation in cer
tain external characters, tuch as colour, lustre of external surface, of frac-
                                     N  2                                 ture,

196                         On Crystallography.
     From     these considerations it appears to me that we
may     define    a species in mineralogy to be, A collection of
bodies, the integrant molecules of which are similar, and com
posed of the same elements united in the same proportion.
This last condition generalizes the definition, and extends
it to substances which, having their molecules of' the same
configuration, differ essentially in the principles which
compose these molecules.
    Some mineralogists are of opinion that these collections
which I have called species ought rather 10 be regarded as
genera.        But where then would be the species which
would subdivide the genus ? Would these he crystals of
different forms ? It seems to me that these modifications,
which in truth are the results of so many determinate laws,
but which after all belong only to local circumstances, such
as the density or other qualities of the liquid, — do not fur
 nish a sufficient reason for establishing specific distinctions
between them.           They do not touch the substance, and are
 confined to the giving of different envelopes to one and the
 same nucleus.          Besides, on the supposition in question we
 should be embarrassed with unshapen masses, which surely
 do not deserve to be erected into species.                 The same an
 swer applies to the hypothesis on which the species would
 form groups, one of which, for example, would compre
 hend bodies regularly crystallized; a second, concretions,
 &c. But let us conceive that the molecules which pro
 duced the concretion had been freely suspended in a tran
 quil liquid ; they would have assumed another arrange
 ment, and might have formed crvstals. The idea originated'
 by the word species goes straight down to the bottom of
 the substance, and does not stop at simple windings.
     We should not be better founded in regarding as so many
 species the mixtures of a substance with accidental prin
 ciples, which only modify the principal species, but do not
 transform it into another which may be really distinguished
 from it. Even these mixed bodies only belong to the
 ture, Sec.  Thus we find at mount Vesuvius crystals of pvroxene (Augit of
 Werner), the surface and fracture of which have a very shining appearance,
 whereas amongst those of Norway several have a rough and duli surface,
 and their interior is not very shining.    Nevertheless both are divided under
 the same angles, and have forms cither similar, or which may be referred
 to the same molecule; so that the species to which they belong preserves its
 unity, in spite of the differences of aspect which we have mentioned i and
 consequently these differences are all of them at most the index of a varia
 tion in the principles which concur m any given way to the composition
 •f the substance, but they do not announce any variation in the essential
 und truly constituent principles.
                                                                     principal

                        On Crystallography.                   197
principal specie?, because they admit of the existence, at
least in part, of the predominant characters.        If this was
not the case, they ought no longer to occupy a place in the
method: they ought to be thrown into the general appen
dix, in which are placed the mixed substances called rocks.
And this shows how contrary it is to the spirit of the me
thod, to place on the same line (as so many particular
species) with the true species, marles, argils, schists, and
other bodies, which are only fortuitous aggregates of species
already classed in other places in the method, and no one
of which imprints its character on the whole; so that we
are even unable to decide to what species they ought to be
refened, as being but a simple appendage.
    From all that I have said, we shall easily conceive how
important it would be to determine by the aid of analysis,
 (with respect to each species) those principles which concur-
by themselves to the formation of the integrant molecule,
by operating on picked pieces, the composition of which
contains only what cannot be dispensed with, without ceasing
to be what it really     is,
                           and which had borrowed nothing,       if
we may be allowed the expression, from the liquid in which       it
 had originated. We should thus have the limit from which
 the analyses of other pieces remove more or less, according
 as the latter contain principles purely accidental, or  if   one
of the constituent principles           found there' in excess.
                                         is
 This limit would give what would be called the analysis of
 the mineral submitted to experiment, and the other results
 would make known the accidental diversities of which the
 composition       susceptible: they would serve to indicate
 to what term    a is
                    certain principle has varied in its propor
 tions, and to unveil the principles which have only    a  trans
 itory existence, and 'are rather    asurcharge with respect to
 the mineral which contains them, as they do not contri
 bute to its integrity.
 I    think  I  have sufficiently shown how much strength
 may be acquired        bychemistry and mineralogy by their
 mutual cooperation.      Without the former we should be
 ignorant in what class        mineral ought to be placed
                               a                            if   it
 contains an acid, or     ifearths only enter its composition,
 orifit   does not conceal     metallic substance under the ap
                               a
 pearance of     asimple stone.     Without the latter art,      it
 would frequently be difficult to refer to the type of the
 species the varieties which appertain to it.    The one indi
 cates the first link of the chain, and marks the point to
 which  it  ought to be attached    but the intervention of the
                                   3 ;
                               N                            other

198                     On Crystallography.
other is necessary for continuing this chain and arranging
the different links of it.
   I trust that this long discussion will be forgiven. T
thought it necessary, because it appeared to me tliat at no
time has the influence been sufficiently acknowledged, which
mineralogy ought to have on a well-arranged method ; and
because, if there are cases in which the mineralogist cannot
refrain from saying tn the chemist, Make me acquainted
with the substance which you have analysed, — there are
others in which the chemist, if he is cautious, ought to
say to the mineralogist, Make me acquainted with ttie sub
stance which   I have analysed.
   M. Vauquelin, who add? to dexterity of operating a great
accuracy of reasoning, has proved more than once, that he
did not regard the consequences inferred from ihe geometry
of crystals as useless in assisting us to fix the ierm at which
the analysis ought to begin.           Placed by circumstances
beside each other, we have frequently consulted together
on the subject of our inquiries, and the results which
we attained, by two methods of interrogating nature
so different, were mutually of service as guarantees          by
their conformity.       I feel strongly the advantages which
this cooperation has produced, and I am anxious that it
should be publicly known, that it is in the Ecole des Mines
in France that chemistry and crystallography, so long se»
parated, have contracted a strict alliance, which bids fair
to be of long duration.
   If we now resume the comparison between the me
thods of botanists and those of mineralogists, we may
observe that the former are entirely founded on charac
ters furnished by observation of the external         form, but
the latter having a necessary connexion with the internal
organization,    which is constant in all the individuals of
one  and  the  same     species, each of them may 'serve as a
common     model,    in  order to paint as if at a single stroke
the entire  species.
   In the mineral kingdom, on the contrary, in which the
external characters undergo continual variations, in which
even the best defined forms are only evanescent disguises,
nothing that speaks to the eye can serve as a foundation to
               x
the method.       It belongs to analysis to lay this founda
tion, and to regulate the order of classification, making use
on all occasions of the light afforded by crystallography.
But this object once attained, the observer must be able to
ascertain the substances Classified by methods independent
                                                              of

                          On Crystallography.                199
of analysis, by employing        a choice of characters happily
  combined, some of which are presented as of themselves
  to our senses, and the others only require, for being re
 gularly defined, prompt and easy operations.
     Here crystallography, which had seconded analysis in
  the formation of the method, will reappear to advantage,
 in order to furnish characters founded on the angles of
 crystals, which may be measured in an instant.
    Thus the means which have presided in the composition
 of the method will be at the same time the most solid, and
 those which will be the least arbitrary, and the means
 which shall direct the use of the method will have the
  merit of simplicity aud convenience.
     It may be seen from what precedes, that a mineralogical
 system, being complicated with characters frequently Dor-
 rowed from very different considerations, requires more
 cautious proceeding in the person who employs it than a
 botanical system, the uniform and regular progress of
 which is traced according to a modification which speaks
 to the eyes, in such a manner that all the labour of the
 observer is confined to the different applications of one and
 the same principle.     But this inconvenience, if it be one,
 is compensated in a great measure by the advantage of only
 having to determine among a number of species incom
 parably less than that which botany embraces : and the
 method being in this respect confined in a narrower circle,
 the observer finds his way more easily in the midst of the
 circuits which he  i-s obliged to take in order to attain his
 object.   We may add, that even the variety of the cha
 racters which he associates      inone and the same inquiry,
and the, various kinds of knowledge which he combines
with thr observations of what         presented to his senses,
                                       is
contrib/.i to give additional interest to the study of the
objects which interest his mind, and to render this study
at once more gratifying and instructive.
    We have given in the preliminary discourse      a   detailed
explanation of the method which we have adopted. The
plan of it  has been conceived in such      manner that, with
                                            a
out suffering ourselves to fabricate connexions disavowed     by
nature, with a   view to anticipate the results of analysis, we
might profit   by  all those which should admit of our esta
blishing a  regular distribution of those parts of the method,
in which the labours of the chemists have procured more
certain and better connected information.         We have di
vided the whole mineral kingdom into four classes, the
titles of which we here place before the reader,
                               N4                   1.   Acidi-

200                     On Crystallography.
    1. Acidiferous substances ; composed of an acid united
to an earth or an alkali, and sometimes to both.
    2. Earthy substances ; into the composition of which
earths only enter, united sometimes with an alkali.
    3. Combustible substances (not metallic).
    4. Metallic substances.
    We have also explained the reasons which induced us
to choose the base rather than the acid for characterizing
the genera of the first 'class, and those to which metallic
substances belong, which have also an acid for one of their
component principles.          Rence, in the last place, the ne
cessity of modifying, by      the  help of a very simple inversion,
the specific names adopted by modern chemists, when they
say sulphated lime instead of sulphate of lime ; cariuretted
iron, instead of carburet of iron, &c., in order to modify
the nomenclature to the system itself, and to preserve that
precision and regularity so happily introduced by Linnaeus
into the language of natural history.
    The care which we have taken to restrict our method to
what is founded on exact and precise experience, dictated
 that we should exclude certain substances, the nature of
 which is not yet sufficiently verified to admit of our de
 ciding whether they constitute distinct species, or if they
 may be referred to any of the species already classified.
 We shall arrange these substances in a first appendix, in
 which we shall give the description of them, detailing the
 surmises which their characters may have already originated,
 as to what they would become if better known.            A second
 appendix    will   contain  the  substances   which  are  only ad
 mixtures of different species, and among which are found
 the aggregates known by the name of rocks, and which
 we shall therein more particularly describe.        Lasf't ; there
 will be a third appendix for the productions of -volcanos,
 and for those of "subterranean fires, but not volcanic.
     After all it must be remembered, that our methods, even
 when best managed, represent nature but imperfectly ; and
 after having conducted us a certain length they leave us
                  '
 to ourselves.       It should seem as if they had only been
 composed from selected pieces, in which the characters
 which they indicated had a clearer or belter pronounced ex
  pression.    Incomplete as they are, however, they have the
  precious advantage of putting our ideas in order, and pre
  pare us for a more detailed study of their object.       The in
  struction having been once begun by the exact application
  of the principles to selected specimens, is more easily
  and more happily terminated, by the close observation of
                                                               every

        On    the Identity     of Columlium and Tantalum.               2O1
every thing which may be Qresented in nature ; and the art
ef advantageously applying the method, leads an expert
eye to find the art           of knowing how to         dispense     with it
altogether.
                                [To be continued.]
XXXIV.           On the Identity of Columlium and Tantalum.
     By WILLIAM HYDE WOLLASTON, M.D. Sec.R.S.*
 W ITHIN           a short time alter the discovery of columbium
by    Mr.    Hatchett     in ISOIfj a metallic substance was also
discovered in Sweden by M. EkebergJ, differing from every
metal then known to him; and accordingly he described
the properties by which it might be distinguished                       from
those which it most nearly resembled. But although the
Swedish metal has retained the name of Tantalum given
to it by M. Ekuberg, a reasonable degree of doubt has beeri
entertained by chemists, whether these two authors had
not in fact described the same substances ; and it has
been regretted that the discoverers themselves, who would
have been most able to remove the uncertainty, had not
had opportunities of comparing their respective minerals,
 or the products of their analyses.
    As I have lately obtained small specimens of the two
 Swedish minerals tantalite and yttrotantalite, from which
 I could obtain tantalum, and was very desirous of com
 paring its properties with those of columbium, Mr. Hat-
 chett very obligingly furnished me with some oxide of the
 latter, which remained in his possession.
    The resemblance was such in my first trials, as to in
 duce me to endeavour to procure a further supply of. co-
 Jumbium 5 and by application to the trustees of the British
 Museum, I was allowed to detach a few grains from the
 original specimen analysed by Mr. Hatchett.
    Notwithstanding the quantity employed in my analyses
 was thus limited, I have, nevertheless, by proportionate
 ceconomy of the materials, been enabled to render my ex
 periments sufficiently numerous, and have found so many
 points of agreement in the modes by which each of these
 bodies can or cannot be dissolved or precipitated, as to
  prove very satisfactorily that these American and Swedish
  specimens in fact contain the same metal : and since the
    * From Phil. Trans.
                            1809, Part II.
    + Phil. Trans, tor 1803.
    * retenkaju
 N                  Jcademient  Handlinear.  1802, p. 68.— Journal   du Mintt.
 TOl. lii. p. 245.
                                                                   .re-agent*

 SOf      On the Identity   of Columlium and Tantalum.
  re-agents I have employed are ,in the hands of every che
 mist, the properties which I sifall enumerate are such as
 will be most useful in the practical examination of any
 other minerals in which this metal may be found to occur.
     In appearance the columbite is so like tantalite, that it
 is extremely difficult to discern a difference that can be
relied upon.     The external surface, as well as ihe colour
and lustre of the fracture, are precisely the same ; but co-
lumliite breaks rather more casily^w a blow, and the frac
ture of it is less uniform, appearing in some parts irre
gularly shattered ; nevertheless, when the two are rubbed
against each other, the hardness appears to be the same,
and the colour of the scratch has the same tint of very
dark brown.
    By analysis also, these bodies are found to consist of
the same three ingredients; a white oxide, combined with
iron and manganese.
    Either of these minerals, when reduced to powder, is very
readily acted upon by potash ; but as the iron contained in
them is not affected by alkalies, it appeared better to add
a small proportion of borax.
    Five grains of columbile being mixed with 55 grains of
carbonate of potash and ten grains of borax, were fused
together for a few minutes, and found to be perfectly in-
coiporated.     The colour was of a deep green, from the
quantity of manganese        present.      The mass when cold
could he softened with water, and a portion of the oxide
could be so dissolved ; but it seemed preferable to employ
dilute muriatic acid, which, by dissolving all other ingre
dients excepting columbium,        left the ox'de nearly white,
by the removal of iron and manganese that had been com
bined with it.
    The muriatic solution having been poured off and neu
tralized with carbonate of ammonia, the iron was then
separated by succinate of ammonia ; after which the man
ganese was precipitated by prussiate of potash.
    The products thus obtained frorh five grains of columbitej
after each had been heated to redness, were nearly,
              White oxide                   4 grains
              Oxide of iron   ....*,....
                                         -j- -J-
              Oxide of manganese ...         ;
but it   cannot be supposed that proportions deduced from
experiments made on so small           scale can be
                                                      entirely de
                                  a
pended upon, although     the  properties   of bodies   may be so
discerned, nearly as   well as  when    larger quantities are em
ployed.
                                                            An

       On the Identity   of Columlium and Tantalum.         203
    An equal weight of tantalite taken from a specimen, of
which tiie specific gravity of 7-8, yielded, by the same
treatment,
               White oxide               4± grains.
               Oxide of iron             %
               Oxide manganese           -fa.
    The white oxides obtained from each of these minerals
are remarkable for their insolubility in the three common
mineral acids, as both Mr. Hatchett and M. Ekeberg have
observed.
    In muriatic acid they cannot be said to be absolutely in
soluble ; but they are not sufficiently soluble for the pur
 poses of analysis.
     In nitric acid they are ako nearly, if not perfectly, inso-
luble.
     In sulphuric acid, when concentrated and boiling, the
 oxide of columbium may be dissolved in small quantity,
 and so also may the oxide obtained from tantalite.
     The proper solvent, as has been observed by Mr. Hatchett
 and by M. Ekeberg, is potash ; and as it is not required to
 be in its caustic state, I employed the crystallized carbonate
 of potash on account of its purity and uniformity.           Of
 this salt about eight grains seemed requisite to be fused
 with one of the oxide obtained from either of these mi
 nerals to render it soluble in water.
     Soda also combines with the oxide, and may be said to
 dissolve it ; but a far larger proportion of this alkali is ne
 cessary, and a larger quantity of water. And although a
 solution may have been effected that is transparent while
 hot, it very soon becomes opaque in cooling, and finally
 almost the whole of the oxide subsides combined with a
 portion of the soda in a state nearly insoluble.
      When a solution of the white oxide, obtained from either
 of these minerals, has been made, as above, with potash,
 the whole may be precipitated by the addition of an acid,
 and will not be redissolved by an excess of sulphuric acid,
 of nitric, of muriatic, succinic, or aceiic acids.
      But there is a further agreement in the properties of
  these two minerals, which appears above all others to es
  tablish their identity ; for though they are both so nearly
  insoluble by any excess of the mineral acids, yet they are,
  each completely dissolved by oxalic acid, by tartaric acid,
  or by citric acid ; and the solution of each is subject to the
  same limitations; for if the precipitate has been dried, it is
  become intractable, and can scarcely be dissolved again till
  after a second fusion with potash.
                                                               If

204       On the Identityof Columlium and Tantalum.
  If to the alkaline solution of cither of them there be
added infusion of galls, prussiate of potash, or hydrosul-
phuret of potash, no precipitate occurs ; but when a suffi
cient quantity of acid has been added to neutralize the re
dundant alkali, the infusion of galls will then occasion an
orange precipitate; but prussiate of potash causes no pre
cipitate, nor does the hydrosulphuret precipitate the oxide,
although the solution may become turbid from precipita
tion of sulphur by a redundant acid.
   The characteristic precipitant of columbium is conse
quently the infusion of galls ; but in the employment of
this test certain precautions are necessary.              For as an ex
cess of potash may prevent the appearance of this preci
pitate, so also may a small excess of oxalic or tartaric acids
prevent precipitation,           or dissolve a precipitate already
formed.     A larger excess of citric acid seemed requisite for
that purpose, and would also dissolve the gallat of colum
bium. In each case the precipitate may be made to ap
pear by neutralizing the redundant acid; and for this pur
pose carbonate of ammonia should be employed : for al
though pure ammonia has no power of dissolving the oxide
alone, yet the gallat seemed to be perfectly redissolved by
that alkali.
   When infusion of galls is poured upon the white oxide
recently precipitated, and still moist, it combines readily,
and forms the orange-coloured compound.
    Prussiate of potash occasioned no change in an oxide
that had been purified by a second fusion with potash ; but
it appeared to dissolve a small portion of the oxide, as in
fusion of galls, poured into the clear liquor, occasioned a
cloudy precipitate of an orange colour, though no such
precipitate took place when the infusion was mixed with
the same prussiate alone.
    Hydrosulphuret of potash being added to the oxide, and
 heated upon    it,   impaired the whiteness of its appearance,
and seemed     to  detect   the remains of some impurity which had
 not yet   been    removed   by     other means
                                              ;      but no appearance
 indicated   the   formation     of
                                  a    sulphuret   of columbium.
    From  a   careful    repetition   of these  experiments upon each
of   the oxides,I       see   no  reason    to  doubt  of their perfect
 agreement     in   all   their  chemical     properties
                                                     ;     but there    is
 nevertheless  a     very    remarkable     difference
                                                     in     the specific
 gravities  of    the   two     minerals   from    which   they are ex
 tracted.
                                                                by by
    The specific gravity of columbite was ascertained               Mr.
 "Hatchett tobe 5-Q18   j       that  of  taiHalite was found        M.
                                                             Ekeberg

    Method    offitting up  Mr. De Luc's Electric Column. 20*
Ekeberg to he 7 -953 ; and I have every reason to suppose
their results correct, since a small fragment of the former
appeared upon trial to be 5'87, while a specimen of tanta-
lite, weighed at the same time, was as much as 7'8.             I
should, however, observe, that the specific gravities of
three other fragments borrowed for this purpose were not
so high, that ot one being 7-65, of another 7-53, and of a
third so low as 7' 15.
    It is evident that no variation of mere proportion of the
ingredients can account for an increase of specific gravity
from 5-018 to 7'953, which are in the ratio of 3 to 4 ; for
since columbile contains four fifths oxide, if the whole re
maining one fifth part in weight of that oxide could be
supposed     added to the same bulk, without diminution        of
the quantities of iron and manganese, the specific gravity
would not then exceed 7-1 ; and even if a weight equal to
one third of the whole were thus added, without increase
of bulk, still the aggregate would not quite equal the
 heaviest tantalite in specific gravity; but, on the contrary,
 the quantity of white oxide in this specimen certainly does
 not amount to six sevenths, and probably is not more than
five sixths of the whole mass.
    The only chemical difference, by which this circumstance
 could be explained, would be the state of oxidation, which
 my experiments c-annot appreciate j but it may also arise
 in part from actual cavities in the mass of columbite, and
 in part from the state or mode of aggregation.
 XXXV.       Description  of a Method of fitting up in a portable
     Form The Electric Column lately invented ly J. A. DE
    Luc, Esq. Also an Account of several Experiments
    made with it. By 15. M. FORSTER, Esq.
                           To Mr. Tilloch.
 SIR, HAVING been informed that a row of galvanic plates
 luul been constructed without any fluid being interposed, and
 that it acted very sensibly on a gold-leaf electrometer,        I
 formed one, of about two hundred small circles of zinc, and
 the same number of blotting-paper and Dutch gold-leaf, the
 Dutch leaf being cemented on the paper with a solution of
 gum arable ; the blotting-paper was double, two pieces
 were gummed or pasted together before the Dutch leaf was
 put on. Through these circles, or plates, a silken string was
 passed for connecting them together.          This small instru
                                                            ment

 20<5  Method  offitting up Mr. DC Luc's Electric Column.
ment acted sufficiently powerfully on a very delicate gold-*
leaf electrometer, to encourage me to make a row consist-'
ing of a greater number of plates.     To the two hundred I
added about three hundred more, usina;,        instead of the
Dutch metal, silver-leaf, and inserted th~e whole in a glass
tube fitted up with brass caps, screws, and balls.        The
instrument thus fitted up may be called an Electric Rod.
I have some of these rods with the plates not connected by
a string through them ; which, .provided the glass tube is
very nearly of the same diameter as the plates, may be the
best way of placing them; but unless the tube fits accurately
the othec mode will probably be found preferable, as the
plates can be more easily placed regularly.
    The Dutch metal, or silver-leaf, may either be fastened
to the paper with gum, or paste made over the fire with
flour and water.
    The following experiments were made with a rod of five-
hundred series of plates, — whether with the one in which
were two hundred plates of Duch metal, or in which there
was none, but silver-leaf instead, it is not necessary to
mention.
    21st Sept. 1809.    One leaf of an electrometer made of
Dutch metal kept flapping to and from the side of the
glass many times, when connected with the electric rod.
               The ends of the rod being placed upon two
electrometers, — when the top of either of them was touched,
the electrometer at the opposite end diverged more imme
diately.
    22d Sept.   The rod was placed at the bottom of an
electrometer ; one leaf was attracted to the side and flapped
several times. — This experiment shows that the electric
power of these piles or columns acts through a portion of
air : I held the upper part of the electrometer in my hand
during this experiment.
    24th Sept.   A small piece of Dutch metal was attracted
up to the ball at the zinc pole of the rod, and adhered to it.
    4th Oct. A very light ivory needle, turning on a point
 (like a magnetic needle), was attracted by the rod j when a
finger or a key was placed near one end of the needle,
and the ball at the end of the rod also near the same end
on the opposite side, the needle vibrated backwards and
 forwards. The needle was insulated, I believe, by a piece of
amber.
               The needle, after having been touched by the
silver-end pole, evidently receded from that pole ; or, as it
is commonly called, was repelled, having been charged
                                                          with

   Method    ofJilting vp Mr. De Luc's Electric Column,         207
with the same kind of electricity     as that end  of the rod pos
sessed  : — the  same effect was perceived   when charged by the
zinc  pole.
              One leaf of an electrometer (Dutch leaf) moved,
when one of the balls on the rod was placed over the top,
without being in contact with it.
    15th Oct. The ivory needle vibrated between the balls of
two rods, one of which was at the zinc pole, the other at
the opposite pole.
   One column which I have made, consists of about 500
plates, each about { th of an inch in diameter. I have put at
the zinc end a piece of cork cut like the head of a snake or
eel, and at the other end another to resemble a tail.          This
column may be called an artificial electric eel (Gymnolus
electricus) : it is not inserted in a tube like the others, a
silken string runs through the centre of the plates, which
may be drawn tight ; then wound round a pin which is in
the mouth, or may be loosened if desirable. This eel acts
powerfully on the electrometers.        The power appears to me
to vary much more than that of the columns in tubes : pro
vided the outside of these tubes be dry, I do not know that
the strength of their electric power changes.
    16th Oct. Three rods, each of 500 series, were supported
upon insulated stands, and a plate of copper suspended at
the silver pole of the combined apparatus ; another plate was
placed under this, (as in the common electrical experiment
of the dancing images,) one very small piece (or more) of
tissue-paper was attracted up and fell down, and a little
image of the same paper reared up, and once remained sus
pende.1 to the upper plate, but I could not make it dance
up and down.
   22d Oct.      One ball or both ? of Cavallo's pocket electro
meter diverged, when three rods were combined ; the pith-
balls arc on wires.      With these three rods I could not per
ceive the metallic taste in the mouth, which is so perceptible
even with a single piece of zinc and silver placed against the
tongue. When the ball or balls ? of the electrometer moved,
the opposite end of the apparatus was touched.             A small
pith-ball, suspended     I believe with  a single thread  of a silk
worm, vibrated between two fixed pith-balls, one of which
was connected with the apparatus, the other communicated
with the table.
    23d Oct.      A coated jar had a slight charge given to it
with one of the electric rods. When the zinc pole charged
(he inside of the jar, that side gave signs of a minus state
(as it is called), and the outside A plus state. This was shown
                                                                  by

      Method     offilling        up   Mr. DC Luc's Electric Column.
 by an electrometer, the leaves of which diverged when eX*
 cited amber was holden near                 it,
                                           after     had received elec
                                                             it
 tricity from the inside, and converged when electrified from
 the outside of the bottle.        From the usual effects of Gal*
 vanism the contrary might have been expected; that is, that
 the zinc end of the column would have produced the pint
 state, and the silver end the minus.
     24th Oct.    With three rods combined,                 small brass
                                                                  a
 ball suspended      by
                      silk between two bells, vibrated between
 them, causing them to ring          the bells were suspended from
                                        :
the ends of the apparatus. The next day, 25th Oct. (the
Jubilee day), having fixed on glass pillars two bells, and
 hung   by   silka brass ball from the upper part of             piece of
                                                                      a
 wire,I    placed the bells in connexion         with  the  ends   of the
combined apparatus,           means of bent
                               by                 wires  laid on  them        :
 the apparatus and bells were left for near an hour, during
which time the bells kept ringing, at times stopping for                      a
short interval, then ringing again            the clapper sometimes
                                                   ;
was seen to rest against       one  of  them, then appeared to be
disengaged     by   person moving
                    a                        the room. Whether the
                                                in
disengagement     was   always owing      to  some slight shaking of
the table, or whether          was sometimes in consequence of
                               it
the ball having acquired electricity, and then being repelled^
I   am not quite clear.           appears not improbable but that
                                  It
the weight of the clapper may be so adapted to the power of
the apparatus, as to cause small bells to continue ringing for
several years without intermission                so, we shall have
                                                     ;   if                   a
machine which           by
                        those who do not. consider the subject
philosophically     will be called         perpetual motion.
                                              a                     How
long    the   column    will   continue    to    produce    the   electric
fluid cannot at present (or perhaps ever) be determined.
The principal difficulty to be overcome, in order to keep the
clapper in continual motion throughout the different seasons
of the year, appears to be the want of very accurate insula
                                                         a
tion of the apparatus        for,
                             ;         the glass tubes or the pillars
                                        if
which support them are damp, the current of the electric
fluid will not pass along in the proper direction for the ex
periment.
    2Qth Nov. Five rods, each of 500 series, were combined                    ;
with these, two small bells kept ringing on and offlor more
than four hours, part of which time was not in the room,
                                                     I
so cannot tell how often they might have stopped               the ring
                                                                      :
ing   sometimes   began again evidently        not   from   any shake,
but I   imagine from the clapper having become electrified,
and then being (as           it usually called) repelled from the
                                  is
bell against which        rested.
                          it             placed three rods of 500
                                            I
                                                                          series

    Method      ofjillhig up  Mr. De Liic'i Electric Column. 209
 series (insulated,) in a box,- and brought wires from the
 end* of this combined apparatus, which I made communi
 cate with two bells. I placed, on Tuesday 2Jth February
 JS10, this apparatus in a closet, where I left it until Sun
 day 1 'th March, the bells continuing to ring (as far as my
 observations went) from the time they were put into the
closet until tiiat day; when they ceased. What was the cause
 of their stopping 1 do not know, but imagine it was owing
to dampness. I cannot ascertain that they rang the whole
time without stopping, but have no reason to believe other
wise.     I intended some months ago to have sent you the
description of the above-mentioned apparatus with experi
ments, but deferred sending it on account of Mr. De Luc's
paper not bcin^ published, which he sent to the Royal So
ciety in MarcVi, last year, and which contains a description
of the electric column and its properties.              He hopes
soon to publish it himself.          In the mean time he has per
mitted me to communicate my account to you.              I consider
the invention of this column as the most important dis
covery in the science of electricity since that of the Vol
taic pile, and do not doubt but that when Mr. De Lnc
gives his paper to the public, it will prove extremely inte
resting, and I have reason to believe it mav lead to further
discoveries which will be considered as very important in
this branch of science.
                      Description  of the Figures.
Fig.   1.  A column of      50Q. series of plates about £ths of an
            inch diameter, in a glass tube with brass caps, &c.
          A A Brass caps, the 'ends of which screw on and off.
          BB Screws which pass through the caps into the
              tube, having a brass plate at the end for com
             pressing the electric column.
          CC Balls at the outer cuds of the screws.
Fig. 2. One of the screws with a ball at the outer end, and
           , a brass plate or circle at the other. A small hole
             is pierced1 in this plate, through which the silken
             string connecting the electric column may ppss.
Fig.  3.  A  smaller column (,ihe plates of which are about -|th
             of an inch diameter,) fitted up with a. cork head
             and tail to represent an eel.
Fig. 4. Size of plates in larger column.
Fig. 5. Ditto of the smaller one.
Fig. 6. A combined apparatus, consisting of three rods
              resting on insulating stands, ana having a wire
              projecting from each ot the outer rods : these
   Vol. 35. No. 143. March 1810.                   O          wires

S1O             On the comparative Influence           of
           wires are for connecting the apparatus with elec
           trometers, &c.
Fig- 7- A couple of small bells supported on glass pillars,
           with a brass ball suspended from a wire, used as a
           clapper to ring the bells.
   On Wednesday night, 14th March, I put into a closet a
 couple of bells, communicating with the three rods above
mentioned, in a box; they then began to ring, and are now
ringing: — how long they will continue so I cannot say, per
haps some change in the weather may soon occasion the
clapper to cease vibrating.                                             i
                                       I remain, &<r.
                                                   B. M. FORSTER.
Walthamstow,   Essex, 20th March 1810.
XXXVI.       On tfie comparative Influence of Male and Female
   Parents on their Offspring.              By THOMAS ANDREW
   KNIGHT, Esq., F.R.S. In a Letter to tlt,e Right Hon.
    Sir JOSEPH BANKS, Bart. K,B. P.ft.S.*
MY DEAR SIR, J. HAVE            been engaged, during many years,
in experiments on fruit-trees, of which            the object has been
 to discover the best means of forming               new varieties, that
may be found better calculated for the climate of Britain
than those at present cultivaied.          In this inquiry my efforts
have been always most successful, when I propagated from
the males of one variety and the females of another ; and
I  was enabled, by the same means, to ascertain more ac
curately, than had previously been done, the comparative
influence of the male and female parent on the character
of the offspring. The analogy that subsists between plants
and animals, in almost every thing which respects genera
tion, induced me also to attend very minutely to similar
experiments in which I engaged on some species of ani-
inals ; and as the repetition of such experiments would ne
cessarily require a very considerable space of time, and as
the results seem to lead to conclusions that may he of public
utility, I have thought the following account sufficiently
interesting to induce me to address it to you.
   LitwEeus conceived, that the character of the male parent
predominated in the exterior parts both of plants and
animals ; and the same opinions have been generally en
tertained by more modern naturalists.                 But the Swedish
             * Philosophical Transactions for 18 10,  Part II.
                                                               philosopher

       Male and Female Parents       on their Offspring.      211
philosopher appears lo have been misled, by the striking
predominance of the character of the male parent in male
animals, and to have drawn his conclusions somewhat too
generally : for I have observed that seedling plants, when
propagated from male and female parents of distinct cha
racters and permanent habits, generally, though with some
few exceptions, inherit much more of the character of the
female than of the male parent ; and the same remark is
applicable, in some respects, to the animal world, as I shall
point out in the succeeding narrative.
    My experiments were made on many different species of
fruit-trees; but most extensively, and under the most ad
vantageous circumstances, on the apple-tree: and as the
results were all in unison with each other, it will be ne
cessary to trouble you only with an account of some of
the experiments which were made on that species of fruit-
tree.
    The apple, or crab of England, and of Siberia, however
dissimilar in habit and character, appear to constitute a
single species only ; in which much variation has been
effected by the influence of climate on successive genera
tions : for the two varieties readily bred together, and the
offspring, whether raised from the seeds of the Siberian
or British variety, were prolific to a most exuberant extent.
But there was a very considerable degree of dissimilarity
in the appearance of the offspring ; and the leaves, and
general habits of each, presented an obvious prevalence of
the character of the female parent.           The buds of those
plants,  which  had  sprung from    the  seeds  of the cultivated
apple,  did  not  unfold  quite  so   early  in  the spring; and
their fruits generally exceeded, very considerably, in size,
those which were produced by the trees which derived their
existence from the seeds of the Siberian crab. There was
also a prevalence of the character of the female parent in
the form of the fruit ; but the same degree of prevalence
did not extend to the quality and flavour of the fruit; for
the richest apple that I have ever seen, and which afforded
expressed juice of much higher specific -gravity than any
other, sprang from a seed of yellow Siberian crab.
    The prevalence of the character of the female parent in
 the preceding cases, may possibly be suspected to have
 arisen from some error, or neglect of accuracy in makino-
 the experiments ; but I do not conceive that any such
 errors could have existed; for the trees of each variety were
 trained to walls, where they blossomed much before any
                              O 2                          others

 212             On the comparative Influence of
 ethers of the same species, and the stamina were always
  carefully extracted, whilst immature, from every blossom
  which I intended to afford seeds. The remaining blossoms
  of the trees were also totally destroyed, and no other blos
  soms, except those from which the pollen was taken, were
  ever unfolded in the neighbourhood,      in the season when
  the experiments were made ; and I have also invariably
  declined to draw any conclusion from the appearance of a
  plant, in which I could not certainly distinguish some por
  tion of the features and character of the supposed male
 parent.
     It is perhaps also proper to state, that the predominance
 of the character of the female parent, could scarcely have
 arisen from any defective action of the pollen ; for, except
 in   cases where superfcetation took place, I have invariably
 found the effect of a very large, or a very small quantity of
 pollen, to be invariably the same, in its influence on the
 offspring; and in the greater part of the experiments,
 from which I have drawn the preceding conclusions, more
 than ten times as much pollen was deposited on the stig
 mata, a* could have been deposited in unmutilated blossoms
 by the ordinary means employed by nature.
     In all attempts to discriminate the different influence of
 the male and female parent on the offspring of animals
 many difficulties present themselves, owing to the intermix
 tures which have been made of the different breeds of do
 mesticated animals of every species, and the consequent
 absence of all hereditary permanency in the character of
 each variety. For, under these circumstances, the offspring
will be very frequently found to show little resemblance
 either to its male or female parent, either in form, or sta
 ture, or colour.     It will therefore be necessary, before I
enter on the subject of viviparous animals, to observe that
when I apply the terms large and small to the male or fa-
male parent, I extend the meaning of those terms to the
parentage from which the male and female descend, and
not to the size of the individual only, which becomes the
immediate parent of the offspring.
     Mr. Cline has observed, in a communication to the
Board of Agriculture, that if the male and female parent
differ considerably in size, the dimensions of the foetus, at
the birth, will be regulated much more by the size of the
female thaa of the male parent; and, if the meaning of
the terms large and small be extended to the varieties, as
well as to the individuals, his remark is perfectly just.   But
       «    ,                                        experience

       Male arid Female Parents    on their Offspring.       213
experience compels me wholly to reject the       inference that
he has drawn respecting the advantages          of propagating
from large, in preference to small females.
    Nature has given to the offspring of many animals (those
of the sheep, the cow, and the mare, afford familiar ex
amples) the power, at an early age, to accompany their
parents   in flight; and the legs of such animals are very
nearly of the same length, at the birth, as when they have
attained their perfect growth.     When the female parent is
large, and the fuetus consequently so, the offspring will be
large at its birth, in proportion to the bulk it will ultimately
attain, and its legs will thence be long comparatively with
the depth of the chest and shoulders.      W^.en, on the con
trary, the female is small, and the foetus so, at the birth,
the length of the legs of the young animal will be short
comparatively with the depth of its chest and shoulders }
and an animal in the latter form will be greatly preferable,
cither for the purposes of labour, or of food to mankind.
I have seen this difference in the influence of the male and
female parent, on the offspring, very strikingly exemplified,
in the result of an attempt to obtain very large mules from
the male ass and the mare. The largest females, that
could be procured, were selected, and the forms of the off
spring, at the birth, were perfectly consistent with the theory
of Mr. Cline; they were remarkably large : and I observed,
that the length of their legs, when they were only a few
days old, very nearly equalled that of the legs of their fe
male parents. I examined the same animals when five
years old, and in the depth of their chests and shoulders
they very little exceeded their male parent; and they were
consequently of little or no value ; whilst other mules,
which were obtained from the same male parent (a Spanish
ass), but from mares of small stature, were perfectly well
proportioned.      I have never seen the little mule, which is
propagated    from the female ass and the horse, nor even a
delineation or description of its form ; but I do not enter
tain any doubt that its chest and shoulders are excessively
deep and strong, comparatively with the length of iu legs,
and that, on account of this peculiarity in its form, it has
been so frequently shown on the Continent, under the
name of a jumart, us the pretended offspring of the marc
and the bull.
    In opposing the theory advanced by Mr. Cline, it is not
by any means my intention to enter the lists with him, as
a physiologist; but, as a farmer and breeder of animals of
different species, I have probably had many advantages, ,
                               0 3                         which

214               On the comparative Influence,  &c.
which     he has not possessed ; and my conclusions have been
drawn from very extensive, and, I believe, accurate obser
vation.
     There is another respect in which the powers of the fe
 male appear to he prevalent in their influence on the off
 spring, and that is relative to its sex.   In several species of
 domesticated, or cultivated animal (I believe in all), parti
 cular females are found to produce a very large majority,
 and sometimes all their offspring, of the same sex ; and I
 have proved repeate-dly, that, by dividing a herd of thirty
 cows into three equal parts, I could calculate, with confi
 dence, upon a large majority of females from one part, of
 males from another, and upon nearly an equal number of
 males and females from the remainder.          1 frequently en
 deavoured to change these habits by changing the male ;
 but always without success; and I have in some instances
 observed the offspring of one sex, though obiained from
 different males, to exceed those of the other, in the propor
  tion of five or six, and even seven to one. When, on the
  contrary, I have attended to the numerous offspring of a
 ^single bull, or ram, or horse, I have never seen any consi
 derable difference in the number of offspring of either sex.
 I am therefore disposed to believe that the sex of the off
 spring is given by the female parent; and the probability
 of this seems obvious in fishes, and several other species of
 animals which breed in water ; and though the evidence
 afforded by the facts adduced is not by any means of
 sufficient weight to decide the question, it probably much
 exceeds all that can be placed in the opposite scale.
      In oviparous animals, I have had reason to think the in
 fluence of the female parent quite as great as amongst the
 viviparous tribes, though my observations have been more
 limited, and less conclusive.      In viviparous animals, the
 size of the foetus is affected by the influence of the male
 parent, and, in some instances, not inconsiderably ; but
  the size and form of the eggs of birds do not appear to be
  in any degree changed or modified by the influence of the
 male; and therefore the size of the offspring, at the birth,
 must be regulated wholly by the female parent ; and this
 circumstance permanently affect* the form and character
 of the offspring. The eggs of birds, ind those of fishes
 and insects (if such can propirly be called esrgs), appear to
 resemble the seeds of plants, in having their forms and bulk
 wholly regulated by the female paiciit ; but nevertheless
 their formation appears to depend on very different laws.
 For the eggs, both of birds and of fishes and insects, attain
                                                             their

      t)h the Fossil Roiies of Horses and Wild Boars.          215
their perfect size in total independence of the male, and
the cicatricula, the vitellus, and the chalazas have appeared
(I believe) to the most accurate observers, to be as well
organized in the unimpregnated as in the impregnated
egg: in the seed, on the contrary, every thing relative to
its internal organization appears dependent on the male
parent.     Spallanzani    has, however, stated, that many
plants produced well organized seeds, and even seeds which
vegetated perfectly, under circumstances in which it is not
easy to conceive how the pollen of the male plant or flower
could have been present.        But the Italian naturalist ap
pears to have blundered most egregiously in his experiment ;
Or (which I conceive to be more probable) he became the
dupe of the refined malice of his countrymen ; for, I re
peated his experiments under very favourable circumstances,
and with the closest attention, but I failed to obtain a single
seed.    The gourd alone produced apparently perfect fruit,
and the seed-coats acquired their natural size and form j
and in this respect the growth of its seeds appeared to be,
like that of eggs, wholly independent of the influence of
the male. But the seed-coats of the gourd were perfectly
empty, and I could not discover, at any period of their
growth, the slightest vestige either of cotyledons, or plu
mule, nor of any thing lhat appeared to correspond with
internal organization of a seed of the same plant, under
different circumstances.      Spallanzani has not, I believe,
mentioned the species of gourd upon which he made his
experiments: the common, or orange gourd of our gardens,
was the subject of mine.
    In comparing the mode of the formation and growth of
eggs with the observations I had previously made on the
growth of seeds, I have been favoured with the very able
assistance of Mr. Carlisle, for which I have on this, as on
many other occasions, to acknowledge much obligation.
                    I am, my dear sir,
                         with  great respect,   sincerely yours,
Downton,  Ma> 20, 1809.             THOMAS AND. KNIGHT.
XXXVII.       On the Fossil Bones    of Horses and Wild Boars.
                      By G.   A. CUVIER*.
 J. HE above are the only species of animals which remain
to be described, in order to complete the history of qua-
                * Ann, in Muslim, tome xiv. p. 33.
                               O 4                         drupeds

216                       On the Fossil Bones
drupeds with hoofs, which have been found in (he fossil
state; and our task will he the easier, as they have been dug
up from loose soils only, tor the most par' of recent for
mation ; and such of their remains as have been collected,
cannot enable us to distinguish them from living species.
              Article I.    Fossil Bones of Horses.
    These are as common in loose strata as the bones of any
other large animal, and yet little mention has been made
of them in works on fossil hones; either because their pre
 sence was regarded as a very simple occurrence, not de
serving of attention, or because they were not recognized
as being the bones of horses.
    Then: are various proofs of this last oversight,which would
 appear very extraordinary if we were not aware how super
 ficially fossils and petrifactions have been examined.
    Thus we find in the Traite des Moimtres of Aldrovandus,
 published by Beruier, p. 37. two horse's teeth given as the
 teeth of triants, while in the Museum metallicum of this
 author, published by Ambrosinus, p. 830, teelh of the same
 animal are represented correctly.
     In another memoir we have said that Lang, in his Hls-
 toria Lapidum Jiyuratorum Helvetiee, tab. Xl.y. 1,3, had
 taken a horse's tooth for the tooth of a hippopotamus.
    We may add that Kundmann has engraved others, without
 knowing what to make of them (Rar. Nat. et Art. tab. II.
 f. 4 and 5) ; and that Walch, who had received them from
 Oucdlimhourg, confines himself to remarking their resem
 blance with those of Lang and Kundmann, without endea
 vouring to determine them more precisely (Monument de
 Knirr, II.     sect. II. page 15?).
     The number of authors who         have been moreadvc-nlurons
 is very small ; such as Boursruet, who quotes a single jaw-
  tooth found at a depth of 60 feet, on digeina; a well near
 Modcna (Traite des PZlrifimiions) ; and Rome de 1'Isle,
  who reckons in the number of the subjects in the Cabinet
  of Davila, a fossil horse's tooth in its alveolus, near Can-
  staJt. (Cat. df Davila,      III, page 230).
     It is certainly   to this  silence of most naturalists, with
  respect to the fossil bones of horses, that we are indebted
  for the siU-iice preserved by M. Fatijas on the same subject
  in his Geologic, although he might have taken great advan
  tage of it tu support his favourite opinion respecting the
  identity of fossil animals with those of the present time.
     fii fact, the fossil bones of horses cannot be distinguished
  from the bones of living horses j and nevertheless we find
         • •
                                                             them

                             r>f   Horses and       Wild Boars.                    SI   7
them most assuredly                     in   the   same strata which contain un*
known animals.
   We have already said that there were thousands of horses'
teeth in the celebrated depot of bones of elephants, rhino
ceroses,   tigers, 411 hyaenas, discovered in 1700 near Can-
                                   d
stadt in Wirtemberg            their association with the elephants
                                       :
seemed to be        general occurrence.
                     a
    We have seen with our own eyes hundreds of bones
and teeth of horses dug up from the canal of the Ourcq,
in the spot from which elephants' bones also had been
taken and among the horses' bones there were some com
      ;
pletely petrified.
    In the quarry of Fouvent           Prieure, in the department of
                                                   le
the Haute-Saone,         from which bones of elephants and of
hyaenas have been procured, several bones and teeth of
horses were at the same time found, which have been also
 sent to our Museum.
    M. de Dree           is possession of
                               in              piece of  ahorse's jaw  a
found at Argentenil, nearly in the same spot with an ele
phant's jaw.
    M. Fabbroni has sent me drawings of several similar
 portions due; up            the upper Val d'Arno, with bones of
                                   in
 elephants, rhinoceroses, and mastodonti with straight teeih.
    Finally, M. Fischer has procured me some drawings of
 horses' teeth brought from the £ergstrassc, and placed in
 the Cabinet of Darmstadt.
  I    am convinced from these observations, that             we have       if
 not more frequently heard of horses' bones dug up with
 those of elephants,           has arisen from the former having
                                       it
 been regarded as less interesting.
    We shall not repeat what we have said of those which
 •we sometimes find                    in
                              osseous strata    hut      in recent al-
                                                         :        it   is
 luviations that most of them are found, as might reasonably
 be expected.
     There      scarcely any valley into which we can dig in any
                is
 direction, without finding horses'bones                      in
                                                     the deposit at ions
 made      byrivers    ihe valley of the Seine, that of the Somme,
                         :
  and without doubt several others, are full of them.
     M. Traulle sent me several specimens from the banks
  of the Sonime        and
                         ;      have seen them myself dug up from
                                        I
  the foundations of the bridge now constructing opposite
  the Military School.
     These last are not interesting, because they have been de
 posited since our continents assumed their present form                                :
  the former, however, being those which accompany the
  bones of elephants and tigers, arc of an anterior order of
,                                                                                things.

 *]   8                  On the fossil Bones
 things.      Did the horses to which they belong             resemble"
 those    of the present day in every respect ?
      I
      must confess that comparative anatomy cannot answer
this question.
   I have carefully compared the skeletons of several va
rieties of the genus Equus, those of the mule, the ass, the
zebra, and the couagga, without being able to find in them
a character sufficiently fixed to entitle me to hazard a de
cision.    If we could obtain an entire fossil head, we might
perhaps   set  on foot some comparison ; but with the other
bones, most of which are mutilated, we can obtain no result.
   We may therefore rest assured, that one species of the
horse genus served as aconstant companion to the elephants
or mammoths, and to the other animals of the same asra^
the bones of which fill our large basins; but it is impossible
to say in what respects they resembled any of the species
known      at present.
      It only now remains to point out   the characters by which
 we may distinguish the bones of horses. As it is with the
  ox and the buffalo that they are most liable to be con*
  founded, it is with these that we must compare them.
     The upper grinders of horses are prismatic, like those of
  the ox and buffalo, and marked in the same way with four
 crescents ; but they have besides a fifth, in the midst of the
 inner edge.     The lower grinders are more compressed, and
 have four crescents in the horse as well as in the ox ; but
 instead of being parallel in pairs, they are alternate, the
 first of the inner edge corresponding to the interval of the
 two of the outer edge.
    The shoulder-blade of the horse has its spine more ele
 vated at the upper third part of        it,  and decreases from
 thence to the acromion.        In the ruminating animals there
is  also an elevation at the same spot   ;   but
                                               it   isat the lower
 extremity,   and  at the acroiuion,  that the  spine    most pro-*
                                                         is
 minent.
    In the humeriH of the ox, the great tuberosity rises faf
above the rest of the upper head, and there     is   only   groove
                                                              a
for the biceps htimeri in the horse this tuberosity does not
                         ;
rise more than the rest, and there are two different grooves
in front.
    The camel and other ruminants resemble the horse more
than the ox in this respect.
- The cubitus of the ox,
                                although attached to the radius,
may    be distinguished throughout its whole length         that of
                                                              ;
the   horse  isentirely lost from its superior third part, being
only marked afterwards       by
                              a   kind of thread.
                                                                  The

                     of Horses and Wild Boars.                2 19
    The lower head of the radius of the horse is divided into
two facets, by an almost perpendicular ridge ; that of the
ox is divided into three, by two very oblique ridges.
    The ox has one bone less in the carpus than the horse,
because its os trapezoities is confounded with the great bone.
Every person is acquainted with the difference of their me
tacarpus and their hoofs.
    The ischion of the ox has its tuberosity higher than that
of the horse, and the os ileum of the latter, on the contrary,
is higher at its upper angle : this occasions the striking dif
ference in the crupper ot the two animals.
    The femur of the horse has three trochanters ; that of the
ox has only two, and the great trochauter is less elevated.
    The lower head of the tibia of the ox is rectangular, and
has at its inner edge a facet for the articulation of the fi
bula; that of the norse is very oblique, and almost trian
gular.
    The same difference of obliquity is discernible in the
astragali : that of the horse, besides, has but a very small
facet for the os cuboides ; that of the ox rests on this bone
 nearly the half of its inferior head.
    The os scaphoides of the horse is much larger than its
 cuboides, and remains always distinct from it : in the ox
 these two bones are equally large, and are always com
 pounded.       The horse has only one os cuneifonne, and the
 ox has two.
    The differences of the metatarsus and of the hoofs, which
 have occasioned those of the tarsus, are known to all natu
 ralists.
     By means of these short and simple characters we may
 easily distinguish the bones of the extremities of the two
 species.
     Each of the vertebra, separately examined, would also
 furnish characteristics ; but the detail would he endless,
 and it is very rare that we find vertebra: isolated from other
 bones.       I think I have now furnished geologists with all
 that is requisite.
          Article II. Of ike   Fossil Bones of Wild. Boars.
     I  do  not find many indications of the teeth of these   ani
 mals in authors : all those that 1 have seen, came from peat
 mosses, or other recent soils ; and I do not know if they
  tver accompanied the bones of elephants.
     Walch mentions the vertebrae of a petrified hog, alluded
  lo by Luid, and after him by Argenville; but we cannoj
  ten : t to such author; or their descriptions.  Gmelin, Wai*
                                                            lerius,

SiO                  On the Posits Bones
lerius, and others whom I have consulted, do not speak at
all of this kind of fossil.
    There is nevertheless in the Museum Besleriamum, plate
XXXI, a piece of the fossil tooth of a wild boa\, under
the singular name of pseudo-corona-anguina ; anuMIrcw
says that >the cabinet of the Royal Society of London has
similar specimens : but neither of these authors assigns tbc     ¦
origin or the species.
    M. Delannay, in his Memoire sur I'Origine des Fossiles
accidtntels des Provinces Belgiques, p. 36, relates, that in the
environs of Alost,on digging into a moss, " they found the
osseous part of a wild hoar unknown in Europe, and they
considered what must have been the extraordinary size
of the animal when alive." He adds, that what made the
animal be recognized, " were the tusks, of a length in every
respect astonishing." It would have been very easy to
have added the length of these tusks, and some figure or
description of this head.. But geologists have rarely de
scended to what they considered as minutiae, and preferred
spending their time in contriving systems, to employing
it in accurate researches : thus the above fact, which might
have been made interesting, is totally useless.
    For my part, I have some teeth of wild boars which
 seem to have remained long in the earth.           1 have some
 also stained black by the moss in which they certainly had
 been immersed ; but I am not acquainted with the precise
 origm of any of them, except of a tusk found on digging
 the foundations of the bridge of Jena, opposite the Military
 School, with several bones of horses, pieces of boats,
 and qther artificial fragments.    I have also a piece of a
jaw brought 'from the mosses in the department of the
 Oise, deposited in the cabinet of the School of Mines. Both
 are therefore of very recent strata, and they do not differ in
 the least from the living analogy.
    Adrian Camper seiH nie the drawing of the lower half of
 the humerus of a hog or a wild boar, which had been trans
 mitted to him from Hartz, but as to its precise position he
 knows nothing certain.
    The head of the Sus genus is so easily distinguished from
 all others, that we have no occasion to give its characters.
    Its grinders represent on a small scale those of the masto-
 dontus with straight teeth, having also blunt tubercles
 furnished on their eciges with smaller, tubercles.
 -
     In the wild boar, dome.uic pigs, Siam pigs, and Mada
 gascar wild boars, the natural and complete number of
grinders is seven.
                                                            The

                  of Horses and Wild Boars.                 821
    The posterior lower grinder has five groups of tubercles j
that of tlie upper has six. The eight which precede them
have each four groups ranged in pairs       The fourth on each
side has three groups ranged in a triangular form ; and the
three anterior, having their tubercles on a single line, arc
almost sharp-edged.
    The anterior tooth falls very early in our European piers ;
and I never found it in the babiroussa, the number of which
should be six, but it is frequently five only, in consequence
of the casting of the anterior tooth : I found but six- also
in two peccaris.
    The wild boar of Ethiopia has only three teeth, all com
 posed of cylinders tied together like the lainmas of those of
the elephant, and presenting circles at their surface when
they are filed down.      They are very unequal ; for the last
has no less than twenty-three circles ranged in three lines.
    Everv species has its peculiar form of tusks ; but all the
tusks and all the grinders which I have observed, were simi
lar to those of the common wild boar.
    The extremities of the Sus genus have a great resemblance
to ijiose of the ruminating animals.       As it is most likely
that the hones of the former may be confounded with those
of stags and sheep, it is with these last that we ought to
compare them.
    The shoulder blade, like that of the horse, has the spine
flattened in front, and more prominent in the upper third
part, where it forms a hor.k bent backward.
    The great tuberosity of its humerus is very high, as in
the sheep ; but it becomes broader behind, and is followed
by a broad reentering arc.
    The cubitus is very broad and distinct throughout its
whole length ; the createst part of it in the sheep is attached.
 In the stag it is at least much more slender.
    The carpi have a close resemblance, with this difference,
that the trapezoidal bone is distinct in the Sus genus, where
as it is close in the ruminating animals; and the uncifonn
 bone is narrower, whereas the os scaphoides is broader.
The differences i«» the femurs are almost incapable of de
scription in words ; but the tibia may be recognized be
 cause it is shorter ; its inferior head is square, and does not
 decrease from back to front, and has no articulation for the
 fibula.   The chief difference*of the tarsus depends on the
 small cuneiform bone, on the sole of the fifth toe, and on
 the os scaphoides remaining distinct from the cuboides. As
 to the metacarpi, the metatarsi, and the toes, they cannot
 be confounded.
                                               XXXVIII. £•¥-

                                 [    222    ]
  XXXVIII.         Extract from     a  Memoir       by M. MATHIEU, on
       the Discovery    of  several   Blocks   of    orlicular   Granite re
       cently found in Corsica     *.
   J.   HE insulated block    of orbicular granite. which was found
  in Corsica in      1755, on the small plain of Talavo, half a
 league from the sea, on the shores of the Gulf of Valin-
  co, on the Istria road, not far from a place called la Stan-
  zon:i, and which Messrs. Sionville and Barral were the first
  to describe, fixed the attention of mineralogists, from the
 singular form assumed in this rock by the white semi-
 transparent feldspar and the amphilole or home blende of a
 dtep black, a little greenish, arranged in several concentric
 circles, which had given rise to species of round or oval
 bowls, immersed in a confused mixture of the same two
 mineral substances which form the basis of the rock.
      This stone, so singular by the system of its formation,
 and by the effect which it produced when polished, made
 it very much sought-after for cabinets, and it soon became
 rare and of high price.
      In vain did Messrs. Barral, Sionville, and after them Do-
 lomieu, Besson, and several other mineralogists, make in
 quiries after the rock which had given birth to the insu
 lated and partly smooth block, which some convulsion had
 transported and buried in the small plain of Talavo ; — all
 (heir pains were useless.
     Notwithstanding their want of success, a Corsic'an na
 turalist, M. Rampasse, was more fortunate ; because his
 knowledge of the language and manners of the inhabitants
of the mountains admitted of his pursuing, with a hammer
in his hand, the chain of mountains from which he pre
sumed that the block of the orbicular rock of Talavo must
have been lorn at a very remote period by the action of the
*ea.
     M. Rampasse has executed this arduous journey, during
•which he collected a fine series of rocks and other mine
rals ; but he was not more fortunate thau the rest with re-
fpect to the globular granite. His inquiry, however, made
us acquainted with "the position of a porphyritic rock
crowded wjth globular bodies, in general larger than those
of the stone found at Talavo.; and the formation of which,
without being absolutely the same with the latter, never
theless resembled it considerably ; but the rock, of a differ-.
           * AnnuUt da Musium d'Histoirt Natutcllt,  tome ziv. p. 83.
                                                                        cat

      Slocks  of orbicular Granite  discovered in Corsica.    223
 ent colour, was softer, and did not receive the brilliant polish
 of the orbicular granite. M. Rampasse brought to Paris
 some magnificent specimens of this porphyry with large
 globules.     This variety was not to be found in any cabi
 nets.
    It results from these details, that all hopes were given up
 of other masses of granite similar to that of the plain of
 Talavo, when a particular circumstance brought to view
 several other blocks, which' are said to exist in their native
 position, a leage from Talavo, and resting on the same
 rock whirl) gave birth to them.
    It is to M. Mathieu, captain in the imperial artillery,
 and commanding at Ajaccio, that we owe the first infor
 mation on this discovery, consigned in a manuscript me
 moir, accompanied with a topographical plan, and a very
 excellent specimen of this granite, which is of precisely
 >.he same form with that which was formerly discovered.
    *' This superb production,"
                                   says M. Mathieu,
                                                       " is found
 in considerable masses on the estate of Sartene, the pro
 perty of M Jean Paul Roccaserra : its present situation is
 about three fourth parts up a very steep mountain, from
 which it has been insulated by accident; it is in llocks
 smoothed (arrondis) hi consequence of decomposition, which
 blocks are .comprised within a space which does not extend
 beyond four hundred square metres. The base is a granite
 composed of semitransparent quartz, of amphibole with
 large crystals, and of mica in a small quantity : sometimes
 Bhades are discovered which give a feeble appearance of the
 globulous system. The rest of the mountain is, like those
 adjacent, composed of a granite of quartz, feldspar, and
 mica."
    M. Mathieu     adds, that the lichens and mosses which
 covered   the  blocks of this new orbicular granite and con
 cealed its characters, did not permit those who visited the
 same mountain to see that the discovery was owing to the
 recent separation of tivo part's of one block.    The distance
 of the position of the ancient block of Talavo from the
 Rizenare, a river which washes the foot of the mountain on
 which the recent discovery has been made, is one myria-
 inetre and a half.     M. Mathieu does not think that this
 river has ever been capable of transporting this old block
 of granite to such a distance ; and he is perfectly right : but
 when he presumes that, " in very remote ages, this same
 llock has been discovered in the Rizenare, and thence trans
ferred by the care of an architect to the spot where it was to
 be cut with the chisel,"'— this conjecture does not seem to

324     Blocks   of orbicular Granite     discovered    in Corsica.
rest on any solid foundation : and it would be entirely refuted
if the smooth blocks, alluded to by M. Mathieu, discovered
within the spare of 400 square metres, instead of having
been worn or smoot/ied by the effects of decomposition,     had
been so worn by the        action of some violent convulsion of
the   sea at very  remote periods, when these blocks as well
as that at Talavo must have been transported to the places
•where   they were discovered.         Wc see many examples,
even on very high mountains, of these accidental transports                 ,
of masses much more numerous and much larger, of gra
nites and other rocks not less hard, all the angles of which
have been flattened by frictions. Besides, those in the envi
rons of Sartene are at a trifling height, and of small size,
in comparison with the enormous masses mentioned by
Saussnre in his Travels in the Alps, and which he considers
as the result of what he calls lagrande debacle.
   We are certainly far from wishing to lessen in the small
est degree the merit of M. Mathieu's Memoir, to whom
we are under great obligations for communicating the dis
covery ; but we insist the more strongly on a new examina
tion of the smoothed blocks of Sartene, as the precise
knowledge which we have of that of Talavo, which has
never been smoothed by decomposition, but by friction, leads
us by analogy to consider the blocks in question as being
the result of a similar cause : — for nothing could have less
tendency to decomposition than the orbicular granite of
Talavo, the block of which was very hard and verv sound
internally, as well as on the external surfaces, which last
did not near any other signs of destruction than that pro
duced by shocks or by friction.
   We must therefore invite M. Mathieu to examine again
with attention the state of the blocks which he mentions
in his Memoir, and to ascertain positively, First, If they
really were smoothed by the effects of decomposition ? Se
condly, If these blocks are adherent, or separated from the
granite rock on which they rest ? which is not clearly enough
described in his Memoir.         And finally, If semi trans parent
quartz  exist6,  as he says it does, in the new orbicular granite f
for the old piece is devoid of      it,  and  iscomposed only of
semitransparent feldspar,      and amphibole   of  greenish black,
                                                   a
with   a  little mica,  which  is    only met  with  rarely and       in,
¦mall spots.
                                                       XXXIX. Pro-

                             [   225     ]
          XXXIX.     Proceedings     of Learned     Societies.
                         KOYAL     SOCIETY.
  JL HE meetings on the 1st, 8lh, and 15th of March were oc^
cupied in reading 'Dr. Herscjiel's supplementary remarks
 and illustrations to his former papers on the nature of co
loured concentric rings seen between object-glasses.             The
details were so unconnected in themselves, and referring so
 intimately to his preceding observations and the objections
 which have been made to them, that it is not possible to con
 vey any just idea of the author's experiments in an abstract.
    March 22, The right honourable President in the chair.
A letter to the president from Mr. Knight was read, on the
functions of the leaves of trees.        In this short letter Mr.
 Knight merely confirmed the opinions and observations
which he made on this subject several years ago, namely :
that the leaves of trees perform the same functions as the
lungs of animals; that grafts of trees perish as soon as the
parent stock, from the inability of the leaves to perform
their office, and support the increased circulation of a young
and healthy stock; and that consequently a rich soil, and
augmented nourishment to the roots of such trees, only lend
to accelerate their decay instead of increasing their vigour,
3S more sap by such means is propelled to the branches than
can be digested by the leaves. This theory of the p.-rishable
nature of grafts, which has met with much opposition, Mr.
Knight now considers as sufficiently established on the sure
basis of physical demonstration.
    N. B. The doses of magnesia administered by Mr.
Brande to his calculous patients * varied from 15 to 20 grains
night and morning.
                  SOCIETY    OP ANTIttUARIKS.
    An account of the earl of Cumberland's expedition to the
Azores in 1589 was read to this society ; but it contained
no new facts of particular importance, except so far as it
proved the early superiority of the British navy.
    Part of a very accurate description of Kippon minster
was also read, in which it was alleged that at least a wing
of this church was built prior to the Norman conquest.
                     HOTAL INSTITUTION.
    On Saturday,  the 3d  of March, Mr. Professor Da»y         began,
his second course of electro-chemical         lectures, with an in-
                 * See
                       page 155 of our last Number.
    Vol. 35. No.  H3. March.     1810.            P       troductory

220                            Royal Institution.
troductory discourse, in which he explained the principle
upon which it is proposed to new-model this institution.
The      plan appears     to be so      judiciously   adapted      to the   cir
 cumstances of the establishment, and holds out so fair a
  promise of a successful prosecution of scientific researches,
  that we entertain no doubt of its meeting with the general
 apprc   'tin, of the proprietary, and receiving that share of
          I).    i
 public encouragement to which           so eminently entitled.
                                           it   is
 After concise historical survey of the origin and progress
         a
 of the Institution, and of the important discoveries which
 had repaid the liberality of its founders, Mr. Davy pro
 nounced       short and eloquent dissertation on the utility of
                a
 philosophical inquiries in general, and proceeded to explain
 the nature of those improvements, which, he conceived,
 were calculated to render the Institution     more efficient in
                                                      a
 strument of public advantage.
    The funds of the Institution, he said, had been inade
 quate to the expenses of the establishment         and some
                                                           ;                in
jury had been sustained from the purchase and sale of the
 proprietors' shares.       was not to be expected, that those
                               It
 who could make an interest in        scientific institution, an
                                            a
 object of pecuniary profit, could ever feel         zealous soli
                                                               a
 citude for the advancement of science.            was therefore
                                                          It
 proposed that the shares, which originally conveyed an                     in
 terest   inperpetuity, should be converted into shares which
conferred merely an unalienable interest for life.        But lest
any of the present proprietors should conceive themselves
 injured        by
                the change,     fund was to be provided,
                                    a                                         by
a   loan, for their indemnification.    Thus none would con
 tinue to be proprietors, but such as were animated          sen       by
 timents favourable to that description of patronage, from
 the beneficial influence of which the objects of the Institu
 tion would be most effectually cherished and promoted.
    It  might perhaps he       question, whether proprietors
                                    a
should then be admitted indefinitely,        or restricted to                 a
 limited number, and appointed                  by
                                         election.    Experience
had shown, that what every one could attain, was scarcely
thought desirable         any.by  But where any difficulty pre
sented itself,     produced
                     it        desire to surmount it.
                                    a                     lience,
if  itbecame an object of some exertion to obtain the                       di
stinction of proprietor,
                     a         class of candidates would pro
                                    a
bably present themselves for election, consisting of indivi
dual* to whom the pursuits of science are of real and in
trinsic importance      and from such patronage the best re
                          ;
sults might be expected.
    In order that the proprietors and the public might derive
                                                            every

                         Royal Institution.                   827
every benefit from the Institution, it was proposed, in addi
tion to she advantages presented by the lectures, the use of
the library, and the collection of mineralogy, to put them
in possession of the result of all scientific investigation that
might be pursued, as well as of the proceedings of the In
stitution, by a quarterly publication of its labours.
    To one class of proprietors, namely, the possessors of
landed property, the Institution might prove eminently use
ful. The value of the mineral productions of their estates
might be ascertained, without exposing them to the impo
sitions sometimes practised by adventurers, who, for ijie
selfish purpose of promoting their own interests, recommend
the working of mines, without any prospect of advantage
to any onemit the individuals employed upon the undertak
ing. Several instances, Mr. Davy ob>erved, might he
 mentioned of benefit which had already accrued to persons,
 who, before engaging in expensive enterprises of this kind,
 had transmitted specimens of the productions of theirestatcs
 to the Institution, in order that they might be analysed;
 and the report which was returned to them enabled them to
 avoid the unprofitable hazards to which such speculations
 are exposed.     One gentleman conceived he had discovered 9.
 valuable coal mine on his estate.     Upon examining the sub
 stance, however, it was at once ascertained that it was de
 stitute of all bituminous properties, and. the working of a
 mine of this quality would have been attended only with
 expense.      Another gentleman supposed he had discovered
 on his estate a stratum of alumina ; but, upon its analysis,
 it was found to be a clay of inferior value. Instances of
 this description might, if necessary, be easily multiplied.
 To landed proprietors, therefore, the Institution might
 prove eminently beneficial.
     It had also its claim upon princes and statesmen for their
 support.     Even the materials of war, which in these times
 may    be of the highest importance to the state, might, from
 new results of scientific investigation, be essentially and
 effectively improved.      But there is another point of view
 in which it has still a superior claim to their attention and
 patronage.      With the progressive advancement of sciences
 and arts, the increasing prosperity of the country is closely
 and inseparably interwoven.         Of this no one was more
 sensible than the great Colbert. He knew how to appre
 ciate their importance, and cherished them with the utmost
 Assiduity and care. Nor was he disappointed in the expecta
  tion of their natural effects; for the prosperity of France,
  in the reign of Louis the Fourteenth, was most rapidly ac-
                                P S                      celerated

228                     Royal Institution  .
cele-ated   bv ihc encouragement which this able minister
and statrsman judiciously extended to every branch of sci
ence and of art.      In this country, too, we are indebted for
a large proportion of our prosperity to the success with
which science has been prosecuted.        But how much might
il have been augmented, if the arts and sciences had re
ceived ati adequate degree of encouragement ! Were it
possible to appropriate to this object the funds collected in
one year for charitable purposes, a foundation might be laid
 for advancing the prosperity of the country loan almost in
 definite extent, and to a point, at least, which would enable
us to bid defiance to the restrictive edicts, by which the
eiK-my has vanly attempted to check the wealth and power
of the British empire.
     Nor are the minute details of science and of art unfavour
 able to the cultivation of eloquence.       One of the greatest
 statesmen,    and at the same time one of the greatest orators
 this country ever produced, owed, in a great measure, the
 variety, the charms, and the force of his eloquence, to the
 intimate knowledge which he had acquired of every branch
 of science and of art. These sources of intelligence sup
 plied him with that copiousness of illustration, with which
 his orations were, enriched, and enabled Mr. Burke to col
 lect within the boundaries of his own genius, every thing
  that could adorn and embellish his elocution.
     It has been supposed, said Mr. Davy, that this Institu
  tion may ultimately encroach on the province of some of the
  ancient and venerable establishments of the country, where
  ancient erudition has long been cultivated with success..
  This opinion, however, is founded in error. The precious
  remains of antiquity, which enlightened the darkness, of the
  middle ages, and delivered down to us some of the most in
  estimable treasures of human knowledge, we can never
  value too highly. Let them continue to be the guides of
  our taste, and the beacons by which our course, is to he di
  rected. But let them not be exclusively studied.           The
  pursuits on which such minds as those of Boyle, of Bacon,
  and of Newton; were employed, are of a much higher
  order of utility, and far more conducive to the interests and
  the happiness of mankind.
      I presume too to hope, continued Mr. Davy, that the
  encouragement which the Royal Institution has hitherto re
  ceived from its female visitors, will not be withheld from
  it under its new modification.     It may afford them oppor
  tunities of acquiring that knowledge, which will contribute
  to render their elegant acquirements still more interesting;.
                                                              Bv

                           Royal Institution.               22[»
By increasing the sphere of their intelligence, they will
secure not only an addition to their own happiness, but the
higher gratification of imparting to their children ihat useful
instruction, which cannot fail to strengthen and to endear
the relations of domestic intercourse.
     Mr. Davy concluded a very eloquent and comprehensive
introductory lecture, by observing, that discoveries in phy
sical science are not to be estimated solely by their con-
duciveness to general utility.     They produce on the human
mind the happiest and the most sublime impression, in
proportion as they develop the harmony and simplicity
 which reign throughout the works of that Being, whose in
 finite power is manifested in every thing that is in the hea
 vens and on the earth.
     On Saturday,   the 1 7th of March, Mr. Davy, speaking of
 the discoveries   of
                          MR. CAVENDISH,
 paid the   following just tribute to the memory. of this    di
 stinguished philosopher :
     " Of all he philosophers of the present age, Mr. Caven
 dish was the one who combined, in the highest degree, depth
 and extent of mathematical knowledge, with delicacy and
 precision in the methods of experimental research.
     " It may be said of him, what perhaps can hardly be said
 of any other person, that whatever he has done has been
  perfect at the moment of its production : his processes
 were all of a finished nature: executed by the hand of a
 master, they required no correction ; a:)d though many of
  them were performed in the very infancy of chemical phi
  losophy, yet their accuracy and their beauty have remained
  unimpaired amidst the progress of discovery ; and their
  merits have been illustrated by discussion, and exalted by
  time.
     " Fn general, the most common motives which induce
  men to study, are the love of distinction, of glory, or the
  desire of power, and we have no right to object to motives
  of this kind ; but it ought to be mentioned, in estimating
   the character of Mr, Cavendish, that his grand stimulus to
   exertion was evidently the love of truth and of knowledge :
  — unambitious, unassuming, it was oiten with difficulty
  that he was persuaded to bring forward his important dis
  coveries. He disliked notoriety ; he was, as it were, fearful
  of the voice of fame. His labours consequently are re
  corded with the greatest dignity and simplicity, and in the
   fewtst possible words, without parade or apology ; and it
                                   P  3                  seemed

230              Wernkrian Natural History Society >
seemed as if in publication he was performing, not what was
a duty to himself, but, what was a duty to the public.
 .
  "  His life was -devoted to science, and his social hours
were passed among a few of his friends* principally mem
bers  of the Royal Society : he was reserved to strangers,
but where he was familiar, his conversation was lively, and
full of varied information: upon all subjects of science he
was luminous and profound* and in discussion wonderfully
acute   :—
  —"      Even to the very last week of his life, when he was
nearly 79, he retained his activity of body and all his energy
and sagacity of intellect.    He was warmly interested in all
new subjects of science ; and several times, in the course of
the last year, witnessed or assisted in some experiments that                /
Were carried on in this theatre, or in the laboratory below.
   " Since the death of iNewton, (if I might be permitted
to give an opinion,) England has sustained no scientific loss
so threat as that of Gaxendish ; but this loss is less to be re
gretted, since, like his great predecessor, he died full of years
and of glory : his name will be an object of more venera
tion in future ages than in the present moment : — though
it was unknown in the busy scenes of life, or in the popu
lar discussions of the day, it w       remain illustrious in the
                                              ill
annals of science, which are as unperishable as that nature
to which they belong       and
                             ;     will be an immortal honour
                                      it
to his house, to his age, and to his country."
         WERNERIAN NATURAL                    HISTORY SOCIETT.
    At the meeting on 3d February, the Rev. Dr. Ma.knight
 laid before the society      sketch of the mineralogy of the
                                 a
 highlands of Scotland, Irom the Pass of Leny to Balahelish.
 The general rock        this tract
                        in            mica slate, with its usual
                                              is
 subordinate beds, such as, of granular limestone, horn
 blende slate, &c.        contains also*
                         It                 some districts, beds
                                                         in
Imd veins of leadglance, and indications of ironglance. Be
 yond Zyndruni, the mica slate approaches to gneiss, till
 we pass Inverouran, where sienite appears.        In the neigh
 bourhood of King's House, newer granite, feldspar, por-
 phyry and hornsione are found        and the adjacent country,
                                              ;
 as might be expected from the decomposition of ihcse rocks,
 presents, for manv miles, an unusual aspect cf bleakness
 and sterility.     Glencoe, which       singularly interesting,
                                                    is
 both   in  pic turesque and
             a                      mineralogical point of view,
                                     in   a
 consists ot hornstotie and compact feldspar, in beds subor
 dinate to the primitive rocks, and capped with porphyry.
 At the be ttom of Glencoe, mica slate again appears, and               is
                                                                  covered
                                                              ¦

           Hackney Lilerary and Philosophical     Society.    231
  covered   with the formation of clay-slate, which affords the
  well-known quarries of Balahelish.         Thus, according to
  Dr. Macknight, it appears, that the relative positions of
  the great formations which occur in the highlands of Scot
  land, correspond to the principles of the geognosy of
  Werner.
      At the same meeting, Professor Jameson read some ob
  servations on the< universality of rock and metalliferous
  formations, preliminary to a short account of some speci
  mens of a particular formation of lead-ore found within
  fifteen miles of Dunkeld in Perthshire.     The formation ap
  peared to be almost the same with that which occurs at
  Strontian in Argyleshire ; and it is therefore possible that
  i£ may be a source of wealth to the proprietor.
      At this meeting also the secretary read some new and in
  teresting observations on the natural history of the common
  Greenland whale, by Mr. Willian Scoresby, junior, of
  Whitby ; and exhibited a correct drawing of that animal
  by the same gentleman, differing materially from the figure*
  hitherto published.
      HACKNEY LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL            SOC1ETV.
      We   have   great pleasure in announcing the formation of
  institutions calculated to diffuse useful knowledge.     Of this
  description    is  the Hackney Society.     It consists  of two
  classes.    First, Ordinary members, who contribute to the
  funds, enjoy the use of the books, &c. Secondly, Honorary,
  consisting of such gentlemen whose association may re
  flect honour on the society, and whose opinion of the la
  bours of its members may be such as to impress them with
  sentiments of regard for such a mark of the society's re
  spect.    Ladies are admissible as members.
      The officers of this society consist of a president, two
  vice-presidents, two secretaries, a treasurer, and six com
  mittee, who are to be chosen from the ordinary mem
   bers by ballot or scroll at every anniversary meeting.
      The meetings on Tuesday evenings are to be principally
'
  occupied by literary conversations, and reading such papers
  on scientific or literary subjects as the society may be fa
   voured with.
      The subjects for conversation, and books for the library,
  are to comprehend the mathematics, natural phrloaopby
  and history, chemistry, polite literature, antiquities, civil
  history, biography, questions of general law and policy,
  commerce, and the arts.
      The purchase of philosophical instruments, and patro-
                                  P I                       nizing

               French National Institute.    — New Books.
    hizirig lectures on philosophical subjects,   also form a part   of
    the plan of this society.
                    FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
       The class of history and ancient literature of ihe French
    institute has proposed the following as the subject of a
    prize dissertation :
                           " What were the people who inhabited
    Cisalpine and Transalpine Gaul, at the different epochs of
    history anterior to A. D. 410? — Determine the position of
   the capital cities inhabited by these people, and the extent of
   territory which they occupied. — Trace the successive changes
   that took place in consequence of the divisions of the Gauls
   into provinces." — The prize will be a gold medal of the
   value of 1500 francs.        The memoirs may be written iri
   Latin or in French, and must he transmuted to the Secre
   tariat of the Institute at Paris on or before the 1st of April,
   181 1<
           XL.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous     Articles.
  JYlR.    BROWN, the botanist who accompanied Capt. Flin
  ders in the late voyage of discovery, has just published the
  first volume (if a work tin the plants of New Holland, &c.
  under the following titles " Prodromus Mores Novae Hol-
  landiae et Insulce Fan-Diemen ; exhibens characters plan-
  tarum quas annis 1802 — 1805 per oras utriusque insulae
  collect et descripsit Robertas Brown; insertis passim ahis
  speciebus auctori hucu^que cognitis, seu evulgatis, seu in-
 editis, praesertim Banksianis, in primo itinere navarchi
  Cook detectisi"                          0
     M.   Ebel,  of Bavaria,   has recently published a geological
•work on the structure      of  the Alps, which is reported by the
continental journalists to coniain much novelty, and to co
 incide entirely with the experiments made by Humboldt.
According to Messrs. Ebel and Humboldt, it is not true
that granite is the nucleus of the surface of the earth : on
                                                                      '
the contrary, we find as many strata of granite as of any of
the other integrant substances of mountains.            These strata
of stones in the mountains have been formed by crystalliza
tion in the Sea of Chaos, and are found in a great measure
on the same line from Savoy to Hungary.               According to
these ideas, the earth resembles a prism of crystal, the ecltres
of which have been wdfn away by the flux and reflux of
the waters, without the ruins of these points having entirely
         up the hollows made.         These ideas are expected to
                                                                lead

                       Discoveries at Pomficia.
lead to important results ; but they will at the same time
discourage those who still hope to tind the solid nucleus of
the earth. The geologists on the Continent now begin to
abandon their own system, in order to embrace              that of
Huinboldt and Ebel.
      Mr. Parkinson has withdrawn the Introduction to the
 Knowledge of Fossils, announced at the end of his first
 volume of Organic Remains of a former JYorld, considering
 its publication as entirely superseded by Mr. Martin's ex
 cellent systematic Outlines of the same subject. The third
 volume of Organic Remains is in considerable forwardness.
      Tn the month of October last, the viceroy of Italy and
  his consort visited the ruins of the ancient Pompeia, ac
  companied by chevalier Arditi,superintcndant of the Royal
 Neapolitan Museum. A fresh search having been made
  for antiquities a few days before by order of iheir majes
  ties, M. Arditi presented on the above occasion several
  pieces of ancient pitch, a vessel full of wheat, a piece of
  coral, several beautiful paintings, and a lamp of baked
  earth nl the form of a leaf, and bearing a Latin inscription.
  This lamp was covered with a very fine varnish or vitrifica
  tion, which gave it a silvery or pearly appearance.            It
  seems to be a mistake therefore of some authors, when they
   inform us that this vitrification was not invented until the
   fifteenth century by Lue de la Rubria. a Florentine sculptor.
       Their majesties having expressed a desire to have some of
   the ruins dug up under their own inspection, the workmen
   had the good fortune to find several pieces of money of va
   rious denominations : a quantity of bronzes, among which
   was a very fine vase, and an urn for wine : some articles
   formed of bones ; a great quantity of glasses of various
   dimensions and shapes ; and in particular a great number
   of vases improperly called Etruscan, on which were Latin
   inscriptions.     On the same occasion, their majesties found
   some works in marble, and in particular some comic masks :
*
   a few small but elegant altars, adorned with bas-reliefs and
   weights marked with cyphers in the upper part.
       Hitherto only a single subterranean apartment had been
    discovered at Pompeia, improperly called a cantino, but
    which ought rather to have been namtd rrypto-portico : in
    the recent diggings one was discovered consisting of several
    stories.   It is remarkable for having a pipe or tube of stucco
    placed in a corner, and intended for the conveyance of
                                                             smoke.

  S34                       Foreign Schools.
 smoke.     This discovery seems to set at rest the question so
 long agitated by the learned ; namely : whether the ancients
 were acquainted with the use of vents or chimneys for car
 rying off smoke ? In the same apartments were also found
 several pieces of marble and alabaster, valuable on account
 of the bas-reliefs and inscriptions with which they are
 adorned.
    Their majesties afterwards proceeded into a triclinium or
dining apartment recently discovered. The walls of this
magnificent saloon are covered with paintings of the most
exquisite taste, and representing fishes, birds, and game of
all kinds.      Here there are three couches of mason work in
perfect  preservation,      being the places in which the ancients
rested during their meals.          Adjoining the three beds, there
still exists a marble foot, which must have served as a sup
 port for the table on which the dishes were placed.
    His majesty on quitting the ruins expressed a most ar
 dent desire that the exertions made to expose them to public
view should be continued, and has since issued the neces
sary orders to his ministers of finance.
    The following account of the present state of the uni
versities and other seminaries of education in the new
kingdom of Westphalia, is pubjished in the foreign jour
nals.    The universities of Halle, Gottingen, Helmstadt,
Marbourg and Rinteln, contain in all 1207 students. There
are, also, 52 gymnasia or classical schools in the kingdom,
at which are educated 6,851 children : the inferior schools,
at which      reading, writing, and arithmetic are taught,
amount to 3,600, and are frequented by 253,338 children of
both sexes.       In each of the two great cities of Brunswick'
and Magdeburg there are 35 public institutions for every
branch of education, besides private seminaries.                 In the
public schools the hours of teaching are so arranged, that
die children who attend them are generally able to earn their
livelihood at the intervals.            In the above two cities alone
QOO   scholars   are   instructed  in   the sciences.    In short, on a
moderate compulation there is a teacher for every 50 chil
dren throughout
            *„.        the kingdom.
   The university of Jena is also described as being in a very
flourishing condition.         The number of students, which in
ISO/ scarcely    exceeded     100,  is now quadrupled. The Mine-
ralogical Society       established    at Jena a few years ago is in
great repute.       In  September     last  this society held its anni-
                                              .                 rersarv

               Caution to Apothecaries and Druggists.                  235
versary, at which the celebrated M. Goethe was present.
This ingenious author now devotes the whole of his time
to the study of natural philosophy.
     A   society for the education of the blind has been lately
established at Zurich in Switzerland.                  The number of pu
pils is at present 50 :        and    w hat  is singular, the chief master,
M. Funke, is blind. He is described as an excellent teacher
and an ingenious mechanic.
      The calamities experienced at different times in Sw itzer-
 jand from the sudden rolling down of huge fragments of
 rock and other component parts of the mountains in the
 Grisons, have suggested to the government the propriety
 of employing M. Escher, a geologist of Zurich, to sur
 vey that district.         He has accordingly published the result
 of his inquiries,         and    it appears that the valley of Nolia
  behind the village        of  Thusis,     and the valley of Plcsntr be
 hind     the   town   of  Caire    in  the Grisons, are threatened with
  the   visitation    of  avalanches,       which   can only be averted by
  the prompt adoption ot the measures of precaution which he
  has    suggested.
      The following short article on volcanos appears in a re
  cent French       journal : — " It has been observed that in the
  year )6<)f>, at the moment of the dreadful eruption of
   mount Vesuvius, all the other volcanos with which we are
   acquainted vomited an increased quantity of flames. /Kina
   spread terror throughout Sicily, and covered Calabria with
   lava.   Hecla in Iceland was as violent as ever, and the I'eak
   of Teneriffe threw out red hot stones. Volcanos which
   were thought to he extinguished awoke with new fury.
       " The communication of volcanos with each other is
   not doubtful, Put are we acquainted with the conductor
   of the electrical fluid ? — Is this communication effected by
  •ubterranean passages, or by the medium of the atmo
  sphere ? How doJi it happen that the above unusual phae-
   nomena take place at the same moment I"
          CAUTION       TO APOTHECARIES             AND DRUGGISTS.
       For   the subjoined       information, which we consider our
   selves     imperiously     called     upon to circulate as widely as
   possible,     we  are indebted      to a most respectable manufactur
   ing   chemist,     Luke    Howard,       esq., of Flaistow.
       .A very large quantity of glass of lead bat, by some means,
    found its way into the London market, as gloss of antimony.
    This criminal imposition is sure to be delected, in the ope
                                                                      ration

  536        Caution to Apothecaries and Druggists.
  ration to which the glass of antimony is chiefly applied, the
 making of emetic tartar; but it is highly needful, for the
 sake of the consumers of smaller quantities, as in the vi-
 trum ceratum, and vlnum antimonii, that the following di
 stinctive characters of the two be extensively circulated, in
 order that those, who may have bought the article within
 twelve or eighteen months past, may assure themselves of
 its being genuine.     Thepuliic health, and even the lives of
some patients, may be considered as at stake on the occasion.
    Glass of antimony has a rich brown or reddish colour,
with the usual transparency of coloured glasses.      The glass
of lead in question is of a deeper and duller colour against
the light, is much less transparent, and even, in some
samples, quite opake.
    The specific gravity of the true never exceeds 4-Q5, that
of the spurious, or lead glass, is 6-Q5 : or, in round num
bers, their comparative weights are as 5 to 7.
    Let twenty grains be rubbed fine in a glass mortar, add
ing half an ounce of good muriatic acid. The true dissolves,
with an hepatic smell, the solution is turbid, but has no
sediment.       The spurious turns the acid yellow, giving out
an oxyrnuriatic odour, and leaves much sediment.
    Let a little of each solution be separately dropt'into wa
ter. The true deposits oxide of antimony, in a copious
white coagulum ; or, if the water has been previously
tinged with sulphuret of ammonia, in a fine orange preci
pitate — The spurious gives no precipitate in water, and in
the oi her liquid, one of a dark brown or olive colour.
    A solution of the spurious in distilled vinegar has a sweet
taste, together with the other properties of acetate of lead.
    A very small mixiure of the spurious may be detected,
by its debasing, more or less, the bright orange colour of
the precipitate,     thrown down by s-ilphuret of ammonia
from the solution in any acid.
    The samples of the spurious, hitherto detected, are of a
much thicker and clumsier cast than the genuine ; but the
appearance is not to be trusted, and no specimen should be
allowed to pass, without a trial either of the specific gravity,
or chemical properties.
    John Morison, living at 145, Holborn Bars, who had
ihe misfortune to lose both arms by the discharge of a can
non, has invented a curious set of instruments, so well
adapted for almost every purpose of life, that the want of
those limbs to him is wonderfully supplied ; and he under
takes to make artificial legs, arms, and instruments, on a
                                                           new

              List of Patents for new Inventions.         237
new    principle.   The Society    for the Encouragement of
Arls, Manufactures,     and  Commerce, being convinced of
their great utility in affording help and comfort to unfor
tunate persons in his situation, lately voted him their silver
medal and 40 guineas for his ingenuity.
         LIST OF PATENTS      FOR   NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Joseph Stephenson, of Mortimer Street, Cavendish
Square, in the county of Middlesex, plumber, for a machine
for filtering and purifying of water. — Feb. 27, 1810.
    To John Justice, of Dundee, in North Britain, ironmon
ger, for his improvements in the construction of stove-grates
calculated to prevent or cure smoky chimneys, and pos
sessing other advantages over the stove-grates in common
use. — March 6.
    To Thomas Scott, of Holborn, in the county of Mid
dlesex, musical instrument maker, for his improved Ger
man flute, clarionette and oboe. — March 12.
    To Thomas Robinson, of Roberts-Bridge, in the parish
of Salehurst, in the county of Sussex, brewer, for his mash
 ing machine. — March 12.
    To John Kent, of Southampton, architect, for his new
and expeditious method of moving all kinds of goods or
materials to high buildings or from deep places. — Mar. 12.
    To Thomas Grant, of Bideford, in the county of Devon,
esq., for his method of making paint or varnish from a
new discovered fossil, which will be of great public utility
in painting of ships and in various manufactories. — Mar. 22.
    To Michael Shannon, of Berwick Street, in the county
of Middlesex, architect, for certain improvements in the
art of brewing, which were communicated to him by a
 learned foreigner since deceased. — March 22.
    To Johann George Deyerlcin, of t,ong Acre, in the
county of Middlesex, tool-maker, in consequence of cer
tain inventions by himself, and of communications made
to him by a native of Germany,       for a machine, new prin
ciple, or method of making bricks and tiles, and also by
means thereof, and of clay, loam, or similar materials to
those commonly used in potteries, to make all sorts of
mouldings, beads, tubes, gutters, channels or cylinders to
convey water, 'smoke, or any fluid or soft substance —
March 22.
   To John Gregory,     of Islington, in the county of Mid
dlesex, builder, for his new method of tunning or cleansing
ales and beers into casks. — March 22.
                                    «
                                                        Rain

238                                                                    Meteorology.
   Rain Table,                    by the Rev.                                J. Blanchard,                                                               of Nottingham,
                                                                         =3
                                                                          3
                                                               „ a;
                                                                        X        near
           u
                                                              w.i
                                                                                Yorkshire.                                                                                                     Middleshaw,
                                  Chatsworth,                                                                                                                                                                      Nottingham.
                                                              ""s •£
                                                                                                           Manchester.
                                                                                                                                                       Dalton,
                                                Derbyshire.                                                                      Lancaster.
                                                                  TZ O.
                    London.
          Sj
                                                                                                                                                                        Kendal.
1809                                                          a $  u 3
           u                                                    o **
                                                                3        -
                                                                                Heath,
                                                              u u u a
                                                                                                                                                     Lancashire.                               near Kendal.
          '£
                                                              a a 'M
                                                                                         Wakefield,
          u                                                              &, 0
                                                              ss         c
                                                                         '&
Jau.      8-44     2-91       5     22 3-50                             1-57      3-98                     2-67             4         6-58 5=27 4-48 1-80
                                                                                                                                     -66
Feb.      4-31     1-86           3-29 2-59                            2-94       2-58                     1-96                  31   4-53 4-28 5-74 1-69
                                                                                                                                              1
Mar.      000 0-94                0-44 0-82                            0-48       0-43                     0-35                  0-53 1-13 0-72 0-62 0-75
April     3-95     3-46           1-70 2-10                             3-05      2-11                     0-96                  1-59 2-20 1-69 1-50 2-15
May       1-07     0-86           1-83                        1-59     0-45       2-96                     3-42                  3-39 3-85 4-55 2-66 1-80
June      2-38     1-20           2-06                        2-24      3-24      2-01                     2-45                  3-10 4-26 3-24 3-79 2.45
July      3-45     3-58           2-00                        2-87      2-38      2-28                     1-79                  400                    3-45            3-28                    3-08               1.44
Aug.      3-70     2-64           4-38                        4-53      588       4-61                     3-85                  6-12                   7-25            9-73                    9.59           4-50
Sept.     3-34     2-90 4-13 3-90 3-10                                            4-29                     4-22                  4-75                   5-57            6-36                    6-11           3.13
Oct.     0-60      0-22 0-28 0-75 0-56                                            1-41                     0-61                  0-87                   1-66            1-16                    1-10           0-31
Nov.     1-30      1-38           1-91                        1-70      1-90      2-25                     2-14                  3-87                   2-80            4-11                    2-56               1-18
Dec.     5-53      3-00           2-67                        1-79      2-42      2-74                     4-68                  5-74                   7-08            8-02                    8-85               1-81
        38-07 24-95 29-91 28-38                                        '27-97 31-65 29-lo|41-73 50-36 52-41                                                                                    50-08 23-01
  Meteorological                                  Table,                 by     Dr. Clarke,                                                           of       Nottingham.
       Thermometer.                                                Barometer.                                            Weather.                                              Winds.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¦    '
                              -
                              a
                                      -j
                              £
                                                                                                                                                                                                               and N.W.
                                                                                                                                                                            PS and S.E.
                                                                                                                                                             and N.E.
                                                                                                                                                                                                 S.a nd S.W.
                                                                                                                         Fair.
                                                                                            *
                                                                                                                                              Wet.
                                                                                                           g
                                                                                                                                                            Z
                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                      '5   >1
                                                                                                                             -
                 15-29                              30-05 28- R5 29-41 MS                                                18                   13             14            18                        9             5
                 43- 00                             10-33 18-68 29-6     J-74                                             18                  10              2                                  93            16
                 44- 00                             30-38 29- 00' 29-99| 0-4O                                            26                                  22               1 6 3                            15
                                                                                                                                               5                                                     9
                 42-76                              80-36 28-9'    9-73 0-54                                              IS                  17             16                                  14            18
                 .57-61                             30-2G 29-23' 29-8    3-43                                            24                                  10             13                   re            13
                                                                                                                                               9 7
                                                                                     i
                 57-71                              30-45 29-27 29-84 >62                                                21                                  11                                  15            It
                                                                                                                                                                               6 2 6 5 8 4 7
                 59- 64                             30-12 29-39129 88l 0- 24                                             17                   14             24                                  10            18
                 60- 69|                              .'9-97 29-2.il 29-64    45                      1-                 12                   19                                                 31                8
                  50-46                              ii9-87 29-05 29-4*i J-63                                            25                                     2 3                               a            17
                 52-00                               30-25 29        iiO-O'j >38                                         25                    6 5            13                                  17
                 42-10                               30-41129-03 29-8P >7-7                                              18                   12              12                                      6        122
                 40-12                               ,10-00i28.25 29-45 >90                                               17                  14               1                                  33           15
                 48-78                                                                                                   234                  131          130               79                 197            165
                                                                                                                                                                                               ANNUAL

                                       Meterology.                                         839
                               ANNUAL           RESULTS.
                                                   .........
               Thermometer.                                                          Wind.
   Highest Observation, July 27th             -                                       780s.
   Lowest Observation, January 22d                                                     1T°N.
   Greatest Variation, in twenty-four hours,             June lst-2d      -   -   -    18°
   Annual Mean                                                                         48-78
                                                    ........
               Barometer.                                                            Wind.
   Highest Observation, June 25th                                                    S0-45NE.
   I^owest Observation, December 17th                                                28-25W.
   Greatest Variation in twenty-four hours, January             S0th-31st •           1-13
                                                         ....
   Annual Mean                                                                       29-74
                                                     .....
                             Rain.                                    Inches.
                                                         ....
               Greatest Quantity in August                               4-50
               Smallest ditto in October                                  .31
               Total Quantity for the Year                             23-01
               Weather.            Days.              Wind.          Times.
                     Fair - - 234 -              -   N. & NE.     -     180
                    Wet - - 131 -                -   E&SE.        -      79
                                                    S.  &SW.      .     197
                                     365            W. & NW             165
                                                                        571
   Remarks. — On the 22d of January, the Thermometer, within two miles
of Nottingham, stood at 14°. April 19th, Snow had fallen to the depth of one
foot.    May 2d, Snow fell this morning               August 6th, the Rain that fell
from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. amounted to 1 -72.                Loud peals of thunder at noon,
increased at 4 P.M , when the lightning became extremely vivid — the thun
der tremendous— the rain descending in torrents, and continuing so most
part of the night.       December 17th, the Barometer at 11 P.M. stood at
28-25L    The following are comparative observations on the fall of the
mercury:—
                                      Barometer.
                            Kesicick.           Kendal.        Lntutnn.          Nuttingham .
   January  1788     - -      28-S5      -  -   28-38     - -  28-89
   January  1789     -    -   28-09     >¦ -    28-12 -      - 28-58
   December 1809                                                                   28-25
   N. B. The Barometer is firmly fixed to a standard wall, over a stair-case,
on a level of 160 feet above the sea. The Pluviameter is placed in a garden,
on an elevation of 140 feet from the level of the sea.
    Quantity of Rain in 1S08, at the following Places in
                                        Scotland:
                                  Bnthuxli                       Gnrrdnn
   1808.           Dalkeith.        Castle.        Glasgwe.      Castle.          f orgs.
                     Inches.        Inches.        Inchi s.     Inches.          Inches.
   January -    -    1-29            1-278           1-24G          !-27
   February     -    1-905            1-461           -778          1-62
   March    -   -      -452           1-26             •082           •71
   April        -    2-805           1-923           1-535          2-97
   May - •      -    2-22             1-8H7         .1-371            •78   .
                                                                                   •
   June - -     -    2-288            1-579          1-814          1-62
   July - -     -    412              1-83           81 18          2-91
   August   -   -    3-451           5-8:27          5-S97          2-92
   September     -    2-651             •655          •6! 6        5 31           1 452
   October -     -    2-393           S-8>8          2-171         3-21           8-033
   November     -     1-48            1-993          2-135          1-68          3-664
   December     -     2-44           1-507           1-342         2-21          5-488
                   27-995           24-598         21-795        27-21          18-637
                                                                        Meteorological

240                                       Meteorology.
                           METEOROLOGICAL                        TABLE,
                  Br Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                                 For March 1810.
                   Thermometer.
                                                                    eesofDry-
                                                                                  rometer.
                                                 Height of
Days of the
 Month.           Si
                  y o
                            C
                            8
                                 (lock,   ght.   trie Baiom.        l>yLeslie's                     Weather,
                                                   Inches.
                  co   *         -
                                                                   afl ^ >
                                                                   H u^
                                                                   Q c a.                             •
  Feb. 26         38       47°   47°              29-89                33                    Fair
            27    47       53    44                  •65               19                    Cloudy
            28    40       52    48                  •99               32                    Fair
March       1     47       53    47                  •78               16                    Cloudy-
            2     48       54    49                  •69               10                    Small rain
            3     49       51     41                 •55                 0                   Rain
                  41       50    40                  •36               18                    Cloudy
            5 4
                  40       45    39                  •16               19                    Cloudy
                  35       38    41               28'95                                      Snow
                                                                        0 0
            6
        -         40       45    42                  •81                                     Rain
            8 7                  46
                  45       49                        •99               15                    Cloudy
            9     52       54    49               29-28                10                    Stormy
            10    50       51    50                 •76               36                     Fair
            11    50       54    50                 •90               30                     Cloudy
            12    52       52    46                  •75               10                    Stormy
            3     40       42    40              30-00                32                     Cloudy
            14    39       41    38              30-00                25                     Cloudy
            15    38       38    35               29*64               20                     Cloudy
            16    35       39    34                  •55               10                    Cloudy
            17    35       40    33                  •65              30                     Fair
            18    32       44    36                 •90               22                     Fair
            19 29          44    43              30 00                19                     Fair
            20 34          50    40              29-95                33                     Fair
            21    35       49    41                  •C5              21                     Cloudy
            22    34       42    34                 •98                19                    Fair
            23    32       49    36                  •72              34                     Fair
            24    33       47    37                  •72              27                     Fair
            25    32       42    37                  •81              25                     Fair
            26 35          42    39                  •85              27                     Fair
             N. B. The Barometer's height                  is   taken at one o'clock

                                 [   241     ]
XLI.   On the Torpidity       of Animals. By BENJAMINSMITH
              BARTON,         of Philadelphia, M.D.
                             To Mr, Tilloch.
SiRj -L LATELY purchased, and have just finished the read
ing of," An Essay on the Torpidity of Animals, by Henry
Reeve, M;D." The work has afforded me much amuse
ment, and sortie instruction; and may, doubtless, be read
with greai satisfaction and advantage by the younger class
of naturalists.  It    is,
                        however,    think, less replete with
                                           I
new facts and experiments, and with original and enlarged
views of the nature and phenomena of TORPID LIFE, than
might have been expected, considering the respectable au
thor's opportunities of acquiring information,            and the
length   of  time  that  he  has had  the  subject under  his con
sideration.
    Having myself, for several years, been engaged in in
quiries relative to the same subject, in various classes of
 animals, but especially in the Mammalia, the Birds, atld the
 Rcptilia (Amphibia of Linnaeus),         hope to be able, at no
                                             I
very distant period, to publish the full result of my re
 searches and experiments.         shall then, with that candour,
                                     I
 which, trust, will never forsake me in my inquiries as
       I                                                                a
 naturalist, point out some of the errors (as       now conceive
                                                          I
 them to be) of Dr. Reeve's work and,        ;       in
                                                particular,   shall I
state, at length, the facts, the actual experiments, and the
 observations, which compel me to differ from him on some
very material questions.       At present, have no other ob
                                                 I
ject in view, than to draw your attention, and that of your
 philosophical readers, to that part of Dr. Reeve's Essay
 which relates to the real or supposed torpidity of birds.
 This part of his subject, the intelligent author does not
 seem to have examined with his accustomed ability.
    In treating of the " Migration of Birds," Dr. Reeve has
 the following words:        "Here    curious question arises re
                                         a
 specting the disappearance of birds.               singular that
                                                     It   is
 this subject should still admit of doubt, when          seems so
                                                               it
easy to be decided     ; yet every month we see queries and
 answers about the migration of swallows, and every year
 our curiosity    is  tempted to be amused       with marvellous
 histories of a    party of these birds diving under water in
 some remote quarter of America.            No species of birds,
 except the swallow, the cuckow, and the woodcock, have
 been supposed to remain torpid during the winter months.
 And what   is  the evidence in favour of so strange and mon-
    Vol. 35. No. 144. April 1810.                         Q  strous

242                  On the Torpidity     of Animals.
strous a iupposition ? Nothing but the most vague testi
monies, and histories repugnant to reason and experience*."
    It appears somewhat surprising to me, that an author
who has so long had the subject of the torpidity of animals
under his consideration, should have hazarded the as
sertion contained in the preceding paragraph. Dr. Reeve
has, certainly, read of other birds, besides the swallow, the
cuckow, and the woodcock, which are said to have been
found in a torpid state.       And ought he not to have men
tioned these birds ?
    In my Fragments of the Natural History of Pennsyl- •
vania, which Dr. Reeve, if I do not mistake, has seen, for
he has referred to the work in his Inaugural Dissertation
published in 1803, I have mentioned the common hum
ming-bird (trochilus colubris) as one of those American
birds which do occasionally become torpid.                I have parti
cular   reasons for   quoting   the  passage,   as   it  occurs in the
Fragments.
                 "  I  have   not   been   able   to   learn, that the
humming-bird winters in any, not even in the warmest,
parts of the United States.         I cannot hesitate to consider
it as a bird of passage.          A gentleman, however, whose
name I do not recollect, wrote a liitle paper to prove, that
these birds continue with us all the winter : why ? be
 cause one of them was, one frosty day, in the month of
 October, found a good deal benumbed in a church, in some
 part of New England, I think in Connecticut!-"
     In the same work, speaking of the caprimulgns vir-
 ginianus,    or whip-poor- Will of the Americans,              I have
 said : " I have been informed, that some of these birds
 have been found in a torpid state, in hollow trees, in New-
 Jersey.    But I cannot entirely depend upon the fact ; and
 I have little hesitation in saying, that this bird, as well as
  the swallows, to which it is allied, is a bird of passage J."
     Here, then, there are two American birds, besides those
 enumerated by Dr. Reeve, which are supposed, by some
  persons, to become torpid in the winter season.               Nor do
  these complete the list.       It is the opinion of many well-
  informed persons, in the United States (but I by no means
  vouch for the verity of the story), that the Virginia corn
  crake, or rail (rallus virginianus), becomes torpid, and
  remains among the mud and grasses of our meadows, &c. ,
  during the winter-season.          It is asserted, by many other
   • An Essay, &c. section ii. pages 39, 40.
     Fragments of the Natural History of Pennsylvania,
   •f-                                                   Part First. Ap
 pendix   pages 18 and 19.
         I.                 Philadelphia, 1799.
  |  Fragment!, Sec. Appendix 1. page 18.
                                                              persons,

                    On the Torpidity        of Animals.                     843
  persons, that whole flocks of the Carolina parrot, or para*
  keet, (psittacus carolinensis,) continue in a torpid state,
  in the hollows of trees, in the state of North Carolina, and
  in some other parts of the American Union.                    J  believe en
  tire dependence may be placed upon this statement ; though
  it would not be difficult to show, that these birds are
  often seen abroad, and pretty active, when the ground is
  whitened by snow.              I could mention not a few other
  birds, the torpid state of which has been spoken of by na
  turalists and others ; and these birds I shall mention in
  my   "  Facts, Experiments, and Observations, relative to the
 Torpidity of Animals."
     But " what" (says Dr.           Reeve)
                                               "  is the evidence in fa
 vour of so strange and monstrous a supposition ? Nothing
 but the most vague testimonies, and histories repugnant to
 reason and experience."
     This, surely, is not the proper language to be employed
 in the investigation and discussion of physiological ques
 tions.     Authorities are facts in natural, as well as in civil,
 history.     And in favour of the torpidity of some of the
 birds which I have mentioned, the authorities are, some
 times at least, highly respectable : nor are they few in
^number.       Tn regard to the swallows, I shall say but little
 at present.      I have, at this time, in the press, a memoir on
 the migration and torpidity of these birds.                 I am confident
 that I shall be able to convince every candid philosopher,
 that great numbers of swallows, of different species, do
 occasionally pass into a state of torpidity, more or less pro
 found, not merely       "   in some remote quarter of America,"
 but in the vicinity of our capital cities, where there are
 some men of genuine observation and inquiry, and who
 are as little propense to believe the marvellous in natural
 history, as any philosophers elsewhere.
     I do not suppose, that all the swallows of North Ame
 rica become torpid.          It is my present opinion, and it was
 my opinion when I published the
                                                 " Fragments" in 1799,
 that the swallows, in general, are migratory birds*.                      But
 subsequent and very extensive inquiries have convinced
me, that the instances of torpid swallows are much more
frequent than       I  formerly supposed they were ; and that
there are two species of the genus Hirundo, which are pe
culiarly disposed to pass the brumal season in the cavities
of rocks, in the hollows of trees, and in other similar situ*
    * See Fragments, &c.
                          Appendix I. page 16.      See, alio, Introduction t»
this work, pagei xii and xiii. § xxiv, xxv, xxvi.
                                    Q   3                              ations,

244                 On the Torpidity        of Animals.
ations, where they have often been found in a soporose
state.   These species are the hirundo riparia, or sand-
swallow, commonly called, in the United States, bank-
swallow and bank-martin ; and the hirundo pelatgia, or
aculeated swallow, which we call chimney-bird and chim
ney-swallow.    There is no fact in ornithology better esta
blished, than the fact of the occasional torpidity of these
two species of Hirundo.
    I say nothing of the torpidity of swallows " under water."
But     I      not wholly deny this fact. And I take much
              do
pleasure in referring Dr. Reeve to a short paper, in the
 Transactions of the .American Philosophical Society, vol. vi.
part    i.,relative to the discovery of        torpid swallow under
                                                 a
a  quantity of mud and leaves.         The author of that paper
was     most worthy and respectable man and
        a                                             ;      man so
                                                                a
religiously attached to truth, that       believe him to have been
                                            I
incapable of uttering         afalsehood.     He was, moreover,            a
man of nice observation, and of philosophical turn of mind.
                                        a
    I do not wish to urge this part of ihe swallow's history
any further.          have nothing to say in support of the
"
                    1
    swallow song." But when,               page 44, Dr. Reeve as
                                            in
serts, that no swallows " were ever found                 in
                                                       all the rivers
and lakes of England, Wales, Ireland, Scotland, or Switz
erland, although fishermen are constantly employed on
these their supposed hiding-places," does he mean to say,
that     has never been asserted
        it                               any of his countrymen,
                                          by
that swallows have been found torpid, under water, in
England? Swallows are said to have been found torpid
" in the river Thames and the fact seems to have been
                              ;"
credited       by
                some illustrious Englishmen            in
                                                      the 17th cen
tury  ; and   among    others,     if
                                    Ido  not   mistake,      the im
                                                                by
mortal William Harvey*.
   But will take my leave of the swallows. —Since
        I                                                       pub I
lished my Fragments,       Ihave obtained much information re
lative to the torpidity of the humming-bird.             have hinted
                                                          I
at this subject, and have, indeed, most pointedly admitted
the fact, in my letter to Mons.              Cepede, published in
                                                la
your   Philosophical    Magazine.        am
                                         I     now fully persuaded,
                                                                 that
   * In Dr. Birch's History
                            of the Royal Society, vol. iv., there are some cu-
r!ou» notices about swallows.    The following may not be deemed wholly
                                         ••
unworthy of Dr. Reeve't attention.          Sir John Hoskyns proposed, thatit
might be duly examined, what becomes of the swallows, and in what state
they are during the winter.     In answer to which Mr. Heushaw affirmed,
that the chancellor of Denmark told him, as an undoubted truth, that in
Iceland, there had been taken out of the ice swallows, which being after
wards brought into  a   warm stove recovered and flew about the room."—
Mr. Henshaw observed, " that he had an account like the former concerning
»wallows from our watermen, viz. that they have found them in the river
                                                                      Thames<

                     On the Torpidity      of Animals.                  245
that instances of the          torpidity of the trocliilus      are by no
means uncommon in the United States : and I regret my
having treated with so little respect, the opinion of the
Connecticut gentleman already alluded to.                   It is certain,
at least, that the trocliilus, like the generality of the swal
lows, is very impatient of cold ; and that it sometimes,
even in our houses, very suddenly passes into a profound
slumber, from which, however, it awakes, to enjoy all the
privileges of its life. — I say this is certain.            And this, so
far as his sentiments may be collected from his Essay, is
more than Dr. Reeve is willing to admit of any species in
the great class of Birds.
   The fact of the torpidity of the trocliilus was not un
known above two centuries ago.                    It is related by the
Spanish historians Herrera, Ximenes, and several others,
though it must be confessed that these writers have mixed
with the truth, some jable.               I have lately conversed with
an intelligent gentleman, who was born, and has long re
sided, in the kingdom of Mexico.               He assures me, that the
fact of the torpidity of the trocliilus is known to every one
in that country, and in the adjacent provinces. He added,
that he had himself seen one of these little birds in its
brumal sleep, in a tree. — 1 shall discuss this subject at
length, and shall illustrate it by actual experiments, in ray
woik on the torpid state of animals, to which I have al
ready alluded.          In the mean while, I flatter myself that
the iollowing lines, a part of which immediately relates to
the somnus of the trockilus, will not be wholly unaccepta
ble to some of vour readers.               The author is Raphael Lan-
divar, a native of Guatimala; and his poem, entitled Rusti-
catio Mexicawa, in fifteen books, besides an Appendix, in
verse also, deserves to he much belter known than it ap
pears to be.        It is, indeed, well worthy of an English trans
lation; and I sincerely wish that the elegant Mr Sotheby,
whose translation of the Georgics of Virgi) has so deserv
edly procured him a high reputation, could be induced to
Thames; and that towards the end of the year they assemble in great num
bers on the little islands of the river, and then submerge themselves in the
water."— " Upon reading the minutes of the last meeting, Mr. Hcnshaw
remarked, that Dr. Harvey had considered the state of swallows in the
winter, and had dissected some of them, which had been found under water,
and could not observe that there v. as either warmth or motion in them."—
" Mr. Chetwynd, of Ingstree, being present (at a meeting of the Royal
Society), observed, that during the time that the swallows are laid up for
the winter, they moult, and return in the spring with all new feathers."
The History of the Royal Socifty of London, &c. &c. By Thomas Birch,
O.D. Secretary to the Royal Society, vol iv. pages 5'M,534. 537.
                                     O  3                        undertake

840                    OM the  Torpidity of Animals.
undertake the task. My copy of Landivar'g work, which
is, I believe, a very rare one, would be at his service. The
public pulse might be tried, by the publication of a version
of one or two of the books.
    In his 13th book the author treats of Birds. And here
it is that he speaks of the humming-bird, its manners, us
sleep, &c.
    '* Nil tamen exiguo novit prsestantius orbis
       Colibrio dulcis spoliate murmure vocis*,
       Sed claro tenues penna radiante per artus.
       Exiguum corpus, forsan non pollice majus,
       (Quod rostro natura parens munivit acuto
       Atque artus ferme totos aequante volucris.)
       Induit aurato viridantes lumine pkmias,
       £t varios miscet tractos a sole colores.
       Ille volat rapidum Zephyrum superante volatu,
       £t raucum penna tollit stridente susurrum.
       Roscida si vero fragranti educere flore
       Mella velit rostro, viresque reducere membris,
       (Ouippe alia quacumque negat se pascere mensa)
       Sistitur in medio concussis acre pennis,
       Nectareum donee tereti t rah at ore liquorem.
       Ast adeo promple subfiles concutit alas,
       Ut vigiles fugiant oculos, ludantque citatae ;
        Suspensamque putes volucrem super acthera filo.
       Sin autem sylvis borealis bruma propinquet,
        Plusque vagus solito frigescat Jupiter imbre,
       Frigida praecipiti linquit Colilrius arva
       Nostra fuga, linquitque levi viridaria penna,
       Kt longuni inontis nigris absconditus umbris
       Indulge! placido, ceu Ptogne arguta, sopori,
       Dum luces Aries stellatis noctibus sequel,
       Verque novum pratis antiquum reddat hororem."
                  Rustifatio Mexicana, lib. xiii. v. 317 — 249.
    All   this, Dr.  Reeve will perhaps say, may do very well
 in poetry    : but something more positive on the subject of
 the " placidus sopor" of the colibri is required.                  Some
 facts, and therefore something more positive, I have already
 mentioned: and many additional facts, with experiments,
I   promise to give in another place. At present I will
 only add, that Mr. Landivar mentions the torpidity of the
 humming-bird, not as a fable, but as an established truth.
 For in the short Monitym prefixed to. his interesting work,
   • « Avicula hate Culibri in America Meridional!, in Septentrionali vtro
 Chupa-mirlo dicitur."   Note by Landivar.
                                                                       he

            Description      of a Hydro-pneumatic     Table.        847
he says,    "  In hoc autem opusculo nullus erit fiction! locus,
cam si excipias, qua- ad lacum Mexicanum canentes poetas
inducit.      Ouae vidi refero, quaeque mihi testes oculati, c:e-
teroquin veracissimi, retulere.            Praeterea curse mihi fuit
oculatorum testium             auctoritate subscripta, qua; rariora
sunt, confirmare."            I am, sir, with much respect,
                                 Your obedient servant, &c.,
Philadelphia,  Nov. I, 1809.          BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON.
XLFI.      Description of a Hydro-pneumatic Table for col
    lecting and transferring Gases, and for experimenting on
    permanently elastic Fluids.             By FREDRICK ACCUM,
     Operative Chemist, Lecturer on Chemistry and on Mi
    neralogy and Pliarmacy, M.R.I. A., F.L.S., &c.*
  JL HERE     is but one sure road to arrive at truth        in all de
partments of experimental knowledge, namely,                to consult
nature herself by operative experiment ; and this becomes
the more necessary as the subjects to be studied are more
complicated and extended.
 •   In mathematics, the propositions necessary to be known
 for the acquisition of knowledge, are self-evident, and ad -
 miltcd as soon as announced, and from their ready admis
 sion the student is led to the explanation of the most com
 plicated truth.        In the system of chemical science it is
 otherwise.      This branch of inquiry, it may be said, opens
 with a detail of various processes which are by no means
self-evident, nor easily to be repeated by those who have
 not yet a claim to the title of a chemist.
    To awaken the ardour of chemical research, as well as to
give facility to the practical acquisition of knowledge at the
 least possible cost, and in the most advantageous manner,
 must therefore be an object of some importance to the ad
 vancement of science ; for to the abridgement of labour, and
 the superior aid of modern instruments of research, does
 the science of chemistry owe its rapid strides towards
 perfection.
     It is well known that before the invention of the ther
 mometer, men were accustomed to judge of the different
 degrees of heat and cold, by the sensations produced on
 their organs of feeling, and the estimates must have been
 often highly exaggerated, and always vague and fallacious.
 It must DC acknowledged that a number of valuable facts
                       * Communicated by Mr. Accum.
                                     Q  4                         would

248            Description     of a Hydro-pneumat ic Table
would  still be wanting, chiefly with regard to our know
ledge of the constitution of mineral bodies, if Bergman
hadnot pointed out the effects of the blowpipe, an instru
ment of the greatest value to the mineralogical chemist.
   What a deal of trouble and expense, as well as time,
(that most inestimable of all the desiderata of experimental
research,) is saved by the form which Nicholson has given
to the gravimeter, an instrument which renders the modes
of ascertaining  the specific gravities of solids and fluids,
 at once easy, expeditious, and accurate, to the fifth figure
 of the decimal, water being taken as unity*.
    What a vast field of inquiry has been opened to the
chemical philosopher by the very simple modification of
the air-thermometer of Leslie,Tt-an instrument of uncom
mon delicacy, employed by him with the greatest advantage
in his important researches concerning the mensuration of
the force and density of light ! and with what ease, expedition
and oeconomy are at present performed (even in the closet)
those operations which in former times demanded a regular
laboratory ! The moveable furnace of Dr. Black f, the nlast
furnace of Aikin, and the lamp furnace of Guiton, are now
considered as sufficient for carrying on, in the small way,
all those operations of the science, in which either a very
intense or a very low heat is necessary.      These apparatus
alone, it may be said, have banished from the laboratory a
number of unwieldy and costly contrivances, which served
only to excite embarrassment and confusion. Many tedious
processes in the practice of our science have thus been
made easy by the help of modern instruments, hazardous
ones are become safe, expensive ones cheap, and the means
of experimenting have been brought to every door.          The
cultivators of chemical science who have no access to the
laboratory of the operative chemist, are too well acquainted
    •
       It does not appear that any better instrument for finding specific gra
vities for the use of the chemist need be wished for.         The gravimeter of
Nicholson is susceptible of correction for the variation of temperature, and
the impurity of the water in which it is to be immersed, which for practice
|s sometimes more convenient.      It requires no address in using   it,and the
price at which the instrument may be purchased         is far below that of the
most ordinary kind of hydrostatic balance.
 f       This furnace has been considerably improved by others, since its
 first introduction into practice.It    very substantial, durable, not liable to
                                       is
 be easily injured by external blows, ana capable of producing     a  degree of
 heat more than sufficient to melt iron.     It   perfectly safe in
                                                  is             a   room] and
 (he thickness of the walls, composed        fire bricks, with which
                                            of                       it   lined,
                                                                           is
 prevents the operator from being molested by the heat when the furnace
                                                                                  it
                   •'
 inaction. See Manual of nalytical Mineralogy, intended to facilitate
                              .
 the practical Analysis of Minerals," by F. Accutn, i2d edit, page 38.
                                                                                with

          for   collecting and transferring   Gases.             24 g
with    the utility of the instruments before named, to render
any further observations concerning them necessary.               »
    It is in consequence of such reflections, and the invita
tions I have received from others, whose judgement I re
spect, that I take the freedom to lay before the public the
annexed sketch of a pneumatic table, which in the routine
of my profession I have found extremely useful in operating
on liases, which I flatter myself will be found an acquisition
among the apparatus to the laboratoty.
    The discovery of the gases, and their great importance in
the researches of modem chemistry, have occasioned, as is
well known, the necessity of some peculiar instruments, by
means of which these bodies may be caught, collected,
transferred, and submitted to the action of other bodies.
Among these the very simple and ingenious reservoir, in
vented by Dr. Priestley, and named by him the pneumatic
trough, is the most indispensable.        Several alterations have
been proposed in the structure of this vessel, to render it
more convenient for use; but these, it may be said, relate
either to its form only, or to its neatness and general ap
pearance, and not to its principles, or application and utility,
as connected with the operations of pneumatic chemistry.
    Fig. 1. (Plate VII.) represents a wooden table three feet
six inches high, two feet ten, inches loag, and one foot
eight inches broad. At each end of this table, and at a
depth of ten inches from its upper edge, is a moveable
 board or platform d d measuring 18 inches by 16£.           These
platforms are supported horizontally          by swing-brackets
e e, which may be turned aside to allow the platforms d d
 to fall down between the inner sides of the legs of the
t ible. The brackets e e are then concealed from view. The
 platforms d d serve to support table furnaces, retorts, and
 stands, or other apparatus employed in the production of
 gases.     Fig. 2. is an (economical lamp furnace with its
retort in action, to show the use of the platforms.            The
 upper part of the pneumatic table is surrounded by a broad
 rim or border xx two inches and a half deep, so as to
 form a shallow tray.         It is of rather larger dimensions
 than the table, projecting over the frame of it about
 three fourths of an inch.        This tray (as I shall call    it)   is
 divided into two unequal compartments, namely,             cistern
                                                            a
a      occupying one end or side, and stage or shallow plain
                                        a a
  a
I   occupying the other. The cistern          ais 16 inches deep,
  19 wide, and 16 broad the stage or plain
                           ;                      I  occupies the
  remaining part of the tray   b.  When the table      intended to
                                                       is
                                                                      be

             Description             of a Hydro-pneumatic Table,
be used, the tray      xxx, together with its cistern a a, and
 stage  or plain   ii,    to be filled with water, so as to stand
                           is
at least three fourths of an inch deep over the shallow
plain or stage         in every direction.
                      It                         Across the cistern
a
a    is
     a     shelf, marked         in the drawing
                                     c                     five inches
                                                                ;   it   is
broad, and perfectly level with the stage                  This shelfI.
elides   backwards       and   forwards    horizontally    within   the
cistern a, so that         may be placed at any convenient
                           it                                                      di
stance from the lamp furnace, fig. 2, or other vessel
from which gas proceeds.                 provided on its foremost
                                           It   is
edge with    a   row or holes, into which from underneath,
broad short-necked funnels are fixed;                 serves to sup-'
                                                                it
port the receivers standing on the shelf c, with their
open ends turned downwards upon the before-mentioned
boles, through        which afterwards the gas conveyed by
the funnels   is  made to pass into the jars destined to receive
it. As this shelf            level wilh the stage, and may, by
                                is
its sliding motion, be brought close to the stage                where        b
it  terminates   in the cistern, the jars placed upon this shelf,
when filled with gas, may be slided along without further
trouble to   a    distant part on the adjoining plain            whilst       I,
other vessels previously filled with water in the cistern            a,            a
and standing also on the plain              may in return instantly
                                                     b,
be moved on the shelf c; and thus the trouble of removing
the jars into and out of the cistern          totally avoided.
                                                      is
    From this statement            will be seen that the advantages
                                      it
of. the pneumatic table are considerable.                 enables iheIt
operator to fill jars or vessels with the utmost neatness,
convenience and expedition.              The necessity of trans
ferring them when filled with gas, out of the trough,
is   avoided, and the danger ol suffering part of the gas
to escape, as well as the almost unavoidable spilling of
water whilst the vessels are removed,            completely guarded
                                                           is
against.   It   enables the operator also to fill jars of almost
any size, which cannot be done in the common trough,
 without rendering           unwieldy and very cumbersome, or
                                it
 without being at least obliged to immerse the jars pre
viously into  a    deeper trough, and thence conveying them
 upon  a    plate or saucer into the reservoir in which they
 are to be filled with gas.         Thus the constant danger of
 having either too much water, so as to overflow the trough,
 or too little, so as to admit common air to enter into
 the jars when the water sinks below the shelf,                  effec        is
 tually remedied. In the common trough the vessels are also
 exceedingly liable to be overset              the pressure of the
                                                      by
                                                                 water,

                                On Salmon-Pry.                            251
water, the height of which rapidly increases when large
jars are filled, and require continual removing.
    When large quantities of gases are required, as in public
lectures, this pneumatic table has been found exceedingly
useful.       The operator not being restrained for room in the
management of his experiments, nor being obliged lo trans
fer the vessels continually in and out of the apparatus, and
being enabled to perform his operations within a con
fined space and without encroaching upon any surrounding
 furniture, are likewise no small advantages, which entitle it
to the attention of those who have no access to the la
boratory of the operative chemist.                 The shelf_/y is very
 serviceable as a receptacle            for holding whatever utensils
may be deemed necessary to be near at hand during the
 experiment.
   Compton Street, Soho, March 12, 18 1O.            FREDRICK ACCOM,
 XLIII.       On Salmon-Fry:           in Jtnsiver to a Correspondent
    whose Communication appeared               in our last Number.         By
    JOHN CARR, Esq., of Manchester*.
                                To  Mr. Tilloch.
 SIR,    A. LIBERAL discussion of subjects in British natural
 history certainly affords a very amusing variety amongst
 the more abstruse branches of scientific research, which
 obtain so deserved a preference in your select journal ; and
 it is with this view that I submit my present observations,
 rather than from a wish to attain any triumph over the
 brief and illusory remarks on Salmon-leaps, in your Maga
 zine for last month.              What I formerly stated, and shall
 now offer, is the result of my own personal observations
 in the Tweed, Coquet, Tyne, Eden, Esk, and several other
 northern rivers which swarm with salmon, and J mention
 this only as increasing the responsibility for what I shall
 advance.
     Were it really a fact, as contended for by the writer                     I
 am opposing, that salmon-fry actually continue upwards of
 twelve months in the same river where they are spawned ;
  then during the summer months, (when the streams are
    • Mr. Carr is
                    respectfully informed that, if we have not misunderstood
 his allusion, be is mistaken respecting the author of the paper to which he
 has sent thi* a» an answer.     We have therefore suppressed his introductory
                      .
                                                                          half

  152                      On Salmon- Fry .
  half   dried up, and the water transparent,) however diminu
  tive might be i heir size, such are their incredible multitudes'
  that they could no more remain concealed than the pebbles
  over which the streams il->w ; and yet during this season, so
  favourable to exposure and discovery, I believe not one
  solitary individual of the preceding spawning season can
  be met wiih.
      In the Tweed, more than two hundred thousand salmon
 are annually caught ; and these, astonishing as the number
 may seem, probably bear but a moderate proportion to the
 whole quantity that enters the river.           Every female de
 posits many thousands of ova; hence it is obvious what
 myriads of progeny must be the result; and accordingly
 in the months of March and April the amount of fry in
 the river fully correspond* with these data; but after the
 vernal floods, no vestige remains of the true salmon-fry,
 the whole of the immense body being swept down into the
 ocean.
     The writer in your last Number seems to be unacquainted
 with the spawning mouths, which are not the two which he
 conceives, but the last four months of the year.          The fish
•by    no   means  all spawn   at  or  near  the  same  time, there
 being     considerable  diversity  in  that  respect, some   com
 mencing and even finishing two or three months before
others.       This diversity probably has two very different cir
 cumstances for its cause, — the different ages of the fish,
 and the different periods of their entrance into the fresh
 waters. The weather, and state of the rivers as to floods,
have also an evident influence.           It is in the months of
June and July that the old fish, recovered from the great
expenditure of health and substance in the preceding-
spawning season, fiist begin to ascend the rivers. What
are called fresh fish, indeed, come into the rivers even in
December, and in all the following months, but these are
 fish which have not spawned in the last season.           In Sep
tember the females are all exceedingly distended with ova,
and a few of them even begin spawning in that month,
more in that following, but Nos'ember and December are
the principal spawning months; and that the ova then de
posited are the germs of the same fry which appear so
abundantly in the spring, is a truth as well known, and
ascertained, as that the fish themselves have heads and tails.
     The very rapid growth of the fry I specially noticed, as
an extraordinary cucuinstance;         but we shull advance a very
short way indeed into natural research, if the character of
•xtraordinary is to beat us back.         The average weight of
                                                                the

                                On Salmon     -Fry.                          251"
the fry in spring will not amount to one ounce ; and the
writer who has made it necessary for me to offer these ob
servations, admits that the spring fry in the following July
and August attain a weight of from 14 to 20 ounces. This
latter fact I know to be much greater than stated ; and surely
the writer who can cavil at the acquisition of the first
ounce, and immediately admit its multiple by twenty in
little more than the same period, must have very incon
gruous notions on the subject.     His paper was professedly
written to exhibit what he calls a more rational and cre
dible account of the matter than I had given ; and its own
contradiction and improbability are strikingly manifest, as
will be seen by contrasting the following two passages :
 " The fact is, the young fry do not descend the rivers with
 the old salmon in the spring after they are spawned, for
 in the October following they are no bigger than a min-
 pow." — " In the months of June and July they (the fry)
 are about five or six inches in length: tins     know to  I                   'le
fact."
   These paragraphs contain the horns of piercing dilem
                                                      a
ma, and      offer the writer his choice of being gored with
              I
that which he may prefer.           Either the same fry which
were five and six inches long in June and July have,                           by
some strange means, been wasted down to the size of                             a
minnow in the following Oc-iober, or the fry then no bigcjer
than  a  minnow continue in the river till the following June
and July    and in this latter case., whence have those "shoals
              :
pf try oriainattcl which the same write? sends down to the
sea  in spring    f
    The fish which he speaks of          the months of June and
                                               in
July,     an abundant and well-known visitor in our rivers
         is
at that season    ;but         perfectly distjnct species of tself,
                                it   is   a
and   by no means the salmon-fry, with which, however,                         it
has long been, and with the ill-informed            still it  con      is,
founded.      It the samlet. Few animated production' of
                      is
nature have had        more contested origin, or been subjected
                           a
to more wild and extravagant assumptions.          Most generally
it was considered as       backward and spurious brood of the
                                a
salmon, that always remained dwarf; never bred and even        ;
all the individuals were absurdly deemed males. Its na
tural history      now, however, well ascertained, and, ex
                  is
cepting in size,        certainly does approximate,
                           it
                                                               it in
                                                           all re
spects, very nearly to the salmon. Like the latter,       ascends
 our rivers, from the ocean, in summer, continues            gieat     in
 abundance through the autumn, afterwards spawns, and
 in the first two months of the year again descends to the
                                                                             sea.

*54         •              On Salmon-  Fry.
sea.    It probably never exceeds nine, but averages only silt
inches in length.       Though every where the same precise
species,    its dubious history has assigned it a number of
provincial names.        In Scotland they are called pars, in
Cumberland        Iremlins, in Northumberland        wrack-riders
(from    their  lying  on  the wrack  or river  weed),  in the Se
vern samsons, and in the Wye skirtings or lasprings.
   Mr. Pennant, whose industrious research after facts has
so seldom been equalled, in combating the notion of their
being salmon-fry makes the following observations :
                                                             " The
samlet is the least of the trout kind.       It is by several ima
gined to be the fry of the salmon : but our reasons for dis
senting from that opinion are these. First, it is well known
that the salmon-fry never continue in freih water the whole
year: but, as nnmerous as they appear on theii first escape
from the spawn, all vanish on the first vernal flood that
happens, which sweeps them into the sea, and scarce leaves
one behind.        Secondly, the growth of the salmon-fry is
so quick and so considerable as suddenly to exceed the bulk
of the largest samlet: for example, the fry that have quitted
the fresh water, in the spring, not larger than gudgeons,
return into it again a foot or more in length.        Thirdly, the
salmon attain a considerable bulk before they begin to
breed : the samlets, on the contrary, are found, male and
female (distinguished by the milt and roe), of their com
mon size.       Fourthly, they are found in the fresh waters in
all tiroes of the year."
   These observations of Mr. Pennant I can fully confirm
from my own experience, excepting the last, which I must
directly contradict ; for I believe it would be absolutely im
possible to find a single samlet in any of our rivers in the
months of March and April, the very period when the
waters nre teeming with the proper salmon-fry. This little
interesting fish, the samlet, in natural habitudes, figure, and
even oily fatness, is truly a salmon in miniature; but, never-'
theless, it does contain several discriminative marks, — in so
much that were a samlet and salmon -fry, of equal size,
placed together, the most cursory eye would readily recog
nise a difference.      The samlet is thicker and fuller made
than the fry,    so  much so as to be one third heavier in equal
lengths :    but what  would instantly distinguish the one from
the other,     are  several broad light blue bars crossing the
sides from the gills to the tail.      These the samlet never is
without, nor does the fry ever possess them, though similar
blue marks may often be seen on small trout.             The back
and tins of the fry are also more dusky, and the tew red
                                                              spots

                       On Salmon- Fry.                      255
spots along the lateral lines far more dull and obscure than
in the samlet. The latter are of all fish one of the easiest
prey to the angle.     They are incessantly on the feed ; and
an expert angler with artificial flies, in some of our rivers,
will take eight or ten dozen in a few hours.
    Besides the salmon and samlet, the bulltrout, -seatrout,
and vvhitling, all very distinct species of the same genus,
also quit the ocean and ascend our rivers, to spawn, in
great numbers, and their fry are frequently mistaken, by
incautious observers, for the true salmon-fry ; from which,
however, they exhibit several specific differences.
    I shall now drop the subject, having, I presume, suffi
ciently shown that my former account of the salmon was
strictly correct.     Even the writer who has drawn from
me the present remarks, will, I trust, by this time have dis
covered how much more easy it is to derange and embar
 rass than to elucidate an obscure case.
    It is worth observing, that the papers on the breeding of
 fish, published in the Philosophical Magazine for October
and November, very satisfactorily illustrate an obscure fact
 in the natural history of the trout. It is well and very
generally known, that trout, when confined in ponds and
 lakes, attain a size very far beyond what they ever arrive
 at in rivers and brooks, and that in these confined situations
 they never breed.    This is well accounted for by the proof
 that they can only spawn in a swift-running current on
 gravel, and that there only the spawn will attain anima
 tion : and doubtless the fish not being exhausted with breed
 ing, in situations where no sufficient currents exist, is a
 principal cause of their extraordinary growth.     These con
 siderations are very encouraging for stocking large pools
 with trout-fry procured in the easy way pointed out in the
 papers I have alluded to, and by which trout of a very su
 perior size may be obtained.
    A most singular anomaly in the history of British fishes
 has lately occurred, by a very splendid and meritorious
 work, under that title, having issued from the press, wherein
 two species of our most abundant and interesting fish, the
 salmon and common eel, are purposely disregarded, under
 the inadequate excuse of making room for a few scarce,
 obscure, and immaterial species.     My own cursory remarks
on the two proscribed species will sufficiently establish, that,
 to an industrious and intelligent inquirer, they yet offer
 much of new and interesting matter.          The most, I was
 about to say the only, valuable portions of natural history
 consist in a knowledge of the singular and various habi
                                                           tudes

436                    Origin of the Gypsum Slrata
tudes   and peculiar modes of existence in each distinct
class, — a sort of animal biography, wherein the species is
personified in the diversified details of the individual : and
Applying, this to the case under consideration, surely the
animals which almost daily appear upon our tables have a
paramount claim to our consideration, over those which can
uever extend beyond administering to, certainly a laudable
but yet, a mere curiosity.         I am, sir,
                      Your most obedient humble servant,
I'rincess Street, Manchester,                         JoHW CAKK.
         Aprils,   1810.
XLl      V. On   the supposed Fresh-water Origin of the Gypsum
       Strata in the t'nvirons of Paris ; on the Geological Cha
   racters     and Relations of t lie Alum Shales on the Northern
   Coasts of Yorkshire:  and on the Orbicular Blocks                    nf
   Sienile on Mount- Sorrel Hill, in Leicestershire.                   By
   Mr. JOHN FA REV.
                                To   Mr. Tilloch.
SIR,     IT
          has given me great pleasure to find, that the doubts
which I ventured to express in pages 134 and 139 "f your
Philosophical and Geological Magazine, as to the accuracy
of Messrs. Cuvicr and Brogniart's opinions, on the fresh
water origin of the lower part of the series of strata de
scribed in the IVth article of their memoir on the basin of
Paris*, are in the way,of being cleared up, by the researches
of Messrs. Desmarets, the elder and younger, and M. Pre-
vost, who have found numerous sea-shells in the third or
lowest gypsum mass, notwithstanding        M. Cuvier and his
associate had said (page AO of your translation) " we are not
acquainted with any fossil in this mass, which is the third
of the quarries :" what therefore must become of the opinion
of M. JLamanon, adopted by them and others, as to the
gypsum* of Montmartre and the other hillocks of the basin
of Paris, having been crystallized in fresh-waier lakes ? or,
thought of the unphilosophical expression used on the oc
casion, that one fresh-water sliell therein, was " sufficient
to demonstrate the truth of the opinion of M. Lanunon?"
In a calcareous marl, below what is called the little plaster
bed in this mass, the fossils appear numerous, and are,
ampullariae, calyptrse, cerites, citherere, cockles, corbulse,
crab's shells and claws, echini spatangusf, glosopetne,
 * Pa»e -19 of the present volume.
   At Grignon lime quarriei (p. US) our authors observed echini cypcastrx.
 •f-
                                                               murices,

                    in the Environs of Paris.                257
ttmrices, solens, tellinas, turritella:, vertebrae of fish, vo
lutes, &c. Below the above, three small bed3 of plaster
and some strata of marie occur, without shells ; and lower,
a bed of calcareous marie, in the midst of which is a plaster
or gypsum bed, which contains cerites of the genera petri-
colum and terebrale ; many of which sea shells are per-1
fectly similar to those in coarse limestone at Grignon, and
other places, not only in marles here, lying between beds
of gypsum, but in the gypsum itself, although several na
turalists have questioned the reality of such an occurrence.
The above particulars I have learnt, from a notice in Mr.
Nicholson's Journal of the present month, which contains
other interesting particulars.      Should M. Desmarets and
 Prevost have presented any memoir on the above subject,
you will not, I hope, fail to translate it at length, on its
 reaching this country.
    In the respectable journal above mentioned, Mr. Richard
Winter has given an interesting account of the manufacture
 of alum in the neighbourhood of Whitby, and of the strata
 whence the raw material or alum-shale for making this
useful article is procured ; of which geological particulars    I
 beg to present a brief sketch, for the purpose of soliciting
 further information, through the medium of your Magazine,
 such that may enable us to fix the place ot these strata in
 the British series.
     Alum-shale, a blueish gray argillaceous schistus, occupies
 the coast of Yorkshire lor about ten miles southward, and
  18 miles noithward of the town of Whitby, and extends
 inland a great distance; cliffs of this shale appear on the
 shore which are. from 100 to 750 feet high, and on which
 the sea is continuing to make its inroads.        A ferruginous
 sand-stone (perhaps the same with that of Woburn), iron
 stone, and shale, or clay of its decomposition, covers the
  alum-shale stratum, having an easy dip to the southwest.
  The sand-stone appears from 4 to 50 or more yards thickj
 producing ochrey springs at its bottom ; it hardens by ex
  posure in buildings: a thin bad seam of coal or jet3 (pro
  bably bituminized wood-,) seldom exceeding two inches in
  thickness, is sometimes found under or in the lower part
  of the sand-stone : the slines or length -way joints of the
  strata of stone and shale range N. andS., and the end or
  cross joints E. and Wi
     The alum shale contains several species of ammonilce,
  abundance of belemnitae, bones of animals, nautili of two
 or three species, shells of various kinds, trochitce, and
  vertelrce of fishes or animals.    It likewise holds nodules of
     Vol. 35. No. 144. April 1810.               B      indurated

1S»                         On Alum- Shales
indurated clay, which contain native alum ; gcodes of iron
stone that contain naphtha ; pieces of petrified, charred and
bituniinated wood, or jet : red iron-stone, in strata of a few
inches to two feet thick, four or five in number, at about
20O feet from the top of the shale : calcareous spar, about
half an inch thick, in the vertical slines and end- joints of the
ahale above mentioned : whin-dykes are said also to traverse
these strata, and to have charred the coals in their vicinity?
The specific gravity of the alum-shale is about 2'4S ; it
decomposes into clay on long exposure : its upper part is
richest in sulphur, and produces about one ton of alum
from 130 tons of shale, or OO' 77 percent.: the lower part of
the shale is very bituminous, hard and slaty ; a spontaneous
and slow combustion ensues when the alum-shale is mixed
and sprinkled with sea-water.
    Such are the interesting geological facts, which Mr.
Winter has laid before the public, respecting the aluminous
shale strata of Whitby ; concerning which, it is further
desirable to know, the names of the different species of im
bedded shells and other organic remains, with reference to
published descriptions and plates of them, or drawings and
descriptions of such as have not yet been described by na
turalists ; and an account of the strata that underlay the
alum-shale, as well as of those which overlay the ferru
ginous sand-stone. To ascertain these last particulars, it
may be necessary to examine the extremities of the alum-
shale on the sea-shore, and to trace its edges or boundaries
for some miles inland ; carefully distinguishing between
the alluvial matters, properly so called, consisting of or
containing rounded stones and broken and heterogeneous
mechanical mixtures, and the regular stratified matters,
which will somewhere be found in a regular range, covering
the ferruginous rock and other strata which Mr. Winter
has described ; the nature and peculiar fossils of which
strata, it will be very desirable to obtain an account of.
    In Derbyshire, some are of opinion, that the great or
 limestone Shale which there covers the mineral limestone
and basaltic strata, as shown in Plate II of your thirty-first
volume*, (and of which Mam Tor is composed,) is the
 same soil or assemblage of strata, which produces alum at
   • And i« described by Mr. Wbitehurit in his "Inquiry concerning the
Earth," 3d edit. p. )83i where however he is wrong in saying, that this shale
contains no vegetable impressions, since such occur at Shaw-£ngine mine
there mentioned, and numerous other places. Mr. Mawe, in his " Minera
logy of Dm-byahire," p. 24, has copied this error, and added a still greater
one. viz. that this shale " is not stratified."
                                                                  Whiiby

                       in Yorkshire, &c.                              S£0
Whitby     and the adjacent parts of Yorkshire ; and at Shaw-
Engine mine      in particular, near Eyam N. (where this stra
tum has been penetrated 360 feet deep to come at the vein
of lead ore in the first limestone) alum is said to form a
crust on the parts of the shale exposed.            T cannot however
consider this shale, and that at Whitby, as belonging to the
same soil, but believe the latter to correspond with the
great or chinch Clay of Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire, Lin
colnshire, &c., underlaying the Woburn Sand and fer
ruginous sand-stone strata, as hinted above: which clay
abounds with selenite and pyrites, and at its exit from the
island on the .south coast in Dorsetshire, if 1 mistake not,
takes fire on contact with the sea-water, as at Whitby ; and
whose highly bituminous shales, towards its lower part,
have occasioned the useless expenditure of such immense
sums of money in search of coals in this and past ages, in
all its course through the English counties. At the east end of
Bolinbroke town in Lincolnshire, in 1607, 1 observed these
bituminous shale beds, and within a few miles, an expensive
boring was at that time making, in search of coal-seams, which
existed only in the ideas of the adventurer.                  Ludi Hel-
 montii of various sizes and shapes, some long and cylindrical
in shape, (of which sir Joseph Banks has specimens at his
 seatatRevesby) with thin shells investing them, which seem
to prove their animal origin, are found at Bolinbroke, and
elsewhere : Quere, — Are ludi found in the Whitby shales?
or large anomia gryphus, perforated, or worm-eaten as it is
 called, near to the sand-stone ?
     Mr. Winter mentions the Whitby strata, as passing into
the interior of Yorkshire and into Lancashire ; but is it not
 more probable, that the ancient alum-works in Lancashire
 and the western parts of Yorkshire, which he alludes to,
 were situate on the shale of Castleton Mam Tor, above
 mentioned? and not on the Whitby shales; since the
 former contains sulphur sufficient for the production of
 the sulphuric acid, necessary in the production of alum.
 An alphabetical list of all the places, exactly describing
 their situation, where alum has at any time been made in the
 north of England*, which perhaps Mr. Winter by the as
 sistance of his friends could furnish, would prove of con
 siderable use towards deciding the geological questions
 above stated, as to the number and relations of the rich alu-
    • Benjamin Martin's Natural History of England, vol. ii. p. 229, men
 tions alum as among the n'.incral products of Derbyshire ; but I found no
 works, nor heard of any , in my recent examination of that county.
                                   K 2                             minoui

                        On Orbicular Granite and Sienite.
minous soils, in the Britishseries of strata. The Whilbjr
strata    I   have     an opportunity of seeing, or any
                        never   had
other where alum is manufactured ; nor do I recollect what
Mr. William Smith has ascertained, relative to the Whitby
and other alum-shales.    The valuable information which
Mr. Winter  has already given on this subject,   as hope,          is,   I
but the prelude to further details, which would greatly
oblige,
                                       Sir, your
                                            '    obedient servant,
No. 12, Upper Crown Street,                             JOHN FARET.
 Westminster, April  1810.5,
     P. S. The perusal of an extract in your last Number
 (p. 222) respecting the orbicular blocks of granite of Talavo
              ,
 and Sartene, and the doubts expressed, whether the latter
received their present form                by
                                            the effects of attrition or de
composition, induce me to state, that in                   a cursory exami
nation of Cbarnwood Forest                      in
                                               Leicestershire, in August
 1807, previous to entering on my Derbyshire survey,                         I
found on Mount-Sorrel en mm on, on (he north and north
west of the windmill, several isolated blocks of sienite,
from one to several feel of solid content each, which ap
 peared at first sight like rounded stones, almost half im
bedded in the soil           but on
                                ;           acloser examination        found
                                                                         I
them to be perfectly similar               inkind lo other blocks nearly
cubical, which were lying about on the grass, of which
blocks scats are made at the doors of many of the houses in
Mount- Sorrel town, which most travellers that way must*
have observed. Seeing reasons for referring the rounding of
the blocks        question to decomposition rather than attrition,
                   in
I  attempted, and succeeded in two or three instances,                       in
turning over these blocks,                  which
                                           by          appeared evident to
                                                      it
me, that      attrition   had     had    no   share in giving them this
semi-orbicular form             the bottom
                                ;                    contact with the sort,
                                                     in
presenting         perfect
                   a         face   of    the    cubical  form peculiar to
these blocks,      and  no    appearance       of   breaking or other vio
lence :       in further
                   a       search    on     this  common,      L found such
a  series of these    blocks          in
                                    all  stages    of their  decomposition,
as to leave no doubt on my mind on the subject.
    In the progress of my subsequent survey,                   I have found
numerous instances           of   round      masses    of  granite, of very
different species apparently,            some     very large, but none of
these boulders       admitted     of  any     hesitation   in referring their
form to     attrition,  or    in   considering       them    as the alluvial
ruins   of  very  distant  regions.       One    of these granitic boulders
I found    in  the   Buts   pasture     at  Ashover,     on   the limestone,
some in     Bretby   Park,    on   the    red  marie,   some    on Maccles-
 X
                                                                         field

                         On Crystallography.                  261
  field common, Cheshire, on the coal-measures, some in al
 luvial marie on Wemeth-Low Hill in Cheshire, (as men
  tioned vol. xxxiv. p. 50,) and in vast numbers in the vale
 of the Goyte from Whaley-bridge downwards, and in its
 various branches in Derbyshire and Cheshire:            in nu
 merous other places, single blocks are found.          What I
  wish lo impress on geological observers is, the necessity of
 stricter attention to alluvial matters, and not hastily to con
 clude whether round stones are boulders, or were formed by
 decomposition. — J. F.
 XLV.       On Crystallography.       By M. Hauy.     Translated
   from   the last Paris Edition of his Traite de Mineralogie.
                        [Continued from p. 201.]
            ON THE NOMENCLATURE           OF MINERALS.
 M     ineralogy and the other natural sciences have been
cultivated during a long course of years, without men of
 science being aware of the great influence possessed by
 words, the signs of our ideas, in facilitating the acquisition
 of their ideas themselves. The language of the sciences
 was not submitted to any fixed rule ; the caprice of the
 nomenclators themselves decided both the choice and the
 number of the words which composed each denomination;
 and these words, frequently improper, or even calculated to
 lead to a fallacious interpretation, presented the double in
 convenience of injuring the operation of the memory and
 of obscuring intellectual perceptions. ¦
     At length Linnaeus undertook to make natural history
speak a rational and methodical language, by reducing every
denomination to two words, one ot which should be com
mon to the speoies denominated, with all those which be
longed to the same genus, and the other should serve as
the distinguishing sign of 'this species.        The example of
this illustrious man has been followed by all those who
have since cultivated the study of nature with most suc
cess ; and the authors of modern chemistry have adopted
a similar precision in the idiom of that science, in which
it is conjoined with a peculiar advantage originating from
the very basis of the subject. It consists in this, that here,
to name and to define are one and the same thing; and a mere
collection of the names, such as fluate of lime, sulphate
of barytcs, &c. presents an abridged treatise on the science.
                                 R  3                        We

868                      On Crystallography.
     We have adopted this nomenclature wherever the know
 ledge we have acquired would admit of it; and amidst a
 crowd of examples which we could quote, in order to
 prove how much mineralogy has gained by this adoption,
 we shall confine ourselves to what is furnished by the word
 spar.     Originally several species of minerals which had a
 lamellousand opal-like (chatoyant) texture were united under
  this head.     Thus there were calcareous spars, heavy spars,
fluor    spars,   shining spars, &c.          At the time when the
  different bodies designated by this word composed a single
 genus, as seems to have been the case at the origin of the
 science, it was the method that was more in fault than the
 nomenclature, by identifying species essentially different
 from each other. Subsequently, however, these samebodies,
 having been better known, were separated from each other
  and placed in different genera, or even in different classes,
  and nevertheless      they were not allowed to preserve their
  common denomination of spar', and the inevitable alter
  native occurred, either to parcel out a genus in order to
 disperse its members, which is contrary to all the principles
  of the method, or to confound under one and the same
  name, genera which in other respects had nothing common,
  which is not less opposite to the principles of a good no
  menclature.      And as if there was not enough of contusion
  occasioned by the spars of the ancient mineralogy, the
  abuse of this word has, as it were, multiplied in modern
  denominations; and hence we have boracic spars, adaman
  tine spars, 8cc.     The language of modern chemistry, by
  suppressing the word spar in the acidifcrous substances, has
  given a kind of. signal-post for extending the same reform
  to some of the earthy substances which still remained ob
  scured by this erroneous appellation*.
     As to the names of these last substances, they ought
  to be founded, at least for the present, on considerations
  foreign to the chemical nature of bodies; and it is even to
 be presumed that we shall not be yet ahle to refer them to
 the results of analysis, always supposing that we are not
 stopped by the prolixity of those which should be applied
  to substances composed of three or four earths intimately
  combined with each other.            Whatever may be the case,
 names are wanted which could serve during an indefinite
 time, and this was one reason for also making in this part
    • We have preserved this word in the denomination of
                                                                ftUspar only,
 ^rhich has been now too generally used not to he respecicd, and about which
 there can be no ambiguity, because it is no longer employed on any other
occasion.

                      On Crystallography.                    369
of the language of   the science all the changes which should
not produce loo many inconveniences.
    But in order the better to show the advantages of those
which I have fixed upon, it will not be useless to explain,
before any thing else, the principles to which, in my
opinion, the formation of names independent of unalviii
ought to be subjected.
    For a long time, persons have been in the habit of giving
to mineral substances, names borrowed from those of the
places where they were discovered.         It seems to me that
this  is to invert the  use  of  these names, which ought only
to serve for designating individuals or particular bodies, as,
when speaking of an idiocrasis the locality of which we
wish to point out, we say that it is an idiocrasis from Ve
suvius, or an idiocrasis from Siberia.          If we substitute
instead of Idiocrasis the term vesuviun, which is adopted
in Germany, the former expression will have the air of a
pleonasm, and the second will appear contradictory.
    Others derive the new denominations from the colour
under which the substance is presented to the first observers.
This is to transfer to the species the name of the variety.
For example, yanolite (violet stone) is the substance which
we call axinite.     But there are crystals of this substance
 which are i>reen, and in this case the name of green yanolite
 merely expresses an imaginary substance.
    We ought also to avoid confounding the name of one
 mineral with that of another, with a different inflection; as
 when persons called hyadnthine the substance which we
 call iaiocrasis, without doubt in order to recall the ap
 pearances ascribed to it in common with the hyacinth (zir
con in the present system), with which it -had been at first
 united.    The truth is, that it differs from it very sensibly,
 cither by its component principles or its structure, or eve'n
 by the angles of its crystals ; and it is sufficient to regard
 it for a moment in order to decide with Rome de I'Isle,
 that they ought to be separated from each other.          So far
 therefore from indicating by the resemblance of the names
 a pretended connexion, which to good eyes does not exist,
 we ought rather to mark between the two substances a di
 stinct line of separation, by a new name which could have
 nothing in common with the first, and which would make
 us forget, if possible, an error which mineralogists ought
 never to have committed.
     With respect to insignificant names to which several na
 turalists give the preferetice, there is nothing to prevent their
 adoption. Of this number are the names derived from fable,
                                R 4                          such

284                      On Crystallography.
such     as  titanium,   uranium, &c.      The   ideas which  they
present are so far from carrying us to the objects which they
serve to designate, that they can neither occasion mistake
nor confusion ; so that they are in the same situation a?
if   they were purely imaginary.          Sometimes also persons
ascribe to a natural production the name of the person who
discovered it; but it would be rather too severe to condemn
entirely this way of paying a kind of homage for a favour
conferred on science.
     It appears to me that there is more advantage in em
ploying significant words, which recall some characteristic
property of the mineral to be denominated, or some cir
 cumstance relative to its history.       But because this mineral
is frequently distinguished from        others only by its general
 characters, we ought not to require that the name, which can
 bear upon a single character only, should make the object it
 designates apparent without ambiguity.            Moreover, if we
 consider that the characters of minerals are susceptible of
 variation, we must admit that the nomenclator may here
 allow himself considerable latitude, and it is sufficient that
 each word should rest on some idea connected with a
 knowledge of the object.         Without this latitude, it would
 be almost impossible to make significant, i. e. reasonable,
 names.        In a subject so fraught with difficulty, every thing
 is admissible, except what is inexcusable.
     Now it must be confessed that the French language is
 not well adapted to furnish significant words without the
 help of periphrases, which exceed the narrow bounds
 within which true names ought to be confined.                  Let
 this language display in the descriptions of objects the
  clearness     and precision which characterize it : but let
 the specific names          be furnished by the GreeK, which
 has the eminent advantage            of moulding several words
  into one, so as to paint 'in miniature the object which
  it serves to 'denominate.          In this way a multitude of
  words have been formed which are used in the arts and
  sciences. Every day these words are multiplied ; the in
 strument which transmits ideas to a distance in the twink
  ling of an eye, is the telegraph; the art of writing written
  words with rapidity is called Stenography, &c. Wherefore
 ithen should we banish the Greek language from the coun
  try of the sciences, where it has been so long naturalized,
  and where every new expression introduced by necessity,
  finds itself as it were in the same family with a thousand
  others which preceded it 1
      It is from the same source that I have derived the names
                                                              which

                       On "Crystallography.                  865
which I have added to the nomenclature of mineralogy.
Different motives suggested their formation ; and there were
two circumstances in particular, in which it was indispen
sable to compose new names : viz. when -a species hitherto
unknown was the subject of description, and when several
different species had been confounded.       In the latter case I
            left to one of the species the name which they
Generally
   ad borne in common, and I designated       the rest by parti
cular denominations.
     I was almost confined to these changes from absolute
necessity, in the extract which formerly appeared of this
treatise; and besides, 1 had allowed all the names already
 printed, to remain, however improper they might be. But,
 since, it has been observed to me that it would be proper to
 reform in the same manner several names which I had
 omitted, such as Itucite and leucolite, one of which signifies
 a white body, and the other a white stone, smaragdite,
 which is nearly synonymous with emerald,oisanite, andreo-
 lite, thullite, and some others borrowed from the localities
 or fro in the colours.   These names were found vicious in a
 twofold degree, either from their impropriety when con
 sidered in an isolated point of view, or from the monotony
 of their terminations when they happen to resemble each
 other closely. Besides all this, they were very few in num
 ber, and are only found in very modern works. In a word, it
 was thought that the interests of science, which had deter
 mined the first changes, would also suggest those which
 were prpposed to me.         I hesitated no longer from the
 moment I found myself supported by men of science whose
 reasons seemed to me to be decisive, and whose authorities
  alone have the weight of reasons; and I am the more
  anxious thus publicly to declare the motives which actuated
  me, because it would give me pain to be accused of allow
  ing myself to be led away by neologism.       I certainly think
  there i» a great difference in every respect between making
 new names and advancing new theories. The one is the
  result of a mere technical labour, which interferes with
  the dictionary of science only ; the other presupposes views
  which tend to aggrandize the edifice.      A truth newly made
  known is instantly adopted, because it insinuates itself into
  the mind by means of persuasion.         But the novelty alone
  of words which reach the ear for the first time, throws a
  shade of disapprobation over them : he who proposes
  .them seems to assume an authoritative air ; they are re
  jected without reflection and without examination, or they
  arc censured perhaps, while at the same moment all are
                                                            agreed

   966                       On Crystallography.
   agreed as to the utility of a change.           But naturalists, who
   after long consideration undertake a task so painful, so
   fastidious, and so little calculated to indemnify them for
  their trouble, ought to have nothing but science in view,
  desiring no advantage but that of being useful, and dreading
  the reproach alone of not having done all that a true re
  gard for science demands of them.
      To conclude : — Those who would still cherish a predi
  lection for the suppressed denominations, will find them in
  the same line with those which I have substituted, and may
  still continue to use them.          But I hope that beginners, on
  comparing both nomenclatures, will store their memory, ac
  cording to my plan, with names so constructed as to en
 lighten their minds.             1 have taken care to add        to these
 names their etymologies, and I have done the same with
 all the rest, whether newer old, whenever there was a pos
 sibility of ascertaining their origin.
                OF THE NOMENCLATURE            OF CRYSTALS.
     If the   language of mineralogy has been so long defective,
 from    the   bad choice of specific names, the almost total de-
 iciency    of   names with respect to the varieties of crystalli
 zation has left a void, which was no less an inconvenience.
 There was no exception, except with respect to a small
            '
 number of these varieties, the forms of which were so
 simple that they would suggest as if of themselves the
 epithets of cubical, octahedral, dodecahedral, &c., which
 ought to be added to the names of the species.                 The more
 compound        forms   were    indicated  by  definitions,   the  length
 of which was in some measure proportional to the number
of the facets; or, if it was wanted to abridge these defini
tions, by borrowing them from a resemblance between the
•crystal and some familiar object*, this was done with so
little rationality, that it would have been desirable for the
honour of the comparison if such names were less known.
     Convinced of the necessity of introducing the utmost
precision into this part of mineralogical language, so much
neglected hitherto, I have attempted to designate the va
rious crystalline forms by simple and significant names,
taken from the characters of these forms, or from the pro
perties which result from their structure, and from the
laws of decrement on which they depend.                      I shall here
present my       readers    with   the series  of these   names,     under
the form of a methodical system.                I hope that those who
peruse it with attention will find an assistant for engraving
    * The following are rumples of this kind : nail-htaded calcareous   far,
icg-tootked calcartou* spar, &c.
                                                                      these

                      On Crystallography.                       267
these names    on their memory, by connecting them with
considerations which are easily classified in the mind.
They will perceive that, by a kind of ceconomyof language,
extremely useful in such cases, the same name is frequently
applicable to varieties taken in different species.     It is true
that on one hand the word which serves to designate such
a variety might also serve another variety of the same
species. For example : 1 denominate binary, a form which
depends on a decrement by two ranges. Now supposing
this decrement to take place on the edges, it is possible
that another variety of the same substance may be owing
to a decrement which takes place by two ranges on the
angles.    But in this case the system will present for the
latter another name borrowed from a different consideration.
The inconvenience just mentioned is common to all no
menclatures, and seems unavoidable. Thus, in the language
of botany, one variety will bear the name of crassif'olta, or
of rotundifolia, while another variety of the same species
shares' with the first the character which has served to di
stinguish it. The essential requisite        is,that the method
should be* copiouB enough to furnish at least to all the
known wants of science.      I   even expect'that,      means of
                                                         by
the labourI   have performed,  a  great part of the forms which
shall be discovered in future will be found to have been
named beforehand; and as to those which require new
names, we shall have at least      asystem from which to de
signate them.     In all descriptions of researches,    becomes
                                                          it
easier to go forward when the route     is  traced.
   Principles  ofthe nomenclature. —The primitive form of
any given substance   is  always designated        by
                                                   the word pri
mitive added to the name of the species.            Examples —  :
primitive zircon, primitive carbonated lime, primitive sul
phurated lime, &c.
   We may consider secondary forms :—        ¦
1.  With respect to the modifications of the primitive form,
           when the faces of the latter are combined with
           those which result from the laws of decrement.
2. By themselves, and as purely geometrical forms.
3. With respect to certain facets or certain ridges remarka
           ble by  their assortment or their positions.
4. With respect to the laws of decrements on which they
           depend.
5. With respect to the geometrical properties which they
           present.
6. Finally, with respect to certain particular accidents.
                                                        1, Secondary

 468                     On Crystallography.
  1.   Secondary forms considered with respect to the modifica
            tions which they present of the primitive form.
      The crystal is called,
 a. Pyramidated (pyramide), when the primitive form being
         a prism, has on each of its bases a pyramid which has
         as many faces as the prism has panes.     Example : Py
         ramidated phosphatea lime.
 I. Prismated (prisme), when the primitive form being com
         posed of two pyramids joined at their bases, these py
         ramids are separated by a prism. Ex. Prismated zir-
       . con, prismated quartz.
      Semi-prismated, when there is only the half of th«
         number of ridges situated around the common base,
         which are intercepted by panes. Ex. Semi-prismated
         sulphated lead.
€. Based {base), when, the primitive form being a rhomboid,
         or an assemblage of two pyramids, the summits are
         intercepted by facets perpendicular to the axis, and
         performing the function of bases.      Ex. Based carbo
         nated lime, based sulphur.
 d. Pointed (epointt), when all the solid angles of the
         primitive form are intercepted by solitary facets.    Ex.
         Pointed mesotype.
            We shall also use the terms bi-pointed (bisepointc) ,
         tripointed (triepointe'), quadripointed (quadritpointe),
         according as each solid angle may be intercepted by
         two, three, or four facets. Ex. Tripointed analcime,
         quadripointed sulphurated iron.
 e. Marginated (emargine), when all the ridges of the pri
         mitive form are each of them intercepted by a facet.
         Ex. Marginated garnet.
            We shall also use the term li-marginated, tri-
         marginaled, as each ridge is intercepted by two or
         three facets.   Ex. Trimarginated garnet.
f.    Peri-hexahedral, peri-octahedral, peri- decahedral, peri-
     ' dodefahedral, when the primitive form
                                                    being a prism
         with four panes, is changed by the effect of decrements
         into a hexahedral, octahedral, decahedral, or dodeca-
         hedral prism. , We also denominate peri-dodecahedron
         a crystal the nucleus of which being a regular hexa
         hedral prism, has its six longitudinal ridges intercepted
         by as many facets.       Ex. Peri-hexahedral sulphated
         copper, pen-dodecahedral emerald.
 g . Recurved (raccourci), when the primitive form being a
         prism with rhombic bases, the longitudinal ridges con
                                                           tiguous

                          On Crystallography.
        tiguous to the grand diagonal are intercepted by two
        facets,  which make it appear diminished in the di
        rection of its length. Ex. Recurved sulphated barytes.
   kt Retreated (rStreci), when the primitive form being a
        prism with rhombic bases, the longitudinal ridges
        contiguous to the small diagonal are intercepted by two
        facets which make it appear diminished in the direction
        of its breadth. Ex. Retreated sulphated barytes.
  2. Secondary forms considered in themselves,      and as being
                         purely geometrical.
           The crystal is called,
   a. Cubical, when it presents the form of the cube, which in
        this case is always secondary. Ex. Cubical floated lime.
-
   b. Culoidal, when its form differ* a little from the cube.
        Ex. Cuboidal carbonated lime.
  c.  Tetrahedral, when it presents the form of the regular
        tetrahedron, as a secondary form.       Ex. Tetrahedral
        sulphurated    zinc.
  d.  Octahedral, when it presents the form of this solid, as
        secondary. Ex. Octahedral muriated soda.
   e. Prismatic, when it has the form of a straight or oblique
        prism, the panes of which are inclined 120° among
        each other. Ex. Prismatic carbonated lime, prismatic
        feldspar.
  /.  Dodecahedral, when its surface is composed of twelve
        triangular, quadrangular, or pentagonal faces, all equal
        and similar, or solely of two measurements of different
        angles. Ex. Dodecahedral quartz, dodecahedral zir
        con, dodecahedral sulphurated iron.
           If the dodecahedron had not all its faces of the same
        number of sides, it would be sufficient to bringthemto
        this aspect in imagination, by varying its dimensions.
  jr. Icnsahedral, when its surface is composed of twenty
        triangles, of which twelve are isosceles and eight equi
        lateral.   Ex. Icosahedral sulphurated iron.
   h. Trapezoidal, when its surface is composed of twenty-four
        equal and similar trapezoids. Ex. Trapezoidal garnet.
   t. Triacontafiedral, when its surface is composed of thirty
        rhombuses.      Ex. Triacontahedral sulphurated iron.
   k, Enneaconlahedral, when its surface is composed of go
        faces.   Ex. Enneacontahedral idiocrasis.
   I. Birhomloidal, when its surface is composed of twelve
        faces, which being taken by sixes, and lengthened in
        imagination until they intersect, would form two dif-
        fereut rhomboids. Ex. Birhomboidal carbonated lime.
                                                             We

tJO                     On Crystallography.
          We say trirlwmloidal in the same manner. Ex<
      Trirhomboidal carbonated lime.
in. Biform, triform, when it contain* a combination of
      two or three remarkable forms ; such as the cube, the
      rhomboid, the octahedron, the regular hexahedral
      prism, &c. Ex. Triform sulphated alumine.
n.  Cubo- octahedral, cubo-dodecahedral, culo-tetrahedral,
      &c, when it contains a combination of the two forms
      indicated by these expressions. Ex. Cubo-octahedral
      fluated lime,     cubo-dodecahedral sulphurated iron,
      cubo-tetrahedral gray copper.
o.  Trapezian, when its lateral surface is composed of tra
      pezia situated on two rows between two bases.        Ex.
       Trapezian sulphated barytes.
p.  Ditetrahedral, i. e. twice tetrahedral, when its form is
      that of a tetrahedral prism with dihedral summits.
      Ex. Ditetrahedral grammatite.
 q. Dihexahedral, when it forms a hexahedral prism with
       trihedral summits.    Ex. Dihexahedral feldspar.
          We say in the same manner, dioctahedral, dide-
       cahedral, didodecahedral. Ex. Dioctahedral topaz, di-
       decahedral feldspar, didodecahedral phosphated lime.
r.  Trihexahedral, tetrahexaliedral, pentanexahedral, hepta-
       hexahedral, when its surface is composed of three,
       four, five, seven rows of facets disposed in sixes the
       one above the other.        Ex. Trihexahedral   nitrated
      potash, pentanexahedral quartz, heptahexahedral ni
       trated potash.
          We also say in the same manner, tridodecahedral.
       Ex. Tridodecahedral sulphurated antimoniated silver.
       — Trioctahedral. Ex. Trioctahedral sulphated lead.
 *. Bi 'geminated, when it presents a combination of four
       iorm3, which, taken by twos, are ot the same species.
       Ex. Bigeminated carbonated lime.
 t. Amphihexahedral, i.e. hexahedral in two ways, when
       by taking the faces according to two different direc
       tions, we have two hexahedral contours. Ex. Am
       phihexahedral axinite.
 a. Sexdecimal, when the faces which belong to the prism
       or to the middle part, and those which belong to the
         two summits, are the former six in number, and the
       latter tea in number, or vice versd.    Ex. Sexdecimal
       feldspar.
           In the same manner we say octodecirnal.    Ex. Oc-
        todecimal feldspar.   Sexduodecimal. Ex. Sexduode-
        cimal carbonated lime, Octoduodecimal. Ex. Octo-
                                                    duodecimaJ

                        On Crystallography   .                271
       duodecimal sulphated copper.        Deciduodecimal.    Ex;
       Deciduodecimal feldspar.
 x. Peripolygonal, when the prism has a great number of
       panes.     Ex. Peripolygonal tourmaline.
 y. Sttpercomposite,      when the form is very much com
       pounded. Ex. Supercomposite tourmaline.
 z. Antienneahedral, i. e. having nine faces on two oppo
       site sides, is a name peculiar to a variety of the tour
       maline, in which the two summits are of nine faces,
      and the prism of twelve panes; whereas, generally,
       the prism is enneahedral.
 a a. Prosenneahedral, i. e. having nine faces on two adja
       cent parts, is another variety of the tourmaline, in
       which the prism and one of the two summits have
      each nine faces.
 i h. Recurrent, when, on taking the faces of the crystal
       by annular rows, from one extremity to the other,
      we have two numbers, which succeed several times,
      as 4, 8, 4, 8, 4.     Ex. Recurrent oxidated tin.
 cc. Equidifferent, when the numbers which designate the
       faces of the prism and those of the two summits, which
       in this case differ from each other, form the commence
      ment of an arithmetical series, as 6, 4, 2. Ex. Equi
      different amphibolus.
 id. Convergent, when in the foregoing case the series
       is sensibly convergent, as 15, 9, 3. Ex. Convergent
      tourmaline.
 ee. Unequal {impair), when the numbers which designate
      the panes of the prism and the faces of the two sum
      mits, considered as different from each other, are all
      three unequal, without being in other respects in pro
      gression.      Ex. Unequal tourmaline.
ff.   Hyper -oxidated, i. e. acute to excess, is a variety of
      carbonated lime, which contains the combination of
      two rhomboids ; the one acute, which is the inverse ;
      the other incomparably more acute.
gg. Spheroidal, is said of the diamond with 48 bombatcd
      faces.
h k. Plano-convex,       is the diamond with some plane and
      some curvilinear faces.
 3, Secondary forms       considered relatively to certain facets,
          or certain ridges,   remarkable for their arrangement
           or position.
     The crystal is called,
«. Alternate, when it has on its two parts,         the one supe
                                                              rior

€72                     On Crystallography,
        rior and the other inferior,      faces which alternate
        among each other, but which correspond on both sides.
        Ex. Alternate quartz.
      Bisalternate, when in the foregoing case the alternation
        takes place, not only among the faces of one and the
        same part, but also among those of the two parts.
        Ex. Bisalternate carbonated^lime,     bisalternate quartz.
      Bibisalternate, when there are on both side* two orders
        of bisalternate facets. Ex. Blbisalternate sulphurated
        mercury.
l>.   Annulary, when        ahexahedral prism has six marginal
        facets ranged   in form  of ring around each base. Ex.
                                     a
        Annulary    emerald.
           We say the same of an octahedral prism with eight
        marginal facets around bases.     Ex. Annular oxidated
        tin.
e.    Monastic, when    a  prism of any given number of panes
         has,   in the contour  of each base,      arow of facets in
         number different from that of the panes, and which
         may be all marginal, or some marginal and others an'
         gular.    Ex. Monostic topaz.
      Distic, when in the same case there are two rows of
         facets around each base.      Ex. Dislic topaz.
      Suldislic, when among the facets arranged on one and
         the same row around each base, two are surmounted
         each  by   anew facet, which    isas it were the rudiment
         of second row. Ex. Subdistic peridot.
           a
d.     Plagihedral, when the crystal has facets situated in        a
         slanting direction.    Ex. Plagihedral quartz, plagihe-
        dral zircon.
c.    Dissimilar, when two rows of facets, situated the one
         above the other, towards each summit, have         a  defect
         in symmetry. Ex. Dissimilar topaz.
f.    Squared (encadrS), when       it has facets which form kinds
         of squares around faces of      a simpler-form already ex
         isting in the same species.     Ex. Squared fluated lime.
g.     Slightly prominent (prominule),         when    ithas ridges
         wnich form     a
                           very   slight  eminence.    Ex.  Slightly
         prominent sulphated    lime.
h.     Zonary, when     it has around its middle part       a row of
         facets, which form     kind of zone. Ex. Zonary car
                                a
        bonated lime.
i.    Apophanous i.e. manifest, when certain facets or* certain
                    ,
         ridges present some indication useful for ascertaining
         the position of the nucleus, which would otherwise be
         difficult to find out, ot even to determine, either iA
                                                                point

                       On Crystallography   .                273
      point of direction or the measurement of the decre
      ments. Ex. Apophanous feldspar, apophanous sul
      phurated antimoniated silver, apophanous gray copper.
U   Blunted (emousse), when it has facets which intercept,
      and render as if blunted, some parts which would
      otherwise be sharper than the rest.          Ex. Blunted
      axinite, blunted carbonated lime.
tn.  Contracted,™ a dodecahedral variety of carbonated lime,
      in which the bases of the extreme pentagons undergo
      a kind    of contraction, in consequence of the incli
      nation of the lateral faces.
n.  Dilated, is said of another dodecahedral vanety of car
      bonated lime, in which the bases of the extreme pen
      tagons undergo a kind of dilatation, in consequence
      of the inclination of the lateral face3.
0.  Acuteangled, is a variety of carbonated lime in a hex-
      ahedral prism, the solid angles of which are inter
      cepted by very sharp triangular facets.
p.   Defective, is a variety of borated magnesia, in which
      four solid angles of the primitive cube are intercepted
      by facets, while the opposite angles remaining un
       touched, are subject to a kind of defect.
 q.  Superabundant, is another variety of borated magnesia,
       in which the solid angles which were untouched in the
       defective variety, are intercepted each by four facets,
       in such a way as to make a superabundance where
       there was a defect.
    4. Secondary forms considered relatively to the laws       of
                 decrement on which they depend.
          The crystal is called,
 m.  Unitary, when it undergoes only      a single decrement by
       one row.     Ex. Unitary telesia. If there are two, three,
       four decrements by one row,       we say bisunitary, tri-
       unitary, quadriunitary.     Ex. Triunitary peridot, bis-
       unitary cirbonated lime.
 1. Binary, libinary, tribinary, 2ec. in the case of one,
       two, and three decrements by two rows.        Ex. Binary
       oligistous iron, bibinary feldspar.
 c. Ternary, biternary, &c in the case of one, two decre
       ments, &c. by three rows.
 d. Unibinary, if there are two decrements, the one by one
       row, the other by two ; unileinary, if there is one by
       one row, and the other by three ; binoternary, if there
       is one by two, and the other by three, &c. Ex. Uni-
       ternary carbonated lime, binoternary carbonated lime.
    Vol. 3£. No. 144. April 1810.               S            The

274                    On Crystallography.
         The nomenclature in all the foregoing expressions,
      as  well as in those which follow, makes an abstraction
      or' the races parallel to those of the nucleus, which ex
      ist most frequently in the secondary crystal.  Among
      the forms in which the nucleus is entirely disguised,
      some' have names borrowed from different consi
      derations ; and those which remain are so few in num
      ber, that I thought it unnecessary to complicate the
      language by employing a particulardesignation for them.
          In order to avoid confounding the words which
      express the decrements with those which indicate the
      number of the faces, we may remark, that the former
      have their termination in hedral, as dodecahedral, or in
      a/, as octodecagonal, whereas the others end in ary.
e. Equivalent,      when the part visible (exposant) which in
      dicates a   decrement   is equal to the sum of those which
      indicate the others.      Ex. Equivalent sulphated iron.
f.  Sul'lractive, when the part visible relative to a decre
      ment is less by unity than the sum of those which in
      dicate the others. Ex. Subtractive pyroxene.
a. Additive, \\ hen the part visible relative to a decrement
       exceeds by unity the sum of those which indicate the
      others.     Ex. Additive sulphated copper.
k. Progressive, when the parts visible form a commence
       ment of arithmetical progression; as 1, 2, 3. Ex.
       Progressive tourmaline.
/'. Disjointed, when the decrements form an abrupt leap, as
       from 1   to
                 4   or to 6.    Ex. Disjointed sulphurated au-
       timoniated silver.
k.  Partial, when there    is   some part which remains without
       decrements,     while  the   other parts similarly situated
       undergo    them.    Ex.   Partial sulphurated cobalt.
/.  Svlidouble, when the part visible relative to    a     decrement
      is   the half of the sum   of  the  other   parts visible. Ex.
       Subdouble topaz.
           We say subtriple, sulquadruple, See. in the same
        way.    Ex. Subtriple sulphated copper.
           The three parts visible (exposans) which compose
        the indication of an intermediary decrement, count as
        one only, which   is   equal to their sum.
 wj. Doubling, tripling, quadrupling,           when one of the vi
        sible parts
                  is    repeated   twice,   thrice,  or four times in.
        one series which would otherwise be regular.              Ex.
        Doubling peridot, quadrupling peridot.
n .  Identical, when the parts visibleof the simple decrements,
        to the number of two, are equal to the terms of the
                                                           fraction

                           On Crystallography.                     275
           fraction relative to   a   third decrement which is mixed."
           Ex. Identical   gray copper.
•. Isonomous,       i.e. equality of laws, when the parts visible
        which indicate the decrements on the edges being
        equal, those which express the decrements on the
        angles are equal also. Ex. Isonomous sulphated copper.
p.    Mixed, when the form results from a single mixed de
        crement.     Ex. Mixed teksiai
q.    Pantogenous, i. e. deriuing its origin from all the part1;,
        when each ridge and each solid angle undergoes a de
        crement.     Ex. Pantogenous sulphated barytes.
r.    Biferous, u e. which carries twice, when every ridge and
        every solid angle undergoes two decrements.       Ex. Bi
        ferous gray copper.
s>    Surrounded, (entourS) when the decrements take place
        on all the ridges and on all the solid angles ground the
        base of a prismatic nucleus. Ex. Surrounded sulphated
        barytes.
t.    Opposite, when a decrement is made by one row, and
        another is intermediary.      Ex. Opposite oxidated tin.
u.     Synoptic, when the laws of decrement present as it were
        the picture of those which take place with respect to
        the whole of the other crystals, or at least with respect
         to the greatest part.  Ex. Synoptic feldspar.
.r.    Retrograde, is a variety of carbonated lime, the expression
        of which contains two mixed decrements, which are
        such that the faces resulting from them seem to retro
        grade, by throwing themselves backward, on the side
        of the axis opposite to that which looks towards the
        face on which they originate.
y.     Ascending, when all the laws of decrement have an
        ascending course, setting out from the angles or lower
        edges of a rhomboidal nucleus.        Ex. Ascending car
        bonated lime.
      i.   Secondary forms considered relatively to the geo
               metrical properties which they present.
        The crystal is called,
a. Isogonous, i. e. equality of angles, when the faces which
     are on parts differently situated form equal angles be
     tween each other.     Ex. Isogonous cymophane.
I. Anamorphic, i. e. form turned upside down, when we
     cannot give it the position most natural to           it,
                                                        without
     that of the nucleus being as     were turned upside down.
                                           it                            '
     Ex. Anamorphic stilbite.
c. RhomliferouSf when certain facets are true rhombuses,
                                  S   2               although,

 276                     On Crystallography.,
      although, from the manner in which they are cut ly the
       adjoining faces, they do not appear at the first glance to
       be of a symmetrical figure.    Ex. Rhombiferous quartz.
d. Eyuiaxh, when it has the form of a rhomboid the axis
'     of which equals that of the primitive rhomboid.         Ex*
      Equiaxis carbonated lime.
e. Inverse, when it has the form of a rhomboid the salient
      angles of which are equal to the plane angles of the
      primitive rhomboid, and vice versa.       Ex. Jnverse car
      bonated lime.
f, Metastatic, i. e. transferred, when it has plane angles
      and solid angles equal to those of the nucleus which
      are thus transferred to the secondary form.       Ex. Me
      tastatic carbonated lime.
g. Contrasting, when it has the form of a very acute rhom
      boid, in which an inversion of angles similar to that
      which takes place in the inverse (letter e) presents a
      kind of contrast, in so far as it resembles in another
     part a very obtuse rhomboid.         Ex. Contrasting car
     bonated lime.
li.Persisting,    isa variety of carbonated lime in which cer
     tain faces are cut       by
                             the adjoining faces, so that they
     preserve the same measurements of angles which they
     would have had without that, except that these angles
     have other respective     positions.    Ex. Persisting car-
  • bonated lime.
i.Analogic, when its form presents several remarkable
     analogies.     Ex. Analogic carbonated lime.
k. Paradoxal, when its structure presents singular and un
     expected results.     E&. Paradoxal carbonated lime.
  Complex, when its structure         complicated          by
                                                        laws not
                                            is is
I.
    very common, as when              produced
                                       it             by
                                                    decrements
    some mixed and others intermediary.           Ex. Complex
    carbonated    lime.
     6. Secondary forms considered relatively       to certain   parti
                       cular accidents.
       The crystal  called,
                        is
*. Transposed, when        composed of two
                             it   is                   halves    of   an
       octahedron, or of two portions of another crystal, one
       of which seems to have turned upon the other in                a
       quantity equal to      sixth of its circmference.
                              a                             Ex.
       Transposed spinel, transposed sulphurated zinc.
1.    Hemi-trope, i. e. one- half reversed, when     itcomposed
                                                          is
       of two halves of one and the same crystal, one of which
       seems to be reversed.     Ex. Hemi-trope feldspar.
                                                 c. Rectangular,

         On the Division     of astronomical Instruments.             27 7
 c. Rectangular,     a particular name given to the staurotide
       composed of two prisms which cross at right angles.
 d. Oliliqueangled, a particular name given to the staurotide
       composed of two prisms which cross at an angle of 60°.
e. Sexradiated, a name given to the staurotide composed of
       three prisms which cross so as to represent the BIX
       radii of a regular hexagon.
f.   Cruciform, a name given to the harmotome composed of
       two crystals which form a kind of cross.
 g. Triglyphous, when the strife considered on three faces
       united around one and the same solid angle, are in
       three directions perpendicular to each other. Ex. Tri
       glyphous sulphurated iron.
 k. Geniculated, when it is composed of two prisms which
       unite by one extremity forming a kind of knee. Ex.
        Geniculated oxidated titanium.
    In the descriptions of thespecies we shall meet with a small
 number of denominations which we have here omitted. But
 their signification will be immediately obvious, or will re
 solve itself into that of some of the foregoing denominations.
                             [To be continued.]
 XLVI.      On a Method of examining the Divisions of astro
               ISt.
    nomical Instruments.           By the Rev. WILLIAM LAX,
    A.M., F.R.S., Lowndes's Professor of Astronomy in
    ihe University of Cambridge.              In a Letter to the Rev.
    Dr. MASKELYNE, f.R.S. Astronomer Royal*.
                                                   Ibbs, August 27, 1808.
                  AM persuaded that you must feel, in common
 with myself, how unpleasant it is to make use of an in
 strument in astronomical observations requiring extreme
 accuracy, whose exactness you have no adequate means of
 ascertaining, but are obliged to depend for- it in a great
 measure upon the abilities and integrity of the artist.                  It
 is in vain that we observe with so much nicety, and read-
 off with so much precision, if we are still uncertain whe
 ther there may not be an error in the instrument itself of
 much greater magnitude than those which we are en
 deavouring to prevent ; and that our best instruments must
 be liable to such errors, no person can possibly doubt, who
 has paid due attenlion to the sources from whence they
 may arise.     I have estimated, as accurately as 1 could, the
 amount to which they may accumulate in Bird's method
 of dividing by continual bisections, and have satisfied my
 self that they are much more considerable than is generally
          * From the Philosophical Trantactiooi for 1309, Part II.
                                   S  3                             appre

27 8 _             On a Method     of examining
apprehended : but as I cannot obtain such precise informa
 tion as T could wish, respecting the exactness with which
a biseci ion ean be performed, or a length taken from the
 scale of equal parts and laid upon the instrument, I will
 not trouble you with the deduction which I have made.
It is understood, indeed, that Bird's method is now generally
 laid aside, and that each artist employs one, which he con
 siders in many respects as peculiar to himself; but I pre
 sumed that there would still be such a connexion betwixt
Bird's method and those which have been substituted in its
 stead, as to render them in some degree liable to the same
 errors to which it was subject ; and the reports which I have
uniformly received from persons, who have had an oppor
 tunity of examining some of the modern instruments, have
fully convinced me that my opinion was just. But what
ever may be the nature of the methods which are now in
use. or whatever their advantages over Bird's, I never could
persuade myself that it would be safe to trust to an instru
ment, without a previous examination.         To discover the
 means of accomplishing      this object, is what I have for
 some time be«.-n anxious to effect ; and though I fiar my
 endeavours   have not been verv successful, I will neverthe
less take the liberty of presenting you with the result.
    You are aware, I .believe, that I use a circular instru
ment for observing both in altitude and azimuth, which
was made for me by Mr. Carey in the Strand ; that the ra
dius of both the altitude and the azimuth circle is Qiie foot,
and that each is divided into parts containing ten minutes.
The construction of this instrument does not difler ma
terially from that of other similar instruments, with which
you are well acquainted, and I shall not therefore waste your
time by giving you a particular description of it. For the
purpose of examining the divisions upon the two circles,     I
procured an apparatus to be prepared by Mr. Carey, which
will be very easily explained. To the face of the rim which
surrounds the azimuth circle, and with its left end close
to the stand which supports the micrometer on the east
side, an arc of brass, concentric with the circle itself, and
a little more than 90° in length, an inch in breadth, and
one eighth of an inch in thickness, is firmly fixed by
screws, so as to have the plane parallel to the plane of the
circle, and a simll portion of its lower surface resting upon
the extreme part of the rim.       The screws pass through a
brass arc, which is fastened to this at right angles, and lies
with its broad side against the face of the rim.    Upon the
first-mentioned arc, a strong upright piece of brass, about
                                                            six

                   the Divisions   of astronomical Instruments.                 279
   six inches in length, is made to slide, the lower part of it-
   embracing the arc as a groove, and having a clamping
   screw underneath, for the purpose of fixing it firmly to
   the arc at any point required.        To the top of the upright
  piece of brass is attached a microscope, with a moveable
  wire in its focus, pointing down to the division upon the
  circle, not directly, however, but with au inclination to
   the left of about 30°.       This inclination is given to         in     it,
  order to make        point to the same division upon the circle,
                        it
  which        immediately under the micrometer itself, when
              is                                                                  it
  has been moved up as near to the micrometer as                    cait   is
  pable of approaching.         The microscope has attached to                    it
a    small graduated circle of brass, and an index,             which by
  the seconds, and parts of            second, moved over
                                        a                           the    by
  wire are determined.
    •To the vertical circle there        likewise an arc applied, of
                                            is
  the same length and breadth as the former, but somewhat
                                                                                  it, by
  thicker, and of       radius exceeding that of the circle
                          a
  about two inches.       This greater thickness         given tois
  on account of its being supported in           manner which ren
                                                       a
  ders additional strength necessary.                 fixed wiih its
                                                       It   is
 br.oad convex side downwards upon two brass                   pillars,
  screwed fast to the plane of the azimuth circle, and standing
 in   a line parallel to the plane of the vertical circle at the
  distance of about four inches from             it,
                                                and on the right side
 of the pillars which support the micrometers In-longing to
 this circle.     The pillar, to which the left end of the arc                    is
 fastened,        placed close to the lower micrometer of the
                   is
 vertical circle, and the other contiguous to the elevated rim,
in    which the divisions of the azimuth circle are cut. The
 right end of the arc reaches beyond this pillar about ten
 inches.      The pillars are of such        height, and so propor
                                                 a
 tioned to each other, that whilst the left end of the arc,
 which lies horizontally,        raised to within about two inches
                                   is
 of the height at which the lowest point of the vertical cir-
.cle     isplaced, the whole arc runs parallel to the circle
 through an extent of something more than <)0°.                 Upon
 the arc      microscope, with
              a                        moveable wire in the focuv,
                                        a
is   made to slide as in the former case, and to point to the
 divisions upon the vertical circle, not directly, but with
an inclination of about 30° to the left, in order that the
 same division (which           the lowest upon the circle) may
                                   is
be seen through          and through the lower micrometer at
                          it
the same time.               *•
     F will now proceed to show you in what manner (he
 examination of the divisions upon either circle, may he
                                        S   4              performed

280                    On a Method   of examining
performed.         The process is precisely the same in both cases,
and will of course be described in the same words.
    The first point to be examined is that of 18O°, which
must be done in the usual way, by bringing the points of
0 and 180° to the moveable wires of the opposite micro
meters, and then turning the circle half -way round, anJ
 bisecting the points again with the movtabic wires ; and
lastly, taking half the difference beiwixt the distances of
 the wires in the two positions of the circle for the error at
 the point of 180°.        Having now bisected the point of zero.
 with the moveable wire of the micromeier, \\hich is in
 tended to be used in the rest of the process (for we shall
 have no further occasion for both), we must slide the mi
 croscope along the arc, till by moving the wire a little we
 can bisect the point of 90% and then the micrometer must
 be firmly clamped to the arc.           The circle must then be
 turned til! the point of ISO5 is brought to the microscope,
 and that of 90° to the micrometer, so that we may be able
 to bisect each by a slight motion of their respective wires.
 This being done, we must observe, from the positions of
 the wires, how much the interval betwixt them has in
 creased or decreased in the measurement of the new arc ;
 and this increase or decrease must be noted down with a
  + or — accordingly.         In the same manner we must pro
 ceed through the remaining two arcs of 90°, observing and
 noting down the difference betwixt each and the original
  arc.
     The point of xero must now be brought again to the
  micrometer, and bisected by the moveable wir.e, and the
  microscope be made to slide back along the arc, till by
  moving the wire a little we can bisect the point of 60D ; and
  when this is done, the microscope must be clamped.            We
  must then measure the arc of 60° against every succeeding
  arc of 60° in the circle, precisely in the same way that we
  measured the first arc of 90° against the other three.       The
  arc of 45° is next to be measured against every succeeding
  arc of 45°, and this will complete all that is necessary to
  be done in the early part of the morning before the heat of
  the sun can have affected the temperature of the instru
  ment.    'Ill'-- rest may be performed at our leisure.
     You will immediately perceive the object of this kind
  of measurement. It enables us to determine, with any
  degree of accuracy that may be required, the proportion
  which the first and every succeeding arc of the circle, con
  tained betwixt the micrometer and tbe microscope, bears
  to the whole circle, and of course the absolute length of
                                                                 the

            the Divisions        of astronomical Instruments.                                         281
the arcs themselves.              Lei a denote the real length of the
first of these, and              +of, +a", +a"', &c., the difference
betwixt the first and             second, the first and third, &c. re
spectively ; let A represent any other arc whose length is
known, and which is a multiple of a, as marked upon
the instrument, and let thh multiple be expressed by n.
Then will a+(a + a') + (a + a") + (a + a'") + &c. ...
(a+a
        „,....n-   1
                       ') = A,   and a
                                          .
                                                   =
                                                       A-o'-a"-...a"'""~1
                                                                                         .
                                                                                                 „
                                                                                                 Hence
                                                                   n
it is evident, that if there is no error committed in th«
measurement of any of these arcs, we shall have the value
of a, and consequently of a + a', a + a", a + a'", &c, and
of any arc, comprehending any number of these, accurately
determined.    But if there be an error of e in the measure
ment of the first, of (/, e", e" , &c, in the measurement
of the second, third, &c, respectively, then we shall have
the following equation for determining a, viz. a + (a + a'
                                                                                                  1
+ e+e') +          (a   +   ii"+e             + e") + &c                    (« +   a"'""'_            +   e
-|- e"'"n    l) =       A,   and          consequently             a    will      appear         to     be
equal to                                                                                     ,   which
                                                                                                  "_1
differs from         its true        value by              -~T«    + «' +    ("   +   „..«"'—
Hence    it follows, that the value of the p"1 arc (p being
greater than unity), as deduced by this process, will differ
from its true value by
— e —e"'"'p~> , and that if we add any number p of these
arcs together, in order to determine the value of the arc
which is equal to their sum, we shall have an error in this
value (and the expression holds when p is unity, or the
first arc only is taken) equal to p                                                                  —,
               ..4       P~ 1
                                 ±
                                     P.   r-       p
                                                       +   f -p   + 1
                                                                        +   -/                   Now,
                                               n
if we suppose e to be the greatest error to which we are
liable in the measurement of any arc, and each of the suc
ceeding errors to be equal to     and likewise that    e", it,                                    e',
                                                                                                  ...e'"

                        On a Method   of examining
  ...e'"'"p~    are a]l negative, then  it will appear that    -x
  2pe  will be the greatest error that can be committed in de
  termining the value of any arc . by adding together the values
 of the (p) smaller arcs of which it is compounded.            For
 instance, if the interval betwixt the micrometer and the
 microscope comprehends an arc of 60°, as marked upon
 the instrument, and this arc is measured against every suc
 ceeding arc of CO0 in the whole circle, we shall have the
 greatest error that can be committed in deducing the arc
 of 120° from the addition of the two first arcs of 60°,
 equal to ——
            (J
                 -
                 O
                   X 2 X 2e   = 2-66  e.    After  these  remarks,
 we may proceed to consider how the remaining divisions
 upon the circle may be examined with the least probable
 error, and to ascertain the amount of the greatest to which
 the process can in any case be liable.
     Let the arc of 30° be now measured against every suc
 ceeding arc of 30° in the first, third, fourth, and sixth arcs
 of 60°, and let the length of each be determined from a
 separate comparison with the arc of 60% in which it is
 comprehended, and not from a general comparison with all
 the four.     The arc of 15° must then be measured against
every succeeding arc of 15° in the first, third, fourth, sixth,
seventh, ninth, tenth, and twelfth arcs of 30'% and the
value of each deduced from a comparison with the arc of
30°, in which it is contained.           When this is done, we
shall hive determined the length of every succeeding are of
 15°, of the first arcs of 30, 45, 60, 75 (= 60 + 15), 90,
 105 (= 90+ 15), 120 (=60 + 60), 135 ( = 90 + 45), ISO
 (= 120 + 30), 165 (= 150 + 15), and 180Dineach semi
circle.
     We must next measure the arc of 5° against every suc
ceeding arc of 5° in the whole circle, and deduce the values
of the first, and of the sum of the first and second, in each
succeeding arc of 15°, from a comparison with the arc of
15° in which they are contained.          We must then proceed
to determine the values of the first arc of 3° in each 15°,
and of its multiples the arcs of 6, 9, and 12°.          We must
also put down the value of the last arc of 3° in each arc
of 15°, and then deduce 'the values of the first and last
arcs of l°" in each arc of 15% from a comparison with the
arc of 3° in which they are respectively centained.
    We shall now have measured in each arc of 15° the first
arcs of 1,3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 12% and by taking the la&t arc of
one degree, which has likewise been determined, from the
                                                               art?

          the Divisions  of astronomical Instruments,          283
arc   of 15°, we shall obtain the first arc of 14°. The first
7°  of  this arc being measured against the second, we as
certain the value of the first 7°; and then, by measuring
the first ,4° of the remaining arc of 8° against the second,
we shall get the value of the first 4°, which added to the
arc of 7°, l>efore determined, will give us the length of the
first arc of 11°. The first 2° of the remaining arc of 4°
must then be measured against the second, ana we shall
get the value of the first 2°, and by adding this arc to the
arc of 11°, 'we shall obtain the value of the arc of 13°.
By taking away the first arc of 1° from the arc of 15°, we
get the rt:maining arc of 14°; and then having determined
the length of the first 7° of this arc, by measuring them
against the second, we must add it to the arc of 1°, and we
shall obtain the arc of 8°.      The length of the first 4° of this
arc will then be easily known, by measuring them against
the second, as will afterwards that of the first 2° in the arc
of 4° itself, by measuring them against the second in the
same arc.
    We have still to ascertain the lengths of all the first arcs
of 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 minutes contained in each de
gree, for I shall only consider the case in which the circle
 is divided into parts of 10 minutes.       Now the length of
 the first arc of 30' will be obtained by measuring it against
 the second, and the lengths of the first and second arcs of 20'
 (whose sum will give the arc of 40') by measuring the first
 against each of the remaining arcs. The length of the
 third arc of 20' must likewise be put down, and then the
 first arc of 10' being measured against the second of the
 arc of <2<f, in which it is included, and also against the
 two arcs of \cf contained in the last arc of SO7, its own
 value, and that of the last 10' in the degree will be deter
 mined from a comparison with the arcs of £0', in which
  they are respectively comprehended.        The length of this
 la«t arc of 10/ being taken from that of the whole degree,
  will give us the length of the first 50', and complete the
 operation.
     In order to ascertain the -greatest possible error to which
  we are liable in the examination, let e denote in parts of a
 second the greatest that can be committed in bisecting any
 point upon the limb ; then, since this error may occur at
 each end of the arc, it is evident that e in the expression
                       "
  deduced    above   (      x 2pe) will   become   2e, and the ex
  pression itself ^— £• x 4/> e.   Hence the possible error will
                                                                 be

484                               On a Method            of examining
be         ~        4£    =   Se at 180°;          -^-   + -~— x 4e = SE at                        t,
i,
     4^-   +   ~-
                j        X 4t = 3-33E at 60°;                     j
                                                                  4"      X 2e + -~^
                                                                                  fJ
                                                                                              x    4       X
Se =     Eat 120°.
           4         The greatest error must therefore lie
betwixt 90 and 120°, and nearer to the extremity of the
latter than of the former arc. At 105°    will be 5-50EJ                       it
at 111°         it    will    be 5-508 —          4-
                                                  5
                                                         l,5e +            ^-
                                                                            5
                                                                                    x    4    x    2£      =
9,70£j              and at 111°      lo'     it   will   be 9,70           E   — i-.I,04e              (the
excess  of the error at   1° above that at 112°) + 3-33
                                       J 1                 =                                           c
12-86    which will be found to be the greatest error betwixt
               E,
105 and 120°, and of course the greatest in the first semi
circle,              fn
              the other semi-circle, the process being the
same, the possible errors must necessarily be the same at
the same distances from the first point, reckoning the con
trary way upon the circle.
   The magnitude of the quantity               will of course vary upon
                                                              E
circles of the same radius, according to the excellence of
the glass employed, and the accuracy of the examiner's
eye.        will seldom, however, exceed one second upon
               It                                                                                          a
circle whose radius           one foot
                                    is      and in general
                                                      ;             will not             it
amount to so much.           find that can read off, to
                                   I                  1           certainty,             a
within less than three fourths of                 second     and hencea             ;                      I
conclude, that        could examine the divisions of my circle
                              I
without being liable to             greater error than o/63 seconds,
                                             a
and those of       circle of three feet radius without the risk of
                          a
a greater error than 3'21 seconds.
   To those people who are accustomed to entertain such
exalted notions of the accuracy with which astronomical
instruments can with             certainty be divided, this error,
                                         a                                                                 I
dare say, will appear very considerable; but for my part,
I  am perfectly satisfied that               bears but   it    small pro            a
portion    to the  accumulated        error  which    may   take   place, in
spite  of the  utmost     vigilance    of  the  artist, in an   instrument
divided according to any method which has hitherto been
made public.          need not, however, remark upon the very
                              I
great improbability that the error of examination should
ever attain, or approach, to its extreme limit, as this must
be sufficiently obvious to any person who                     in the least          is
degree   conversant     with    the  doctrine   of  chances;     but    may                       it
be proper to observe, that we have                    our yower (and in
                                                                  a it
this respect the examiner possesses                                 in
                                                    most important ad
vantage    over  the   divider   of   an  instrument) to diminish its
probable    amount,      as  much      as  we please,        bringing the           by
moveablc wires of the micrometer and microscope several
                                                                      times

         the Divisions  of astronomical Instruments.         283
times to bisect their respective points in the measurement
of  every arc, and taking a mean of the different readings-
off"for the true position of the wire at the real bisection of
the point.     The wire may be moved in this manner eight
or ten times at each point (if such a degree of raution
should be thought necessary)      and the mean taken in little
more than a minute ; so that the time of performing the
work will not be so much increased as might perhaps have
been apprehended ; and when it is completed, we may rea
sonably presume that the distance of every point from
zero (whilst the temperature of the circle continues uni
form) will have been determined with sufficient exactness
for every practical purpose.
   Of the time necessary for the examination, a pretty cor
rect idea may be formed by considering how many mea
surements are required, and allowing about a minute and a
half for each ; i. e. a quarter of a minute for bringing the
extreme points of the arc to the micrometer and the mi
croscope, and a minute and a quarter for making the se
veral bisections.    Now, in dividing the whole circle into
arcs of 153 each, it will appear that forty-four measure
ments must be performed; and to examine every point in
each arc of 1A°, there will be 161 required, making in all
3<K)8 measurements ; and consequently the time necessary
for completing the whole work will be 5862 minutes, or
about 98 hours.
   The time and labour required for this examination are,
no doubt, very considerable; but it ought to be recollected,
that it will render any great degree of precision, in dividing
the instrument,      totally unnecessary.     Whoever indeed
employs    this method   of examination,   will be virtually the
divider of his own instrument ; and all that he will ask of
the artist, is to make him a point about the end of every
five or ten minutes, whose distance from zero he will de
termine for himself, and enter in his book to be referred
to when wanted.       We may likewise observe, that by this
examination we shall not only be secured against the errors
of division, but against those which arise from bad center
ing, and from the imperfect figure of the circle, and which
in general are of too great a magnitude to be neglected.
   It will, I dare say, have occurred to you, that whenever
we are desirous that an observation should be particularly
ex-act, we may guard it against the effects of unequal ex
pansion or contraction in the metal, by mearjs of the ap
paratus which I have described : for we have only to mea
sure the arc which has been determined by the observation
                                                         against

          On the Divisions           of astronomical Instruments.
against the whole circle, or against the multiple of           which   it,
approaches    nearest  to the circle,  and  from thence   to  deduce
its value in the manner explained above, and we shall either
have entirely excluded the error which we apprehended, or
have rendered    it too small to be of any importance.          Sup
pose, for instance, that the arc determined                 by
                                                      the observa
tion was 48°; then         by
                            measuring       against the whole cir
                                                     it
cumference increased          an arc of 24°, we shall obtain
                                by                                           a
result free from any greater error of unequal temperature,
than one eighth of the increase or decrease of this arc of
24° beyond   a  due proportion to that of the circle itself.
   This expedient gives us all the advantages of the French
circle of repetition, without the inconvenience arising from
being obliged to turn the instrument, and move the tele
scope, so many times in the course of the observation.
Nay, I    am persuaded that the result may be made more
accurate in this way than                 by
                                    the French method, because
not only can the object be more frequently observed, but
the contacts or bisections,           may be presumed, will be
                                          it
more exact when the observer           not disturbed
                                               is                by
                                                           the hurry
attendant upon the use of the repeating circle              and with
                                                                   ;
respect to any error in the instrument, from whatever cause
it may arise, it will be as effectually excluded              by
                                                        the process
which I    recommend, as             by
                                 moving the telescope round the
circle.    Besides, this method          applicable either to the
                                                is
azimuth or altitude circle, or indeed to any circle which
turns upon its own axis whereas the French method can
                                 ;
never be applied to the azimuth circle, nor to any other
circle which does not turn both upon its own axis and
upon one which        isperpendicular to it.
    After all, however,     it  possible that the process which
                                 is
1  have been explaining to you may be no new discovery,
and that you may be already acquainted with it.                If this
should be the case, you will be kind enough to inform me.
At any rate, indeed, should esteem myself greatly obliged,
                           I
if you would favour me with your sentiments upon ihe
nubject, as soon as you can do           with perfect convenience
                                                it
to yourself.
                           am, dear sir, yours, 8cc.
                           I
                                                          WILLIAM LAX.
                                                                 XLVII.      On

                                   [   297    ]
                XLV1I. On Azimuthal Refraction.
                        To Mr. Tilloch.
 SIR, .OAVING recently directed my attention to the sub
ject of refraction in azimuth, and having mentioned the
 subject to Mr. Williams, of Wells (at present residing in.
 Islington), I have received the following letter, stating
phaenomena    observed by him on the 28th ult. depending
on azimuthal as well as vertical refraction. Similar effects
were observed on the same day in the north environs of
London, by Messrs. Whites of Finsbury-square, and my
self; but being at that time in the prosecution of other in
quiries, we could not attend particularly to the subject.
Mr. VV. however, between o'ne and three o'clock, observed
three sets of angles (in which the churches of St. Paul,
St. Mary Islington, Hampstead, and Stoke Newington.
formed principal objects), without having any reason to
suspect error arising trom azimuthal refraction, ihe fog by
this time being more uniformly dispersed, forming a general
 haziness in the horizon, but not reaching so high as the
 tops   of   the above spires.
                               I   am, sir,
                                           Your obedient servant,
   26, Garlick-Hill, March 10, 1810.                 JQS. SrEEVENS.
 Mr.    Steevens,     — Sir,   •
   Although       1   stated to you at our last interview,    that in a
 very great number of observations, (probably a hundred,)
 made on Harrow, Hampstead, and another church lyine
 S. W. of Primrose Hill, distance about four miles, I could
 discover no azimuthal refraction as yon term it ; yet I have
 since, viz. on Fast -day, -observed it twice in a very striking
 manner, and must do you the justice, before I quit town,
 to say I am quite satisfied as to the fact.
    On the above day about nine A. M., in my way to Kil-
 burn crossing some high fields to the south of Primrose
 Hill, I observed, from the interposition of the fog, that, se
 veral objects put on a strange distorted appearance,         and
 that the spire of Islington church appeared crooked (see
frist appearance, PI. VII) ; and in less than a minute, about
 20 feet of the upper part appeared insulated and not imme
 diately over the under part, but as in the margin.          (See
 second appearance.)
    I immediately screwed              my telescope into the post of a
 fence   which was near me             ;but before I could adjustit,
                                                                   the
                                                                  spire

288                        On Azimuthal Refraction.
spire became indistinct, being now       whollyenveloped in the
fog.   I now directed the telescope      to Hampstead (Harrow
being invisible), the upper part of      which was tolerably di
stinct, although there was a thick fog at the bottom of the
hill. As soon as I had a tolerably good intersection, I
quitted hold of the telescope, and found it remarkably
steady, it being quite calm ; I soon observed the tower to
increase in its height, and shortly after the upper part ap
peared separated from the lower ; the lower part retiring a
little to the left, while the upper part was stationary in
azimuth, but increased in altitude; in three or four minutes
the top was considerably ejevated, but still coincided with
the vertical wire, and began to become indistinct as if
rising into a cloud ; but before it was quite obscured, I
thought I discovered it to be a little to the left of the wire ;
the bottom part was now hazy, and still more to the left,
apparently about 4- of the whole diameter of the tower; in
which situation it disappeared.
    Islington spire was now just visible : it appeared upright,
but as far as I could judge by intervening objects was much
elevated.     The telescope remained unaltered until the fog
sufficiently cleared up for further observation on Hamp
stead, which was near three-quarters of an hour.           I now
found the top and bottom joined, and nearly in the same
situation where the bottom appeared just before its obscu
ration, viz. considerably to the left of the wire, where it
remained until the telescope was removed. It would thence
appear, that when I first made the intersection the tower
had acquired its greatest elongation, and perhaps might
even then have been on its return.
    I learnt from a gentleman in the course of the. day, that
one end of a row of houses nearHolloway appealed to him
first much higher and afterwards much lower'jthan the
other, although he did not change his situation : — and
from another, that the top of Primrose Hill, with Some per
sons on   it, appeared to him separated from the bottom and
floating in the air, and that he had seen     a similar effect on
other hills several times before.
                              am, sir,
                              I
                                  Your obedient servant,
Upper Street, Islington,                  CHARLES WlLLIAMS.
   March    5,1810.
                                                  XLVIII.   Second

                                                     j                        4
             Second Vindication of Dr. tierscheVs Theory                            of
     Coloured Rings, in Answer to an anonymous Reviewer.
                                  T6 Mr. Tilloch.
SIR,     J.
          HE members of the club who formerly addressed
you, have lately seen, in the twenty-firstNumberof the work
called The Retrospect, some strictures on their vindication
of Dr. Herschel's Essay on the Newtonian concentric co*
bured rings, which you honoured with a place in your
Magazine for November last*.
   Our main object in that communication, was to assert
the validity of Dr. Herschel's important experiment de
scribed in the thirty-first article of his Essay.           This ex
periment, the retrospectors, in their thirteenth number, at
tempted to set aside as nugatory, by affirming that the wedge
of air described bv Dr. Herchel was much too thick for
exhibiting the coloured streaks which, according to the
Newtonian doctrine of the fits of easy reflection and easy
transmission of the rays, would have been seen in                 had     it,
it been sufficiently thin*     In bur former paper we showed,
on the authority of sir Isaac Newton himself^ that the re
trospectors had asserted what was not just            and that Dr.
                                                                 ;
Hersehel's wedge, according to his measures minutely"
Stated, was sufficiently thin for exhibiting           the coloured
Streaks,      the Newtonian
               if                fits had     real existence
                                                         a        and     ;
that, according    to this hypothesis,    the author    had     right     a
to expect such coloured streaks          which failing, or not ap
                                                 ;
pearing, he had       right, as he contended for, to conclude
                      a
that these fits are imaginary.
   One proof concerning the competent thickness of his
wedge being so complete, and so much held up to view by
appearing in your excellent philosophical miscellany, the
retrospectors have thought            necessary,
                                           it      as     would ap   it
pear,  to strike to       it,   by
                            saying   in number   twenty-one, page
403, " We now come to the last and the1 most plausible1
objection that Dr. Herschel's friends have advanced to our
remarks    ; and here we grant, that such           wedge as they
                                                                a
have described ought to have produced the effects which
Dr. Herschel expected from it." Now we must observe
that the wedge of air we described was no other than the
wedge described          Dr. Herschel: and what he expected
                          by
from     it,
          and what every body else must have expected, was
this namely, coloured streaks, — provided the Newtonian
     :
                • Philosophical
                                     Magazine,   TO!,    zzxlv.p. 9S9*
•    Vol. 33. No,      144.     April     1810*                T                  "fit*

t§0 &cond Vindication of Dr. HerstheVs 7lieory, &c.
fits really existed, but no coloured streaks if such fits were
imagttfary.    The experiment was most carefully made, as
appears by the thirty-first article, and no symptoms what
ever of such coloured streaks were perceivable.                 Hence
the author considered it as an expirimentum cruris, dis
proving the reality of the Newtonian fits.
    After this result of the experiment, and the admission
of the retrospectors- as above quoted, it might have been
expected that thev would no longer have resisted such evi
dence, or the just conclusion from it : — but no such thing;
we now find them disputing the point as much as ever, by
new assertions and contradictions, as totally groundless as
that whose fallacy we have convicted them of. They imme
diately after the above quotation, now allege, that on ac
count of corpuscular repulsions, etc., the wedge of air de
scribed by Dr. Herschel could not have been so thin as
his measures, which before they did not challenge, show
it to be ; or so thin as to produce streaks according to the
Newtonian doctrine of the fits : than which nothing can-
be more wide of the fact.
    But, in another place, we find somethin-g prodigiously
inconsistent with all this contention for extreme thinness
 of the wedge, before it is capable of showing streaks.               In
 page 410, where the retrospectors want to set aside Dr.
 HcrschePs explanation of the bow-streaks which he ha*
 shown to be occasioned by the application of a plain re
 flecting surface unJer the base of the prism, how do they
 do soT Still by resorting to the Newtonian doctrine of
 the fits.  And now they would have these bow-streaks to
 be produced by the plate of air between              the base of the
 prism aud    the ^reflecting   surface    applied  to  it,  in conse
 quence, they say,     of  the great   thickness  of   this very plate,
 occasioned    by their corpuscular repulsions.          We shall say
 no more of such flagrant contradictions.                 In the same
 spirit, in the  concluding paragraph, page          412,    they deny
 that what Dr. Herschel calls the critical separation            is  ca
 pable   of producing   the  bows;    not   perceiving   that  sir Isaac
 Newton has explained the formation of his blue bow on
 this very principle, as Dr. Herschel has explained his red
 bow.
    In short, both attacks of the retrospectors abound with
 similar inconsistences and contradictions, which we think
 wholly undeserving of notice as with such opponents we
                                   ;
 consider further discussions to be vain*
                                                          XLIX.       On

                                   [   fitfl   j    •
              Report made to the French Instilule on a Memoir
      of M.   DELAROCHE on the Air-lladder of Fishes.               Bt
      G. CLVIKR.
   J.  HE mathematical and          physical class instructed  Messrs.
 Laceped'e,    Vauquelin,       and myself, to render an account     of
 a memoir      by M. Francis         Delaroche ori the air-bladder   of
                                                                       *
^fishes.
      As  several   naturalists have been of late employed in di
 recting    their attention      to the organ which is the object of
 this memoir, and to its functions, we do not think it will
 be improper to preface our report by a historical view of
 what has been said on the Subject ; a recapitulation for
 which M. Delaroche himself has furnished Us with ample
 materials.
      The air-vessel of fishes is' too remarkable, it strikes the
eye too forcibly on the first opening of the animal, and dif
 fers too much from every other organ, not to awaken the
 attention of naturalists ; but, like most objects in compara
 tive anatomy, it has long produced more conjectures and
 hypotheses than exact observations and experimental re-
 Searches.
      Rondtlet * confined himself to the observation, that it
 existed more constantly in fresh than in salt-water fishes^
 and that it probably serves to assist them in swimming.
      Marcus Aurelius Scverinus risks an opinion that the air
 of this vessel was produced along with the animal; which
 proves that he had never perceived any communication
 with it outwards.
      Gauthier NecHharrt (in 1 668) was the first who entered
  into more detailed inquiries, and inserted them in a book,
 where no one1 would expect to find iherri ; namely, Defor-
 mato fcetu t. Adopting the general idea of the utility of
 this bladder for swimming, he explained how flat fish are
 enabled to dowiihout it; he described the two tunics' of
  this organ, as well as the varieties of its form, and the
 Origin of the canal of Communication.                He shows that the
  vessels are more abundant than are requisite for its own
  nutrition ; that it is probable that Some organic function is
  exercised by them, and that the blood contained in them
  has some connexion with the air : but judging that it
  would be difficult tor the air to penetrate into it from with-
  cut, in certain fishes, through substances which fill the
                  • Hist. Pise. 1554,
                                      pp. 26 and 73.
                  f BMulli. dt Manget. it. pp. 7 M and 714.
                                      T   2                    stomach

    292             Report on a Memoir            of M. Delaroche,
    $toma<fti,   he conjectured that this fluid is secreted there^
    and   that  it proceeds from thence into the stomach, where
    it assists in the process of digestion: he even points out
    the red bodies which operate this secretion in the snake.
       Borelli explained in detail, in 1676, the method in which
    the bladder is used in swimming.      He observed that fishes,
    whose air-bladders burst, remain at the bottom of the wa
    ter, as well as most of those which are naturally deprived
    of it ; and concludes that it is intended to render the body
    of the fish sufficiently light to be in equilibrium with the
    water : he added, that by compressing the bladder, or by
    abandoning the air which it contains to its elasticity, the
    fish can augment or diminish its total specific gravity, and
    assist it in its- ascent or descent.  He supposed, that the
    canat^ which establishes in certain fishes a communication;
     between the air-bladder and the stomach, must be a me
     thod of varying or renewing the quantity of air *.
        To conclude : he has neither described the varieties of the
    structure of the bladder, nor determined" in what fishes it
    exists, and those in which it is wanting.
        Redi res-umes- the observations of Needham.       He added
    some details on those fishes which have no air-bladder, and
    on the red bodies in the interior of several of thest organs.
    He also stated, that he had in vain sought for the canal of
    communication       in certain sea-fishes ; but he thought that
    it was hia fault, and this opinion of the generality of the
    existence of the canal ha* even- reigned to the present time
.   among some others. These remarks of Redi arc still to he
    found in a book entitled, Observations sur les Animaux vW
    vans contempt dans les Animaux vivans,        Florence, 1684.
       Ray and Willoughby, without making fresh inquiries,,
    and without deciding on the maimer in which the air is
    introduced into the bladder, disputed' the idea of this air
    being used in digestinn, and reduced the bladder to its em
    ployment in swimming, according to the ideas of Borelli.
    They insisted on the muscles peculiar to certain vessels,
    and mistook for them the red bodies in the interior of some
    ethers f.
       The same opinion on the use of the bladder was sup
    ported by Preston %> by Perrault %, atjd by Petit          Per-         ||.
    rault made the important observation, that there are fishes-
     *    Dt   Mot. Animal, cap. 23. De Natatu.
         Willoughby, Wit. Pin. 1686, pp- 12 et leq.
    J f  Phil. Trant. xix. p. 499.
         Aftianii/ut dts Animatucryvt\U ch. iii. vol  ii.
                                                     p.     383   of hit works,   1721.
         Mtm. d< (Acad. l733v
                                                                            without

                          •n the    Air -Haider of Fishes,               S&3
¦without any canal, and that it is in the latter that the red
bodies are found, which are intended tor the separation of
the air.  He added, that in those which have a canal, thp
air does not issue from the bladder, although it be com
pressed   ; a remark too much generalized.
   Petit, on I he contrary, thought ho had discovered in the
canal of the carp, valvuli Which admit of the air escaping,
but not of returning.
   Notwithstanding the observation of Perrault, Artedi still
ascribed to all bladders a canal destined, according to him,
for the introduction of air: but, with the exception of Bo-
relli's*, there is no opinion given respecting their use.
    It is the same case with Gouan, Bloch, and a variety of
other authors, who add nothing in other respects to the
details previously acquired.
   But, admitting in its fullest extent this chief employment
of the air-bladder, we might still suppose it to have acces
sory uses, and in particular we must defer giving any opi
nion as to the origin of the air which it contains.
   This was the conduct pursued by Vicq d'Azyr in 1773 +«
He imagined that the air originated in the stomach, from
whence it entered, charged with nutritive particles, into the
air-bladder, in order to be absorbed bv the vascular system.
He was followed by Broussonnet in this idea§ under some
modification*.
   Erxiebei) entertained the same idea respecting the propa
gation of the air; but as to its uses he followed the common
opinion        (j.
   These throe anatomists seem to have been ignorant that
the communication between the 6tomaeh and the air-blad
der    frequently wanting.
         is
   This w strongly insisted upon              by
                                    Kaehlreuterf in an ana
tomical description of the lotus.  After having ascertained
the defect    the canal, and that
                     in             number of ether fishe*
                                               a
are also without           it,
                     and after having described the organi
zation of the red bodies, he maintained that the air  sepa          is
rated from the blood       the Madder.
                                    in  He thought his sy
stem was new, not having read the writings of Perrault and
Needham.
   Leske adopted the opinion of Koehlreuter **.
 •
        Partes Pisr. 1738, p. S«.            t     dts Pnistmu, 1770, p. 81.
    WmmTes presntttf, ton)* vii.; and his Physiological Works, tome ii. p.203.
 t> (
    Far. Posit, tire. Rrspir. sect, v.
  5  1778, in  memoir on the subject; and also in his Natural History, edit.
                 a
1797. p. 279.
    Hiru. Cvmm. PctTfptiliU tome xix. 1775.
                                                  ** Hist. Nut, 1724, p. 390.
J
                                      T  3                          Monro,

294         Report on a Memoir     of M. Delarochet
  Monro, who in his work on fishes ought to have thrown
a great deal of light on this subject, has added but little to,
what was known before on this subject.         He made the
same distinction with Perrault between bladders with secre
tory red bodies which have no C3nal, and those which have
a canal and want these bodies ; but he does not mention
any French anatomist ; perhaps because he had never read
any of their works on the subject.                                 *
    He remarked that the genus anguilla formed an excep
tion to the rule, from having the canal and red bodies.
With respect tq the other parts of the question, he did not
decide upon the use of the bladder ; and merely inquired,
if fishes could not, in swallowing, distinguish the bubbles
of air from the mass of water, and make Them pass in pre
ference into this organ.
    M. Fischer, now professor at Moscow, published in
] 795, at Leipsic, a particnlar dissertation on this subject ; in,
which after having given an extract of the writings of his pre
decessors, and having communicated his own observations
on the carp and the tench, he hazarded the opinion, that
the air-bladder, independent of its uses for motion,            is
also a supplementary organ of respiration, destined to ab
sorb the oxygen from the atmospheric air contained in wa
ter, as the gills are destined, according to him, to absorb
the oxygen o'f the water itself, by decomposing it.
    M. de Lacepede supposes, that certain fishes may at
least fill their bladder with the gases resulting from the
decompositions which their respiration occasions.             He
thought    that it was frequently hydrogen    with  which  it wa9
filled, and he mentioned tenches in which he had collected
precisely this kind of gas.
    Finally, M. Duvernoy, editor of that part of Cuvier's
comparative anatomy which has for its object the air-
bladder of fishes, adopted, in common with M. Cuvier,
the opinion of Needham and Kcehlreuter, that the air is
produced in the bladder by secretion.          He also described
some of the organs of this secretion in fishes not before
observed ; but, from too much precipitation, he forgot to
advance the principal argument, founded on the absence of
all canal of communication in many species.       He concludes,
from the absence of the vessel itself in fishes belonging indis
criminately to all descriptions of families, and even to ge
nera the other species of which are furnished with      it,
                                                          that its
functions cannot be very essential to life.       3y comparing
its proportional volume with the nature of the movements
of every fish, and     by examining the supplementary means
                                                         granted

                    on the   Air- bladder nf Fishes.
 granted to those who have it not, and the various effects of
 those means, he arrives at the conclusion that it is essen
 tially an organ connected with loco-motion.
    He expresses his astonishment ai the discordance between
 the analysis hitherto given of the air contained in this blad
der; some, like M. Fourcroy, having found hardly any thing
 but azote; others, like M. Configliati, having found su
 much as 40-0 of oxygen ; while others, like Mr. Broadbelt,
found the quantity variable in the same kind of fish ac
 cording to circumstances.     M. Duvernoy concludes with
 suggesting  that  chemists should  inquire into the causes and
limits of these variations ; a precise knowledge of which
could alone decide a great number of the questions in
dispute.
    Messrs. GeoflVoy and Vauquelin on one hand, and
M. Biot ort the other, have recently made a great part of
the experiments which were pointed out as requisite by
M. Duvernoy.
    M Biot, in his first voyage to Ivica, examined the air in
the bladder of several fishes of the Mediterranean, and found
that it varied from pure azote up to 87 O of oxygen, with
very little carbonic acid, and without any hydrogen, and
that in general the oxygen is the more abundant, in com
parison to the azote, as the fish comes from a greater depth,
although the water at these great depths does not contain a
purer air than that which is at (he surface.
    H.e also made the curious observation, that in fishes sud
denly drawn from a great depth, the air-bladder ceasing to
be compressed     by the enormous column of water which
bore upon it, is dilated so suddenly that it tears the intes
tines, and is ejected from the mouth., As to the origin of
the air contained in     it,   he seems   to think   it   has been     se
creted.
     The experiments of Messrs. Vauquelinand GeotTroy, pub
lished    by   M. Biot, confirm his own
                                      on the subject, so far
as the fishes on which thev were made, living in our fresh
waters and at very small depths, geve but very            lit
                                                tie oxygen.
They              with other more ancient experiments of
         agree also
M. Fourcroy,    who had found nothing in the bladder of the
carp but azote almost pure, and with the analysis made
by  M. Humboldt of the air in the bladder of the gymnotus
clectricus, which consisted of 96'0 or azote and 40-0 of
oxygen.
   Such was the w hole of our knowledge of the air-bladder
of fishes when M. Delaroche read his memoir to the Insti
tute. But in order ra complete the series of facts which .ire
                                     T    4                     necessary

 296           Report an a Memoir    of M.
 necessary   to guide us in forming an opinion of his theory,
 we think it right to say a few words upon two memoirs pub-,
 lished since.
     One of these, by M. Geoffroy, refers to an earlier memoir,
  in which he develops, anatomically, the means by which
  the fish compresses or relaxes its bladder, in order to descend
 or ascend. Indeed, he says at the same time, in the intro
 duction of his memoir, that the bladder is by no means an
 organ of motion by itself; but this is because he thought
 that those who regarded it as such, suppose that it is dilated
  by the increase of the air which it contains, and vice versa,
 an opinion which no person seems to have entertained; for it
 is always by the action of the muscles that it has been made
  to be compressed or dilated: on this subject, therefore,
 M. Geoffroy is really of the opinion of Borelli, which is
,the cpmmonly received idea.
     The other memoir to which we have alluded, is by Messrs.
 Humboldt and Proveii9al, and has for its chief object the
 respiration of fishes ; but these authors have naturally beeu
 led to examine the air in the swimming-bladder.
     They operated upon river fishes, and found the air vari
 able in composition from 99'0 of azote to 87'0. They have
  observed as much as 5-o of carbonic acid.           They made
  some tench respire hydrogen, and yet their air-bladders
  when examined exhibited none : by keeping them in oxygen,
  however, the proportion of the oxygen in the bladder was
  somewhat increased. On removing the bladder from them,
 they were not prevented from producing by their respiration
  the ordinary effects upon the atmosphere ; they were even
 able to -raise themselves  in the water, although they gene
 rally remained at the bottom of the vessel.
     Thus, in the numerous works we have analysed, almost
 every possible hypothesis has been proposed, attacked, or
 defended, and examples have been given of almost all
  the Combinations of organization that could be devised.
  M. Delaroche had only therefore to examine these organiza
 tions a little further, in order to reduce them to general
  rules, and to weigh over again the arguments advanced for
 or against every hypothesis.                             .
     Let us see how he has acquitted himself of this task. —
     His residence at Ivica, Formeutero, and on the coast of
  Spain, with Messrs. Biot and Arrago, having furnished
  him with opportunities of examining a great number of
  Mediterranean fishes not to be seen any where else, and
  their air-bladders having chiefly occupied his attention, he
 continued his inquiries after his return, on our common
                                                            fresh.

                on the     Air-bladder of FUhes.
     ih- and salt-water fishes : hence he has furnished upwards
    fifty particular descriptions of the air-bladder* of as many
species offish, several of which have not hitherto been de
scribed.      These descriptions, added to those which former
authors had given of some species which M. Delaroche
could not find, form the materials of his present memoir ;
and he has placed his own at the end of the work, as so
many proofs of the general propositions which he lays down.
    In the body or' the memoir he treats successively of th%
anatomical structure of the air-bladder, of the nature of the
sources of {the air which it contains, and of the functions
which it exercises.
    He speaks in the first place of its existence, sjnd gives
 a list of those fishes which have          and of those in which
                                           it,
                     The results of this list, which adds several
                *
it   iswanting,
 species to those which had already been adduced with respect
 to this subject, are nearly the same which had been already
drawn; namely, that the existence or non-existence of the
 bladder does not correspond with the other affinities of or
 ganization which connect fishes with each other.
    He afterwards speaks of the various situations of the
 bladder, of its variation in size, and in the configuration
of its tunics, (an article in which he compares the internal
 membrane to the serous membranes)               and finally, of the
                                                 ;
 particular muscles which         ithas in several fishes; and he
 gives more detailed description of these muscles than
          a                                                          is
 to be found in the comparative anatomy of M. Cuvier.            .
    What he says on the subject, of the canal of communi
 cation also presents    a   great number of novelties.       On this
 head   he   has  made    some very acute remarks, and has as
 certained that tins canal        wanting in the greater part of sea
fishes.     He did not find    it is
                                  in any of the jugular or thoracic
classes,    which    compose nearly three-fourths of the total
species    of fishes  with which we are acquainted.          The lec
 tures on comparative anatomy had assigned this canal to the
vranoscope,      whickis   a  jugular but according to M. Dela
                                       ;
roche, the authors of this work have made new inquiries,
and found that they were mistaken.
    M..$)elaroche has studitd in          particular manner the red
                                           a
 bodies with which certain bladders are furnished. He found
 them, like Perrault and Monro, in all those which want the
canal of communication, and in the anguilla genus although
furnished with this«anal.
    Our authoi gives  a     very detailed description of these bo
dies,       the gadi, the trigli, the perches, some labri and
           in
iholocentres, as well as in the atherina rhepsetus, the llennru
                                                            physis,

«98
*
            Report on'a Memoir
                                i
                                    of M, Delaroche,
 phyais, the orpldus or esox lelonus, and lastly in the eel and
 the conger.
    We have verified that part of the descriptions which re
 fers to the species with which we are familiar, or could pro
 cure, and have found them generally correct.
    It appears to us, however, that M. Delaroche grants too
 great a homogeneity to the inner texture of these bodies.
 One of our number, who, along with M. Duvernoy, re
 cently made some inquiries in order to verify this point of
 anatomy, found these bodies in the larger fishes formed of
.lobes flattened like ribands, placed almost parallel on each
 other, very distinct from one another by clearly marked in
 tervals, and proceeding obliquely in various directions from
 the proper membrane to the internal membrane of the
bladder.
    The distribution given by M. Delaroche of the vesiete
 which issue from the red bodies of the eel, and from those
 which return to  it,  has also been verified, and found cor
 rect; but he passes rather too hastily over the red body      it
 self, whichis  also divided into flakes, separatedby intervals,
 which are frequently found filled with blood.
    In short, Messrs. Cuvier and Duvernoy think they have
 found strongly marked relations in the red bodies of fishes
 with the cavernous bodies but their inquiries posterior to
                           ;
 the memoir of M. Delaroche, are only brought forward
here that the Institute may not be ignorant of what has
 been done on this interesting subject.       A full account of
 their experiments will shortly appear.
    The author of the present Memoir speaks only from the
 lectures in comparative anatomy as to certain branching
 air-bladders,   entirely peculiar to one species of fish.
 M. Cuvier, who had described them when on the sea coast,
 where he had no books from which to determine the spe-
 oies of the fish, thought it  was the perca lalrax;  but other
 naturalists, besides himself, have since sought for      it  in
 vain in the fish so called in the systems of ichthyology..
 By unexpected good fortune, the true fish which was the
 subject of observation was brought to Paris some time
 ago, and proved to belong to the rare species denominated
 by  M. Lacepede cheilodiptera, or sea eaglet, but which ought
 to be placed among the centropommes, beside the lalrax.
    The bladder of this fish, unique of its kind, will be pre
 sented to the Institute along with  a  description by M. Du
 vernoy, and which will be more minute than any hitherto
 given under less advantageous circumstances.
    In his analysis of the air contained in the bladder, M.
                                                     Delaroche

                  on the   Air-Madder of Fishes,
Delaroche confirms in general the experiments of M. Biot;
adding, that besides the various degrees of depth at which
nVics live, there are other causes which concur to vary the
proportions of the gases in their air-bladders.           Thus, of
two fishes caught on the same spot, one has given 50'0 and
the other scarcely 40 pf oxygen.          M. Delaroche also rec
tifies the idea that M. Biot had given of the eruption of
the bladdeF from the mouth, in fishes drawn up suddenly
from great depths, when he says that 4 rupture of the blad
der then takes place, and that it is the air which forces up
the stomach to the mouth.           As to the source of this air,
our author (like Needham, Perrault, Monro, Koehlreuter*
Duvemoy and Cuvier,) thinks it is produced, in the interior
of the bladder by a secretion of an unknown nature, of
which the red bodies seem to be the organ* in such fishes
as have these bodies.
     It is unnecessary to ask for a proof of this opinion in
fishes which have no exterior canal, for in them it is de
monstrated by itself.        We might also fairly extend it to
those which have a      canal  and red bodies, like the eel.
     But in those   which    want  the red bodies, as we must
 admit a new       kind   of  exhalation, the analogy no longer
Jakes place completely ; and perhaps many persons would
 be equally willing to have recourse to the aerial canal, in so
 much as it always exists in this description of fishes.         As
 fishes of the same family frequently have the air-bladder,
                    it,
and others want     it     is  probable that its functions may be
 supplied    bydifferent  means.
     M. Delaroche* without considering that question as at all
decided, nevertheless supports the argument of analogy,
from the difficulty which any given gas would have            many  in
species, in penetrating into the bladder            by
                                                   the canal   from     5
 the still greater difficulty which        would have of arriving
                                          it
 pare, particularly when    it was requisite for    to pass through
                                                    it
 the substances contained in the stomach; and, lastly, from
the difficulty of knowing, from whence, or             what mecha
                                                         by
 nism, the fish could procure       from nature, in order to intro
                                     it
duce it    into its bladder at great depths, where           so fre
                                                              it   is
quently    and  so long  retained.
     The habit in which physiologists are of seeing matters
pf jevery kind come out of the blood           by
                                                secretions, renders
 them on the contrary very easy as to this kind of produc
 tion and
    ;        in  fact there      no real difficulty on the subject,
                                is
 pince azote and oxygen, which compose the air in the blad
der, exist abundantly      in iheolood.
     Bui may be asked
        it                 ;   If the gas be exhaled or separated
                                                               from

                      Report on a Memoir                   of M. Delaroche,
 from the blood, wherefore dof s it vary so much when the
 greater part of the other secrefions are so constant in their
 nature?     Above, all, how can the animal body, so greedy
 of oxygen in general, exhale it so precisely at depths where
 it has the fewest methods of getting it from the external
 medium ? M. Delaroche, who puts these questions, admits
 that it is difficult to answer them satisfactorily.
     He afterwards proceeds to the uses of the air-bladder.
     From its absence in many fishes taken indiscriminately
 from all classes, he concludes, with the authors of the com
 parative anatomy, that it cannot hold an important place
 in the vital functions ; and this makes him reject all neces
 sary connexion between the air-bladder and respiration.
     He would have even been inclined to conclude, from it»
 solute stoppage in the greater number of fishes that are fur
 nished with           if,
                    that    could not in general be employed in
                                       it
 the absorption of any useful matter, in the excretion of
any injurious substance, nor even in the production of
a   substance to be employed in some other part of the body                                   ;
but that     it  solely
                  is                   by
                            itself as the air-vessel, and in its qua
 lity  of considerable   capacity, rilled with light elastic sub      a
stance that       may itbe useful to the fish.
    Now in this respect         can only have
                                            it       mechanical use,   a
cither with respect to its station or movement.
    M. Delaroche in the first place ascertains its use              the                  in
station, and admits that           serves to render the whole fish
                                             it
specifically lighter, and to place          in equilibrium with the
                                                            it
 water in which           suspended,
                             it   is
    This    one part of the most generally received opinion
            is                                                                                ;
but  it    clear that the necessity of the bladder for this sole
          is
purpose         any thing but demonstrated.
                 is                                    Nature would
rather have made all fishes of the same gravity as the water,
as she has done with those fishes that have no bladders                                       :
thus, the common opinion              also composed of two other
                                                  is
integrant parts equally necessary with the former.                 The
onels, that the fish can compress as            pleases,   to   certain
                                                                 it
extent, ita bladder, or dilate it which we prove       ;       the pe             by a
culiar muscles with which the bladder               furnished in cer  is
tain fishes, and              by
                         the mediate action which the sides and
the muscles of the abdomen exercise on                    in all those     it
which      have       it.
    M.    Delaroche also adopts this second part                           of   the common
opinion.
  He thinks         even that                          in
                                        this way the fish supplies,
                                             it   is
when         rises, the pressure exercised on Us bladder in deep
water    by it the column of water above it. Were       otherwise,          it

                «/z the   Air-lladder of      "Fishes.             301
the air, which would be no longer compressed, would be>
too much dilated, and would render the fish too light, or
even produce some rupture, as happens to fishes drawn
suddenly from great depths.
    But who is there who is not aware, that this, on the part
of nature, would be correcting very clumsily a defect which
she might have refrained from introducing at all into her
work ? She had only to give no air bladder-at all to fishes;
and we have seen that she need not have done so to place
them in equilibrium with the water : in that case she Would
no longer have required the apparatus of compression,
which has been supposed as serving only to correct the in
convenience of an useless bladder.
    Thus we are of opinion that the third, and the chief
part of the commonly received opinion, in reality resolves'
the problem : we mean that part of it which says, that the
bladder is placed there to assist the fish in ascending and de
scending, according as it is compressed and dilated ; and
we confess that we do not see why M. Delaroche should
reject this use of the bladder, to which the two others are,
in our opinion, merely accessaries.
    That the fish has strength sufficient to enable it to de-
scend, clearly results from what M. Delaroche himself ad
mits ; for if the fish, which ascends 30 feet for example
 (and it is difficult not to believe that many fishes          can
ascend that height without any accident),           if,
                                                   we say, such         a
fish has sufficient strength to compress its bladder,         by
                                                            means
of its muscles, to the same degree that the 30 feet of
water formerly did,
                      it
                      is    evident that       similar fish, sup*
                                                a
posed to be   in equilibrium at the height to which the former
ascended, will also have sufficient strength to compress its
bladder, as much as would the addition of           weight of 3V
                                                         a
feet, and that there would result from such          compression
                                                          a
or diminution of volume more than sufficient to force            to-
                                                                   it
descend.
    M. Delaroche, against this most essential part of the vul-'
gar opinion, advances only          single objection, which be
                                    a
Borrows frorti M. Fischer    : this     that the variation" of spe
                                        is,
 cific gravity which may result, with respect to the total
body of fishes, from the variations of the volume of the
bladder being very small, the ascents Or descents, which
are the consequence of        it,
                                could not but be very slow              :
but, besides, the circumstance of these variations never
having been yet measured, no person has ever said that
the bladder cannot be aided in this function by other or-
         Those fishes which, haye no bladder, ascend and
                                                          descend,

308                         Notices respecting New Booksi
descend very well, although, othercircumstances considered1/
rathermore tardily.    Now those which have a bladder have^
in addition, all trie organs employed by those which have
Done, and they can use them like the others.
. One difficulty which we have sometimes heard started,               is
to ask how a fish, when it wishes to ascend from the bottom
of the sea, can find strength to raise up by means of its sides,
or generally of its integuments, the enormous column or
water which lies upon                 it,
                                 in order to permit its bladder to
dilate.     But as this vessel      already,is        by
                                                  its compression, in
equilibrium     with  the  water   which  presses              it,
                                                        the least effort
is  sufficient    and even this effort, however small,
                   ;                                             never   is
theless necessary,      that the fish may only rise        few feet by
                                                                     a
the means which are common to                with the fishes without
                                                 it
bladder instantly its bladder, being less compressed, will be
             :
too much dilated and, according to M. Delaroche's own
                                 ;
experiments,        will carry precipitately upwards, and burst
                       if it
                                          it
its entrails           does not speedily close it.
                            it                            This second
objection       refuted therefore like the former.
                  is
    Thus wethink we ought to adhere to the ideas of Borelli,
as to the use of the air-vessel of fishes            but although we
                                                           ;
 differ in opinion from M. Dularoche on this point, we do
 not the less regard his Memoir as worthy of approbation,
 from the great number of new and correct observations
 which        contains, as to the anatomical structure of the
             it
 bladder, as well as upon the nature and sources of the air
 which       contains
             it           and we have the honour to recommend
                                 ;
 that   it should he printed among the Memoirs of Savons
 Etrangers. Signed,
                                      LACEFEDE, VAOQUELIN,                CUVIER.
                       L.      Notices respecting New Books.
      Lit.   AccuM   just published
                               has   " Manual     a   Conrse             of
                                                                          a
 of             Experimental Chemistry and on Mineralogy
      Lectures on                                                              ;
containing,     the Form
                       in   Axioms and concise Outlines, the
                                          of
Elements   and fundamental Truths    chemical and minera-
                                                  of
 logical Science   intended to illustrate ike Lectures on these
                            .'
 Branches      Knowledge in the Theatre
                  of                          the Surry Institu
                                                       of
 tion; with, an Account     the Actionof     chemical Tests and
                                                      of
 Modes      applying them in the Practice
              of                                the Science."
                                                           of
    THE very full title of this little work (about 230 pagesf
 small 12mo.) sufficiently explains its object.   The author
 states that in writing   he has endeavoured to exhibit, to
                                     it
 tjhe learner, those "important facts and fundamental doc
                                                       trines

                          Royal Society.'                    3O3
trines which constitute the theory of the science. The Iaw»
of chemical action, which befall all bodies comprehended
under the chemical domain of nature, have been detailed in
the synthetic form of propositions — the natural history of
the most characteristic bodies stated — the processes em
ployed in the laboratory for obtaining them, described —
and their physical and chemical attributes pointed out, so as
to interest the mind, and fix the doctrines in the memory."
             LI.  Proceedings   of Learned  Societies.
                         ROYAL   SOCIETY.
 JV-iAncH    28. — The President in   the chair.   A letter from
 Mr. Groombridge       to the Astronomer Royal was read on .
 the refraction of light. The author determines the mean
 astronomical refractions from the observations of fifty
 circumpolar stars ; as also from the zenith distance of the
 sun at the solstices. The quantity he assumes at 45° is
 56i" ; and this is corrected by the difference of the errors
 of the co-latitude thence found. The mean refraction at
 45° the author states to be 58-107" x tang, zenith            di
 stance, — 3 times the refraction.        He then corrects the
  formula of Bradley, by comparing the mean refraction, of
  the pole star with stars at low altitudes ; whence he deter
 mines the refraction from the zenith to the horizon to be
  58' 119" x tang 2 — 3-36 r, and which he shows to agree
  with   the new French tables, by a more simple formula
  than that of M. de la Place. The author also proposes a
  correction for the thermometer, drawn from his observa
  tions ; something differing from that of Dr. Bradley.
     April 4. — A  letter from Mr. Brinckley of Dublin      to the
  Astronomer Royal was read, stating the discovery         of the
  parallax of the annual orbit of 13 circumpolar stars,    which
  he has found to be 2} seconds: he also ascertained their
  refraction somewhat similar to that of Mr. Groombridge.
  The letter concluded by saying, that the writer is pursuing
  his researches in order to verify the discovery here an
  nounced.
     Some observations on the gizzards of swans, geese, and
  herbivorous fowls, compared with those of turkeys, were
   communicated by Mr. Home. They consisted of a brief
   description of the process of mastication and digestion in
   ruminating- animals, by chewing their food slightly, then
   •wallowing it afterwards, bringing it up in round brills,
                                                           mixing

  $04            Society  of Antiquaries of LbnAvttt
 mixing them with saliva,      and finally passing them to the
 fourth   stomach,  there  to be  digested. The process of 6\-
           in geese and swans is extremely slow, as it is ef-
   ecfedby the action solely of the muscles of their stomachs.
 Jjestion
 Mr. Home examined the structure of their stomachs by
 filling them with plaister of Paris, and boiling them ; when*
they appeared composed of straight muscles united by fila
ments, as observed by Spall anzani.
     April 11. — A part of a curious paper by Mr. Macartney
on luminous animals was read.          Mr. M. took a brief review
t)f the different creatures in the animal kingdom which
emit light, whether in or out of the sea, as the lampyris^
fulgora, &c. He examined minutely the assertions of some
French naturalists, who maintain that common earth worms
have occasionally appeared luminous, and proved that they
are unfounded. The luminous appearances in the sea, which
have been so often noticed, and yet so imperfectly explained,
were next discussed ; and also how far it is probable that
the emission of light depends on the wilt of the insect ; and
whether nature has given this faculty to females in order
to attract the males to them, as has been alleged.
    The reading of the remainder of this paper was postponed
till next meeting, and the society adjourned till the 3d of
May.
                   SOCIETY    OP ANTIOUARIES.
    Monday, April 23, being St. George's Day, the Society of
Antiquaries met at their apartments in Somerset-place, in
pursuance of their statutes and charter of incorporation,
to elect a president, council, and officers, of the society for
the year ensuing : whereupon
The most noble George, marquis of Townshend and earl
                            of Leicester,
    F. A. Barnard, esq.              William Hamilton, esq1.
    W. Bray, esq.                     Samuel Lysons, esq.
    Nich. Carlisle, esq.             Craven Ord, esq.
    Sir H. C. Englefield, bart.      Matthew Raper, esq.
    Anthony Hamilton, D. D.          Joseph Windham,      esq.
Eleven    of the council   were re-chosen     of the new council:
                                 and
Charles Baratty,     esq.              Edward Jerningham, esq.
Right Hon. P.' R. Carew,               Charles duke of Norfolk,
William, lord bishop of Cloyne,        John Towneley, esq.
Henry Ellis, esq.                       Brig.-gen. T. H. Turner,
Henry viscount Harbcrton,               Key. Stephen Weston,
                                                               Ten}
           t

            Society   for   the Encouragement   of Arts, &c.     3O5
 Ten of    the other members of the society, were chosen
 of  the new council, and they were severally declared to
 be the council for the year ensuing ; and on a report made
 •of the officers of the society, it appeared that the most no
 ble George marquis of Town&hend and carl of Leicester
 was elected president, William Bray, esq., treasurer, Mat
 thew Raper, esq, director, rev. T. W. Wrighte, A. M. se
 cretary, and Nicholas Carlisle, esq. secretary for the year
 ensuing.
   The society afterwards dined together         at the Crown and
 Anchor tavern in the Strand, according          to annual custom.
       SOCIETY FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT              OF ARTS, &C.
   At a late meeting o'f this society a premium of fifty gui
neas was awarded to Mr. John Davis of John Street, Spital
Fields, for a most ingenious fire-escape, which promises to
be of singular use in lessening the number of personal ac
cidents which occur so frequently in this great city in cases
of fire. This contrivance consists of a most curious yet sim
ply constructed ladder, or rather three ladders so combined
as to  admit of their being slid out, like the tubes of a pocket
telescope, to the height of from forty to fifty feet if re
quired ; carrying up at the same time a box to receive
females, or children, or small valuables, (while the less
timid can descend by the ladder).         This box, by means
of a chain and pulley worked by the people below, descends
to the ground ; where being instantly unhooked, another
box is sent up while the first is emptying.      All this is per
formed in about two minutes.       This apparatus is erected
on a carriage with four wheels, 9 feet long and 5 feet wide,
furnished with the usual apparatus and harness for yoking
a horse -to     for the more speedy removal to the scene of
               it,
danger.
   The fire offices, much to their credit, assisted the inven
tor with money to construct       machine of this kind for real
                                   a
use, after having inspected his model.     We have examined
the machine, witnessed the facility with which        performs
                                                       it
the destined operation, and we have no hesitation in re
commending to every parish          London to provide one of
                                      in
them   to be Kept with their fire ladders and engines.
   This new fire-escape may be seen at Mr. John Bevan's,
carpenter, City Road, near Finsbury Square.
         WKRNERIAN           NATURAL HISTORY SOCIETY.
  At the meeting of this society on the 10th March, the
rev.Dr. Macknight read      paper on the mineralogy of
                                  a
  Vol. 35. No. 144. April 1810.        U       Strontian

306                       French National Institute,
 Strontian and Ben Nevis.     The rocks which compose the
 districts of Strontian are mica slate, gneiss, and granite ;
 and the lead-glance, which occurs in gneiss, is associated
 with iron pyrites, cross-stone, calc-spar, foliated zeolite,
  Strontian, and heavy spar.     Ben Nevis is an overlying
 massive formation, which rests on gneiss and mica-slate,
 approaching in some places to clay- slate.   In this forma
 tion compact feldspar is the leading ingredient.    The infe
 rior mass consists of sienite, passing from the simple gra
 nular to the granular porphyritic ; and the upper portion of
 the mountain, comprehending the summit, with about 14OQ
 feet of the perpendicular height below        composed ofit,   is                 a
 dark-coloured rock, which, for the most part,        porphy           is
 ritic, and seems to be intimately allied in its characters to
 compact feldspar. This appears from the gradual transition
 of the one substance into the other, which distinctly ob        is
 served under the tremendous precipice of Ben Nevis to the
 NE. and demonstrates the identity and continuity of the
 whole formation.       The colouring matter appears to be
 hornblende intimately mixed with the substance of the
 rock. At first view, the whole mass might be considered
 as a  formation of clinkstone and porphyry-slate.       But                        a
 more minute investigation discovers many oryctognostic
 characters of distinction from these substances, which are
 less crystalline, and belong to   more recent sera of forma-
                                             a
 tion.
   At the same meeting, Dr. Arthur Edmonstone read an
account of the peculiarities of the Zetland sheep with re
                                                                       a ;
marks on their diseases. And the secretary read commu
nication from lieutenant-colonel Imrie, describing        vein               a
of greenstone, which occurs in Glencoe, and which appears
to have been overlooked              in
                            the niineralogical descriptions                        of
that district.
                       FRENCH NATIONAL            INSTITUTE.
Analysis         ofthe Labours       of    the Class  Mathematical and
                                                         of
  Physical         Sciences     of   (he French Institute, for the Year
   1   809 *•
    Allthe sciences which are founded upon facts have this
distinguished advantage,    namely, that every experiment
and every observation contribute to their progress.   Indeed,
properly  speaking, ..there are no discoveries made  in  vain,
so far as the physical sciences are concerned.      Whatever
  • Translated        from the original,   JutribuioJ   at the   public sitting of the
flaw, 2d J..D.   1810.
                                                                                 may

                  French National Institute.               307
mny be the consequences to which they lead, whatever are
the results obtained, provided they be just, the instant they
assume a character of novelty, they become useful : every
fact has a determinate place, which can be held by itself
alone, and we ought to consider the edifice of the sciences
as that of nature : every thing is infinite, evwy thing ne
cessary.    We may eo further: in short, the progress of
truth is not essentially retarded because those who devote
their talents to philosophical subjects occasionally fall intft
erroneous roads.    The most useful discoveries have sprung
from the greatest errors. We find the proof of this in the
labours which have been undertaken to overturn modern
chemistry, and to support the old theory of combustion.
The complication of the phaenomena in this latter science
will even l>e the cause that the proofs of this description
will still continue to be multiplied : facts do not always
present themselves     under the same characters; they are
studied under other points of view, they are seen with dif
ferent eyes, and the results to which they lead are not
similar.   This is precisely the case at present with respect
to the discussions which have arisen between Mr. Davy and
associates Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard.
                        CHEMISTRY.
   In former reports we have given an account of the dis
 covery of Mr. Davy, as to the changes that potash and soda
•undergo by the action of the Voltaic-pile, and of the pro
cesses by which Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard produced
these changes without the help of the above instrument.
   Mr. Davy thought that in these experiments the potash
and soda were subjected to a deoxygenation, and that a
true metal resulted from   it,  which was particularly distin
guished from other substances of this kind      by  an extreme
affinity for oxygen.    He calk-d these two metals potassium
and sodium.       Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard, esta
blished  on  the contrary,by   several experiments, but parti
cularly by  the  products  obtained   on analysing the combi
nation of the potassium with ammonia, were of opinion
that the chances of potash and of soda were owing to        a
particular combination of these alkalis with hydrogen.
Mr. Davy, having repeated the experiments on which this
opinion is  founded, has not obtained resells conformable to
those which had been announced       by  the French chemists;
this ha* given rise to some observations       by Messrs. Gay
Lussac and Thenard, in which they show that the dif
ferences found between the results of Mr. Davy's exprri-
                            U    2                       meats

308                French National Institute.
meats and their own, appertain to causes which cannot in
fluence the consequences to which they have led.
    To conclude: — On either hypothesis, the discovery of
Mr. Davy has produced an extremely active re-agent in
chemistry, and which must produce, on other bodies, effects
hitherto unknown.
    This new discovery gave rise, therefore, to very different
experiments, but which led to the same end : some had
ffr their objects to ascertain the action of the pile on the
other alkalis, on the earths, and generally on all the simple
non-metallic substances which we might suppose to bo
oxides, like potash and soda.        The object of the others
was to decompose, by means of the new metals, substances
oxygenized, or supposed to be such, and particularly the
boracic, fluoric, and muriatic acids.
    We informed the public last year, that Messrs. Gay
Lussac and Thenard had succeeded in effecting the de
composition of the first of these acids, and had ascertained
its radical.    Since that time their inquiries have been di
rected  to the fluoric acid.
    They began by studying the physical and chemical pro
perties of this acid more precisely than had been done by
any one else.     The affinity of water for this gas is extreme:
as -soon as it is mixed with other gases which contain some
portions of this liquid, abundance of vapours is formed :
nevertheless, this gas cannot communicate its expansive
force to water; it cannot be dissolved nor gazify the
smallest quantity, and in its aeriform state it is absolutely
                                                                   '
dry: but it is impossible to obtain this acid pure; it al-
 ways retains some portions of those bodies with which it
 has been in contact ; and in the labours which Messrs,
 Gay Lussac and Thenard have undertaken on the subject
 of this acid by means of potassium they made use or si
 liceous fluoric gas in preference,     as not containing     any
 foreign body susceptible of being decomposed and obscuring
 the results of the experiments.     In the reciprocal action of
 these two substances,    there is a great absorption of fluoric
 acid, very little hydrogen gas extricated, and a transforma
 tion of the metal inte a solid matter the colour of which
 is reddish brown.
     Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard regard this new com
 bination as a compound of potash, of silex, and of the ra
  dical of the fluoric acid ; but they have not been able to
  obtain this last substance in a separate state. " It appears,'1
  say they, (after several experiments which we cannot give
  here,) " that when this radical is combined with potash,
                                                             only*

                    foench National Institute.
6nly, it   may decompose water like the phosphures ; but
when it is combined with potash and silex, it does nut de
compose it : doubtless, because this triple combination id
insoluble."
    Mr. Oavy has also made attempts to obtain in a free
State the fluoric radical, and has obtained results analogous
to those above referred to: he ascribes the hydrogen pro
duced in the combination of the potassium with the gas, to
the water which he thought was contained in this acid,
and which the metal had decomposed.
    The muriatic acid has also been the subject of numerous
and interesting experiments by Mr."Da<-y and Messrs. Gay
Lussac and Thenard.        All three have made some fruitless
attempts to decompose this acid, and to insulate the'radical
which has been considered as forming one of its elements.
But Messrs.      Gay Lussac and Thenard have ascertained
that the muriatic acid could not exist without water in the
state of gas ; that it then contains one fourth of its weight;
 and that water alone possessed the property of taking it up
from its dry combinations.        It must be remarked, that in
 all the experiments made with the metals, the water, on,
 being decomposed, has always produced a quantity of oxide
 equal to what was required by the acid in order to neu
 tralize it; so that, for every result, hydrogen and a neutral
 lalt were obtained. The limits of this report do not admit
 of our detailing all the experiments made by Messrs. Gay
 Lussac and Thenard '; but we ought not to pass over the
 happy application which these chemists have made, in the
 decompositions of the muriate of soda, of the affinity which
 the muriatic acid has for water. We know that soda enters
 as a primary matter into several branches of manufacture,
 and it is very important to possess a simple and direct nie-*
 thod of extracting this alkali from common salt.
    As to the oxygenized muriatic acid, Messrs. Gay Lussac
 and Thenard subjected it to numerous experiments : — •
 *' These,"
              they inform us,
                                " ought to give an idea of the
 constitution of this acid totally different from that which
 has been formed.      It has been regarded as the most easily
 decomposed body, and on the contrary it resists the action
 of the most energetic agents.'       We cannot extract the
 muriatic acid from it in the state of gas, except hy means
 of water or hydrogen."       This acid weighs 2-47 more than
 air. It contains ihe half of it: volume of oxygen gas, and
 all the water which it can lorm with the hydrogen is re*
 tained by the muriatic acid which it contains.     This water
  makes one fourth of the weight of this last acid.
                               V   3                       Th«

810                   French National Institute.
   The acthn oF the metal of the potash on the oxides and
the metallic salts, and on the earthy and alkaline salts, has
al o been particularly examined                      l-y
                                          Messrs. Gay Lussac
and Thenard.      It results from their inquiries, that all the
bodies in which we know the presence of oxygen are de
composed     by this metal     that this decomposition almost
                                      ;
always takes place with an extrication oflight and heat that                   ;
this extiication       the more considerable
                      is                          proportion as  in
the oxygen   is less condensed     and that, consequently, this
                                           ;
might furnish     amethod of appreciating the degree of con
densation of the oxygen               in
                                any body.
  After   bavins; operated            on   potash        and soda,    by   means    of
the Voltaic pile, the charges mentioned             the early part
                                                                in
of this memoir,         was natural to endeavour to produce
                       it
analogous effects on the other alkalis, and on the earths.
In short, Mr. Davy undertook numerous experiments, in
order to discover, according to his system,, the metals of
barvtes, strontian, lime, magnesia, silex, alumine, zircon,
and glucine.     After several fruitless efforts, he succeeded
in de-oxygenizing the first four of these substances, and in*
forming amalgams of the new metals which resulted. He
thinks that the other four are also metallic oxides but                      ;
bis experiments, as he confesses, do not prove this                                in   a
satisfactory manner.
   Another amalgam produced                          by
                                             ammonia was dis
covered last year, at Jena,             Dr. Scebeck. This after
                                                by
wards became        the subject of certain researches              by
Messrs. Berzelius and Fontin of Stockholm, and by
Mr. Davy in England          all three agree in ascertaining am
                                 :
 monia to 'be a   metal.    In the ordinary temperature of the
 atmosphere this amalgam has the consistence of butter, and
in the cold  it crystallizes          in
                                  cubes    but the new metal has
                                                     ;
not yet been obtained in            separate state.
                                           a           Messrs. Gay
Lussac and Thenard have repeated and proved the correct
 ness of the above experiments.          But this amalgam, which
 bad been formed            by
                          the action of the pile only, has been
 produced    by  the French chemists             thy action of the
                                                           by
 metal of potash, and they have ascertained that               slight      a
 agitation was sufficient to decompose it.          By this simple
 action the mercury once more becomes fluid, and ammonia
 and hydrogen are liberated          the proportion of 23 to 33.
                                           in
 The mercury absorbs 141 times its volume of hydroger
 gas, and 88 times its volume of ammoniacal gas, in order
 to pass to the state of amalgam whence         : results, according
                                                            it
 to our authors, that            in
                              this combination the mercury                          in
 creases about 0-0007 of its weight         whereas, according to
                                                     ;
                                                                                   Mr.

                   French National Institute.              311
 Mr. Davy, it should only   increase one 12000th part. Thus
 the theory by which Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard ex
 plain the formation of potassium may be applied to the
formation or' ammonium.        This new metal, according to
 them, is nothing but ammonia and hydrogen.
    Finally, Mr. Davy has also directed his attention to sul
phur, phosphorus, plumbago, charcoal, and the diamond.
The chief experiments relative to these two first substances
 have been made on       hydrogen, sulphuretted and phos-
 phuretted gases, by means   of potassium ; and he concludes)
 from the results obtained by him, that these two inflam
 mable bodies are combinations of hydrogen, oxygen, and
 an unknown base, and which has not yet been obtained in
a separate state.  As to the other substances, he is inclined
to regard plumbago as an alloy of iron with a peculiar:
metal which is found in charcoal combined with hydrogen,
and in the diamond with a small part of oxygen*
    These ideas were too strongly contradictory of those
which are commonly received, not to excite the inquiries
of other chemists.       Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard
therefore made sulphur and phosphorus the subjects of a
very extensive series of experiments ; and as Mr; Davy had
employed the hydrures in his experiments, the French
chemists in the first place endeavoured to determine the
elements of these substances with precision.      They ascer
tained that sulphuretted hydrogen gas contains a volume of
hydrogen equal to his quantity ; that the phosphuretted
hydrogen gas contains at least one and a half ot its volume;
that the former of these gases may be absorbed by potas
sium and sodium ; and that in this absorption there is de
veloped precisely the same quantity of hydrogen which
the metal alone would give with ammonia and with water :
lastly, that phospburctted hvdrogtn gas is decomposed by
potassium and sodium, so that the phosphorus is combined
with this metal, and the hydrogen is set free.      But these
chemists have not confined their researches to the sub-
ctances employed by Mr. Davy : they made experiments on
arseniated hydrogen gas, and found that this gas acts with
the new metals in the same way with phosphuretted hydro
gen gas; and that the metallic arsenic may be combined
with hydrogen so" as to form a solid hydruret, which has
the form of light flakes of a brown colour.        They con
cluded that sulphuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen gas,
as well as sulphur and phosphorus, contain no oxygen, or
at least that the experiments of Mr. Davy do not demon-
atrate it.  They are of opinion, however, as has been al-
                              U *                       ready

3(8                    French National Institute.
ready suggested, that sulphur, and perhaps phosphorus,
contains hydrogen.
     We shall not presume to decide between the opinions of
Mr. Davy and of Messrs. Gay Lnssac and Thenard ; but
it will not fail to be remarked, although this cannot lead
to any consequence injurious to modern chemistry, that
hydrogen, which frequently in the theory of Stahl was
nothing else than phlogiston, produces combinations which
have all the characters of the metals.
     In addition to the labours we have mentioned, we are
indebted to M. Gay Lussac for some observations on the
combination of gaseous substances with each other, which
led him to prove thai the gases, in such proportions as to
render them fit for combination, always produce com
pounds the elements of which are in very simple ratios with
each other.        Thus, 100 parts of oxygen gas saturate ex
actly 200 parts of hydrogen ; the fluoric and muriatic gases,
mixed with the ammoniaeal gas, saturate a volume of the
latter equal to their own, and form neutral salts, &c.                But
he observes,       that, when we consider the proportions in
•weight, we obtain no simple ratio between the elements of
a similar combination.         Moreover, he shows that the apparent
contractions which the gases undergo on combining, also
form very simple ratios with the primitive volume of the
gases, or only with the volume of one of them ; and he af
terwards makes the remark, that the apparent contraction
does not indicate the real contraction which the elements
have undergone in combining.
     These observations have been followed up by a particular
 inquiry as to the nitrous vapour and nitrous gas considered
 as a eudiometrical method.             Here we see in a very evident
manner     the   influence    of   the  quantities on the result of the
 combinations.        If we   mix     20O   parts of nitrous gas with
 200 parts    of  oxygen gas,      nitric   acid is produced; and 10O
 parts  of oxygen     remain    at   liberty.     If, on the contrary, we
 mix 100 parts       of  oxygen     and   400   of   nitrous gas, an ab
  sorption   of  400  parts   takes     place, which     produces nitrous
 acid,   and  100   parts  of  nitrous     gas   remain    free. Thus we
 obtain nitric acid, or nitrous acid, according as either of the
 gases of which these acids are composed is predominant.
     But in both cases the absorptions are always constant.
  Thus, the nitric acid is composed of 100 parts of azotic
 gas and 200 of oxygen gas, or 100 of oxygen gas and 20O
  nitrous gas.       The nitrous acid results from the combina
  tion  of   10O   parts of oxygen gas and 300 of nitrons gas.
  And   if we   add  that the nitrous gas is composed of equal
                                                                     parts

                     French National Institute.               313
parts of oxygen gas and azotic gas, as M. Gay Lussac had
already demonstrated, we shall have a complete history of
the combinations of oxygen and azote.
    M. Guyton de Morveau, in a course of experiments on
the diamond and the substances which contain carbon, has
endeavoured to determine the action of the diamond on
water at    a very high temperature.     The water was decom
posed,    and  carbonic  acid produced.
     M. Sage has communicated to us his researches on the
revivification of silver by mercury in the nitrate of silver;
on an acetate of ammonia, extracted from wood by distilla
tion ; on the analysis of the calcareous stone, called the
printing stone; on     the magnesia contained in shells, madre
 pores, limestone and the arragonite ; on an ore of arena
 ceous iron ; on an unknown       petrifaction ; .and on the ana
 lysis of a petrified wood which was both cupreous and fer
 ruginous.      We regret that our limits do not permit us to
 enter more into the details of these numerous inquiries.
    When chemistry descends from crude to organized bodies,
 the phenomena which come under its observation are more
 complex, and the results obtained more obscure. Thus
 has this branch of chemistry been neglected until lately ;
 and most of the observations and discoveries with which
 it is enriched are undoubtedly owing to the labours of
 M. Fourcroy, (whose loss we have now to deplore,) and to
 his distinguished friend M. Vauquelin.
     This last chemist has lately been occupied with the ana
 lysis of tobacco, with a view to ascertain the principle*
  which characterize this plant, and which have recommend
 ed it to general use; and, finally, with a view to appreciate
 the modifications which it undergoes, in order to prepare
  it for becoming an article of commerce.        It results, from
 M. Vauquelin's inquiries, that the broad-leafed tobacco
  plant (Nicotiana lalifoliaj contains an animal matter of an
 albuminous nature, some malate of lime, with an excess of
 acid, acetic acid, nitrate and muriate of potash, a red mai
 ler the nature of which is unknown, muriate of ammo
  niac, and, lastly, an acrid and volatile principle, which
  leems to be different from all those known in the vegetable
  kingdom.      It is this principle which gives to tobacco the
  qualities  which   we know it possess ; we may separate it
  from the plant by distillation, and employ it separately.
  Prepared tobacco presented more sensibly, than when un
  prepared, carbonate of ammonia and muriate of lime.
      M. Vauquelin, thinking that the juice of bella donna,
  from having effects on the animal ceconomy analogous to
                                                             those

 414                French National Institute.
 those   of tobacco, contained   the same acrid principle,  pro
 ceeded to analyse it ; but he found only an animal sub-
 Stance, salts with a base of potash, and a bitter substance
 from which the juice of the belladonna receives its narco
 tic properties.
     Under the head Physiology,     we shall allude to the expe«
 riments    made   by M.   Vauquelin,   on animals,    with   this
juice.
     M. Chevreul has presented to the class some very exten
 sive experiments on vegetable substances.        Some have for
 their objects, the bitter principle produced by the action of
 the nitric acid on organized bodies which contain azote,
 and which had already occupied the attention of Messrs.
 Haussman, Welther, Proust, Fourrroy, andVauquehn.
     M. Chevreul thinks that this bitter principle is composed
 of nitric acid and a vegetable oily or resinous substance ;
 and he ascribes the property which this substance has of
 detonating, to the decomposition of nitric acid, to the
 formation of ammoniacal gas, of prussic acid, and oily hy
 drogen gas, &c. This agrees partly with the observation*
 of Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin.
     But along with this bitter principle, a resinous matter
 and a volatile acid are produced, on which M. Chevreul
 has made various experiments, and which he regards as dif
 fering from the bitter principle only in consequence of it;
 having a small portion of nitric acid.
     A second inquiry of M. Chevreul has for its object the
 substances formed by the action of the nitric acid on charry
 or resinous bodies, and which have the property of preci
  pitating gelatine. The first observations on this subject
  were made in England by Mr. Hatchett ; and they in
  duced a belief that these substances were analogous to tan
  nin. M. Chevreul is of opinion that this is erroneous,
  and that they differ from each other, not only according
  to the kind of acid and other substance with which they
  have been prepared, but also according to the quantity of
  acid which has entered into their composition.
     Lastly, pursuing always the same kind of experiments,
  M. Chevreul directed his attention to the different com
  pounds formed by the reaction of the sulphuric acid on
  camphor.     All the above researches obtained the appro
  bation of the class, and were ordered to be inserted in the-
 -Memoir es des Savons Etr angers.
     We oueht to speak, perhaps, of the supposed discovery
  made by M. Vinterl, of an earth which he calls andronia,
  and in which he thinks he has found some extraordinary
                                                      properties ;

                       French National Institute.                     315
properties; and of the memoir of M. Pitaro, in which he
endeavours to demonstrate, that a substance discovered                   in
the Grotto de 1'Arc, and analysed by M. Laugier, origi
nates from ihe decomposition of the insects and reptiles
which this grotto contains. But there are errors sometimes
so palpable, that it is best perhaps to say nothing of them.
    Every year has added to the store of knowledge we pos-
«ess on the subject of the application of chemistry to the
arts; and' thus new proofs are afforded of the assistance
which our wants, added to our industry, may derive from
the sciences.
     M. Chaptal, to whom manufacturers are already indebted
 for so many useful processes, has published some interest
 ing observations on distillation from wines.                   We find,
 from the history which he gives of this art, by the descrip
 tion of the apparatus formerly employed, and that of the
 present day, that the processes for the prodxiction of spirits,
 have been ameliorated in proportion to the improvements
 in chemical apparatus.           One of the most important of these
 improvements, adopted in the South of France, consists of
 scarcely any thing else than the apparatus of Woulf on a
 large scale.      The laws of evaporation, and the processes by
 means of which the liquids are heated by steam, have been
 ingeniously combined, in order to effect the distillation of
 spirits in an ceconemical manner; but the observations
 of M. Chaptal will undoubtedly lead to new improve
  ments in the preparation of spirits, and will contribute to
  preserve to this important branch of French trade, the su
  periority which it has acquired.
     The same member has analysed seven specimens of co
  lours found at Pompeia, which had been sent to him by
  the empress Josephine *.
      M. Sage has been occupied in ascertaining the best pro.
  cesses for extracting quicklime, in order to bbtain a solid
  mortar.      He has also examined the nature of different
  pieces   of  stucco  ; the best method of giving the polish of
  marble to artificial stones ; and, finally, he has given an
 account of a process for reducing while wax into soap.
      The same author in a memoir, and Messrs. Guyton and
  Vauquelin in a report, have communicated some observa
  tions on the advantages and disadvantages of employing
  zinc in covering         houses    f.    And on the request of the
  minister    of   the interior, the committee for chemistry has
     * See Phil. Mag. vol. xixiv. page 41 1.
    t This is not a French diacovery; nor is it new. See an ingenious paper
  by Mr. fUndall oa this >ubject in our 28th vulume,  p. 344. — EDIT.
                                                                       *
                                                                     should

310                French National Institute.
 shown what are the descriptions of manufactories which are
 injurious to the health of the surrounding inhabitants; and
 measures have been suggested for removing such as are
 nuisances, without compromising the interests of the pro
 prietors.
     A report has been made to the Institute on a memoir by
 M. Tarry, relative to the composition of writing ink. The
 author has succeeded in making an ink which cannot be
 destroyed by the acids or alkalies, and which has only the
 slight inconvenience of allowing its colouring matter to be
deposited rather too easily.
                                 " The discovery of M. Tarry,"
 says the reporter,
                      "  promises a great benefit to society ;
viz. the introduction of an ink, which, not being susceptible
of being obliterated by the chemical agents at present
known, will put an end to the falsification of writings,
which is but too common."
     Another, on the artificial turquoises of M. de Sauviac,
gives reason to hope that art will shortly rival nature in
these productions, and furnish a new source of riches.
    A committee has been busily employed in examining a
process of the late M. Bachelier, for the composition of a
preservative   plaster of Paris.     House* built of stone are
quickly covered with an earthy coating, of a dirty gray
colour ; and this first change is the cause of the deteriora
tion which they soon afterwards undergo.           A small kind
of spider fixes his web in the hollows on the surface of the
stone : these webs accumulate, and, with the dust which
they collect, form the earthy crust just mentioned, in
which lichens sometimes take root, and which naturally
retain a constant humidity at the surface of the stones :
the frosts then produce considerable injury, and give occa
sion for those raspings, which are in themselves a real de
terioration.
    A plaster therefore became a desideratum, which should
fill up the inequalities of the stone without making the
angles look clumsy, or deadening the carvings, and which
should resist rain and other effects of weather. The late
M. Bachelier had made some interesting experiments on
this subject ; and the above committee, aided by his son,
have succeeded in producing a plaster which has resisted
the tests to which they exposed      it,   and which gives fair
grounds    to expect  that  our  buildings will in future be pro
tected  from  the causes   of decay above enumerated.
                        MINERALDGr.
  Qur labours in mineralogy will     appear   inconsiderable in
                                                    comparison

                     De Luc's Electric Column.                 317
comparison with those of which we have had occasion to
give an account in former years.
    M. Guyton has made us acquainted with a new crystal
line form of the diamond.        We know that the forms under
which it is most frequently presented, are the regular octa
hedron and the dodecahedron with rhomboidal faces.            The
variety discovered by our associate is formed of two demi-
epheroids, the returned position of which, imperfectly ter
minated at one of its extremities, presents at the other very
clear re-entering angles, which characterize the form called
hemitrope by M. Hany.
    The same member, having directed his inquiries to the
tenacity of metals, was led to some new experiments on the
diminution of specific gravity in lead, in consequence of
being put into a vice, as proved by Muschenbroek ; and
the cause of which .remained          unknown. Pieces of this
metal were driven into ferules ; and when the dies and the
latter were adjusted, so that there could be no oozing out
of metal, nor was the lead permitted to become soft, the
lead in this case was found, like all the other metals, to in
crease in specific gravity by the operation.
    M. Sage has communicated to the class his inquiries re
specting emery, and the substances which are calculated to
 supply its place in polishing.      It results from his observa
tions, that the pulverized chrysolite of volcanoes may supply
 the place of emery. All ihe artists who employed it have
 been satisfied with its effects.
                          [To be continued.]
         LII.  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                 DE LUC'S ELECTRIC        COLUMN.
 \V   E learn, by a communication dated 23d April, that the
 small bells which were connected to DC Luc's electric co
 lumn, mentioned in our last number, ceased to ring for
 about a minute on the 24th March; and again on the same
 day for about three minutes.        They were also supposed to
 have stopped for about half a minute the next day ; but this
 is much doubted. Since that time they have been known
 once to cease ringing.        On the 1 5th April, the closet
 where they are placed was opened, when the clapper was
 observed to vibrate with very great velocity.       It is thought
 that the loudness of the so'ind is considerably increased
 of late ; also that the vibrations of the clapper are quicker
 than when the apparatus was put into the closet on the Uth
  March.     [April 28.]
                                                               The

  318                        Leclurts.
      The cranium of    a  horned animal, the race of which
  seems to be extinct,, has   been recently dug up at Oeltre,
 near Ninava,vin Russia.        From the description given of
  this part of the skeleton, the animal must have been at least
  10 or 12 feet long; the horns which are attached to the
 head, and which have partly passed into a fossil state, far
 exceed in size those of the oxen of the present day : when
 measured at the root, they are a foot and a half in circum
 ference, and two feet and a half long.     After finding the
 cranium, several efforts were made to recover the entire
 skeleton, but two teeth only were found.      Foreign natura
 lists are of opinion, that the head in question must have
 belonged to the race of Una or Auroclis, mentioned by
 Caesar in the 6th book of his Commentaries, and which are
 supposed to exist still in the mountains of Siberia, and eveu
 in the forests of Poland.
     Sir George Mackenzie, accompanied by Mr. Henry
 Holland, and Mr. Richard Bright, of the university of
Edinburgh, has sailed from Leith for Stromness ; from
whence they are to proceed to Iceland, in a vessel which is
expected there from London.
    The object of this arduous undertaking is to explore part
of that inhospitable country, which, without British com
miseration, would, in consequence of the war, be deprived
of the absolute necessaries of life.
     In the circumscribed state of our commerce, this country
is very well worth the attention of Great Britain. Tn re
turn for our coarse fabrics, we might procure such articles
as     Iceland, under proper management, would afford in
great plenty ; such as fish, oil, feathers, and sulphur, the
scarcity ol which last article has been such as to have al
ready attracted the attention of parliament.
               MEDICAL AND CHEMICAL LECTURES.
    Dr. CLUTTERBTCK.       will begin his Summer Course of
Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Physic, Materia
Medica, and Chemistry, on Monday, June the 4th, at a
quarter before Ten in the morning, at his house, No. l ,
Crescent, New Bridge Street ; where further particulars
may be had.
    Mr. TAUNTON will commence his Summer Course of
Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, and Sur
gery, on Saturday, May 26th, 181O, at 8 o'clock in the
evening precisely. The Lectures will be continued every
succeeding Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, at the same
hour, until the completion of the Course.
    In the above Course of Lectures it is proposed to take a
                                                      compre-

               List of Patents for new Inventions,           319
comprehensive view of the structure and oeconomy of the
living body,    and to consider the causes, symptoms, nature,
and treatment of surgical diseases, with the mode of per
forming the different surgical operations : forming a com
plete course of anatomical and physiological instruction,
for the medical or surgical student, the artist, the profes
sional or private gentleman.
    An ample field for professional edification will be afforded
by the opportunity which pupils may have of attending the
clinical and other practice of both the City and Finsbury
Dispensaries.
    Particulars may be had on applying to Mr. Taunton, Gre-
ville-Street, Hatton Garden.                           ,.
          LIST  OP PATENTS      FOR  NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Frederick    Koenig, of Camden Town, in the county
•of Middlesex,     printer, for a method of printing by means
of machinery. — March 29, 18 to.
    T<» Jonathan     Ridgway,    of Manchester, plumber and
glazier, for an improved method for preparing rollers and
 Blocks used for calico printing.-— April 6.
    To John Stancliffe, of Caius College, Cambridge, ba
 chelor of physic, for certain improvements in apparatus
 for combination and condensation of gases and vapours ap
 plicable to processes of distillation. — April 6.
    To John Woodhouse, of Bromsgrove, in the county
 of Worcester, for several improvements relative to canals.
 — April   6.
    To William Speer, late of the city of Dublin, but now
 of the city of Westminster, esq., for a new or improved
 method or process of increasing the inflammability and
 combustibility,    and of improving the light of oils used
 for burning, particularly applicable to the oils refined ac
cording to the patent process, which will also improve oils
 refined according to the patent process, and oils when used
 for burning. — April 6.
    To James Fussel, of Mells, near Frome, in the county
 of Somerset, iron manufacturer, for a method of making
 and working forge and other bellows. — April 6.
    To Charles Frederick Davis, of the parish of Itchcombe,
 in the county of Gloucester, clothier, for an improvement
 jn the manufacture of woollen cloth. — April 6.
    To William Parr, of the Portland Hotel, Great Portland
 Street, in the county of Middlesex, esq., for his improved
gunpowder, — April 11.
                                                     METBORO-

320                           Meteorology.
                   meteorological table, .
             By Mb. Carey, of the Stband,
                         For April 1810.
               Thermometer.
                                               as    5
 Days of                         Height of
                                the Barom,
                                               2-> 6
 Month.                                                       Weather.
             o                    Inches.            M
                                               to «•
             44     52°  42°     29-59             0     Rain
             44     50   40          •78         88      Fair
             40     51   39          •90         80      Showery
             40     49   42          •83         85      Cloudy
             43     51   45          •63          0      Showery
             45     49   48          •40          0      Showery
             40     45   40          •72         15      Cloudy
             43     56   46         •60         81       Cloudy
             45    47    39         •30           0     Rain
             37    47    45         •69         36      Fair
             49    45    48         •28           0     Stormy
             41    53    43         •30         31      Cloudy
             44    51    43         •58         20      Cloudy
             45    48    44         •45           0     Rain
             44    42    39         •55           0     Rain
             37    42    36         •65           5     Showery
             33    41   34          •90         85      Cloudy'
             34    43   35          •89        90       Cloudy
             36    47   39          •81        86       Cloudy
             44    40   40          •71        36       Fair
             39    47   40         •48          10      Showery
            48     58   45         •64         20      |Showery
            48     56   46         •70         35       Cloudy
            49     57   47         •80         48       Fair
            48     57   45     30-10           39      Fair
            49     59   47         •17         46      Fair
            30     63   54         •16         40      Fair
            54    66    55         •20         39      Fair
            54    63    44         •15         40      Fair
            44    58    43         •14         57      Fair
      26) 47      59    45         •18         65      Fair
         N. B. The Barometer's height is taken  at ode o'clock.

LIII.     Description     of an improved Apparatus for ike De
   composition    of    Potash and Soda. By WILLIAM JOHNS,
   Esq.
                                To    Mr. Tilloch.
        rp
SIR,                    of the Philosophical Magazine in
          J_ HE publicity
duces me to transmit   for insertion the following account
of some successful attempts to repeat the brilliant experi
ments of professor Davy, in the decomposition of potash
and soda, on a more ceconomical plan than has before been
suggested*, and which I hope will enable your readers to
obtain potassium, 8cc. for their use at a very moderate ex
 pense.
                                       I     am yours,      &c.
         April i6, isio.                                 WILLIAM JOHNS.
No, 3, Orford Row, Kent Road.                                     i
  EARLY in the present    year, wishing to decompose potass
with the bent gun-barrel  as is done at the Royal Institution,
and not enjoying the ample resources of its excellent che
mical professor ; it became a desideratum to construct an
 apparatus, which might serve for the repetition of the ex
 periment, instead of cutting the gun-barrel in pieces, as in
 the method before in use, — a practice attended with consi
 derable expense, and which could not but check the ardour of
 those who are fond of chemical researches, and prevent the
 frequent repetition of the experiment : the disappointment
resulting from an unsuccessful experiment being always
much heightened when accompanied with the loss of an
expensive apparatus.
    Having succeeded in constructing an apparatus simple
and efficient, and which has met the approbation of several
eminent chemists, I herewith send you a drawing and de
scription of it.
    The apparatus consists of a common gun-barrel with
one bend, and one of the ends inclining downwards a little.
The inclining straight part is cut off from the bent portion
at about three inches distance, is ground into              being     it,
made to fit air-tight.   Underneath        small thin iron tube
                                                   is   a
open at bothendS, made      little conical, which when the ap
                                  a
paratus    taken to pieces
          is                   placed within the interior of the
                                     it is
straight piece, one half of    going into this part; the other
will be received in the opposite part, when the apparatus                     is
again put together.    This small tube      to collect the potas-
                                                     is
                  *    See   Phil. Mag. vol. xxxii. p. 276,
Vol. 35. No.     145.    May 1810.                          X               slum

822        Description   of   an improved Apparatus,   &c.
slum in, and     which purpose it answers exceedingly well,
obviating an    inconvenience and waste which sometimes
happen from    its being dispersed through the barrel.
   In the first  apparatus which I had constructed on thii
plan, I had the parts made to screw together : this answered
extremely well, but it possesses no advantage over a ground
joint, and is more expensive.
   The first attempt to use this apparatus, I obtained less
 than 20 grains of the potassium : this was, however, encou
 ragement, my apparatus being in every respect perfect 33
when I began the process ; it served me twelve times very
 completely, and in the last experiment I collected 140
grains of the metalloid from eleven drachms troy of the al
kali.
  Having    succeeded  in preserving my apparatus            (it
                                                              at
length  was melted  in  final! place, the lute having fallen off
                         a
in the process), my object was to substitute the common
caustic potass instead of the pure potass which had been
generally used.     I tried it; and to my 'satisfaction obtained
the result just mentioned.        At this was much pleased,
                                            I
the kali purum being sold at one eighth of the price "of
the pure potass.       In my subsequent experiments twelve
drachms yielded the extraordinary produce of 170 grains,
the apparatus; being taken out of the fire entirely free from
being acted on.
   Having attempted the caustic soda alone, and not suc
ceeding with      it,
                    I used the proportions of two drachms of
soda to six drachms of potass, and obtained CO grains of           a
beautiful compound nearly fluid, of considerable lustre,
and which lustre was inconsiderably diminished some days
after ;    nearly floated in the naphtha, being apparently of
          it
the same specific gravity.
   From one part of soda to seven of potass, the proportion
used      Mr. Davy in similar experiment, obtained from
          by              a                      I
ten drachms 150 grains of metalloids, in appearance resem
bling quicksilver, equally fluid at low temperature, though
                                       a
with this- striking difference, of less specific gravity than
some very pure naphtha, in which           floated.
                                           it
   The furnace     I use     the common black-lead crucible,
                              i*
about eight inches diameter;       generally leave off" the upper
                                   I
section as well as the flue. The furnace used at the In
stitution is,     if
                   I  do not mistake, above 2O inches.       The
double bellows are small in proportion, about 36 inches
 by  14 inches.
    In performing the experiment,            may be observed in
                                            it
 addition to what has been said,       leave the stopper out of
                                       I
                                                               tbe

     On the Composition and Decomposition         of Forces.    323
the potass tube till near the end of the process, bring it to
a red heat, before any of the alkali is supplied; then the
iron turnings being at a white heat, I introduce pieces of
the potass in succession : these are immediately brought
into igneous fusion, admitting of part of the water contained
in it to pass off, and in this state it drops down on the
iron. When the lasf portion is introduced, and this also
is become red hot, the stopper is put into the tube and
luted over. This is all done in less than ten minutes, from
the first supplying of the potass tube with alkali : at the
other end a glass tube passes down into some olive oil :
here the hydrogen escapes, often in a state of brilliant com
bustion, and potassium deposits in the glass tube : this
however should be prevented by wet cloths applied to the
straight part of the gun-barrel.
             Description of the Drawing (Plate IX.)
A. Potass tube.
B. Stopper to be put in at the end of the process.
C. The situation of the iron turnings.
D. The     fire-place.
E. The grate.
F. The pipe of the bellows.
G. Straight part ground to the bent part.
H. Thin iron tube to be placed within the joint,         to collect
        the potassium.
I.   Glass tube.
K.   Olive oil.
L.   The part where the gun-barrel begins to decline down
        ward.       N. B. This inclination should commence
        precisely at the point where the tube emerges from
        the furnace, to prevent the potassium from flowing
       back on the iron turnings.
M.   Stop-cock screwed into a socket fixed in the gun-
       barrel, which is shut the moment gas ceases to be
       given off, and which is known by the consequent
       absorption*.
LIV.    On the Composition and Decomposition of Forces.
   Translated from " Traite elementaire de Statique, par
   GASPARD MONGE;" by Mr.W. MARRAT, of Boston,
   Lincolnshire*.
1.   W    HEN    a  force P, (fig.  1 and 2,) applied to a deter
mined point      C, of the solid body AH, draws, or pushes
                    * Communicated by Mr. Marrat.
                                X  2                          this

    324     On the Composition and Decomposition              of Forces.
    this body in any direction CF ; we maybe permitted to
    consider this force as if it were applied to any other point
    D, in the body, which is in the direction of this force.
         For as the several points of the bodv which are in the
     right line CF can neither approach towards nor recede
     from one another, it is evident that no point whatever in
     this line can move without moving ^11 the others, in the
     same manner as if the force were immediately applied to
     them.
    •
         We may also be permitted to consider the force P as if
     it were applied to any other point G out of the body, in the
     direction of the force, provided that this point be invariably
      attached to the body.
    ¦> 2. It follows then, that if in the direction               of the force
      P there be   found   either   in  the  body   a fixed  point D, or out
.    of it an  immoveable       obstacle    G,  provided    that in this latter
      case the  obstacle    be   invariably    attached    to  the    body, the
      force  will be   destroyed,    and    the  body    remain    at  rest; for
      we may regard      the  force   as  immediately applied       to the fixed
      point, and     its effect   will   be destroyed by     the  resistance   of
      that point.
         3. Reciprocally, if the force P applied to the body AB
      be destroyed by the resistance of a single fixed point, this
      point will be found in the direction or the force ; for this
      point could not destroy the effect of the force unless it
      opposed the motion of the point of application C, and it
      could not prevent this motion unless it were in the right
      line in which the force tends to move the point of appli
       cation.
                                       AXIOMS.
                                          I.
        4. A point ctnnot move several ways at once.
        5. Therefore, when several forces differently directed are
     applied at the same time to the same point, this point either
     remains at rest, or it moves in a single direction, in the
     same manner as if it were moved by a single force in that
     direction, capable of producing the same effect.
        6. Thus, whatever may be the number and direction of
     forces applied at the same lime to the same point, there
     always exists a single force which can move         or which it,
     tends to move       it,
                         in the same manner as all the forces to
     gether. This single force       called the resultant, and
                                         is
     the several forces which compose the system, and act all
     together, are called composants.     The operation     which       by
     we seek the resultant of several given composant forces,

        On tlie Composition and Decomposition               of Forces.  325
  is called the COMPOSITION OF FORCES, and that by which
  we find the composants when we know the resultant, it
  called the DECOMPOSITION OF FOHCES*.
                                     II.
      7. Two forces equal and directly opposite, applied at the
  same time to the sam*e point, destroy each other and are
  in equilibrio.    Reciprocally, when two forces are in equili-
  brio, they are equal and direetly opposite.
     8. If, therefore, several forces differently directed are
  applied to the same point, to produce an equilibrium, that
  is to destroy the effect of their resultant, we must apply to
  this point a single force equal to their resultant, and di
  rectly opposite to it ; or else we must apply several forces
  the resultant of which may be equal and directly opposite
 to the resultant of the first.
     Q. Reciprocally, when several forces, differently directed,
 and applied to the same point, are in equilibrio, their re
 sultant is nothing, or, which conies to the same, any one
 of these forces is equal and directly opposite to the result
 ant of all the others, or lastly the resultant of any number
 of forces is equal and directly opposite to the resultant of
 all the others.
                                     III.
     10.  If  several forces applied to the same point have all
 the same direction, and all act the same way, the effect
 produced upon this point is the same as would be produced
 by a single force equal to their sum, acting the same way,
 and in the same direction ; consequently this single force is
 their resultant.
     11. Hence, to produce an equilibrium                    with all these
 forces, we must apply to the same point, *and in an oppo
 site direction, a force equal to their sum; for this force
 will be equal and directly opposite to ihtir resultant.
     12. It follows then, FIRST, that when two unequal
 forces are applied to the same point, but in opposite di
 rections, the resultant will be in the direction of the greater,
and equal to their difference.           For the greater of these two
forces may be considered as composed of two forces, di-
 tected the same way, one of which is equal to the less and
rhe other equal to their difference; now of these two latter
forces, the first is destroyed by the less (7); therefore, there
remains to move the point, only the difference, which acts
in the same direction as the greater.                  \
     13. SECONDLY.          That if ever so many forces be applied
to the same point, some of which act one way and the
                      •jib*A«
               * Englith authors call this resolution of forcw.
                                     X   3                           others

J26     On the Composition and Decomposition     of Forces.
others the contrary; after having found the sum of all those
which act one way, and also the sum of all those which
act the contrary way, the resultant of all these forces is
equal to the difference of these sums, and is directed the
same way as the greater.
    14. Therefore, to produce an equilibrium      with all these
forces, we must apply to the same point, and in the di
rection of the less sum, a force equal to the difference of
the sums.      For this force will be equal and directly oppo
site to their resultant.
                           THEOREM.
    15. If to the extremities of an inflexible right line AB,
 (fig. 3) two equal forces P, Q, be applied, both of which
act the same way, and the directions of which AP, BQ, are
 parallel to each other:
     1. The direction of the resultant R of these forces is pa»
rallel to AP, BQ, and passes through the middle of AB.
    2. The resultant is equal to the sum P + O of these tw»
forces.
    DEMONSTRATION        OF THE FIRST PART.         Let another
inflexible right line DE perpendicular to the direction of
the forces be invariably attached to the right line AB, and
produce the direction of the forces P, Q, till they meet the
right line DE in D and E; we may consider these forces as
applied at   D  and  E.
    Divide  DE   into two equal parts in C, and on that side to
 which the forces tend to move this right line place an im-
 movcable obstacle at C, and the right line ED will be at
 rest ; for, the parts of the line on each side of the obstacle
 being equal, there is no reason why one of these equal
 forces should overcome the other ; therefore the resultant
 will he destroyed by the obstacle C, or the resultant will
 pass through the point C.       In the same manner it may be
 shown that the direction of the resultant of the two forces
 passes through I, the middle of any other right line GH
 parallel to DE.
    Therefore, it passes at the same time through the two
 points C, I, which are equally distant from the direction
 of the forces P, Q, of course it is parallel to them, and
 passes also through the middle of AB.
     PART II. The direction of the two forces P, Q, and that
 of their resultant R, being parallel, we may consider them
 as concurring     in a point at an infinite distance, and the
 two forces P, Q, as both applied to this point : now the
 resultant of two forces applied to the same point is equal
to their sum (10); therefore the resultant of the two forces
 P> Q) is equal to the sum P+Q of those forces.
                                                        16. Cor.

      On the Composition and Decomposition                      of Forces.   327
    10.  Cor. I. To produce an equilibrium with the forces
 P, Q,   we have only to apply to the point K a third force
 equal to their suit:, acting in a contrary direction, but pa
 rallel to AP or BO : for this third force will be equal and
 directly opposite to their resultant.
    17. Cor. 9.    If after having divided an inflexible right
line into any number of equal parts, we apply to all these
points of division equal forces the directions of which are
 parallel among themselves ; the resultant of all these forces
 passes through the middle of the right line in a direction
 parallel to that of the forces, and is equal to their sum.
    For all the particular resultants of these forces taken two
and two at equal distances from the middle of the right
line, will pass through the middle, in the same direction,
and each resultant will be equal to the two forces which
are its composants: therefore, the general resultant will
pass through the middle of the line (10), according to the
same direction, and will he equal to the sum of all the par
ticular resultants, or equal to the sum of all the composauts.
                               THEOREM.
    18.   If
           to the extremities of an inflexible right line AB
(fig. 4.) two  unequal forces P, Q, be applied, the directions
ot which AP, B£), are parallel and act the same way:
    1. The resultant R is equal to their sum, and its direction
is parallel to that of the forces.
   2. The point of application C, of the resultant R, divides
the right line AB into two parts which are reciprocally
proporiional to the forces ; or in such a manner that
                       P   :
                               Q   : :   BC   :   AC.
    DEMONSTRATION        OF FIRST PART. For divide the right
 line AB into two parts in D, directly proportional to the
 forces P, O, and we shall have P : Q         AD DB.   :':      :
     Produce the inflexible line AU both ways, and make
AE=AD and BF=BD, also conceive that the two forces
P   and O are uniformly distributed through every point of
the rignt line EF, and act in directions parallel to the
direction of the two forces          O   P,    evident that the
                                                  ;   it   is
force P   will be distributed through the part DE, and that
the force      will be distributed through the part DF.
               Q
    Moreover, the force        will be the resultant of all the
                               P
forces distributed through ED, and         that of all the forces
                                                  Q
distributed through the line DF (17): hence the generaj
resultant of all the forces uniformly distributed through
the line EF, will pass through C, the middle of EF, and
According to       adirection parallel to the direction of the
                               X4                  •
                                                     composants,

328     On the Composition and Decomposition      of Forces.
composants, and is equal to their sum : therefore, the re
sultant of the forces P, Q, is equal to their sum, and its
direction, which passes through C, is parallel to BO or AP.
    2. The right line AB being the half of EF, ~ve have
AB = EC, and by subtracting from each of these equal
quantities the part AC, which is common, we have BC =
EA=AD.
   Also, because AB = CF, by taking away the common
part Cii, we have AC = BF=BD, and because, by suppo
sition,                  P : O : : AD : DB,
we shall have ..... P : Q : : BC : AC.
    But the resultant of the two forces P,O, has been proved
to pass through C : hence the point of application of this
resultant divides the right line AB into two parts which
are reciprocally proportional to the two forces.
    19. Cor. 1.    Therefore, to produce an equilibrium with
the two forces P, Q, we must divide the right line AB in
C, so that the two parts may be reciprocally proportional
to these two forces, and apply to the point C a third force
equal to the sum P + O, in a contrary direction but parallel
to AP or Bg.
    20. Remark.      If the relation of the forces P, O, and
the length of the right line AB be given in numbers, and
we want to determine the distance of the point C from
A or B, the proportion
                        P   :
                              Q   : : BC   : AC
cannot be immediately applied, because in this proportion
we only know the two first terms : but since
                        P  :
                              Q  : :  BC : AC,
     by composition   '
                        P+Q      :
                                    Q : : BC+AC = AB   : AC;
                also    P+£      :  P: : AB : BC;
in  each  of which the three first terms are given.
    21.  Cor. 2. When a single force R is applied to a point
C, in the inflexible right line AB, we can always resolve
it into two others P, y, which being applied to the two
given points A, B, and directed parallel to RC, will pro
duce the same effect ; for the force R may be divided into
two parts which are reciprocally proportional to the line
AC, BC, by means of the two following proportions
                        AB:BC::R:P
                        AB    : AC    : : R  :
                                               Q.
In   each  of which we know the three first terms. And
the resultant of the two forces P, Q, has the same quantity
and direction, and acts the same way as the force R.
    22. Cor. 3.     Every thins being (in fig. 5) as in the pre
ceding corollary, if we apply to the point C, of the right
                                                             line

     On the Composition and Decomposition     of Forces.  329
line AB, a force S equal and directly opposite to the re
sultant of the two forces'P, Q, in such a manner that S = R
 e=P + Cj; the three forces P, Q, S, will be in equilibrio
 (19), and either of the two forces P, Q, may be regarded
as equal and directly opposite to the resultant of the other
two.     Hence the resultant of two forces S, Q, of which
the directions are parallel, and which act contrary ways, is
a force p, equal and directly opposite to the force P.   Now
the force P is equal to the difference of the forces S, Q,
 and acts in a direction contrary to that of the greater S of
 these two forces; therefore, 1. The resultant p of the two
 forces S, Q, Is equal to their difference S— Q, and it act*
 the same way as the greater, in a direction parallel to that
of these two forces.
    Moreover we have P ; Q or S : Q : : AB : AC (20).
     2. The distances of the point A of application of this
 resultant from the two points C, B, are reciprocally pro
 portional to the forces S, Q.
     23. Remark.     If the ratio of the two forces S, Q, and
 the length of the right line BC are given in numbers,
 and \ve would find the distances of the point A from the
 points B, C, the preceding proportion cannot be directly
 applied, because in this proportion we know only the two
 first terms; but from it we easily deduce this by division
 of ratios; viz.   S-O    :
                             Q : : AB— AC or BC : AC
  in which we know the three first terms.
     We find the distance AB by this other proportion,
                   S-O     : S : : AB-AC or BC : AB.
     24. Cor. 4.    If the two forces S, g, the directions of
  which are parallel and which act contrary ways, are equal
  between themselves, 1. their resultant P, which is equal 10
 S— .Q, (22) becomes nothing ; 2. in the proportion S— Q :
  Q : : BC : AC, the second term being indefinitely great
  with respect to the first, which is nothing, the fourth term
  AC is also indefinitely great with respect to the third.
  Therefore, the point A of application of the resultant P is
  at an indefinite distance from the point C.        Hence, to
  produce an equilibrium with the forces S, Q, we must ap
  ply to the inflexible right line a force equal nothing, the
  direction of which passes at an indefinite distance: this is
  not absurd, but it cannot be executed.
     We see then that it is impossible, by means of a single
                                                               '
  force, to produce an equilibrium with two equal forces the
  directions of which are parallel and which act contrary
  ways ; but by means of two forces we can produce witii
  then) an equilibrium in an indefinite number of ways.
                                                •    PROBLEM.

 330      On the Composition and Decomposition    of Forces.
                             PPOBLEM.
      25. Any number of forces P, Q, R, S, &c. the directions
of which     are parallel, and which act the same way, being
applied to the points A, B, C, D, &c. given in position,
 (fig. 6) and connected in an invariable manner ; to deter
mine the resultant of all these forces.
     SOLUTION. Take any two of the forces, as P, Q, and
determine (20) their resultant T ; this resultant will be
equal to P+Q, and its direction will be parallel to that of
the two forces P, Q, and we find its point of application
E by the following proportion, P + Q '• Q '• '• AB : AE.
     Instead now of the two forces P and Q we may substitute
their resultant T, and having drawn the right line EC, we
must determine the resultant V of the two forces T, R ;
this resultant V will also be that of the three forces P, Q,
R; its quantity equal to T+R or = P + Q + R, and its
point of application F will be found by this proportion,
            T+RorP+Cj + R:         R::  EC : EF.
     Instead of the three forces P, Q, R, we may now substi
tute their resultant V, and after having drawn the right
line FD, we must find the resultant X of the two forces
V, S j this resultant X will be that of the four forces P, Q,
R, S, and its quantity equal P+Q+R+S ; and we deter
mine upon FD its point of application G, by the propor
tion,          V+Sor P + Q + R + S: S : : FD : FG.
     In the same manner we may proceed for any number of
forces whatever, and the quantity of the last resultant will
be equal to the sum of all the forces in the system.
    ,26. Cor. 1.    Hence, by supposing that the point G is
invariably connected to the points A, B, C, D . . . we shall
have an equilibrium with all the forces P, Q, R, S . . . by
applying to the point G a force, the direction of which is
parallel to that of the original forces, which acts the contra
ry way, and which is equal to their sum P + Q + R + S . . . .
    27. Cor. 2. If among the forces P, Q, R, S, . . .the di
rections of which arc parallel, some of them act one way
and the remainder the contrary way ; we first determine the
particular resultant of those which act one way, and then
the particular resultant of all those which act the contrary
way.      For all the forces being reduced to two acting in
opposite directions, in determining by art. 23 the result
ant of these two forces we have the general resultant,
and, consequently, the force which, if applied in a contrary
direction, would keep the-whole in equilibrio.        The ge
neral resultant being equal to the difference between the
                                                           two

      On the Composition and Decomposition        of Forces. 331
two particular resultants ;(22j, and each          of these being
equal to the sum of thrf& .winch compose it (25), it fol
lows that the general                         to the excess of the
                           restri^ot is equal
sum of the forces which act one way, above the sum of
the forces which act the contrary way.
    28. Cor. 3. If the forces P, Q, R, S, . . . .remain parallel
among themselves, and without changing in quantity, take
another direction, and become p, q,r, s, . . . ., the resultant
t of the two first will still pass through E and be equal to
their sum p + q. Likewise the resultant v of the three
forces p, q, r passes through the point F, and is equal to
p + q+r. In the same manner the resultant x of the four
forces p, q, r, s will pass through the point G and will be
equal to the sum p -\-q + r + s.       Hence the general resultant
of all the forces p, q, r, s . . will always pass through the
6ame point as the general resultant of the first forces P, Q,
R, S,   &c...
    We see then that when the quantities and the points of
 application of parallel forces remain the same, the resultant
of these forces always passes through the same point what
 ever may be their direction, and the quantity of this re
 sultant is always equal to their sum.
    The point through which the resultant of parallel forces
always passes, whatever may be their direction, is called
 the centre of parallel forces.
    It is easy to perceive that if the points        of application
 A, B, C, D, . . . of the parallel forces P, Q,     R, S . . . .are in
 the same    plane, the centre of these forces is in the same
 plane ; for this plane contains the right line AB, and con
 sequently the point E in this right line, which is the centre
 of the forces P, Q : it contains also the right line EC, and
 of course it contains the centre F of the forces P, Q, R:
 it also contains the right line FD, and consequently it con
 tains the centre G of the forces P, Q, R, S ; and so on.
    If the points of application are in tbe same right line,
 we can demonstrate in the same manner' that the centre of
 parallel forces is in the same right line.
                              THEOREM.
    29.  Two    forces  applied to the same body cannot have
 a resultant,    unless   their directions concur in the same
 point,  and  are  contained   in the same plane.
    Demonstration.           When the directions of two forces
 do not concur in the same point, they cannot be considered
 as destined to move a single point; therefore a single force
 cannot produce the same effect, and consequently they have
 no resultant.                                          theorem.

     332      On the Composition and Decomposition    of Forces.
                                 THEO,REM,v
        30.   If the directions  of two^rces P, Q, applied to two
     points   A, B, (fig. 7 and 8) of tne same body, are contained
     in the same plane and concur in a certain point D :
        Jstly. The direction of the resultant of these forces will
     pass through the point     of concourse D ;
        sdly. The direction of the resultant is in the same plane
    as   the two forces P, Q, which are its composants.
        Demonstration of 1. The point D being found in
    the direction of both the forces, if we suppose that this
    point is connected to the body in an invariable manner,
    we may consider the two forces P, O, instead of being ap
    plied to the points A, B, as applied to the point D, and
   that they have no other effect than a tendency to move
   this point; therefore, their resultant may also he consi
   dered as having no other effect.       Now a single force can
   not act upon a single point unless it be immediately applied
   to this point.      Therefore the resultant of the two forces
   P, Q, may be regarded as applied to this point.          Hence,
   the direction of this force passes through the point of con
   course of its two composants.
       Demonstration of the 2d. If at the two points of
   application A, B, we conceive an inflexible right line to be
   attached, in an invariable manner, the effect of the two
  forces P, Q, and consequently that of their resultant, is evi
  dently a tendency to move the right line AB.        Now a single
  force cannot move a right line unless it he immediately
  applied to some point in this line.      Therefore, the resultant
  of the two forces P, O, may be considered as applied to
  some point in the right line AB.          Hence the direction of
  this force passes at the same time through the point D, and
  also through a point in the right line Ali j it is therefore
  comprised in the plane of the triangle ABD, determined by
  the directions of the two composants P, Q.
      31. Cor.     It follows then that if three forces P, Q, R,
 applied to the same body, are in cquilibrio among them
 selves, 'the directions of these three forces concur in the
 same point D, and are comprised in the same plane.
      For these three forces being in cquilibrio, any one of
 them is equal and directly opposite to the resultant of the
 other two ; consequently any two of these forces have a
 resultant ; therefore, (29) the directions of these two forces
 are comprised in the same plane, and concur in the same
            and the direction (30) of the resultant of these two
J>oint;
  orces, and consequently that of the third force which
                                                            keeps

      On the Composition and Decomposition                   of Forces. 333
keeps them, in equilibrio,           passes        through the point of con
course, and is comprised             in the plane determined by their
directions.
                                     LEMMA.
   32. Tf a power P be applied to the circumference of a
circle moveable about its centre A (fig. 9), according to
the direction BP, which is a tangent to the circle at the
point B; this power has the same tendency to turn the
circle about its centre, as if it were applied to any other
point C, and in the direction CQ, which is also a tangent
at the point C.
                                   THEOREM.
  33. When the directions of two forces P, Cj, are in the
»ame plane, and concur in the same point A (fig. IO),                                    it'
we take upon these directions the right lines AB, AC, pro
portional to these forces, in such manner that     a
                         P:Q:          :   AB      :    AC;
and having completed the parallelogram AB DC; the
direction of the resultant of these two forces will be ac
cording to the diagonal AD of the parallelogram.
   DEMONSTRATION.         Conceive for     moment that the  a
point D     an immoveable obstacle, and from this point
             is
upon the directions of the two forces let fall the perpendi
culars DE, DF; the triangles BED, CFD are similar,
because the angles at     andB   being each of them equal to
                                          C
the angle  A,  are  equal  to each  other; therefore we have
                         DC :DB:               :    DF:DE;
&     by   the supposition
                                     Q g
                                               AB           AC   or        DC       DB
                             P P
                                 :        :
                                          :             :             :
                                                                      :         :        ;
            therefore,           :   :     DE.
                                           :   DF      :
   From the point D as          centre, with the radius DF, de
                                   a
scribe the circular arc FG, meeting ED produced in G                                     ;
then, regarding this arc and the right line EG as inflexible
lines invariably connected to the point              conceive that
                                                                A ;
the force       Papplied at
                    is            in the direction EP, and that
                                     E,                                                  a
force M, equal to the force Cj,         applied to the point G, in
                                               is
a  direction parallel   to  AP,  and   consequently in the direc
tion of     atangent   to  the  arc FG     and because the force
                                                    ;
M = O,       and    DF=DG,         we have
                         P   :   M   :
                                     :     DG       :   DE.
    Therefore   (18)     the resultant             of
                                       the two parallel forces
 P,   M,
       passes through    the fixed point D, and      destroyed             is
by the  resistance   of this point   also these two forces are
                                               ;
in equilibrio about this point.
   Now the force Q, the direction of which          tangent to        is   a
the arc FG, and which we may regard as being applied to
                                                            the

 834     On the Composition and Decomposition
                                                                      of Forces.
 the point F of its direction, tends to turn this arc in the
 same manner as the force M (32), and may be substituted
 for it in order to counterbalance the force P : therefore the
 two forces P, Q, are also in equilibrio about the fixed point
 D, and their resultant will be destroyed by the resistance of
 this point, and consequently the direction of this resultant
 will pass through the point D.
    But we have seen that the resultant of the two forces
 P, Q, passes through the point of concourse A of their
 directions (30) ; therefore this resultant will be directed
according to the diagonal AD.
    34. Cor. 1.     If from any point D taken in the direction
AD of    the  resultant  of two forces P, Q, we draw the right
lines   DB,   DC,    parallel to the directions of these forces,
we shall   have  a  parallelogram ABCD, the sides of which
AB,    AC,   are proportional to the forces P, Q; that          we             is,
shall have      P :   Q   :
                          :AB   AC   or
                                      :    DC     DB.
                                                    :
                                                    :            :
    For  ifthese sides are not proportional to the forces, their
resultant will be directed according to the diagonal of the
parallelogram, the sides of which are proportional to these
forces (33), and not according to AD; which              contrary         is
to the supposition.
    35. Cor. 2. If from the point D, taken upon the                                  di
rection AD of the resultant of two forces            O, we let fall
                                                                 P,
the perpendiculars     DE,    DF,  upon  the  directions of these
forces   ;these   perpendiculars   will be  reciprocally propor
tional to the forces      P,
                           Q.
    For  it has been shown above (34) that                  DC       P:   Q:
                                                                           :            :
DB and
     ;       the triangles  DDE,   DCF,   being similar, give
                      DC DB   :       :
                                      :        DF   :   DE   ;
              therefose   P       :   Q
                                      :
                                      :        DF   :   DE.
                                  THEOREM.
   36. When the directions of two forces         O, are com      P,
prised in the same plane, and  concur in   point A (fig.     a                 1   1);
if  we take upon these directions the right lines AB, AC,
proportional to these forces, in such    manner that we have
                                                        a
                          P:O::AB:AC;
and having finished the parallelogram AB DC          the re               ;
sultant  R of these  two forces will be represented quantity              in
and direction       the diagonal AD of the parallelogram;
                    by
that   is,
        we shall have
                  P   :   Q
                          :   R       :
                                      :   AB   :    AC   :   AD.
  DEMONSTRATION.                  We      have already seen (33) that the
resultant of the two forces               P,O, will be directed according
to the diagonal AD of the parallelogram                               therefore re
                                                             j
                                                             it
                                                                             main*

      On the Composition and Decomposition                      of Forces.          335
mains only to show that its quantity will be represented by
this diagonal.   To the point A apply a force S eciual and
directly opposite to the resultant K, this force will be di
rected according to the prolongation of the diagonal DA,
and the three forces P, Q, S, will be in equilibrio.   There
fore the force Q, will also be  equal   and  directly opposite
to the resultant of the two other forces P, S ; and conse
quently this last resultant will be direcied according to the
prolongation of the right line CA. Produce CA till AH
 = AC, and draw the right line HB, which will be parallel
to AD, and consequently to the direction of the force S,
also from H draw HK parallel to the direction of the force
 P ; the two forces P, S, are proportional to the sides AK,
AB, of the parallelogram ABHK, (34) ; that            we shall        is,
 have            P   :   SAB
                           :
                           :    AK   or :HB.
    Now because ADBH          parallelogram, we have HB =
                                  is
                                  a
AD moreover the forces
      ;                          and   S  are equal, therefore
                                                     R
                                            AB       AD.
                         P P     Q R
                             :     :
                                   :         :
But    by
        supposition          :     AC
                                   :
                                   :        AB   :       ;
therefore, by uniting these two proportions, we get
                 P   :   Q   :   R :        AB   :   AC    :   AD.
                    If the two forces Q, are applied to the
                                   :
     37. Cor. 1.                                 P,
point   A,  they will be     equilibrio with third force applied
                             in                           a
to the same point, the direction of which              DA, and       is
which     is proportional   to the   diagonal AD   for this force
                                                                j
will be equal and directly opposite to the resultant of the
forces      P,
             Q.
     If the forces O, are applied to any other points of
                     P,
their directions, there will he an equilibrium in applying to
any point whatever of the right line AD, and in the                                  di
 rection DA,     a  force proportional to AD; provided that
 the point of application of this last force be invariably con
nected to the points of application of the forces                         P,   Q.
     38. Cor. 2. We can always decompose force R, given         a
 in quantity and direction, into two other forces         Q,              P,         di
 rected according to the given right lines AP, AQ             pro              ;
 vided that these directions and that of the force R, are
 comprised in the same plane, and concur in the same
 point A.
      For let the force   R  be represented       part AD of its
                                                           by   a
  direction, and drawing, through the point D, the right
  lines DC, DB, parallel to the given directions AP, AQ, they
  form the parallelogram ABDC, the sides of which AB,
  AC, represent the forces         Q, required for (36) the re
                                       P,                  j
  sultant of these forces will have the same quantity and di
                                                           rection

 336    On the Composition and Decomposition              of forces.
rcction as the force R.            We find the quantities of the
forces P, O, by means of these proportions,
                          AD     : AB    : :  R  :  P
                          AD     : AC     : :  R  : Q.
                                PROBLEM.
   39. To determine the resultant of any number of forces
P, Q, R, S, &c. whose directions, comprised or not com
prised in the same plane, concur in the same point A.
   DEMONSTRATION. Upon the given directions lay off,
from the point A, the lines AB, AC, AD, AE                     .... pro
portional to the forces P, Q, R, S . . . . respectively ; and
considering, at first, any two of these forces as P, O, and
completing the parallelogram ABFC, the diagonal AF will
represent the quantity and direction of the particular re
sultant T of these forces (36).
   Instead of the forces P and £) we may now take their
resultant T, and considering the two forces T, R, repre
sented by AF and AD, complete the parallelogram AFGD,
and the diagonal AG will represent the quantity and di
rection of the resultant V of the forces T, R, or of the
three forces P, Q, R.           Again, instead of the three forces
P, Q, R, we may take their resultant V, and considering
the two forces V, S, complete the parallelogram AGHE,
the diagonal of which AH will represent the quantity and
direction of the resultant X of the two forces V, S, or of
the four P, O, R, S.
   In the same manner we may proceed to determine the
resultant of any number of forces whatever, and the last
resultant will be the general resultant of the system.
   40. Cor.      If all the forces P, O, R, S . . . ; are applied to
the point   of concourse      A of their directions, to produce an
equilibrium,    we  must     first  find the quantity and direction
ot their   resultant,    and    then    apply to the point A a force
equal   and   directly opposite        to   it. But if the forces are
applied to   other  points     of  their    directions, invariably con
nected among themselves; to produce an equilibrium we
must apply to any point of the direction of their resultant
a force which shall be equal and directly opposite to that
of their resultant, provided that the point of application of
tins force be also connected in an invariable manner to
those of the forces P, Q, R, S
                                PROBLEM.
   41.  To determine       the resultant       of any number of forces

      On the Composition and Decomposition    of Forces.   33J
P, Q, R, S, &c. whose directions comprised in        the same
plane do not concur in the same point ; whose points of
application A, B, C, D, &c. are connected together in an
invariable manner; and whose magnitudes are represented
by the parts Aa, Bit, Cc, Dd, of their directions.
    SOLUTION. After having prolonged the directions of
any two of these forces, such as P, Q, until they have met
somewhere in a point E; we lay oft from E to F and from
E to G the lines Aa, Bi, representing these forces, which
will complete the parallelogram EFeG, whose diagonal Ee
ivill represent in magnitude and direction, the resultant T
pf the two forces P, Q.
    Instead of the forces P, O, we take the resultant T, and,
prolong its direction as well as that of the force R until
they meet somewhere in a point H ; we lay off the line
Ee from H to I, and the line Cc from H to K ; which will
Complete the parallelogram HI/iK, whose diagonal HA
will represent in magnitude and direction the resultant V
of the two forces T, R., which will also be that qf tty^i
 Jhree forces P, Q, R.
    In the same manner, instead of the three forces P, Q, R,
 we lake their resultant V, and prolong its direction as
 well as that of the force S until they meet in a point L;
 then laying off from L to M and from L to N the lines
 H/j, Dd, which represent the forces Vand S, they complete
 the parallelogram LM/N, whose diagonal L.I will represent
 the resultant X of these two forces, which, is also that of
 the four forces P, Q, R, S.
    By proceeding; thus we may find the magnitude and di
 rection of the general resultant of all the proposed force?,
 whatever rnay be their number.
    42. Cor. Therefore when several forces, directed in the
 same plane, are applied to points connected together in an
 invariable manner, these forces hwealwavs a resultant; so
 that it is possible to make ihem in equilibrium by means
 of one force only; except ip the case where the direction of
 one of these forces being parallel lo that of the resultant
 of all the others, this force and this resultant are equal tq
 fach other, and act jn contrary directions : for we have seen
  (24) that then to make them in equilibrium it is necessary
 to apply a force of nothing, whose direction should pass,
  to an infinite distance; which is impracticable.
                           THEOREM.
     43. If three forces P, Q, R, have their magnitude? and
 directions represented by the three edges AB, AC? AD,conT
                Np.  145. May 181Q,        V

338     On the Composition and Decomposition         of Forces.
tiguous to the same angle of a parallelopipedon ABFEGD,
in such a way that P : Q : R : : AB : AC : AD, their re
sultant S will be represented in magnitude and direction by
 the diagonal AE of the parallelopipulon contiguous to that
angle, and we shall have P : Q : R : S : : AB~: AC : AD :
AE.
     DEMONSTRATION.          On the face ABFC, which contains
 the directions of the two forces P, Q, let the diagonal
 AF be drawn ; let the diagonal DE also be drawn on the
 opposite face DHEG ; these two diagonals are parallel and
 equal, for the two edges AD, EF, of the parallelopipedon,
 at llie extremities of which they terminate, are parallel and
 equal ; therefore AFED will be a parallelogram.              Hence
 the two forces P, Q. being represented in magnitude and
 direction by the sides AB, AC, of the face ABFG, which
 is a parallelogram, their resultant T will be represemed in
 magnitude and direction by the diagonal AF, and we shall
 have P : Q : T : : AB : AC : AF.
     In like manner the two forces T, R, being represented
 by the sides A F, AD, of the parallelogram AFED, their
 resul'ant S, which i« also that of the three- forces P,Q, R,
 will   be represented by     the diagonal AE of the tame paral
 lelogram, and we have       T  : R : S : : AF : AD :   AE;    there-
 tore, by uniting      the above two scries of proportionals we
 have   P : Q : R i S 1 1 AB :    AC   : AD   : AE.
     Now the diagonal AF          is likewise   that of the paral
 lelopipedon    ;  therefore the  resultant of  three forces will he   -
 represented     in  magnitude   and  direction   by the diagonal of
 the paiallclopipedon.
     44. Cor. We may always decompose a force S given
 in magnitude and direction into three other forces P, -Q, R,
 directed according to the three given lines AP, AO, AR,
  not comprised in the same plane, provided these three di
 rections and that of the t'orre S concur in the same point A.
     To effect this, by the three directions considered two
  and two we draw the three planes BAG, CAD, DAB ;
  the force S will be represented by a part AE of its direction ;
  and by the point E we draw three other planes, EGDH,
  EHBF, EFCG, respectively parallel to the three first ; these
  six planes are the faces of a parallelopipedon, whose dia
  gonal is AE, and whose edgi-s AB, AC, AD, which arc
  taken on the three given directions, represent the magni
  tude of the forces required, P, Q, R ; tor ^43) the resultant
  of these three forces will have the same magnitude and
  direction as the force S.
      Otherwise, we draw through the point E tnree right
                                                                 lines

           Description     of the French Telegraphs.                  33Q
lines parallel to the   directions AP, AQ, AR ; and           the parts
EF, EH, EG, of these right lines, comprised between the
point E and the planes BAG, CAD, DAB, represent
the magnitudes of the required forces P, Q, R ; for these
lines being three edges of a parallelopipedon,  they are
respectively equal to the other edges AB, AC, AD, which
are parallel to them.
LV.   Description of the French Telegraphs used on the
  Coasts  of Plunders, &c. with Observations on the same,
  and a   Plan of a Polygrammalic Ttlegraph on a new
   Construction.  By Capt. C. W. PASLEV, of the Royal
  Engineers*.
XJ.AVING last year had an opportunity of observing the na
ture of the French telegraphs used on the coast of Flanders,
of which no account    has, to my knowledge, been published
in this country, a description of them may perhaps be ac
ceptable to the public; particularly as I am led to believe
that they have been very recently invented, or at least
established, and that they are now in general use through
out the whole extent of coast of the French empire.
Various naval officers, whom I have consulted with a view
of obtaining information on the subject, agree, that it is
only a few years since these telegraphs first made their
appearance ; but I have not been able to ascertain the pre
cise period.   It does not seem, however, from what I have
learned, to be more than three years ago, since the system
of signals by masts, yards and ball', which I know was
formerly used on many parts of the enemy's coast, was
abolished, in order to make room for this new establish
ment.
   Every telegraph consists of one upright post, to which
are attached    three arms exactly similar to each other,
moving each upon its own distinct spindle or axis. The
axis of one of these arms is near the head of the post. The
distance from the centre of motion of each of the two up
 permost arms to that of the one immediately ,below               it,   is
rather less than double the length of one arm.          The
highest of the three arms (A) can exhibit seven distinct
 positions, but the other two arms             (B
                                        and C) can only ex
hibit six positions each. The total number of combina
tions, or of distinct signals, which can be made         i!m     by
                  • Communicated   by   C:   [-t   Patley.
                              Y    9                         telegraph,

  34O            Description    of  the French, Telegraphs.
  telegraph, will consequently be three hundred and ninety-
  one*.     As only three bodies are employed in the French
  telegraph, it may therefore appear superior to the Admiralty
  telegraphs used in England, which by the combination of
  double that number of' bodies can only make sixty-three
  distinct signals.
      The mechanism of the French telegraphs just described,
  must either be imperfect, or the men employed in working
  them must have been very unskilful, for trie signals were
  made and repeated in an awkward manner, wilh, what
  seemed to me, much unnecessary loss of time ; but these
  defects, it will be evident, detract nothing from its merit
  as an invention.        In regard to the mechanical construction,
  I could only observe that the arms, which are painted
  black, and appear solid at a distance, are made in the fashion
  of a Venetian blind, in order, it may be presumed, to di
  minish the action of the wind in bad weather.                   Each arm
 has a counterpoise of thin materials painted white, which,
 unless the observer is very near the telegraph, becomes in
 visible.
     In the annexed Plate, fig. 1 shows the telegraph in a
 state of rest, the dotted lines marking the several positions
 in which the arms can be exhibited.
     Figs. 2 and 3 arc a specimen of the telegraph at work.
     Fig. 4 shows the construction of one of the arms on a
 larger scale, DE being the part which is fashioned like a
 Venetian blind, and EF the counterpoise.
     From the above description it will appear, that the French
 have adopted, in the arms of their new telecraph, the same
 principle of motion used in the polygrammalic telegraph
 invented by me, of which an account is contained in the
 xxixth volume of this work ; the only difference being,
 that in my telegraph two arms are placed on the same axis,
instead of one, to which they have confined themselves.
     Instead of using several posts, which appeared to me
the most eligible mode, a polygrammatic telegraph may
also be constructed upon one post.                    Fig. 5 shows how
 this may be done, on comparison of which with my former
 invention, (fig. 6,) it will be seen that the same signals can
in some cases be made by both.
     The disadvantage attending a polygrammatic telegraph
    • A naval officer who ha? been lately employed in the
                                                                Mediterranean
informs me, that he does not believe that the arm A is ever shown in iti
fourth position.   I think 1 have seen it myself in that position, but am not
certain. If the French con&ne themselves to only six positions upon that
arm, the total number of signals will be reduced from 391 to 342.
                           *                                    constructed

            Description  of the French Telegraphs.           341
constructed upon one post instead of several, is,       that   in
the former the       combinations are more limited in num
ber. The signal made at A in fig. 5, for instance, can
not be made either at B, C, or D in the same figure,
although it may be made on all the posts A, B, C and D
in fig. 6.    Hence, whilst each post in fig. 6 can make
twenty-eight distinct signals, that number in fig. 5 is li
mited to the part A alone, the signals that may be made
at B, C or D, in fig. 5, being only twenty-one.
     A poly gram malic telegraph upon one post, on the prin
 ciple shown in fig. 5, may be thought, however, sufficiently
 powerful and copious.
     If four pair ot arms are used, the total number of di
 stinct signals that may be made by the parts A, B, C and
 D combined, will he no less than 308,791.
     If only three pair of arms are used, in which case the
 tipper part of the telegraph may be supposed cut off at the
 letter B in fig. 5, the number of distinct signals that may
 be made by this kind of telegraph (by the various com
 binations upon the parts B, C and D) will, be 13,935.
      If we suppose all the upper part of the telegraph to be
 cut off a little above the letter C in fig. 5, so that only
  two pair of anus are used, the number of distinct signals
  that may be made by this telegraph       (by the combinations
  upon the parts C and D alone) will be 637.
      Hence, even in this reduced state, my polygrammatic
  telegraph, \vhelherconstructed upon one or upon two posts,
  will preserve a considerable superiority over the French as
  well as over the British Admiralty telegraphs; and it may
  perhaps be allowed, that, in all cases, it will be perfectly
  clear, and as little liable to mistake, as any other telegraph
  that has been invented.
      A disadvantage attends the polygrammatic telegraph
  upon four posts, in the form in which it was originally
   pubht-hcd    (fig. 6), arising from the great space upon
   which the posts must stand ; so that, if ihe arms are
   supposed to be six feet long, (measuring from their centre
   of motion,) the distance AD in that figure can hardly be
   less than forty feet.   This disadvantage will be done away
   by making the posts of unequal heights, in the manner
   shown in fig. 7. By this method, the arms being still sup
   posed srx feet long, the distance AD may be reduced to
   twenty-two feet ; so that the telegraph may be conveniently
   fitted to the roof of the smallest building.
                                            C. W. PASLET,
                                       Captain Eoyal Engineers.
                                 Y3                    LVI.      On

                                  C
                                          342   ]
LVT. On Crystallography.      By M. Hauy.         Translated
 from the last Paris Edition of his Trail e de Mineralogie.
                             [Continued    from p. U77.]
               OF   THE CHARACTERS               OF MINERALS.
       understand bv (he term characters of a mineral,
every thing that can be the subject of an observation proper
for making it known.          We could not refrain, in treating
of  the mineralogical methods in the preceding article, from
giving an idea of the characters which are the soul of the
system.     But it is necessary to enter into more extensive
details on this important subject.
   If we consider the characters relative to the various
branches of science which furnish them, we must distin
guish them as physical, geometrical, and chemical cha
racters.
     The physical characters are those the observation of
which produces no remarkable change in the state of the
substance which presents them, or with respect to which
this change is onlv a condition necessary for observing an
effect which in other respects belongs to physics.          Thus
the phosphorescence produced by throwing the dust of a
mineral upon burning coals, although it occasions an.-alter-
a'ion in the state of the mineral, w     be   physical character,
                                                ill    a
like that which arises from the mutual friction of two
pieces of quartz.        In cases of this kind, where physics
and chemistry are so closely allied that           would be dif
                                                           it
ficult to discern their respective limits, we have had                    it
particularly in view to preserve the analogy of the cha
racters,    by
             bringing together those which give rise to ob
servations of similar nature.
                   a
    Properly speaking, we ought to denominate as geome
trical characters those only which are drawn from the de
termination of the primitive forms, and from the measure
ment of the angles which form bv their meeting the faces
of the crystals and the sides of these same faces.        But we
have thought         right
                    it       to give to this characttr    greater    a
extent than that which seems to agree with              when we it
take it   in   rigorous sense, and to include within
               a                                            every    it
thing  which   has     reference to the configuration
                         a                               such as ;
the aspect of the fracture, which sometimes forms con
vexities and concavities, and soinetimes presents points or
asperities, &c. Besides, we consider, independently of this
aspect, the direction in which the fracture takes place,
which  is  sometimes longitudinalj or parallel to the axis of

                                    On Crystallography.                                      343
 the crystals, sometimes transversal, or perpendicular to the
 same axis, which also tends to refer it to the geometrical
characters.   Perhaps it may be said that it would have
been more agreeable to change the word geometrical into
another, which would have indicated in a looser manner
the    modifications depending on the configuration.               But
  this word is so well adapted to those of physical character
 and chemical character, that we have preferred preserving
 it,      by
         explaining the signification which           ought to have  it
 in the language of mineralogy.
     The chemical characters are those which are proved                                       by
 the decomposiiion of         mineral, or
                                     a        sensible alteration in
                                                            a
 its nature, or rupture of aggregation between its molecules.
                         a
 Such are the characters \\mch are dra*n from the action
 of the acids, from fusion with or without addition,                the                 by
 intermedium of the blowpipe, &c.
     It   from the assemblage of these three orders of cha
          is
 racters that the character will be formed which we call
specific, or that which will serve to distinguish all the bodies
 comprehended within one and the same species.                     \Ve
ought not to be afraid, from the reasons w hich we have
 already given, of multiplying      the particular indications of
 which        the assemblage,
               it   is              order to procure the facility
                                              in
of making them serve for mutually verifying each other,
 or even of substituting the one for the other.
    But       not also an inconvenii-uce, that the table of the
               is
               it
 characters of mineral   a     so overloaded, that we are obliged
                                         is
to run over the whole of             without fixing on any thing
                                              it
which can give         precise knowledge of this mineral, and
 assist the mind             in a               were in miniature?
                       representing      as        it       it
It   iswith    view to obviate this inconvenience that
                    a                                            have              1
adopted       character which
                a                   call essential, and which
                                              1                                               ia
composed of the smallest possible number of particular
characters taken from among those of the species which are
proper for distinguishing the latter from all others. Thus
the essential ofthetelesia consists in its having             specific         a
gravity of about        and presenting joints only
                              4,                          a>direction     in
perpendicular to the axis of the crystals — that of the cha-    ;
basy consists in its dividing into       rhomboid      little obtuse,
                                                   a                     a
and    itmelts easily in  the  blowpipe   —  that  of horated
                                                        :       mag
nesia consists      the crystals of this mineral being electrical
                         in
 by  heat in eight points opposed to each other in pairs —                               ;
that of sulphurated molybdenum             to leave metallic traces
                                                    is
on paper, and to communicate electricity to resin                fric              by
tion.    The characters which compose what call essential,           I
viill not be observable in all cases        but      will be always
                                                        :           it
                                              Y
                                              4               correct

                      tin (jryslattography.
tbrrect to say that they belong exclusively to a certain
Ipecies of mineral, in such a manner that the idea which
they originate will he the faithful representation.
   The character in question will be placed at the head of
those which coinpose the specific character.          It would,
perhaps, he pushing the matter too far, to require that it
Shotild always distinguish precisely the Substance to which
it is applied, not only" from all those of the same class, but
in general from all the minerals.         It would seem to be
allowable to understand the classical name from its repre
sentative (muncS), in sut h a way as to form with this name
the entire definition of the substanfce for which it has been
chosen'.     In this manner we define telesia, an earthy sub-
Stance with a specific gravity of about 4, and which Only
presents well defined joints perpendicularly to the axis of
its crystals. We shall see. however, that in a gre. t number
of cases the essential character taken by itself gives an ex
clusion to all the minerals different from that which it de
signated.
   To conclude: — I do not flatter myself wild having al
ways succeeded in making ihe best possible choice of the
characters which ought to form that which I call essential ' \
and they will be found sometimes a little vague, when they
refer to substances of which we have as yet but A slight
notion. Time will add to our stock of knowledge, and
this will serve to give more edge to those parts of the pic
ture which are too fetbly marked in the present^tate of
science;
   Still, however, this was not enoiigh ; and one of Iwd
things may have happened. Either the observer, whci
wished to determine a mineral, would proceed straight for
ward to the species of which this itwrieral formed a partj
and then he would have nothing else to do biit to consult
the essential and specific characters, to ascertain that he
was right; or, deceived by d false resemblance, he would be
led to a foreign species.     To bring him back to the right
path itl this last case, we have added, at the end of the
Specific character, another which we call distinctive} com
prised of the principal differences which may enable us td
pick but a mineral from among those with which we should
be tempted to confound if.
   We    have also placed at the head    of each class a general
View of the substances whifch it contains, with the enume-,
ration of the characters, the assemblage of which may serve
to distinguish this class from the others ; and we have en
deavoured to restrict these characters, so that there may
                                                             not

                       bto drystallographi/.                         345
hot result a picture too much overcharged.               Our method
being founded on analysis, il is only as it were by accident
that certain divisions suit an assortment of characters which
hiost frequently vary in a respect quite different from that
to which the combination of the component principles is
subjected.     After all, if we examine the systems in which
arbitrary  terms  most prevail, tho«e ill which the characters
themselves have led the way for the distribution of bodies
instead of following     it, we shall perceive that         will often
                                                            it
happen    that  general   divisions    are therein   clearly circum
scribed.    Almost continually we find substances emerging
from the limits within which they were supposed to have
been confined.     The important point is, that the species
are well determined    ;  because, as we have remarked, the
number not being considerable,              it much easier to study
                                                 is
the system, and to ri'iider          always sufficiently present to
                                    it
our minds, to apply      it easily  as  occasion may require, par
ticularly when on the one hand the progress                traced ac
                                                            is
cording to fixed principles, which second the efforts of the
memory       by connecting          with the understanding, and
                                   it
when on the other hand the methods which                  employs for
                                                           it
characterizing the bodies belong to interesting observations
or experiments, which leave npon the mind durable traces
bf what has once spoken as           were to the eyes.
                                    it
   We have collected under one and the same point of view
the principal characters which may serve for the description
of fhineral, and we have formed table of them, which
   a                                             a
will he found prefixed to the plates.            We have arranged
this table according to the methodical order of the different
branches of knowledge to which              refers
                                            it        this order hav
                                                      ;
ing appeared more favourable tor assisting us in seizing the
whole at glance, and to render
           a                                    present to the me
                                                 it
mory.
   We shall here subjoin           series of annotations, intended
                                   a
to cive  a   more developed idea of certain characters, or
details relative to the method of verifying those which,              in
order to become evident, require experiments.
   These annotations will be followed                 by
                                                     several distinct
tables, which will present successively the indication of the
specific gravities of minerals reduced to their limits, that
of their hardness, the enumeration of the substances which
possess double refraction, of those which are electrical              by
heat, of those which have for their primitive form              rhom
                                                                 a
boid, an octahedron, or solid of another kind, &c. These
                               a
various tables will serve as           kind of supplement to the
                                        a
system, particularly with respect to the second                  class,
                                                                which

 346                     On Crystallography.
 which has remained without subdivisions ; or rather they wih
 form by themselves a kind of system, which will have the
 advantage of multiplying the points of view under which
 minerals may be regarded.
   ANNOTATIONS RELATIVE TO THE GENERAL TABLE OF
                  MINERALOGICAL CHARACTERS.
                        Physical characters.
     1. Specific gravity. Let us suppose      a series  of  bodies
 of different natures, which      have  equal  volumes.     If  we
 weigh   all these bodies   successively by means    of  common
 scales, it will he necessary, in order to establish the equili
 brium, to employ weights more or less considerable, ac
cording as these bodies are more or less dense.            Let us
suppose, moreover, that, having taken as a term of com
parison one of these bodies, fur instance the lightest, we
represent its weight by unity, and we express the weight of
all the other bodies by numbers proportional to that unity.
 We shall have the relations between the weights of the
 different bodies of equal volume, or the specific gravities
of these bodies.
    But the hypothesis, that all the bodies of which we
would propose to determine the specific gravities have equal
volumes, not being capable of being realized, it will be
come necessary to seek for anoihiT method in order to at
tain the same object.       We might succeed equally we'l, were
we to estimate      e.xictly the volume of each nody<p after
which it would be easy to bring the results of the different
weighings to what they would have been on the hypothesis
of there having been an unity in the volume.           But as this
method presents obstacles which are insurmountable in
practice, we supply its place by an ingenious process, which
consists in seeking for the relation between ihe weight of
each body when weighed in the air, and the loss of weight
which appears when the same body is weighed in water,
which we here suppose to be respectively lighter than it. This
loss proceeds from the effort made by the water to sustain
the body in part ; and this effort being equal to that which
it exercised in order to keep in equilibrium the volume of
the same liquid displaced by the body, it results that the
loss in question represents the weight of a volume of wa
ter equal to that of the body.       We have therefore ihe re
lation between the weight of the body and that of the
water in equal volumes ; and this liquid thus serves as a
common measurement, in order to compare with each
other the specific gravities of the different bodies.
                                                                 It

                            On Crystallography.                          347
    It is in this way that the tables of specific gravities pub
lished hy several authors have been made up. Of -these the
table of M. Brissou is the amplest and the most correct.
    We employ in these experiments the hydrostatic balance.
The body to be examined is suspended by means of a horse
hair to a small hook under one of the scales, which pro
cures the facility of plunging this body into water in order
to weigh it.
    Nicholson      has suggested       in these experiments the use         of
an areometer       of tinned iron, represented in fig. 75, and the
stalk of which, B, is a brass wire, which has at its ex
tremity a small cistern A.               This stalk is marked in the
middle by a line b made with a file.                The lower part keeps
suspended an inverted cone EG, concave at its base, and
balanced within by a piece of lead*.                  The weight of the
instrument outfit to he such that, when we pinnae it in
water and leave it to itself, a part of the tube floats above.
The cistern at the top of the stalk, and which has the form
of a sphcrL-al shell, is fixed to it by means of a small tube
of tinned iron into which this stalk enters. Generally
there is a second cistern somewhat larger, which is placed
above the first, into the concave part of which it is fitted,
in consequence of its convexity.                    We may thus move
this second cistern, either to remove more easily the weights
with which it is charged, or to m?,ke some change in their
arrangement.         This instrument, which is very cheap, and
easily Carried      from     place to place, is extremely useful to
mineralogists.        An    example will best explain the method
of using it.
     If any doubts are enlerti-ined whether a transparent
stone of a blue colour belongs to the stony substance
 commonly called mienlal snp/jhir(, or to the variety of
quartz which is called water srtbphire : — Take distilled wa
 ter at a given temperature ; Brisson has adopted that of
 14° of Reaumur, which answers to 17 '5° of the centigrade
 thermometer, as the medium in our climate.                          Having
 plunged the areometer in this water, charge the upper
 cistern A, until the scratch b marked on the sulk descends
 to the level of the water.               This is called levelling the
    * In several areometers this cone haia filed position) hy meant of brant
 wires which keep it attached to the instrument.      But M.Gillet with good
 reason prefers giving it its liberty, by suspending; it with a hook, as is re
 presented in the figure.     In this way the axis of the insirim cut always
takes a vertical direction, otherwise it would lean more to one side than
 to the other, when the instrument would be in equilibrium round its centre
 of oscillation.
                                                                 areometer.

348                      On Crystallography.
areometer*.   Let us suppose that the weights employed
fjrm        of 20 grammes. This is the charge of the
         a sum
areometer, which can only serve for bodies the weight of
which does not exceed 20 grammes.
    Having taken out the charge, put the stone into the same
cistern, and place beside it the weights necessary for level
ling the areometer.      Supposing these last weights to be
equivalent to 13-6grs. subtracting this number from 20,
we shall have 6'4 grs. for the weight of the stone in the air.
    Withdraw the areometer, in order to place the stone in
the lower bason E; then having redipped the instrument,
add into the cistern A the weights necessary for producing
the level once more.        Let us suppose these additional
weights to be equivalent to 2-48 grs. This is what the
stone has lost of its weight in the water, and at the same
time is the weight of an equal volume of water.
     Make this proportion : 2'48 grs. or the weight of
the volume of water equal to that of the stone is to 6-4
grs. the absolute weight of the stone, as the unity which
represents in general the specific gravity of the water is to
a fourth term, which will be the specific gravity of the
stone f.     This fourth term taken with four decimals is
 2-5806.    Now on running over the table of specific gra
vities, we find that that of water sapphire answers to nearly
 the same number, while that of the oriental sapphire is
about 4. The stone subjected to the experiment is there
fore a quartz only.
    If we wished to weigh a substance respectively lighter
 than water, it would be necessary, on placing it in the
 lower basin, to fix it steadily to it. In this case the body
 which serves to fix it is considered as forming part of the
 areometer.    In other respects the operaiion is the same as
 in the preceding case ; only the second term of the pro*
 portion is smaller than the first, which is necessary; since
 the fourth term, which gives the specific gravity of the
 body, ought to be also smaller than the third, which repre
  sents the specific gravity of the water.
   * We may fairly dispense with this operation, because we are under
stood to know before-hand, from a prior experiment, the weight neces
sary for levelling tlie areometer: it is best however to repeat this ope
ration every time, on account of the small differences which may happen in
the temperature, or in the quality of the liquid.
  •)•    is more natural to employ unity in order to
        It
                                                        designate the specific
gravity of the water, which  is the term of comparison to which we refer all
the specific gravities of other bodies, than to represent  it  by 100O or by
10,000, as   is generally done. To conclude, the calculation     is the same,
•except that we have generally    adecimal fraction in the result
                                                                          Let

                      On Crystallography.                      349
   Let us suppose, for example, that the absolute charge of
ihe areometer, including the body which ought to serve as
the means of fixing the substance, being also 20 grammes, we
must have been under the necessity ot placing 1 6 grammes
beside the body which we wish to weigh, in order to produce
the levelling once more.        We shall have four grammes
for the weight of this body.        Let us afterwards suppose
that, the same body being dipped in water, we had still
added six grammes to the 16 which were already in the
upper cistern, which makes in all 22 grammes. These
six grammes will represent the weight of the volume of
water displaced, and the proportion will be 6 : 4 : : 1 : x,
which will give 0-C666 for the specific gravity of the body
subjected to the experiment.
   Jn effect, if the weight of the body of an equal volume
was exactly the same with the weight of the water, it would
be necessary to charge the upper cistern with 20 grammes
only, as at first, when the body would be plunged in the
water, because it would perform the office of the volume
of water displaced. But we have seen that in this case
the upper cistern was charged with 22 grammes, from
which it follows that there remains to ihe water an effort
of two grammes, besides that of four grammes, which it
employs in sustaining entirely the body.           The total force
therefore of the water is equivalent to six grammes; or,
what comes to the same thing, ihe weight of a volume of
water equal to that of the body is six grammes.         Thus the
specific gravitv of the water is to that of the body in the
ratio of six to four, as we have seen above.
   Water always has a trifling adherence to the areometer,
which is such that this instrument loaded with the same
weight may remain a little more or a little less deeply plunged
in tne water.     In order to get rid of the trifling uncertainty
which arises from this variation in the level, having allowed
the areometer to attain the state of stability, raise it a little
above its position, and afterwards sink it a little helow it
by abandoning it every time to itself; and if (he scratched
line is between the two points which are levelled, you may
conclude that the upper basin has its true charge.
   We mav instead of distilled water employ rain-water,
which at the same temperature has visibly the same den
sity.   In the event of our only wishing to dispel a doubt
whether a mineral might be referred to one species more
than to any other, we should have a sufficient approxima
tion on operating with river- or weli-water, ths temperature
of which should differ in a few degrees only from that
which had been chosen for arranging the table of specific
                                                         gravities.

350                   On Crystallography.
gravities. If we should desire, however, a greater precision,
 we might attain it by the method which we shall indkate,
in order to assimilate the weight made with any liquid at
any given temperature, to the result which would have
been given by distilled water at 14° of Reaumur.
    Having taken precisely the absolute weight of the areo
meter, which will be, for example, 152 grammes, and
knowing the additional weight supposed to be 20 grammes
necessary for levelling it in distilled water at 14°, we shall
have for the sum of these two weights 1/2 grammes.
    Let us now suppose that the additional weight which
produces the levelling with another liquid is 20-5 grs. the
sum will become 172-5 grs.
    Now we know that when a body floats in part, the
 weight of the volume of the liquid which answers to the
part immersed is equal to the loul weight of the body.
Thus, since the part immersed is the same in both cases, it
results that the weights of the two liquids when of equal
volume, or what conies to the same thing their specific
gravities, are in the ratio of 1/20 to 1725.
    This being done it is evident at first sight that the liquid
substituted lor distilled water immediately gives the abso
lute weight of the body under examination, without any
correction being required.       Let this weight be eleven
grammes.      After having found by a second operation the
quantity which the body, weighed in the liquid which you
employ, loses of its weight, and which we shall suppose to
be 4'7 grs., make this proportion, 1725 : 1720 : : 4'7 '• a
lourth term which will indicate the loss corrected, or that
which the body would have undergone of its weight in
distilled water at 14J of Reaumur.' This loss, which will
l>e found to be 4-6<), will give at the saine time the weight
of the volume of distilled water at 14°. equal to that of the
body ; after which yr'U will make this other proportion
 which returns to that above indicated 4-69 : 11:: the unity
is a fourth term, which will be 2-3454, and which will in
dicate the true specific gravity of the body.     By employing
no correction, we should have found 2-3404.
    There are substances which being immersed in water
drink up this liquid.      Of this number is the mesotype
 (zeolite of Cronsttdt).    We perceive this property when,
having placed the substance in the lower basin E, we see
the areometer descend, alter having mounted up, although
 the cistern A remains loaded with the same weight.            In
 tins case we shall allc-.v the body to imbibe the whole
quantity of water which it can admit into its pores, and we
shall know that it has cached this kind of point of satura
                                                             tion

                       On Crystallography.                    351
tion    when the areometer remains in a fixed position.
Then     we shall level it ; and we shall in general seek for
the loss which the body has' undergone of its weight in
the water.       We shall afterwards seek for the weight of the
quantity of water which it has imbibed, on weighing it
again in the air, and in subtracting the first weight from
the second ; then we shall add the difference to the loss
formerly found : and tlie result will give the true loss, or
that which would take place if the body was not suscepti
ble of imbibition ; after which we shall form the propor
tion jndicated above.
    Let us suppose, for example, a mesotype, the weight of
 which in the air is nine grammes.         Let us suppose that
 the loss of weight which it experiences in the water, after
 imbibition, is 4-3 grs. Let us suppose in fine, that being
 again weighed in this state, it gives 9- 13 grs.     Subtracting
 the first weight from the latter, we shall have OM3 grs. for
 the quantity of water which the mesotype has imbibed.
 The real loss, or that which the substance would have ex
 perienced of its weight in water, if it was not penetrable by
 this liquid, will therefore be 4'3 grs. plus 0-13 grs. or
 4-43 grs. j which gives the following proportion, 4-43 grs.
 : 9 : : 1 '• x.   From which we shall conclude that the spe
 cific gravity is 2-0316.
     In fact, since bodies lose less of their weight in water
 in proportion as their absolute weight is more consider
 able, it results that the mesotype ought to have lost in the
  water 0-13 grs. less than if the imbibition had not taken
  place. We must therefrvre add 0-13 grs. to the loss found
  by experiment, in order to have the loss corrected.
     The character which is drawn from the specific gravity
 joins to the advantage of a great generality that of being
  susceptible of a precise estimation, provided we do not
  employ too small pieces of any substance.         Its limit re
  latively to  each  mineral is the result ot the operation  made
  on a piece chosen in the greatest possible state of purity.
  It mav vary beyond this limit on account of some colour
  ing principle of a metallic nature; or within this limit, by
  the effect of the mixture of a substance less dense, or
  whose presence relaxes the aggregation of the molecules.
  Thus the specific gravity of the limpid hyalin quartz,
  called Madagascar crystal, is 2-653 ; that of the red hyalin -
  quartz is 2-67OI : and that of the dull quartz is only 2-6459.
  The more do the limits relative to th"e species between
  which it is requisite to determine escape being confounded,
  the more decisive is the proof of the character.
      2. Hard and aoj't budief.     The character suggested by
                                                          hardness

 359                        On Crystallography,
 hardness does not admit of quite so much precision as the
 foregoing.      It is besides more variable. Some particles of
quartz, disseminated in a body of a soft nature, may, by
 altering a little its specific gravity, make it capable of
 striking fire with steel.           But this character has the ad
vantage of being easy and expeditious in its application, by
the help of the different methods pointed qut in the table.
 It is proper to distinguish accurately the species whose
varieties arc but little subject to the alterations produced
by accidental mixtures.              Thus the cymophane, or the
pearly chrysolite of the lapidaries, scratches glass, whereas
the chrysolite of Rome de ITsle, since ascertained to be a
calcareous phosphate, when rubbed upon glass, frequently
leuves a white mark of its own substance.                The ferrugi-
nated scheelin or wolfram yields very easily to the file,
which has much less action on the blackish oxidized tin
sometimes found in the same matrix, &c.
    3. Brittle Indies.         These must not be confounded with
what are called soft or tender.             Talc is softer than car
bonated lime, denominated calcareous spar, since this last
scratches it. But it is less brittle, as it resists percussion
far better.
    4. Elastic bodies are those which, after having been
compressed, return of their own accord to their original
figure. The character suggested bv this property is not
employed in mineralogy, except when speaking of bodies
which appear to us in the form, or may be easily reduced to
the form, of thin laminae or filaments, and it suits but a
small number of species.
     5. Ductile bodies are those which are lengthened or
flattened by percussion or by pressure, so as to preserve
the figure which they have taken in virtue of the one or
the other of these two forces.           Of this number are several
metallic     substances,       gold, silver, copper, &c. Whereas
others,    such   as  antimony, bismuth, &c. will break, rather
than submit     to   be  flattened or elongated.
    6. Bodies endowed wilk tenacity.             This is the property
possessed by       certain      substances,  and particularly by the
metals,    of  resisting     without    being broken the action of a
force which      draws      them    by one   extremity while they are
fixed   at  the   opposite extremity.         Of this kind ig the re
sistance presented       to breaking by harpsichord string which
                                           a
we    are  tuning.      This     property is but little susceptible of
being employed         as  a   character, but it is right to mention,
in  the  description     of  a  mineral, to what degree it possesses
it in comparison       with    others.
    7. Adherence to the tongue.             Certain bodies adhere to

                                  On Crystallography.                                353
 the tongue when brought in contact with                      and    it,
                                                                     slight      a
 resistance        isexperienced     when we separate them. This
 effect  is   produced          the faculty which the body has of
                                  by
absorbing the saliva which moistens the tongue, and thus
 bringing the substance into more immediate contact with
 this organ.             we put
                        It'          drop of water on one of these
                                        a
bodies, we shall observe that                  imbibed in an infant,
                                              it   is
and this proof may suffice instead of applying                     to the       it
 tongue.
'   8. Colours.        In order to fix the degree of confidence
 which these characters deserve when borrowed from this
                                                        it by
 modification, too much neglected                some, and overvalued
    by
     others, we ought          to   consider      in two very different
 points    of   view, according        to  the  various   nature* of the
 bodies which are furnished with it.                hi   certain number
                                                                 a
 of these bodies, and             particular in the earthy and acidi-
                                   in
 ftrous substances, the colours are owing to the molecules
of foreign principle, which
     a                                     frequently iron, and some
                                              is
 times chrome or manganese, disseminated among the mo
lecules peculiar to the coloured body. Hence                      happens   it
that one and the same substance, for example fluated lime,
is  colourless      incertain pieces, and in others presents alter
nately    the  red,   yellow, green, violet, &c.         In this case the
 colour  is  only       transient
                        a          accident,   which   may merely serve
to distinguish certain varieties.
    But  in   other minerals, such as metallic substances, sul
phur,    amber,      some saline substances, the reflection of the
rays   which      produce the colour           made upon the proper
                                                   is
parts   of  the   coloured    body;       depends
                                             it      on its texture and
on the degree of the tenuity of its molecules.                  may then   It
top ranked among the specific characters.
    We sometimes linJ nuiriatcd soda coloured red. If you
dissolve  it   in this state,        will be stripped of its colouring
                                        it
principle,      and    the  new    crystals  which       will form will
                                                                it
 no longer reflect any thing but white light.              The operation
only   frees   it  from     superfluity,
                              a            without   which       does not  it
cease to be of the same nature. On the contrary, suiphated
copper subjected to the same experiment, as often as we
please, will always reappear blue, because this colour                               is
inherent      in its nature.
    Thus those who have s,aid that >he true colour of the
spinel ruby, for instance, was red mixed with orange, have
only designated the stone which pleases amateurs most.
But to say that the true colour of gold                 pure yellow,
                                                                is                   is
to speak the language of the naturalist.             If this colour does
not uniformly exist in gold, this must arise from the pre-
    Vok 35, No. 145. May 1S10.                                  Z   scnce

354                        On Crystallography,
Bence     of   a foreign    substance which has altered          the metal
itself.
   I have met with naturalists, however, who, admitting the
variations to which the colour is subject, with respect to
one part of the minerals, do not warrant us in attaching
much importance to the character which it furnishes; as
much because it is that which first speaks to the eyes, as
because there is always, according to them, relatively to
each substance, a colour which is predominant, and which
agrees with the greatest number of varieties.           But thfe
more the observations shall be multiplied, the more fre
quently will it happen that this character will not speak
to the eye, except to deceive it and make it take the change.
No further proof of this is requisite than what happens
•with respect to the emerald.      Grass-green seems long to
have been ranged among the general characters of this sub
stance, and, in short, it is not astonishing that every thing
which was emerald was of the same colour.         We were not
acquainted with any thing else, properly speaking, under
this name, than the. crystals from Peru, which being form
ed in the same circumstances had received the impression
of the same colouring principle. A discovery in which
mineralogy and chemistry have concurred, unites the beryl
with the emerald ; and from this moment we have emeralds,
some greenish-yellow, others blueish, and others of a de
cided yellow ; and the number of the crystals of these dif
ferent tints, particularly of the first, which exist in our col
lections, far exceeds the ancient emeralds. The jargon
of Ceylon identified with the hyacinth, according to the
analysis of Klaproth, has also disturbed this last substance
in the place it occupied, namely, that of being exhibited of
an orange brown colour only, excepting in one variety which
was whitish : and it would be as easy to adduce other ex
amples of this kind *, as it is to foresee from the moment
that these examples will still continue to be multiplied.
The indication of the colour, in the case of the latter being
owing to an accessary principle, ought therefore to be dis
missed from the specific character ; and we shall have a
new reason to exclude           it,
                                 we consider that every thing
                                      if
    • Launoy brought from Spain several small oranpe
                                                           crystals which bt-
Ibnj* to phosphaied lime, Icnr.wn in CJermany by the name of spargtl slnn,
because the colour of the variety of this substance found at first in the tame
country inclines to that of asparjgus       Messrs. Abildgaard and Manthey
have since given me wine crystals of tLis subnai.je which are frequently
met with in certain granitic rocks of Norway, and the colour of whicli
it sometimes of  a greenish blue, sometimes brown, &c.
                                                                      which

                            On Crystallography.                             355
 which      enters into this character ought to be so much the
 more taken into the account, the purer the substance is, or
 the more it approaches the limit which really constitutes
 its species: and that in the case of this limit the colour
 would disappear*.
      As to the diversities of which the character is suscepti
 ble that is derived from colours, it would be superfluous to
 enumerate them, because we find on this head in daily ob
 servation, and in the commonly received language, every
'thing that can be required by science and its nomenclature.
      Thus, in order to designate any given shade of colour,
 sometimes we add a simple adjective ; as when wc say pure
 green, bright red, dark blue: sometimes we refer the colour
 to a term of comparison taken from among familiar ob
jects ; as when we say sky blue, saffron yellow, leek green,
  &c. : on other occasions we give the two colours of which
 the object in question seems to partake, and say, for ex
 ample, greenish yellow, or yellowish green, by calling iu
 the predominant colour first.
      9. Gat's eye colours.       This expression alludes to the eyes
  of a cat which shine in the dark. We say of a sub
 stance that it is cat's eyed, when, in proportion as we vary
 the position of its surface, the reflections of light which it
    ives off are in some measure moveable, or appear and
    isappear alternately.
      10. Metallic lustre.         We may distinguish the true from
  that which is apparent onlv, in so far as the mark of a file
 or any sharp instrument with which we have scratched a
 metal does not cease to shine, whereas it is dirty, and as it
  were powdery, when the body is not of a. metallic nature.
      11. Limpid bodies.         We have given the name of white
  to diaphanous and colourless minerals properly so call
 ed, such as the quartz called Madagascar crystal.                          We
 shall call these limpid minerals, and reserve the deno-
     * We must confess that there would have been some
                                                            advantage in quot
 ing at the head of the description of a species, the character derived from
 the modification in question, if the greater number erf the varieties presented
one and the same colour, or nearly so, in such a way that the differences
 which would have taken place in other varieties might have been regarded
 as exceptions; because, this character being that which tirsf strikes the eye,
 its indication would thereby be very proper for becoming as if the hrst
 stroke of the pencil in giving the portrait of a mineral.        But if we are
 obliged to ojiote at once eight or ten different colours, which are shared by
 various individuals of the species, will it not appear that the description
commences by falling info absurdity, and by failing in its principal object,
which is to admit of a facility of ascertaining at one glance the substance
uulicated i
                                     Z   2                           ruination

356                    On Crystallography.
mination of white for those which reflect without order the
assemblage of all the colours, like statuary marble.
    12. Double refraction.       When a ray of light passes
obliquely from one medium into another of a different den
sity, it is diverted from its route, forming a kind of fold.
This deviation, which we call refraction, is subjected to a
constant law which is known to all naturalists.
   Certain substances have the singular property to solicit
the ray which penetrates them to divide itself into two
parts which follow two different routes. This is called
double refraction.
   When the refraction is simple, we only perceive a single
image of an object seen through two faces of a transparent
piece   of the mineral employed on this occasion, whereas,
if it were double, we might in the same case see two images
of   the object.    But in order to obtain this effect with most
of  the substances endowed with the property in question,
we must choose two faces inclined towards each other,
whether we employ a crystal given by nature or a piece
cut by the lapidary.
   The quantity of double refraction, or, what comes to the
same thing, the opening of the angle formed between each
other by the rays, by means of which the eye sees the two
images, varies from one substance to the other, every thing
else being considered according to the nature of the sub
stances themselves.       In zircon, for instance, the double
refraction is very strong, whereas it is much less percepti
ble ifi the emerald.      Besides, this quantity varies in every
substance, from various causes.         In general it increases
or diminishes, according as the refrangent angle, or that
which is formed between each other by the two faces,
through which we view objects, is more or less open. But
there is another cause or variation, which is combined
with the foregoing, and which depends on the position of
the refrangent surfaces relatively to the faces of the pri
mitive form ; arid such is the influence of this cause, that
under two equal refrangent angles differently situated, we
may have distances evidently unequal between the images
of the same object, and there is even a limit at which the
effect of the double refraction becomes null, i. e. the two
images are then confounded into one.
   This limit takes place, for instance, in the quartz and in
the emerald, when one of the faces which belong to the
refrangent angle is perpendicular to the axis.          It takes
place in sulphated barytes, when one of the same faces being
                                                          parallel

                         On Crystallography.                    35?
  (parallel to the axis, is at the same time parallel to a plane
  which should pass by ihe great diagonals of the bases of
  the primitive form.      I have but. a very few observations on
  this subject as yet ; but it is probable that all the substances
- which have the double refraction fall within one or other
  of the foregoing cases, which give of themselves the limits
  of all the positions which retrangent surfaces may have
  relatively to the primitive form.       But as the position pa
  rallel to the axis is variable in its turn among several limits,
  which correspond with the diagonals and the sides of the
  bases   of the primitive form, it will be requisite to know
  which of these last limits is that which agrees with every
  substance.
     I shall explain, when I come to the article emerald, how
  a mistake led me to these results ; and I even confess that
  I am still in uncertainly as to the refraction of some sub
  stances, not having had time sufficiently to multiply my
  inquiries, in order to ascertain if a crystal of this de
  scription which presented only a single image of the ob
 jects, would not exhibit two alter having been cut in a cer
  tain manner.
     I shall detail, in speaking of every substance, what I have
  observed with respect to its refraction, and I propose to
  make some fresh experiments on this delicate point con
  nected with minerals, which I have been only able to glance
  at as yet.     We shall find, under the article carbonated
  lime, the detail of the particular results which I attained re
  lative to the double refraction of this acidiferous substance,
  which suits more easily than the others this kind of in
  quiries.
     Another observation, which will not be altogether useless
  when we are occupied with generalizing the theory of the
  phenomenon        in question, consists in this— namely, thai
  all the substances in which the integrant molecule is re
  markable for ns symmetry have the simple refraction.           Of
  this kind are those which have for their primitive form the
  cube, the regular octahedron and the rhomboidal dodeca
  hedron.
     As yet we have only subjected to the experiments which
  concern this object, bodies taken from among those which,
  we commonly designate by the name of stones.              I have
  extended these experiments to several of those which are
  called salts, as well as to inflammable substances, and to
  metallic substances oxidized and united to other principles,,
  and I have found that there is no class of minerals which
  does not present bodies endowed w'uh double refraction.
                                    Z 3                       Ther«

 35B                         On Crystallography.
     There are various ways of observing the double refrac
  tion.     One of the most simple consists in taking a pin by
 the paint, and presenting it against the window at a cer
 tain distance from the eyer against which we shall keep
 at the same time the mineral applied by one of its faces.
 By making the pin assume various positions, we shall find
 that there is one in which we see two distinct images
 of this pin parallel to each other, and generally prismatic
 (irisf.es*). Then, if we gently turn the pin until it is per
 pendicular to its first position, we shall see the two images
 approach by degrees, until they fall upon one and the same
 line, in such a maimer, however, that one of the two heads
 will frequently exceed the other. We may also make use
of a card on which we have traced a line with ink of a
 good tint.
     I'he separation between the images is more sensible, the
 distance between the j>bject and the eye and all other cir
cumstances being alike, when the diaphanous body used in
the experiment is of a greater thickness.               And if we sup
pose this thickness, in its turn, to be constant, and the ob
ject removed from the eye, the two images will be more
and more removed from each other, at the same lime that
(hey will be diminished in distinctness.
     The following is a third advantageous process for short
 sighted people. Place a lighted candle at a certain distance
in a dark room.          Having afterwards made a hole in a card
with the point of a pin, apply it to one of the faces of
 the stone, so as to make the hole correspond to a point of
this face ; then having approached with the eye the opposite
face, seek the position proper for enabling you to perceive
the flame of the candle.               You will then have the two
images distinct and well defined, because the effect of the
 hole made with the pin is to dismiss the kind of irradiation
 which dazzles them, when we employ the stone by it
self.
     It would be difficult to find a character more prominent
 than that which is drawn from the double refraction, since
 it belongs to the very essence of the minerals in which it
exists.     But we cannot alwavs observe it on taking these
bodies in the natural state.           Several require to be prepared
    * When the double refraction is not considerable, it may happen that
the two images touch each other. But, upon attentively examining the head
 of the pin, we can distinguish at this place as it were two small circle*
which intersect each other: and besides, we shall obierve that the same co
 lour which edges on one side the prismatic band reappears on the line of
 the middle part, where the same series recommences.
                                                                        for

                       On Crystallography.
 for inspection by cutting.     Those which are called gems,
and which have come through the hands of the artist,
 thereby become susceptible of presenting the effect of
 simple or double retraction, when we know how to guard
against the illusion produced by the multiplicity of the fa
cets ; and it is even an advantage to be able by the help of
 this multiplicity to vary the ref'rangent angle, because, if
any one of the facets was situated in the direction of the
limits where the two refactions are reduced to one only,
other facets would present themselves in order to dispel the
doubt.      We shall thus avoid confounding a piece of cry
 stal of Madagascar with the gem cilled by lapidaries white
 sapphire, their Brazilian ruby with the lalass ruby, the
 topaz of Saxony with what is called oriental topaz ; the
 first stone of each of the above pairs having the double re
fraction, while the second has the simple : it is fortunate
to he able in these cases to make up for the disappearance
of the crystalline forms by a physical observation, and to
read in a manner into the interior of the stone,when its ex
terior speaks no longer to the eye.
     13. Phosphorescence by the action of Jlre.     In order to
observe this character, we must throw on red-hot char
coal a small quantity of the dust of the mineral we wish
to examine.      The phosphorescence in question is not sim
ply a scintillation, like what is produced by the sawings of
wood thrown upon the flame, but a mild and agreeable
light similar to that of the glow-worm, the tone of colour
excepted, which varies in different substances. This ex
periment scarcely ever succeeds except in the dark.        We
must also take great care to pound the mineral well, lest
any decrepitation might throw the fragments into the eyes
of the by-standers.
     14. Electricity.   There are three ways of exciting the
electrical virtue in bodies ; namely, by friction, by commu
nication with a body already in a state of electricity, or by
heat. This last method takes place only with respect to
certain mineral substances.
     We distinguish two kinds of electricity : the one which
we call vitreous, and which Franklin called positive, is that
which friction produces in glass and other vitreous sub
stances.     The second, which we call resinous, and which
Franklin described by the name of negative, is that which
is acquired in the same case by resin, sulphur, silk, &c.
    These two electricities exercise contrary actions ; so that
two bodies, both of which are solicited by vitreous electri
city or by resinous electricity, are repelled, whilst two
                              Z 4                        bodies

 860                    On Crystallography.
  bodies one of which possesses the vitreous and the othef
  the resinous electricity are mutually attracted.
      Among the number of bodies capable of receiving elec
  tricity by friction, we find some, which, after having been
  simply presented to the fire for a moment, or dipped into
  hot water, have acquired the electrical virtue. These bodies-
  have in this case one side solicited by vitreous electricity,
  while the side diametrically opposite gives signs of resinous
 electricity.
      One general observation made on such of the same bodies
 as are crystallized, consists in this; namely, that their forms
  take from the symmttrv of the ordinary crystals, in the
  same manner as the parts in which the two species of elec
 tricity reside, although similarly situated on both sides,
 differ in their configuration.         The one undergoes de
 crements which are null on the opposite part, or to which
 some decrements answer which follow another law.                It
 results that on a simple inspection of one of these crystals,
 we may indicate beforehand the side which will give signs
 of vitreous electricity, and that which will manifest resinous
 dectricity.
     Electricity separates the whole mineral kingdom into
 three great divisions, which follow nearly the methodical
 order generally adopted for the classification of bodies of
 this kingdom.       Almost all the substances known by the
 names of stones and salt* acquire by friction the vitreous
 electricity, provided they enjov a certain degree of purity.
 The inflammable substances properly so called, with the
 exception of the diamond, being rubbed in the same man
 ner, receive on the contrary the resinous electricity.       The
 metallic substances possess in general in an eminent de
 gree the conducting property of electricity.          A few of
 them, which being mineralized approach the saline state,
such as carbonated lead, also enter into analogy with the
salts, bv the faculty of acquiring the vitreous electricity by
means of friction.
     I ought to premise that we here      allude to the ordinary
methods      of exciting electricity ; as  when we employ the
friction of the hand, or that of a piece of cloth.         1 sup
pose also that the bodies rubbed are polished ; for there
are some kinds of quartz, gems, and other analogous sub
stances, such as glass, which acquire the resinous electricity
by means of friction when its surface is dull.
    It results from all that has been said, that the electrical
property furnishes characters useful in several respects for
the distinction of minerals.
                                                       Electricity

                  On Crystallography.                      36!
   Electricity by communication,    employed alone, may
serve to discover the presence of a metal mixed in a con
siderable quantity with a stone, as takes place with the
iron which     enters into the composition of jaspers.       In
order to ascertain this character, we insulate the stone on a
small stalk, so as to bring it in contact with an electrical
conductor, and we judge whether the stone is electrical or
not by communication, according as the touch of the fin
ger or the ball of the discharger draws sparks from it.
    The electricity hy friction observed comparatively in two
different stones may assist in distinguishing them from
one another.      The cymophane when polished but not cut,
which presents nearly the same appearance with tnother-of-
pearl feldspar, called moon-stone, differs from it by the
great facility which it has of being electrified by friction,
whereas the same method succeeds but ineffectually and
feebly on feldspar.
    The simplest apparatus for experiments of this kind
consists of a small copper needle a b (fig. 76, A) termi
nated by two bowls and moveahle on a pivot.          After hav
ing rubbed the mineral several times , on a piece of cloth,
we must present it to one of the bowls, and we may judge
pretty nearly of the strength of the electricity, by the di
 stance at which this bowl begins to be attracted.
     With respect to substances electrical by heat, such as
 the tourmaline, we make use of the same apparatus when
 we merely wish to ascertain what they are.        But it is in
 teresting to be afterwards able to determine the parts in
 which the two electricities reside.     To effect this take a
stick of sealing-wax, to the extremity of which a silk
 thread is attached little better than one eighth of one inch
 in length : after having rubbed this stick, present by turns
 the two epposite sides of the substance, for example, the
 two summits of a tourmaline, at a small distance from the
 silk thread.   If the summit which faces the thread be the
 seat of resinous electricity, there will be repulsion.   In the
 contrary case the thread will be attracted.
     We may vary this experiment, by placing the stick of
 wax. after having rubbed    it,  below one of the two bowls
 which terminate the needle, at the distance of about  a   quar
  ter of an inch.    For the greater simplicity, we may give
  such height to the stand of the needle, that the stick of
     a
 wax when resting by the rubbed extremity on another stick
 or on glass tube placed transversely, and
      a                                        by  the other ex
 tremity on the table which holds the apparatus,     is   at the
                                                        distance

36*                            On Crystallography.
 distance required for the success of the experiment.               In
 this case, the wax acting on the bowl communicates to it
an electricity contrary to its own ; whence it follow? that
we have inverse effects to the foregoing, i. e. the side of
the stone solicited by the vitreous electricity repels the
needle to which we present             it,
                                       and that which possesses the
resinous electricity attracts      this needle to it.  This method
is preferable to the first, when the electrical body              very  is
small, or has but        feeble virtue.
                           a
    Fig. 76      represents the experiment described.
                  B                                                We
there see the tourmaline tt' caught               by
                                                pincers supposed ta
be held in the hands of the observer, in such               way that-
                                                                    a
ihe pole      t   at
                  is     small distance from the bowl a of the
                           a
needle.     Cc     the stick of wax which rests
                   is                                           by
                                                           one of its
extremities on        tube of glass U«, and which acts
                       a                                            its  by
part      Con  the   bowl   a,  in   order  to produce   the vitreous
electricity.
    In what has gone before we have considered the effects
of the action exercised on            mineral
                                      a                by
                                                   another body, so
that the former may be regarded as passive with respect
to the latter. What we now call active electricity                that  is
which the mineral excites of itself in the sealing-wax, by
means of friction.          In order that the experiment may
succeed better, we must, after having heated the stick of
wax, flatten     at one end
                  it                 by
                                     pressing   onit  smooth body.
                                                            a
We must afterwards rub this same end with                part of the
                                                                a
mineral, which         itself smooth, or at least free from aspe
                        is
rities    then we shall present the wax to the copper needle
          ;
under which we have placed before-hand another electrified
Utick of wax, as has been already mentioned.
    Every body, the friction of which thus communicates to
wax       certain species of electricity, acquires at the same
          a
time the contrary electricity; so that we might consider
this last electricity in preference, or, what comes to the
same thing, consider the mineral as being passive with re
spect to the wax.        But the minerals        which this experi
                                                  in
ment becomes interesting being conductors of electricity,
it   issimpler to examine their action upon wax, either be
cause without this expedient we should be obliged to                          in
sulate them, or because when their volume                  somewhat
                                                                is
considerable their electricity,              by
                                         being diffused  over    large  a
surface, would not be sufficiently palpable.
    We have as yet but small number of substances which
                                 a
excite the vitreous electricity in wax, whereas other sub
stances of an analogous nature produce in               the contrary
                                                            it
                                                          electricity.

                    On Crystallography.                    36S
electricity.   These are exceptions as it were to the ordinary
results, susceptible even on that very account of accurately
designating the minerals which present them.
    15, Magnetism.     We know that two magnetic needles,
when they turn towards each other their north or their
south poles, are repelled ; whereas there is an attraction, if
the poles facing each other are one of them south and the
other north.     In consequence we recognize a needle, i.e.
a piece of iron in the state of permanent magnetism, from
the same side of this piece of iron presented successively
to the two poles of a magnetic bar suspended freely, at
tracting the one and repelling the other, or vice versa.
    But if we employ a piece of common iron, there will
be attraction in both cases ; the pole nearest the iron will
communicate to the part turned towards it a magnetism
contrary to its own, so that there will then be two mag
netic needles which will face each other by opposite poles.
The magnetism thus acquired is merely instantaneous : it
gives place to the contrary magnetism the moment the
iron passes from the neighbourhood of one pole to that of
the other, and is dissipated the instant the iron is no longer
 in the sphere of activity of the bar.
    In experiments of this kind it is preferable to use a
 needle in the form of a lozenge, three or four inches long,
 instead of a bar, the former being more sensible.      But the
  bar would be preferable, if it were requisite for instance to
 pick out some specimens of iron scattered in a pulverulent
 mass.
     I shall show under the head of oxidulated iron, that most
 of the crystals, or even the rude masses of this metal,
 locked up in the bowels of the earth, provided they are not
 too much oxidized, are two magnets, but of which we
 cannot observe the polarity except by using a needle slightly
  magnetic, and this for a reason which I shall give at the
  same part of my work.
                          [To be continued.]
                                                LVII.   Account

                                  t   364    j
   LVII.    Account of the TVhynn Dukes in the Neighbourhood
      of the   Giant's Causeway, Ballycastle, and Belfast : in a
      Letter to the Lord Bishop bf Dromore, from William
      Richardson, D.D. late Fellow of Trinity College,
      Dublin*.
  My Lord, W^hEn I               last had the hoitonr of conversing
  with you     on  basalt subjects, you were surprised when I
  told you that the whynn dykes, which of lite have so much
  occupied the attention of naturalists in the western isles of
  Scotland, originated on our Irish coast, and especially
 about the Giant's Causeway:
      As your lordship expressed a wish for farther informa
  tion of the subject, 1 promised to communicate to you
  such observations as I should make when I had examined
  the coast a second time, in order to ascertain the facts with
 the utmost precision.
     Previous to my entering into a particular account of our
 dykes, I will take the liberty of making a few general ob
 servations on those in both countries.
     The whynn dykes in the Hebrides are seen under very
 different circumstances from those on the northern coast of
  Ireland.     There they are found on, and above, the surface,
 generally     a few feet; and often serve as fences, whence
 they   obtain   their  name.      In this form they run northwards
 quite   to  the  extremity    of  these islands, ascending and de
 scending     mountains,     crossing seas; and where these are
 narrow, the dykes that run into the water at one side of a
 channel, are seen rising out of it at the other side, steadily
 pursuing their formed rectilineal course.
     With us they are sometimes exhibited in a very different
 manner.        Their first appearauce is in the faces of our vast
 perpendicular precipices, where they are seen cutting ver
 tically the several strata of which these are composed, and
 then burying themselves in the northern ocean.
     The observations made on these whynn dykes in the two
 countries, taken together, make our information on the
 subject complete.         In the Hebrides we are surprised at
 the incredible length to which these mighty walls proceed,
    * Dr. Richardson's paper on the Basaltic Country in the Counties of
Dcrry and Antrim, published in our 33d vol. has eicited so much attention,
that I am persuaded 1 nhall render an acceptable service to geologists by
giving in the Phil. Mag. some jprevious papers by the same gentleman, pub
lished in the Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy.   The present paper
is from their 9th volume. — Edit.
                                                                      and

             Account   of the Whynn Dykes, &c.              365
and we see them penetrating indifferently all substances
they encounter: — with us we can measure a part, and a part
only, of their stupendous height, as at the Milestone 10O
feet, at Port Spagna 330 feet, at Fairhead probably more;
and we can observe the effect, or rather the non-effect,
produced at their contacts with the different materials they
meet, as they are seen in the faces of our precipices.
     By Mr. Mills's account, (Phil. Trans. 1790,) the island
of Lismore, entirely limestone, is crossed by whynn dykes,
as is the limestone at Gartness; at lona granite is the con
tiguous matter, at Juva chert, at Persabus a whynn dyke
 is crossed by a lead vein, and another at Glascow Beg ; at
 the isle of Arran Mr. Jameson finds them cutting through
 porphyry and micaceous schistus.
      With us the whynn dykes at the westward of the Giant's
 Causeway cut through strata of table basalt, and red
 ochreous matter, placed alternately ; at the Giant's Cause
 way, and Port Spagna, they cut through strata of finer ba
 salt, disposed in prismatic pillars; while at Fairhead they
 encounter new materials, to wit, alternate strata of free
 stone and coal.
      In both countries these mighty walls are always of ba
 salt; their general thickness is from twelve to fifteen feet,
 though in one or two instances ihey do not exceed two or
  three feet, and at Gartness the whynn dyke is 23 yards
 across ; but it has not been ascertained     in any instance to
  what depth they reach beneath the surface, even in the
  deepest mines.
      Though the material of which these walls are composed
  seems to be in general the same, yet from Mr. Mills's ac
  count there are important differences between the Scotch
  whynn dykes; and with us scarce any two of our dykes,
  that are accessible, exactly (as will appear) resemble each
  other.
      As the whynn dykes Mr. Mills observed are unques
  tionably basalt, he calls them all lava, anil attempts to
  prove it by a sort of vague induction : page 75 he says,
   Islay whynn dykes resemble those at Ballycasile, wfiich
   take their rise in a country confessedly abounding with vol
   canic matter.
       Now the. specimens from the islay dykes strongly re
  semble (as he says) the Derbyshire loadstone, formed, as
  he asserts (page 98), by subterraneous fire.
       Of Derbyshire I willnot presume to say any thing, hav
  ing never visited it; but the proof of its strata being lava
  rests upon the admission of Mr. Whitehursi's position,
                                                             that

 3ft6        Account    of the Whynn Dykes in      the
  Jhat these loadstone strata were formed by successive erup
  tions of a volcano at the centre of the earth, which pouring
  up repeated torrents of liquid lava, these spread when they
  approached the surface of the earth at different distances,
  and formed the loadstone strata.
     When Mr. Mills endeavours to establish his opinions
  by assertions relative to my country, I will venture to re
 ply to him.
     The precipice from which the whynn dykes issue at
 Ballycastle, by his own account, consists of alternate strata
 of freestone and coal, not very like volcanic matters: and
 as to his positive and general assertion, that our basaltic
 country confessedly abounds with volcanic matters, I must
-reply in his own style, positively and generally, that it does
 not afford a single particle of volcanic matler ; that I have
 examined this tracl for a longer time, and probably with
 more attention, than any other person ever did, or I would
 not presume to hazard ihe assertion so confidently.
     When your lordship is so good as lo perform the pro
 mise you made roe, or spending some time with me at the
 Giant's Causeway, you will be able to judge for yourself
 as to the trulh of these contradictory assertions.
     The advocates for igneous operations over the surface oi
 our globe are so prejudiced, that it is sometimes sufficient
 to refute them merely to quote their own words.             As
 Mr. Mills's paper is now before me, I will give your lord
 ship an instance : He says, (page 98,) " In short, from the
 very rude and irregular appearance of the summit of the
 hill (Loffit hill), from ils rising so suddenly from the lime
 stone strata, and from the whynn dyke that runs through
it,
I      am strongly inclined to believe     of volcanic origin."
                                            it
 Now, as limestone and volcanic mailers are not very con
 genial, and as we do not find that    a  whynn dyke has been
 met with in the neighbourhood of any volcano,        conceive,
                                                         I
 with great deference to Mr. Mills, that          he was deter
                                                  if
 mined to draw   a     conclusion from these data,       should
                                                         it
 have been   a    contrary one. — But  it   time to proceed to
                                            is
 facts.
     The westernmost whynn dyke. have mel with on our
                                   I
 coast, is near whal   is called the Black Rock, at the end of
 the Bush Strand.         The perpendicular precipice      there
                                                             is
 not very high (probably 60 feet)  ;   it    composed of hori
                                             is
 zontal strala of table basalls, separated from each other by
 red ochreous layers.
     The dyke (which    is  inaccessible)  seen from the water
                                            is
 to cut-all these strata vertically, each of them being inter
                                                              rupted

         Neighbourhood          of the Giant's Causeway, &fc.                    367
rupted in its course by this wall, and resumed on the other
side of   it,precisely at the same level.
    The second dyke          three or four hundred yards further
                                is
on, towards the north-east;               much finer one, and so
                                         it   is   a
happily marked that         cannot be mistaken.
                                it
    A solitary rock, about 200 yards distant from the main,
and visible from      great part of the coast on each side,
                      a                                                               is
called the Milestone, from its supposed distance from the
Giant's Causeway, but in reality                 much nearer to it.
                                                       it   is
The precipice here has considerably increased                 height,       in
being near to 100 feet, accurately perpendicular, and stra
tified as at the other dyke.
    This second dyke reaches from the summit to the water,
beneath which we can see            continued northwards, until
                                     it
it  reaches the Milestone, which            part of it.
                                               is
                                               a
    Though this dyke be also inaccessible,             plainly form
                                                                 it   is
ed of prisms laid horizontally, and extending quite across;
its thickness seems to be about twelve feet.
    The strata are interrupted here, and resumed again, with
out disturbance, at the other side, as before; nor in either
case does the slightest separation appear where these dykes
meet the contiguous strata, all forming one solid mass.
    The third dyke       situated near the western point of the
                           is
bay,     bywhich we begin to descend to the Giant's Cause
way of this an isolated fragment alone remains, about
     ;
100 feet long        by
                     50 feet high     like the rest
                                          ;                composed
                                                                      it
                                                                      is
of rude prisms laid horizontally.
    Our fourth dyke           at the Giant's Causeway itself
                                is                                               ;    it
divides vertically part of the cliff, at the foot of which the
causeway       situated; and descends quite down to it.
                is
    The precipice      not perpendicular here, as at the other
                          is
dykes,    bywhich means our view of this one             partially in  is
terrupted; there is, however, enough of              laid bare to as
                                                                 it
certain its nature beyond          doubt, and especially as
                                     a                                           it   is
composed of horizontal prisms,            property that seems es
                                               a
sential to all whynn dykes.
    Where this dyke divides the upper part of the columnar
stratum which forms the Giant's Causeway, the basalt
pillars on the west side of        have fallen from their original
                                     it
vertical position, until they lean forward almost hori
zontally; while on the east side of the wall they stand
steadily vertical.
    The basalt septs, which frequently divide the strata in
mines, and appear to be of the same nature with onr whynn
dykes, are generally attended             by
                                          sinking or subsiding of
                                               a
thi strata on one side of them, without disturbing the
                                                          parallelism

   368             Account     of the Whtjnn Dykes in I lie
   parallelism of these       strata.   This too is the case with our
   own whynn dykes            at Fairhead ; but of the six dykes at
  Bengore promontory, this fourth is the only one where any
  thing like a subsiding or depression of the strata can be
  observed.
      This dyke is so accessible, that we are enabled to exa
  mine its material and internal construction, from which
  we are precluded in the former cases ; the basalt of which
  this is composed, though contiguous to, or rather mixed
  wjth, the Causeway-pillars, is very different from the Cause
  way basalt ; it is somewhat coarser, more granular in the
  fracture, and though darker than the gray whynn-stone of
  the Fairhead pillars, it resembles their colours, more than
  the fine blue of the Causeway basalt.
      The Causeway dyke is 15 or 16 feet thick, sometimes
 quite solid, sometimes shivery; it is entirely composed of
 small trapezoidal prisms, Itheir sides about an inch each,
 and their axes horizontal ; they are strongly agglutinated
 together; and when this wall is attacked by the sledge, it
 sometimes breaks into fragments composed of an accumu
 lation of the smaller prisms, abundance of which are
 scattered about the foot of the precipice.
     The fifth dyke is at the eastern point of the semicircular
 bay, of which the Giant's Causeway forms the western
 point; it is inaccessible, and visible only from the water j
 it cuts vertically three or four strata of table basalt, also a
 great stratum of red ochrcous matter, and is then lost in
 the    precipice*.
    * When I discovered this whyun dyke in the year 1801, T was prevented
from examining it accurately by a Heavy surf, which deterred me from
venturing among the sunken rocks at the foot of the precipice ; the next
summer I was more fortunate, and enabled twice to reach the bottom of the
cliff, where the dyke immerged into 'he water perpendicularly.
    I traced it downwards as it cut the horizontal strata of table hasalt verti
cally, and observed each of these merging into its solid mass without any
the least separation of the material; each stratum, having then as it were
passed through ihe dyke, resumed its former position on the other side at
the same level it held before, about forty yards from the place where
the dyke immerged in deep water ; it arose again ten or twelve feet
above the surface, continuing its course due north for thirty yards, exactly
like a wall, showing the horizontal prisms of which it was constructed,
whose bases formed the surface of the wall.
    The most curious part of this dyke is discovered by tracing it up the cliff,
whose summit it reaches a little to the eastward of its original course i hete
it projects boldly from the face of the rock like the rectangular corner of a
mightv wall about twenty feet thick: yet this curious wall is not entirely
dyke, but only its west side, which, at its termination, shows the horizontal
prisms composing it ; the east side is formed by a range of vertical pillars
iifty fret long, part of a great columnar stratum which the dyke there cuts
through.
                                                                          The

           Neighbourhood              of the Giant's Causeway, &e.                                369
   The sixtli whynn dyke is at Port Spagna, the third semi
circular bay east from the Causeway; this is the only one
of our whynn dvkes that has ever yet been noticed. Mr.
Mills (Phil. Trans. 1790) saw from the top of the cliff a
kind of whynn dyke, which ran into the sea towards the
N.N.E; but he did not go down to exanvne                 and                            it,      it   is
from below only that any observations can be made upon it.
   This dyke runs into the sea, like       quav about 20 feet       a
broad, formed of huge black stones; its- direction near the
water     S.S.W. and its two sides accurately parallel:
           is
having proceeded thus about 60 yards f'-oun the water, the
eastern side deflects   little, forming an obtuse angle, while
                                  a
the western side proceeds further in its former direction                                             ;
the breadth or the dyke thus increases for        little, but the               a
western side      soon resumed parallel to. and at its former
                    is
distance from, the other side, and the dvkc proceeds now
due south     all this
                :        best explained
                                  is          figure.                  by   a
                                                                                                 >
                                                                                                 i
N.N.E.                                                                                  S.S.W.
                                                                                    .
   The dyke,        after having proceeded                      a      short way in its new
   The upper surface of this tremendous wall           easily approached from the
top of the hill, and covered with high verdure.                 I is
                                                        have freqiientlydined upon
it, a* fortunately the surtace       hollow in the mid.Ue, by which the dread
                                        is
of a perpendicular precipice, above 200 feet high, (sind on three sides not
more than eight or ten feet distant,)       considerably abated the height of
                                                 is                                   i
the point of the wall from the sea immediately under              320 feet. it   is
  I  dwell upon this dyke both because               so easy ri access from above,
                                                      it   is
(for even carriages can drive to the edge of the cliff,) and also because
                                                                                                  it
                                                                                                  is
•11happily marked as not to be mistaken           forms the middle point between
                                                      :   it
the Giant's duseway and the solitary pillar called the Chimney, or, in other
 woids, the common horn of the two crescents or semicircular bays next to
the Causeway on the east side.
 I   will add an account of another dyke lately discovered by my friend
capt. R. O'Neil:    it  situated
                         is         or 400 yards N. \V. from the beautiful villa
                                       3
called Seaport ou Port Ballinstay,         mile and
                                             a          half west from the Giant')
                                                                  a
Causeway.
   The face of the precipice here seems about 50 fect high, composed of
horizontal strata of coarse basah or trap, abounding with zeolite, and of a
reddish tinge, friable, and decomposing         all these strata, from the summit
                                                      ;
to the sea, are cut through obliquely at au angle of about 45 degrees, by a
dyke of sound blue basalt, very fine at its edges, but coarser in the middle,
and nearly five feet thick the fine basalt of this dyke and the coarse trapp
                                  s
of the strata, notwithstanding the difference of their grain, unite solidly on
both sides of the dyke      this important fact
                              :                       more easily ascertained here,
                                                           is
than in any other dyke know,             so accessible-     must observe, that this
                              1          it
                                         is                             I
dyke  is not accurately rectilineal.
   Vol. 35. No.           145.        May    1810.                      A       a         direction,

S70              Account     of the Whynn Dykes in             the
direction, is lost under the rubble that has fallen from
above; but whenever the precipice becomes perpendicular,
it appears again in its last direction, cutting the strata ver
tically from the bottom of the precipice to the top, above
tOO feet; the height of the upper part of the clift" above
the sea is here 33O feet.
   These strata are almost all columnar, and the horizontal
prisms of the dyke are strongly contrasted with ihe vertical
pillars of the strata.
   The basalt of this dyke is very nearly of the same grain
with that of the dyke at the Causeway, rather coarser, its
fracture granular, and full of shining points ; but it differs
materially from it in another respect, the latter having but
one principle of construction, to wit, the minute prisms
into which it breaks, and the agglutination of these form
ing it into a mere wall ; while the dyke at Port Spagn*
has, like some other varieties of our basalt, a double prin
ciple of construction, being first formed into huge massive
prisms four and five feet in diameter, and these again being
divided into small quadrangular prisms \\ hose sides do not
exceed an     inch.
   This property possessed by some varieties of our basalt,
and other curious circumstances attending them, — as for
instance, that some of our prismatic basalt in thin strata
abound with marine exuvije, shells, and impressions of
corn u a ammonis*, while others, columnar and prismatic,
but not articulated, and^ others columnar, prismatic, and
articulated, contain cavities full of fresh water to the
amount of a thimble-full : all these facts have hitherto
escaped notice.
   Naturalists, who visit our coast, rarely allow themselves
time enough to examine any thing, and, while there, are
occupied in looking for arguments to support the theory
they patronize, not in studying nature for information :
they never examine any of our basalts but that of the Giant's
Causeway ; this, it is true, has none of the properties I
mention, it has but one principle of construction, to wit.
   * The nature of this stone      is,
                                     I  know, not yet fully ascertained.      Sir
Joseph Banks informs me, that the specimens sent to him are pronounced
                                                I
by his friends not to be genuine or legitimate basalt.      An emjnent Scotch
naturalist, who visited the spot last summer,  I  ain told, asserts this stone to
be chart fetronltx or ichistus.
   On the other tide, Mr. Kirwan, to whom gave specimens, asserts in
                                               1                               a
late publication, thatit u basalt: our ingenious Mr. Higgins     is  of the same
opinion, and the celebrated Professor Pictet of Geneva, who did me the
honour of visit last summer, considers
          a                               it to be basalt containing  a   greater
portion of fHex than usual.  I  believe Minis. Pictet is right.
                                                                            the

          Neighbourhood      of I he Giant's Causeway, &fc.                  37  1
   the visible prismatic form so much admired; this after
   wards breaks indifferently in all directions.
      To return to my subject : —Though the basalt septs in
  mines in general, and every one of our own whynn dykes
  at Ballycastle, are attended by a depression of the strata
  on one side ; yet those I have described at Bengore Head
  are accompanied by nothing similar, except the one at the
  Causeway ; and proceeding further eastward, coasting this
  promontory, we meet with three depressions of our strata,
  where nothing like a whynn dyke is to be found.
     The first is singular and beautiful ; it is near a mile east
  from the Causeway, and a quarter of a mile beyond the
  last dyke.     The precipice here is uncommonly magnificent,
  its height more than 350 feet above the water ; and the
  upper part of this, which is accurately perpendicular and
  extends half a mile on either side, is 150 feet.
     This whole face is composed of three strata, two of them
  formed of superb basalt pillars 45 and 55 feet long, with
  an intermediate stratum, near fio feet, of another variety of
  basalt ; the lowermost of these strata, when produced
  westward, dips, and at its intersection with the sea form*
  the Giant's Causeway.
     This grand facade, together with the whole promontory,
  is as it were cut down and bisected by a vertical plane, on
  the west side of which the promontory and all its strata
 have sunk and subsided about 40 feet, without any other
  shake or disturbance, all the strata in the subsided part still
  remaining accurately parallel to the permanent strata, and
  proceeding westward in their former direction, only from
  points 40 feet lower.
     An account of the variety, arrangement, and alternations
 of these strata, so completely displayed in the superb face
 of this precipice, where nature seems to have intended to
 exhibit to the philosopher the order in which she has dis
 posed her materials, without putting him to the trouble of
 penetrating into the bowels of the earth, would lead me
 far beyona the limits of a letter.             How these strata, with
 their ascent, culminations, dip, and immersions, have hi
 therto escaped the observation of naturalists is quite be
 yond my comprehension*.
     The two depressions further east are much inferior to
this ; I shall only observe that there is not the least ap
                                                                     pearance
    * I cannot avoid quoting a passage from a late traveller, who seems to
possess two qualities very necessary in a naturalist, to wit, attentive observa
tion and freedom from system.    He says, " No subject is more interesting or
                                    A a 2                                 useful

372                  Account    of the JVhynn Dykes in ihr
pearance of crack or disruption, the strata on both side*
of the depression are all consolidated into one mass.
     When searching for whynn       dykes upon our northern
coast, I was obliged to omit about four miles of it lying
between Bengore-Head        and Carrickarc-de, as being too
distant from Portrush and Ballycastle, w here I was used to
take boat, and totally void of shelter, even for the smallest
craft.
   To the westward of Ballycastle I saw only one dvke.
On the east side of Kenbaan Point, a rock emerges from
the water, which I have no doubt is part of a dyke, from
the appearance it made ; and as I approached            perceived   it, 1
it was formed of horizontal prisms       here too
                                                :     new feature
                                                                a
occurred, common indeed in the dykes further eastward,
but which      had not observed
                 I                   in any of those      had yet         I
examined     the centre and sides or thii one were con
             ;
structed differently, the prisms in the centre being larger
than those in the sides, and all very neat, the grain too
probably, as in other cases, also differed        but    was pre
                                                           ;            I
cluded from examining any of the circumstances which
attended this curious little solitary rock,                by
                                                 the violent surf
which then broke upon it.
   Hitherto the precipice cut through                 by
                                              the whyrtn dykes,
and the rocks from among which they sometimes emerge,
were all basalt, uniformly stratified     but the accumulation,
                                                 ;
of   these strata, after regularly dipping, immerges beneath
the sea to the westward      of Ballycastle, and      new systema
of materials arises at the end of the btrand to the eastward,
to wit, alternate strata of freestone and coal       these are cut
                                                                ;
through exactly       the in
                          same   manner   the basalt  strata were,
by  vertical whynn dykes, which all run into the sea, across
the beach at the foot of the precipice.
   The first of these      about two miles from Ballycaslle,
                               is
and though      rude imperfect one,
                 a                         not to be overlooked;
                                                it
                                                is
the black or dark blue of the basalt being strongly con
trasted with the brown colour of the freestone               passes          it
through on the beach        here ..the high road runs close un
                               ;
der the precipice, and affords         good opportunity to ex
                                            a
amine the contacts of the basalt dyke with the freestone                           it
cuts through.
   The next dyke, some hundred yards further east,            more            is
useful than an examination     of the intestine position of strata and veins: — in
short, upon this    founded
                     is         all our knowledge of geology        ;is, however,
                                                                        it
attendeu with ijreat labour    and difficulty."  (Jameson's Mineralogy of Scot
land and Arran. paired!.)       With uruuch an examination attended neither
                                                                is
with labour nor difficulty.
                                                                              perfect,

         Neighbourhood            of the Giant's               Causeway,   &c.          373
perfect, and so accessible on the beach, that its singular
construction can be examined without any trouble; it is
of the same bread ih with most of the others, that          about                is,
twelve feet  ;   more accurately resembles
                  it                             quay  than   any     a
ot them, its surface      flat and its sides perpendicular,
                                 is                                                    it   is
divided in its whole length                   by
                                  three right lines, one bisect
ing     through its middle, and one on each side of this,
        it
about foot distant.
         a
   These three lines determine the style of masonry (if                                 I
may use the expression) with which            built, to wit, hoit
                                                               is
rizontal prisms about five feet long, laid in rows on each
side, and     the middle two rows of prisms about one foot
             in
square each.      attempt
                      1       skecth of these lines thus
                                        a                                         :
1       1
        1                              1
                                       1
                                |
        1                               ;
      1
                                   1
    1
    1 i1
                                 1
 1
 1  1   1
        !
        1
        1
    The bases of the long prisms show their polygonal figures
 on the sides of the dyke, and,        taken up and laid ntri-
                                                      if
 /ontully, would exhibit     rude pai'Sa   these prisms are ob
                                                           :
 viously composed of smaller ones like those at Port Spagna,
but I   had not    sledge sufficiently weighty to ascertain the
                      a
 fact with precision.
    When was on the spot, Mr.Ma»awly, who
             I                                          concern            is
ed in and superintends the colliery, told me they were
then cutting across this dyke 700 yards within the pre
cipice.
    The next dyke      of ruder basalt, and more imperfect
                           is                                                          ;    it
seems to eiJiibit nothing remarkable.
    The fourth Hallycastle dyke, or as          called there theit   is
Great Gaw, emerges from beneath the precipice, of the
same breadth and of the same rude material and construc
tion with the first and third      but      soon joined
                                              ;        it   what
                                                               is                by
the colliers call its wing, that        new wall annexed to
                                                      is   a                                it
on each side,      which
                      by     becomes triple; these wings are
                                       it
of very different material from the centre, being precisely
    a
the same in grain with the very fine Portrush stone, which
sometimes contains shells and impressions of cornua ain-
monis, but       in
                these wings     did not observe any.
                                        A I a     3                               When

374              Account     of the Whynn Dykes in          the
    * When this dvke enters           the  water, it accumulates into
an island, or rock, of much           greater height and breadth, still
the two materials keeping distinct, though so united at the
Contact as to form but one stone : thus the arrangement
of the coarse and very fine basalt here and at Portrush,
is precisely the same, saving only one difference, that at
the latter place the planes of the strata are. horizontal, while
at the Great Gaw of Fairhead thev are vertical, and in both
places grow inio each other without interrupting the con
tinuity or solidity of the material, yet leaving the line of
demarcation distinct.
    Though the precipice at this part of Fairhead be not so
accurately perpendicular as at H engore, yet the depression
of the strata on one side of this dyke is visible from the
Water; and what is curious, a range of massive pillars, near
 ]00 feet each, appears over the permanent part, while over
 the depressed part nothing is to be seen; whence it is
         that these strata have not been depressed by incum-
Clain
   ent weight.
    The miners tell me there is also a fifth dyke here, faintly
marked without the precipice, while the gaw, or sept,
 within the mine is to them verv important, and has also its
 depression on one side, like all the others at Fairhead, while
 at Bengore head no depression is found but in the dyke at
 the Causeway ; all these depressions, as well as those at
Bengore, where no dyke is found, are on the west side of
 the line, or plane, separating the permanent from the sub
 sided part.        1 mention     this curious fact for the informa
 tion of geologists who may possibly make some use of it.
    These singular walls are not confined to the northern
 coast of our basalt country ; its eastern side abounds with
 them still more.          It was not in my power to examine any
 of those except such as lie in the bay of Belfast, but my
 ingenious friend Dr. M'Donald (a zealous mineralogist,
 whose pursuits in that line have of late been much im
 peded by great success in his profession,) informs me that
 they commence near Murlogh, where my tour on that side
 ended ; that they are very numerous about Torr point,
 Garron point, and in general on all projecting points on
 that coast ; and he conceives (I think judiciously) that
 points being found where the dykes are most numerous,
    • I mentioned before that some naturalists have denied this Portrush stone
 to be basalt i but its being found here in a whynn dyke seems strongly to
 support the affimative, as I have never heard of a whynn dyke composed
 of any material but basalt alone.
                                                                       arisea

         Neighbourhood    of the Giant's Causeway, (Sc.      373
arises from ihe protection they give the land in those places,
preventing the sea from making the same inroads there it
did on the adjacent parts.
    Dr. M' Donald and I examined together the dykes at
White-house point, four miles from Belfast; several of
them are crowded together, three or four run parallel in an
E. S. E. direction at about 150 yards from each other, and
are in one place
                    crossed by
                                another at acute angles; several
of these dykes, T am told, are traced across the county of
Down on the opposite side ot Belfast lough.
    Though these dvkes were so near, yet they differed mate
rially from each other; in many the middle part and the
sides were not of the same grain, nor constituted on the
same principle; in some we found zeolite in the centre,
but not in the sides ; in others the middle part was formed
by cutting it across (no doubt into prisms), while the sides
were a rude mass studded with coarse round stones, about
the size of an eighteen-pound ball ; these last Dr. M'Do-
nald assured me he had often broken, and found them
composed of concentric spheres, like the pellicles of an
onion ; some ot the dykes were of solid massive prisms
laid quite across, while one or two had a longitudinal di
vision running through their middle, as in the second dyke
at Fair head.
     In all, the lines marking the construction of the dykes,
 whether accurate or faint, were across at right angles to
 their din ctions, but the perfection of the workmanship
was very different ; and when we attacked them with a light
 sledge, we found some to crumble, being in a state of de
 composition, others resisted our efforts, while some broke
 into small quadrangular prisms, like the dykes at Port
 Spagna and the Giant's Causeway.
     Dr. M'Donald showed me in his cabinet prisms he had
 taken from a quarry (no doubt a dyke) near Bellust; they
were nine or ten inches lont>, and entirely composed of
 triangular pyramids of the same length, put together as if
 to illustrate Prop. 7. lib. 1 2th Eucl. Elem.     I nad found
 two or three small triangular pyramids among the quadran
 gular prisms at the Giant's Causeway dyke, but at the
 Belfast dyke triangular pyramids were the sole elementary
 figure.
     An the shore in Belfast lough is low, there are but few
 opportunities of examining the materials that come in con
 tact with the basalt dykes ; in fact I noticed but two, stra
 tified clay and freestone ; this clay is very plentiful on the
 shore and the adjacent country ; it is arranged in very thin
                            A  a 4                    horizontal

376          Account     of the Whynn Dykes in   the
horizontal strata, and when exposed to the air hardens al
most to the consi*ienre of stone.
   At the contact the basalt and freestone were strongly
united together, and for two or three inches the basalt had
in some sort acquit cd the colour and grain of the sand
stone : I was particularly attentive to this tact, as Mr. Wer
ner alleges the transition of basalt into other stones, and
Mr. Jameson found in Arran (pages 1^51 and 135) basalt
sometimes mixed with, and at others penetrated by, sand
stone ; bat on this occasion Dr. M 'Donald, by some ex
periments, found that notwithstanding the freestone ap
pearance   the stone remained pure basalt.
  The basaltic    area, fiom the north and east sides   of which
these singular walls diverpx- in sucji abundance, compre
hend* a considerable part or the country of Derry, and
a much greater of the county of Antrim ; its breadth varies
from 20 to near 30 miles, and its length exceeds 35; it
seems composed almost exclusively of vast and steady ba
salt strata accumulated upon each other; in one place we
count 16, in oihers \ve conjecture more, especially at Ma-
gilligan rock, as we know the basalt to be 1200 feet deep
there. This whole mass rests upon a vast stratum of white
limestone about 200 feet thick, of the same extent with the
basaltic area, but discoverable only at its periphery, which
extends above 80 miles.
   This mighty stratum ascends to the southwad, until its
lower edge acquires on the ea?t side a height ot 80O feet,
and on the \\est at least 1700; the country below the
limestone stratum, and without       it,    on the west side
                                           is
mostly   sellouts, on the east  sandstone  and clay penetrated
by  basalt dykes, which furnish stones in abundance for all
purposes.
   The Scotch whynn dykes have been generally supposed
to originate in Ireland     If this fact be admitted, we can
easily trace  them  byattending to the directions of our own   :
thus those that issue from ihc coast west of Ballycastle,
proceeding north with      sight inclination to the east, are
                           a
to be sought for in Islay, Jura, Mull, 8tc., where Mr. Mills
actually found them in great numbers.
    Our dykes which are seen at Murlog, Torr, and Cushen-
dun, are obviously those which, having crossed the Mull
 of Cantyre, were observed     by Mr. Jameson in such abun
 dance in the Isle of Arran.
    Dr. Hutton also mentions 20 or 30 whynn dykes he
 found " in the shire of Ayr to the north of Irvine on the
 coast." These correspond with the numerous dykes about
                                                         Garrou

      Neighbourhood   of the Giant's Causeway, &c.         377
Garron point and its neighbourhood,            whose rectilineal
course is directed towards that part of the Scotch coast.
    The dykes about Lariie may be expected to be found on
the Mull of Galloway, while those 1 examined far up in
Belfast lough, on account of their S. E. direction, probably
do not catch Scotland, nor meet land until they arrive on
the coast of Cumberland.
    Whether our w|)ynn dykes be identically the same with
those on the Scotch const opposite, is not easily ascertained,
though highly probable; but even confining ourselves to
our own country, we find sufficient matter for astonish
 ment in contemplating our basaltic area, formed by accu
mulations of horizontal strata, with numberless vertical
 planes radiating from it : had Dr. Beddoes been acquainted
 with this structure of our basaltic country, I think he
 would scarcely have asserted, that   "   a right knowledge of
 basaltes is conducting us last to a just theory of the earth."
 I think very differently from Dr. Btddoes, and conceive that
 instead of assisting, basaltic facts are throwing new diffi
 culties in the way of cosmogonists, who flatter themselves
 they have developed the secret of nature; and that those in
 my country, (to which I confine myself) are utterly irre-
 concileable to any theory I have met with.
     Two sects of naturalists, distinguished by the names of
  Vblcanists and Plutonists, have of late taken possession of
  all the basalt in the world, and have divided it between
  themselves, under the descriptions of erupted and unentpted
  lava ; and they have so convinced Dr. Beddoes of the vali
  dity of their claim, that he says,
                                     " I shall assume the origin
  of basaltes from subterranean fusion to be thoroughly esta
blished."
   After such   a round assumption it may be deemed uncivil
 to  question the igneous origin of our basalt tiykes ; but
 natural history is not to be sacrificed out of respect to con
 fident assertion: i will therefore try bv the test of Jacts
 whether that description of basaltes (which your lordship
 wishes for information upoo) ever was in fusion
    Foreigners seem to know little of whynn dykes except     ill
 mines.     Mr. St. Fond found at Chamarelle        in Vivarois
 what  is obviously   whynn dyke, and        embarrassed    him
                                           it it
                    a
 more than any tact he ever met with   ;     will be found en
 tertaining to look into his Vol. ex. de Pivarois, and into
 his Mm. des Vol. lo see the difficulties into which, this
 courant de lave compacte, this ruisseau de lasalte en fusion
 has thrown him, and the swingeing postulates he      isobliged
 to make, in order to get over them.
                                                   Dr. Hamil-

  378          Account of the IVhynn Dykes in the
     Dr. Hamilton on behalf of the Volcanists, and Dr. Button
  the great advocate for the Plutonic system, are more ready
  at their expedients ; the first of these forms our whynn
  dykes by pouring in erupted lava at the upper aperture of
  mighty chasms    ; while Dr. Hutton conceives these chasms
  were filled up by his own   unerupted lava, forced up at the
 lower.
     In discussing the opinions of these gentlemen, I will
 make them the most liberal concessions ; for instance, I
 will concede to both, that they have discovered the process
 by which nature has formed chasms of immeasurable
 length, immeasurable depth, and of inconsiderable, though
 uniform, breadth.
     I will concede to Dr. Hamilton that he has brought to
 the edge of the chasms his lava, " this foreign substance,
 which issuing from the vast mass of basaltes that forms
 the northern extremity of Fairhead, has descended over the
 adjoining strata," and that he has it ready " to  Jill up each
 cleft and vacuity."     (Ham. Antrim, let. 5, part I.)
    I will also admit in favour of Dr. Hutton, that he has
 his unerupted lava ready at the bottom of these chasms,
 that he has his machinery prepared for forcing it up, and
 that he has surmounted his great difficulty, and discovered
 a mode of supporting such a mass when raised; a point
 upon which, having failed himself, he would discourage
 others from forming conjectures.     (Edinburgh Trans, vol. i.
 page 285.)
    Notwithstanding these concessions, it will not be difficult
 to show that these gentlemen have not discovered the secret
 of nature in the construction of these singular walls, and
that they were not formed by liquid lava filling up mighty
chasms.
    1st. Many of our contiguous dykes differ materially from
each other, yet their proximity is such, that, according to
the theory of either Dr. Hamilton or Dr. Hutton, they
must have been filled up from the same source, and with
 the same material.
    2dly. Many of these dykes, both in Ireland and Scot
land, show a material difference between their middle pans
and their sides, both in grain and internal principle of
construction ; the change too is not gradual, but per
sal turn, as if the dissimilar parts were separated from each
other by planes parallel to their sides : all this is perfectly
incompatible with the high state of fluidity in which the
lava must have been, to enable it to fill up vast chasms of
such diminutive breadth.
                                                          3dly.

          Neighbourhood     of the Giant's Causeway, &c.       379
      8dly. Our whynn dykes come in contact with a great
   variety of different substances, without producing such
   effect upon any one of them as might be expected from
   the contiguity of so glowing a mass ; but however this
   argument may bear against the Volcanists, the Plutonists
   will say it does not apply to them, for the chemical opera
   tions of nature are carried on in Dr. Hulton's subterranean
   laboratory very differently from what we see on the surface
   of our globe : in the former Dr. Hutton says calcareous
   strata are consolidated by the operation of lieat and simple
  fusion, and again, having proved that these strata had been
   consolidated by simple fusion, (page 253.)          Dr. Hutton
   however confesses it is not easy to comprehend this : "and
   to be convinced that this calcareous stone, which calcine*
   so easily in our fires, should have been brought into fusion
   by subterraneous heat without suffering calcination, must
   require a chain of reasoning which every one is not able
   to comprehend."       (page 27 1 . )
      But  it is not  necessary on this occasion to enter into the
   mysteries    of a laboratory, to which we have not access, nor
   to calculate the force of Dr. Hutton's great agent com
  pression; for our observations on the contacts of the matter
   of our whynn dykes with the substances they encounter,
   being made on the surface of the earth, in the open air,
   even admitting those dykes to be formed as Dr. Hutton
   supposes, his unerupted lava is now become erupted, and
   of course, to use his own words,      " those substances which
   calcine and vitrify in our fires, should suffer similar changes
» when delivered from a compression which renders them
   fixed." (Edinburgh Trans, page 280.)
      I am aware I nui3t fatigue your lordship by dwelling so
   long upon the question of the igneous origin of our whynn
   dykes ; but as most modern writers and travellers call them
   lava veins, and the facts I have observed with much atten
   tion, induce me to combat so general and so popular an
  opinion, I hope you will excuse me for adding a fourth
   argument, which I conceive to be conclusive.
      All substances, when ignited, are in a high state of di
   latation ; this is followed, when they cool, by a contraction,
   une retraite, by which they occupy less space than they did
  when heated ; of course, had our dykes been chasms filled
  up with glowing lava, when this material cooled and con
  tracted, it could no longer fill up these chasms as before,
  but must crack and separate from their sides, leaving in*
  tervals and disruptions ; but nothing like this is observed,

 360          Account  of the Whynn Dykes in      the
 the dyke and contiguous matter, whatever it be, are solidly
 united together, forming but one mass.
    These whynn dykes suggest other curious questions :
Were they formed at the same time with the contiguous
materials ?
   Were they posterior to them, as Dr. Hamilton and Dr.
Hutton suppose ?
   Or, were they antecedent     to the stratified masses, that
every   where come  in  contact  with them ?
   The inutility of such speculations deters me from enter
ing into them. I must however confess, that the facts
seem to give stronger negatives to the two first questions,
than to the last. But who would hazard so bold an opinion,
as that these mighty walls were the first part of our world
that was formed. What an idea must it convey to us of
this frame-work or skeleton of our globe !
   A new theory I conceive more likely to be a nuisance
than an acquisition to natural history ; and that the road
to the advancement of the science would be better laid open
by destroying some of those we have already.
   Should therefore your lordship think that the arguments
I have adduced against the igneous origin of' our whynn
dykes are of any weight, 1 will probably make further in
roads into the territories of Vulcan, and question the ig
neous origin of basalt in general.
   To this your lordship will very likely reply, that the topic
is worn threadbare ; that most modern writers, without
entering into the question, pronounce it to be already de
cided in the affimative ; and tha,t I shall never obtain atten
tion to so stale a subject.
   My opportunities, however, to procure information upon
it have been superior to those of any other person ; I have
lived very many summers in the most important basaltic
country in the world, and my fondness for the sea, and
possession of boats, have enabled me repeatedly to explore
our coast, which I know that no other naturalist ever did.
It is to this coast and country that the advocates for parti
cular opinions come to look for arguments to support the
theories they patronize; it is painful 10 follow such gentle
men, correcting their statements, and contradicting their
assertions: nor are they cursory travellers alone who mis
represent our facts; it will appear that men of science and
ability are equally disposed to support their opinions at any
expense ; — a favourite theory is an adopted child, thai must
be maintained.
                                                            But

       Neighlourhood     of the Giant's Causeway, &c.       381
   But it is not by exposing the errors of others that science,
and especially natural history, is to be advanced ; nor is it
by puzzling ourselves to find out in what manner, and by
what process, nature has executed her work ; let us rather
examine attentively what she has actually done; let us
quit disputing about the whimsies of our own brains, and
study the code of facts.
   In our basaltic country these are curious, as well as abun
dant; and it will be from such of these alone at have
escaped the attention of my predecessors,          and from the
geological    construction   of the country,  that the arguments
to be applied to the question of the igneous origin of basalt
will be drawn ; and whatever may be their weight, at least
they will have the merit of novelty to recommend them.
                        I am. with great respect,
                               Your lordship's
                             Most obedient humble servant,
    Portrush.                                W.  RlCHARDSON.
   P. S.      When I found an opportunity for examining the
whynn dykes to the northward of Whitehouse-poinl, I
omitted several under the demesne called Macedon, which
were much covered by sea-wrack ; here I knew the surfaces
of the dykes were decomposed, and their distinctive cha
racters defaced.
    Between Macedon and Carrickfergus there are many, all
as usual      differing from each other; some not so recti
lineal in their course as those I have hitherto described ; in
one or two the prismatic construction was scarcely perceiva
ble, while in the greater number the arrangement of these
prisms laid across the dyke was most distinct.
    In two contiguous dykes I observed, that the axes of
these prisms were not horizontal as usual, but in one greatly
elevated to the north, and in the other towards the south.
    Human attention could not follow the variety which na
ture has displayed in the formation of these dykes ; there
fore, not to fatigue the reader, I will describe but two
more particularly ; I select these, both on account of the
new circumstances attending them, and also because they
are easy of access, being within a few yards of the great
 road from Belfast to Carrickfergus.
    The first of these runs eastward along the strand, about
400 yards south of the gallery; we approached it from the
north, and found it composed of long well-formed hori
 zontal prisms, lined on the north side by a sort of basaltic
 wall about 18 inches thick: this a military gentleman of
                                                             our

388                   Notice respecting New Books.
our party called its revetement ; I adopt the word on this
occasion for convenience.
   After we had traced the dyke eastward for several yards,
we observed this revetement separate from                 and diverge it,
at   a considerable angle, then, forming            curve, disappear
                                                         a
beneath the sand to the north-east           this new circumstance
                                                    ;
exciting   our  attention,     we  traced  the  revetement back to
the dyke, then along           to the westward, when after some
                                 it
time we perceived           entering the dyke at an acute angle,
                            it
and crossing         diagonally
                     it             when across,
                                          ;           formed for se
                                                                 it
veral yards     revetement on the south' side of the dyke, then
                 a
diverging from        it,and curving as before,        was again lost
                                                                 it
under the sand to the south-west.
   The second dyke will describe particularly, lies about
                            I
500 yards north from the silver stream, and about three
miles from Carrickfergus              seemed composed of four or
                                      ;   it
five distinct walls, agglutinated together          in each of these
                                                         ;
the prismatic construction was different from that of the
others, and in one the axes of its prisms were not as usual
at right angles, but oblique to the direction of the dyke.
   A new circumstance occurred here too this dyke, about     ;
25 feet broad, had         revetement of freestone on each side,
                            a
and was also twice or thrice penetrated            walls of freestone
                                                         by
similar to, and in the same direction with, the basalt walls
between which they lay these freestone walls were more
                                      ;
than     foot broad, and sometimes composed of horizontal
         a
laminae, and at others of vertical.
      have since discovered                                 the face of
                                                                       it in
 I                                 magnificent dyke
                                      a
the stupendous precipice of Cave hill* which                cuts verti
cally   near 800   feet,   and     afterwards
                                      is       to  be  traced     great             a
way down the hill.
   Though this dyke be attended                     by
                                             very curious circum
stances,     will take no further notice of
             I                                       as      it,
                                                           hope to seeI
it  soon accurately described                  by
                                          my ingenious friend Dr.
M'Donald, who was with me when discovered                1          and             it,
whose vicinity affords him better opportunities of accurately
examining this beautiful and interesting facade.
                 LV1II.     Notice respecting New Books.
A new edition     of Dr. Henry's chemical                          work        is   in    the
press, and will be published in the course                       of    a    few weeks.
  * A stratified basaltic mountain, nearly hanging over Belfast;                it   is   well
worth the attention of naturalists.
                                                                                          He

                          Royal Society.                       383
He   has found     it impossible  to give a sufficiently ample and
distinct    view    of the numerous    and important discoveries
which have been made in the science during the two last
years, without extending the work to a second volume.
And as its original title would but ill accord with the en
larged form under which the book will now appear, it will
be changed to that         of " Elements of Experimental
Chemistry."
            LIX.     Proceedings  of Learned   Societies.
                           ROYAL   SOCIETY.
On     the 3d,     10th, and 17th of May, the reading of Mr.
Macartney's       observations   on luminous insects was con
tinued.      The result of the author's researches has enabled
him to state that 12 different genera of insects, which in
clude an immense number of species, emit light.              Seven
of these genera belong to the order of mollusca, and the
other rive to the hemipterous, as the j'ulgorae ; the apte
rous, as the cancer pulex and Jidgens, &c. Mr. Macartney
took an historical survey of what has been written on lu
minous insects, related the discoveries of different voyagers,
such as those of Sir Joseph Banks, who discovered two
species, the cancer pulex near Madeira, in J 7 74, with
capt. Cook, and the medusa noctiluca.             Capt. Horsburgh
also discovered two species in the Arabian sea, which he
gave to the author, one of them like a wood louse, the
other he called medusa scintillans.        The same accurate ob
server also noticed various luminous appearances of the sea,
and some insects, which on being pressed emit a lumi
nous fluid.       He also gave to Mr. M. a drawing of one of
the insects, which he took out of the water at a time when
the sea appeared almost white, like a vast field of ice
covered with snow.           This appearance is ascribed by the
author to immense quantities of medusa scintillans, which
emit flashes of light, and so frequently as t» assume a con
tinued brightness.        To this species of medusa the author
attributes   The   sudden flashes of light which aie occasionally
seen on our own sea shores.          Mr. M. has also discovered
three different species of luminous insects on the southern
coasts of England.         In the course of his inquiries, ht ap
        r>, doubt the luminou3ness of the cancer pulex, but
pears
»ou-.e., a.-., jiyrosoma atalantica, a worm- shaped luminous
                                                            insect*

  384           Royal Society. — Linncean Society.
  insect, observed by      M. Perot, of which only one genus           or
  species has yet been discovered.
      In summing up some concluding               remarks on the cause
  of this luminous quality in insects, Mr.             M. expresses him
  self with great diffidence, and from the experiments of
  Rumford, and his own observations, hesitates in stating
  whether light is not rather a quality than a substance, as all
  the phenomena of luminous insects tend to give probability
  to the former opinion.           The medusa, he observes, can
  emit light for any indefinite time : their light and that of
  oilier sea-insects appear of no specific use to the animal,
  but that of glow-worms and flies serves to make them
  known to each other in the night.               All luminous animals
  shun the light of day, and hence the author infers that they
  cannot have imbibed solar light sufficient to emit so much
  during the night ; that the luminous matter of the sea, or
  medusa, has nothing in it phosphoric or inflammable ; that
 the manner of secreting this luminous matter (if soil be)
 is yet wholly unknown ; that the sudden death of the ani
 mals, and consequent extinction of their luminousness; pre
 vent all anatomical or microscopical observations, and that
 the number of creatures possessing this peculiarity is very
 considerable. He related a great number of experiments, all
 of which tended to demonstrate that this light has nothing
 in it of a phosphorescent quality, as universally believed,
 and that, whatever it may be, it is no longer attributable to
 the presence of phosphoric or inflammable matter.
     May 24. The introduction to a paper on the sexual or-
 gan$ and mode of generation of the iqualus genus, or dog-
.fish, by Mr. Home, was read.                It related principally to a
 description    of  those  organs   in  the   fishes, of which Mr. H.
 has    before    given    some   general     accounts to the Royal
 Society.
                          UNN-ffiAN    SOCIETY.
    April   17- — The President in the chair.             The following
 papers   were   read  : Observations     by   Olof    Swartz,  M.D. on
 some former Species of Andromeda,                   properly belonging
 to the Genus Menziesia: — On the supposed Effects of Ivy
 on Trees, by Humphry Repton,                 Esq.   : — On  the Fasciola
 Hepatica, by Mrs. Cobbold.
    Mav    1. —A    paper was read     On   the Genus     Andrea, with
Descriptions       of four British     Species, by      \V. J. Hooker,
Esq., F.L.S.
    Thursday, May 24, being the anniversary of the birth
 day of Linnaeus, the Linnaean Society met at their house
                                                                       in

              Wfrneriaai Natural Hittory Society,            385
\n Gerard Street, in pursuance of their laws    and charter, to
elect a president, council, and officers for the ensuing
year: when the following five new members of council
were elected :^-John Blackburne, esq. Edward Forater, esq.
George Milne, esq. Edward Rudge, esq. and EJward Lord
Stanley. And the following were chosen as officers : James
Edward Smith, M.-D- president} Thomas Marsham, esq.
treasurer ; Alexander MacLeay, esq. secretary ; and Mr.
Richard Taylor, under secretary.
   The society afterwards dined together at Freemasons'
Tavern, as usual.
         WERBTERIAN    NATURAL    HISTORY    SOCIKTf.
    At the meeting of this society, oh the 7th April, Dr.
Mackriight read a miiieralogical notice, on the tract of the
Highlands from Killin to Braemar, by the way of Glen
Tilt. Ben Lawers is composed of undulated inica-slate,
which   at the summit is yellowish gray, and in some varie
ties so full of quartz as to resemble a sandstone.     Towards
Logierait, beautiful garnets begin to appear.    Beydnd Mul-
lenearn, gneiss occurs; also limestone. hrtrnblende-sUle, and
sienite. Besides the substances first mentioned, Glen Tilt is
remarkable hy a peculiar aggregate of feldspar, hornblende,
and occasionally quartz ; in which the various proportions
of these ingredients exhibit the rock under various aspects
of 'the siemtic and greenstone species.     It is distinguished
from granite (for which it has been mistaken) not only by
the uncrystallized state of the feldspar, but by the presence
of hornblende, and the absence of rnica. Professor Jame
son has entitled it slenitic greenstone. Tt occurs in con
formable beds ; particularly one of great size, which inter
sects the channel of the rivet at different places, near the
lodge.    Crossing the mountains from Glen Tilt to the
course of the Dee, we find hornstone, feldspar-porphyry,
and limestone, subordinate to mica-slate and gneiss; till
toe reach the Castletou n of Braemar> where the granite of
the Grampians at length appears.
    At the same meeting, a communication from colonel
Imrie was read, describing the conglomerate rock of the
Grampians, and tracing it from near Stonehaven to the
Burn, and again at Callender, 80 miles distant. The po
sition of this conglomerate-rock is nearly vertical ; and of
this fact, in col. Imrie's opinion, no satisfactory explana
tion has yet been given. — At this meeting, also, there was
laid before the society an accurate sefion of the coal-field
at Alloa, accompanied wiih interesting remarks, bv Mr.
   Vol. 34. Na. 145. May 1810.            B b            Robert

38d                  French National Institute.
Robert Bald, civil engineer, and manager of Mr. Erskine-
of Mar's extensive coal-works. The depth of the section
is 704 feet; the alternating strata are 14,1 in number; and
the total amount of the different beds of coal is 59 feet
4 inches. — Captain Laskey likewise presented to the so
 ciety a scries of the remains of a curious fossil Encrinus
{bund in slate-clay near Dunbar.
                  FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
                         [Continued from p. 317.]
                                GEOLOGY.
     The observations from which geology can derive the
 most important advantages, are certainly those which are
directed to the subjects of fossil animals, but more particu
larly those which lived upon dry land. M. Cuvier has con
tinued the investigation of this important subject.               He has
 brought to a termination, in conjunction with M. Brong-
 niart, the mineralogica| geography of the environs of Pa
 ris, a slight sketch of which was given in (he account of
 the labours of the Class for the year 1 808 *.          He afterwards
 directed his attention to the osseous heaps (brcches) on the
 shores of the Mediterranean.          Rocks similar to those which
 are to be seen at Gibraltar,         near Terruel in Arragon, at
 Cette, at Antibes, at Nice, in Corsica, in Dalmatia, and in
 the isle of Cerigo, have been found in the fissures of the
 compact limestone which constitutes the principal soil of
these various places, and they are all composed of the same
 elements : it is a red cement, like bri^k, which connects in
 a confused manner numerous fragments of bones and of
 limestone in which these heaps are contained.                    All the
 bones found in these rocks belong to herbivorous animals,
 most of which afe known still to exist on the adjoining
 soil ; they are mixed with fresh- water shells. This inclines
  tis to think that these heaps are posterior to the last conti
  nuance of the sea on our continents, but very ancient ne
  vertheless ; since nothing proves that similar heaps have
  been recently formed, and some of them, such as those in
   Corsica, contain even unknown animals.
      Alluvial earths also contain bones of herbivorous ani
  mals: they have been discovered in the peat-mosses of the
   valley of the Somme, with stags' horns and heads of oxen,
   and in the environs of Azoph, near the Black Sea.                These
   bones have belonged to a species of beaver i the former re
   semble those of the common beaver ; the others, which
            • See page 3« of the present volume of
                                                   the Phil. Mug.
                                                                     form

                       French National Institute.                 387
Form a complete head, seem to have belonged to a much
larger species than we are acquainted with ; and M. Fischer,
who discovered this animal, has given it the. name of tro-
gontherium, which M. Cuvier adopts a« the specific name.
    Bones of herbivorous animals have also been found in
schists.      Three kinds have-been described. M. Cuvier saw
the figure of one which some authors regarded as having ap
pertained to an Indian boar, and others to a polecat. M. Cu
vier rather gives it the character of a herbivorous animal; but
he has not been able to ascertain the genus nor species.
•   Among the fossil bones of ruminating animals found
in loose strata, M. Cuvier has recognised a kind of elk
different from that with which we are now acquainted. The
bones of this animal have been found in England and
Ireland, near the Rhine, and in die environs of Paris, iri
beds of marl at no great depth, and they seem to have
been deposited       in fresh water. Some horns discovered iri
abundance in the neighbourhood of Etampes, iri sahd sur
mounted by limestone of fresh water formation, prove the
existence of a small species of rein deer which seems nd
longer to exist.       M. Cuvier has besides observed remains          <
of horns of goats, fallow-deer and stags, which do not
seem to differ essentially from the hornS of the existing
species :
              " Nothing," says our author, *' is more abun
dant : all the recent alluviations dug up have furnished
them ; and if we do not find plenty of testimony as to these
fossil bones, it is because from presenting themselves at
 trifling depths they have not been thought worthy of
mu^h      notice."
     In the fossils of ruminating animals with hollow Horns,
 M. Cuvier has recognised crania of aurochs, discovered
 in   the banks of the Rhine and the Vistula, in the envi
 rons of Cracow, in Holland, and in North America. These"
 crania exceed in size those of the aurochs; but, as M.
 Cuvier observes, this difference may be ascribed to the
 abundance of food which these animals iormerly possessed,
 when ranging at pressure through the vast forests and pas
 turages of France and Germany.
     There is another kind of tossil cranium differing only
 from our present oxen from the size, being larger and the
 horns being in a different direction.             These crania have
 been    found   in the valley  of   the Sorhme,   in Suabia, Prussia,
 England, and Italy.          "  If   we recollect," says M. Cuvier,
 "   that  the ancients   distinguished in Gaul and Germany two
 kinds of wild oxen, the urus and the bison ; may we not
 suppose that one of the two, after furnishing our present
                                    B  b 2                        race

                      french National Institute.
  face of oxen, was extirpated in his savage state; whrfetrrc
  Other, which could not be subdued, still subsists in small
  numbers in the forests of Lithuania alone?"
      In loose »oiFs- we also meet with bones of horses and of
  wild hoars: the former almost always accompany the fossil
  elephants, and are found along with the mastooorrti, tigers,
  hyenas, and other bones of fossil animals discovered in'
  alluvial soils : but it was impossible to ascertain if these
  horses' bones belonged to a species different from' our present
  race. The bones of wild boars have been for the most part
  procured from peat-mosses, and do not in the least differ"
  from those of the wild boars of the present day.
     Other bones have been found, which M. Cuvier has as
 certained to belong to an unknown' species of lamantin or
 manati.     They have been discovered in strata of coarse ma
 rine limestone on the banks of the Lavon, in the environs
 of Angers ; and they were mixed with other bones, some of
 which seemed to have belonged to a large species of phocas,
 and the others to a dolphin.
     The skeletons of three species of oviparous quadrupeds',
 preserved in calcareous schists, have also been the object of
 M. Cuvier's researches.
     The first was found in the schists of CEuigen, situated on
the right bank of the Rhine, at the mouth of the lake of
 Constance.       It had been described awr engraved as the
 skeleton of an antediluvian man ; but this error was refuted-.
M. Cuvier proves by a series of osteological inquiries that
 this reptile was analogous to a salamander, aftd belongs to
 the genus protetu.                                         *
    The second, also     found in the same  place, seems to have
belonged to the toad genus, and resembles the bufo calamita.
    The third, and mostaingular, which was discovered in the
quarries of Ahmuhl, near Aichtedt anrl Pappenheim, inr
Franconia, and which had been described arid drawn by
Collini in the Memoirs of the Manheim Academy, is re
garded by M. Cuvier as having belonged to a specits of otter.
The length of its neck andhead, its long snout armed withr
sharp teeth, and its long paws, indicate that this animal fed
on insects, and that it caught them when flying : the size of
its orbitary sockets also shows that it must have had very
large eyes, and that it was a nocturnal animal, like the bat.
No beast of the present day has the least resemblance to it.
    M. Cuvier, has also published a Supplement to his Mfe-
moirs on the Fossils of Montmartre; in which he gives the
figure and description of an ornitholite, much more com
plete than hose which have been hitherto published.          It is
                                                        probable

                     French National Institute.
probable that it belonged to the class of gallinacci, and the
common ,quail is the modern species which it resembles.
    M. Sage has given us the description of some carpolites,
or petrified fruits. One of them was the kernel of a nut
become calcareous, and found at Lous-le-Saulnier: another
eeemcd to have been the fruit of a wild nutmeg-tree, which
grew at Madagascar and in some of the Moluccas ; its
substance was also calcareous: the third seegwd to have be
longed to something resembling the durion of India; it was
transformed into jasper. To tbese new facts he subjoin* some
of the remark* which had been already made on carpolites,
and concludes that the petrified fruits found in our climate
are exotics.     He also enters into some chemical detaiU, by
means of which he explains bow these petrifactions took
place.
                               BOTANY.
    Order and method will always be two objects of the first
importance in natural history, and particularly in botany:
they serve at one and the same time to establish the rela
tions which bodies have with each other, and to guide the
observer in the midst of the innumerable productions of
 nature.     The most celebrated naturalists have made it the
 particular object of their studies : and the knowledge which
the real science of the various systems requires, could never
have been embraced but for them j»
    M. Jussieu, who has so just a title tobe considered as the
legislator of botany, has formed a new order of plants under
 the name of Monimise : the genera of which it is composed
                                                                  '
are, the ruizia9 the monimia. the ambora, and perhaps the
 citrostna, the pauonia, and the atherosperma. This or
der obght to be placed immediately before the family of the
 jUtriceae ; but after the Monimife M. Jussieu places the caly-
canthus, heretofore united to the Rosaces ; he considers it
as the type of 4 new order, which will serve as a stage be
 tween the Moniniise and the Utricese.
    M. jPalisot jBeauyois has proceeded with his inquiries
 into the order of Gramincst.       He hrfs studiel their origans
 of fructification more exactly than any person had done
before him;        has founded on the organization       of each
of the parts of these organs the characters which ouglit to
distinguish them from each other, and obtained the means
 of dividing the duTcrer.t species of this order into genera,
much more natural than those which had been hitherto
adopted.
    M. Labillardiere     has made us acquainted with a new
                               B b 3                        plant

  390               French National Institute.
  plant of the family of Palm-trees, of which he has made a
  genus under the name of ptychosperma, and placed it next
  the elati and arecas.     This plant was discovered by the
  author in New Ireland : it rises frequently to the height of
  60 feet and upwards, and yet its trunk is only two or three
  inches in diameter. These proportions induced him to give
  it the name of gracilis. It is astonishing, as M. Labillar-
  diere remarks, that so slender a tree can support itself ; but
  we know that in all the monocotyledons, the hardest of
  ihe ligneous part is external, and this structure gives to the
  plants of this class a strength which those cannot possess
  whose most solid fibres are in the centre.
     M. Lamouroux has presented to the Class ? very exten
  sive work on mafine plants.       Little or' no attention has
  been paid to these singular vegetables, and thry have been
  arranged in rather an awkward manner: M. Lamouroux,
  by forming into a single group all the plants known to ex
  ist in the sea, seems to have wrought an advantageous
  change.
     The little progress which had been made in the study of
  the algae, was the cause of the disagreement among bota
  nists as to the organs which serve to the reproduction of these
   Cryptogarriia.    M. Correa, in a work written expressly on
- this subject, had recognised male and female organs in the
  tubercles placed at the extremities of the ramifications of
  these plants.    M. Lanrnluroux partakes of this opinion ;but
  he characterizes with precision the different parts of these
  organs, and thus throws a great deal of clearness on the
  study of these singular vegetables.    This author has besides
  observed that the kind of algae w hich grow on granite, are
  never the same with those found on calcareous stone or on
  sand, and vice versa.    As to their internal organization, M.
  Decandolle had ascertained that it was devoid of vessels, and
   entirely formed of cellular texture.      M Lamouroux di
  stinguishes two kinds of cellules ; the one being long hexa
  gons, which form the stalks aiid the nervous parts (ner-
  vures) of the ramifications;    the other kind is of the same
  form with the foregoing, but 'has sides almost equal, and
  which constitute the membranous or foliaceous srtbstance.
     M. Lamouroux thinks that the former may be analogous
  to the vessels, and the second to the utricular texture of
  the most perfect vegetables.     These general labours led the
  author to form in this family several new genera, which he
  has also presented to the Class for their approval.
     M. Miihcl has continued his researches on vegetable phy
  siology.' Formerly it had been ascertained that the albumen

                      French National Institute.                     391
of     the seed generally served for the nourishment of the
  young plant after germination : but this opinion perhaps
 had sfill need of support from positive observations ; and
  M. Mirbel, by means of an experiment equally simple as
  ingenious, seems to have dispelled all doubts on the sub
  ject. The embryo contained in the grain of the albiuin
 cepa becomes curved on being developed,             so as to form
 a tail which issues from the ground, while the radicle and
 plumule still remain under it.       If at this period of vegeta
  tion we make any mark at an equal height on the two
 branches of the germ, we shall see ihe speak nearest the
 radicle rise alone in the case where the plant receives no
 nutriment except from the juices of the earth :               if,
                                                             on the
 contrary,  it he only kept up      the albumen of the seed, the
                                    by
 speck of the plumule will rise above the other lastly, the:
 specks will rise nearly equallv,          the earth and the seed
                                          if
 concur to the development of the germ.                It  this last
                                                            is
 phasnomeuon that takes place;          ceases when the albumen,
                                         it
 is entirely absorbed: in that case the young plant has suffi
 cient strength to derive from the earth, or from the atmo
 sphere, the nutiiments which         will immediately require.
                                     it
     This memoir      accompanied
                      is                  by
                                          interesting observations
on the germination of the asparagus, and ou the manner in
 which the leaves of this plant, sheathing themselves at first
 like all those of the monocotyledon*, become by the growth
 of the stalk, lateral and opposite, and afterwards lateral and
 alternate.
     In another memoir M. Mirbel has undertaken some new
enquiries respecting the germination of the nelumbo.            Bo*
 tanists were not agreed as to the class to which this plant
 ought to be referred, and as to the nature of the two fleshy
lobes in the midst of which      ittakes its origin.     Some, not
observing; any radicles developed in the germination of this
plant, thought that        was entirely devoid of them; some
                           it
regarded the lobes just mentioned as roots         ; and others re
garded them as peculiar organs, and analogous to the vitel-
lus.   It   is   bymeans of anatomical observations that M.
Mirbcl endeavours to dispel the doubts which these various
opinions have raised.      He recognis.-d in the first place, in
the nelumbo, all the characters which distinguish the plants
with several cotyledons from the plants with           single coty
                                                       a
ledon.      He afterwards found      the lobes of this plant vesr
                                    in
•els analogous to those of the cotyledons, and he observed,
at the point where these lobes join, other vessels which are
united in the same manner with those which characterize
iKe radicles in the embryos furnished with this organ                 :
                                B b  4                               and

 392                French National Institute.
 and he concludes that the nehnnbo does not differ essen
  tially from the other plants of its class.
      M. Correa, although he agrees with M. Mirbel that the
 nelumbo is a plant with two cotyledons, does not share in
 his opinion rwspi'Ctitifr the nature of the lohes : he thinks,
 wi'tli Gaeri ner, that these organ:, have a considerable an?logy
 with the vitellus, and he compares them with the fleshy
 tubercles of the roots of the orchis.        The plants, as this
 learned botanist, observes, have a double and relative organi
  zation. — on the one hand, with the earth in which they
 ought to take root, and on the other hand, with the air
 in which their foliage is developed ; the roots as allotted
 to the ascending vegetation, and the leaves to the descend
 ing vegetation ; and it is at the point where these two sy
 stems of organization unite, that the cotyledons are gene
 rally placed : — Now the lobes, of the nelumbo are at the most
 inferior part of the plant, and consequently in the system
of the ascending vegetation, or of the roots. This view of
 regarding the nelumbo would indeed take away the means
 of recognising the cotyledons in it ; but the example of
many other plants deprived of these organs, shows that
they are not at all essential to vegetation, and that the cha
racters which have been derived from them, in order Id
separate the vtgeuble        kingdom into three divisions, are
insufficient, and that they ought to be replaced by those
•which give the direction of the vessels and the medullary
radii.
     It is also with the view of dispelling the doubts arising
from the different opinions of several learned botanists, that
M. I'oiirau has undertaken a work, which he lias submitted
to the Class, on the germination of the Graminese.          Bota
nists were not agreed as to the part of the seed of thtse plants
which ought to'be regarded as the cotyledon ; but observ
ing that the escutcheon, which Gartner took for a vitellus,
and M .Richard, for the body of the radicle, was placed in
the point where the plumule and the radicle separate, he
considers this oriran as a true cotyledon.       These inquiries
have besides led 1V1. Poiteau to an observation, which, al
though accidental, is not the less interesting, since it is
connected with one of the pha%uomena which are most ge
neral in vegetation. At 'the moment when the radicle of
the Gramim-ae is developed, it takes the figure of a cone,
and represents the principal root or the pivot of the other
plants ; but soon afterwards, and the instant the lateral
roots acquire a certain growth, this cone is obliterated and
destroyed, so that no plant of this family has a pivot : and
                                                                 as

                     French National Institute.             393
  bs  M.  Poiteau has made the same observation on several other
  plants with a single cotyledon, we may suppose that this
  substitution of numerous* roots and secondary to a principal
  root takes place, because each fasciculus of fibres of the
  monocotyledonous plants has its proper root. This naturally
  recals to our minds the fine observation of M. du Petit-
  Thouars on the increase in size of the dracsena, which has
  been discussed in the reports of preceding years*
                              ZOOLOGY.
       The researches of M. Cuvier respecting fossil animal;
   have generally led him to preliminary discussions as to
   the species admitted by naturalists, and they have been al
   most always the source of some valuable observations in
   zoology properly so called. Thus in his Memoir on the
   ostealogy of the lamantin, when considering the organiza
   tion of the amphibious mauimiterse, he is led to separate
   p/ioci :md morsi, the dugnus, the lainantins and the species
   described by Steller which had been eon founded with these
•  last animab.     These three genera form a family which is
   distinguished among its members by the absence or the pos
   terior extremities, and by the teeth of herbivorous animals :
   he reduces to two the four species of lamantins established
   by Button, and gives precise characters to those which he
    admits into these different genera.
       In another Memoir, on cats, the same author gives the
    osteologieal character of the head of the chief species of
    this genus, and he gives an account of one which had not
    been recognised by modern naturalists.      This new species
    has received the name of leopard, which had become syno-
    nymous with panther, for want of a precise application.
    It differs from this last species in being of a smaller size,
    and having more numerous spots.
         M. Geoffroy had long formed under the name of Ateles
    a particular division of apes devoid of thumbs, which had
    been formerly" confounded with the sapajons, from the
    catching tail which is common to all these animals. He has
    added two new species to those which he had already given
    an account of, and has given figures and descriptions of
    them.     One of these only, to which he gives the name of
    Arachnoides, and which is yellow, had been desenbed by
    Edwards and Biown. The other denominated EncadrSe
    is entirely new ; it is black with white hair around the
    face.
        The same author has given a description of two birds,
     fbe one scarcely known, and the other entirely new : this
                                                              last

 394                 French National Institute.
last has a resemblance to the corvu.i nudus, and to the cor-
 mis calvus ; but they differ sufficiently to form three di
stinct genera, which M. Geoffroy establishes by the names
of cephaloplerus, being his new      species, gymnodertts, which
he applies to the corvns midxs, and gymnoceplutlus,           by
which he distinguishes the corrus calvus.
    The cephalopterus is black, with a very high crest, which
falls forwards upon the beak, and a kind of dewlap, also
covered with feathers.        The feathers of both these parts
are of a metallic violet hue.
    The second bird, which like the above is also from Mex»
ico, had been described but imperfectly by Marcgrave un
der the name of cariama.        M. Geoffrey from this descrip
 tion had considered it as closely connected with (he agami ;
 but now that it is to be seen in the collection of our Mu
 seum of Natural History he regards it as forming a distinct
genus, to which he gives the Latin name of micrcductylus.
    Tortoises have also been one of the subjects of M. Geof-
froy's researches.       Having observed in Egypt the tortoise
of the   Nile  described  by Forskahl, he was induced to form
 a distinct genus, oi all the other tortoises which like the
 latter have the extremity of. the sides at liberty and a soft
 calipash. He calls them trionix, and has added several new
 species to these already known.          M. Brongniart in his
 great work on reptiles had joined the latter to his Emydes,
 observing always the characters which distinguished them
frotn the other species of this genus of which the calipash
 is complete and covered with scales.         M. Geoftroy, in ad
 dition, joins to the genus Chelys of M. Dumeril, the tor
 toise described by Bartram under the name of tortoise with
 large soft scales, and discovered by this traveller in North
America.
    These animals present a striking example of the progress
of zoology of late years.       The number of tortoises known
20 years ago was scarcely 30, and now it has been at least
doubled.      This among other circumstances has been com
municated to us by a work of M. Sweiger, in which he has
undertaken to give a general monngraphy of all the tor
toises. This fine work, accompanied by precise descriptions
of a very extensive synonymy and embellished with figures
excellently drawn by M. Oppel, has been submitted to the
inspection of the Institute, and highly approved of.
    The class of fishes has also been enriched with many
new species.       Messrs. Risseau and Delaroche, who have
particularly   directed  their attention to this branch of zoo-
log}'* nave communicated their observations to us.          Those

                       French National Institute.                395
of  the   former have been made on fishes in the Gulf of
Nice,   and    those of the latter were made on the fishes in
the sua around the Balearic Islands.            But the labours of
these naturalists have not been confined to bringing new
                      — from their accounts there are grounds for
species to light :
supposing     that   each  species of fish, like terrestrial animals,
has a region, in the midst of which its existence is circum
scribed, and that those of the south are never met with in
the north, and vice versa".         M. Risseau, however, has dis
covered in the Mediterranean some fishes which had not hi
therto been found except in the Indian or in the Northern
seas.
    M. Delarochc has made some interesting researches as to
the depth at which each species of fish lives habitually, as
to the modes of fishing, and on the subject of the swim
ming-bladder.
                   i          PHYSIOLOGY.
    Physiological experiments of all others are those which
require most leisure and patience, while the rigorous exacti
tude so important and necessary in the sciences is more
difficult of attainment in physiology than in any other
 branch of experimental philosophy.            Humboldt, however,
while occupied on a voyage in which obstacles and dangers
 were daily increasing, directed hjp^ attention to some deli
 cate experiments on several of the phaenomena                of life.
  He has communicated the researches which he made in
 America on the respiration of the crocodile with the sharp
 beak : he was led to ascertain " that this animal, notwith
 standing the volume of its bronchia? and the structure of
 its pulmonary ceUuli, suffers in an air which is not re
 newed ; that its respiration is very slow : — in the space of
 an hour and 43 minutes, a young crocodile, three decimetres
 in length, took up only about 20 cubic centiemes of oxy
 gen from the surrounding atmosphere."
     Since his return to France, M. Humboldt, in conjunction
 with M. Provencal, has made some additional inquiries
 into (he respiration of fishes.        The experiments of these
 gentlemen, which are numerous, am) remarkable for their
 accuracy, have led them to very important results.
    The experiments of Spallanzani, and of our colleague,
 had demonstrated that it is not by decomposing water that
 fishes breathe, as some naturalists thought ; but by taking
 up the oxygen dissolved in this liquid, or by coming to the
 surface of the water they collect it immediately from the
 atmosphere.
      '
                     To these observations all our knowledge on
        •
                                                                   the

 396                French National Institute.
   the subject was confined : the nature and quantity of (he
   gases had not been established, which were absorbed by
   these animals in the act of respiration ; and the result of
   these phaenomena,     the chief object of the experiments of
   Hnmboldt and Provencal, is to elucidate these questions.
  With this view they first consider fishes in their natural
  state, and respiring river waters ; they next examine the
  action of the bronchiae on the ambient water impregnated
  with oxygen and azote, carbonic acid, or a mixture of
  hydrogen and oxygen, and they afterwards treat of the
  changes produced by fishes on different aeriform fluids in
  wh'ch ihey are plunged.
     Seven tench (ciprinus tinea) were placed under a bell-
  glass filled with river water, and which contained 4000 cu
  bic centimetres: after eight hours and a half respiration,
  the fishes were withdrawn, and the analysis of the air still
  remaining in the water showed that in this space of time the
 fishes had absorbed 145'4 of oxygen, 57'6 of azote; and
 that 132 of carbonic acid had been produced. Hence it re
 sults, as observed by our authors, " that by the respiration
 of the fishes submitted to this experiment, the volume of
 the oxygen absorbed        exceeded only by two-thirds the
 volume of the azote which had disappeared, and that no
 more than one-eighth of the former had been converted
 into carbonic acid."
     Fishes «uffer greatly in water entirely freed of air; and
 after 20 minutes they fall motionless to the bottom of the
 vessels. In pure oxygen these animals seem to respire
 with avidity, and open their bronchiae more widely.           In
azote and hydrogen, they keep their bronchiae close, seem
 to dread the contact of these gases, and die very soon after
having been plunged into the water which contains them.
Carbonic acid kills them in a few minutes : but fishes do
not absorb oxygen and azote by their bronchia? alone : the
whole surface of their bodies has the faculty of acting, on,
these gases, and of assimilating them.       After having with
drawn the fishes from water saturated with the deleterious
gases, and analysed   it,  some portion of carbonic acid was
found in the liquid  ;    but as there had been no oxygen ab
sorbed,  it   isprobable, as observed   by   Messrs. Humboldt
and Provencal, that  it    was not the result of respiration, but
thatit    had been exhaled from the surface of the body.
Such are the principal points in this work, which betides
contains other useful observations and interesting views on
the physiology of fishes, but which the limits of this re
port do not permit us to enter upon.

                    French National Institute.               sgj
    7n speaking of respiration, however, w'e cannot pass over
Sn- silence a memoir read to the Class by M. Provencal, on
the respiration of mammifers in which the nerves of the
eighth pair had been cut.      We have alreadv spoken of the
experiments which had been made to ascertain the influence
of these nerves on respiration, by which this influence was
demonstrated: some doubts, however, remained AS to the
way in which it is exercised. M. Provencal was anxious
to ascertain if the animal in which the eighth pair of nerves
had been cut, absorbed as much oxygen, and produced the
same quantity of carbonic acid, before, as after the opera
tion. Numerous experiments made with care proved that
 the animal, after the section of the nerves, absorbed less
oxygen and produced less carbonic acid than before this
section ; bul these changes are produced by gradation only.
At first the respiration does not appear weakened j subse
quently, it is effected with less strength ; and finally these
 phsenomena cease entirely, but most probably in conse
quence of the cessation of the mechanical functions of the
chest.     It was interesting to ascertain if the animal heat
diminished in ihe same proportions with respiration.          M.
Provencal therefore made all the experiments necessary for
 resolving this question ; and it would seem that in fact the
 temperature diminishes soon after the nerves have been cut
and the respiration has slackened.
    The functions of the organs whose action has been just
mentioned, are well known ; but there exists in animals a
certain number of other organs whose functions are not
evident, and as to the use of which physiologists are still
divided in opinion. Among this number is the swimming-
bladder of fishes.     This singular organ, which is only to
be found in this class of animals, is not met with in all
the species ; and it exhibits so many varieties in its organi
 zation, that at the first glance one would incline to think
 that it did not perform the same functions in some that ie
did in others.    Generally this bladder is filled with air, and
composed of two membranes.           Sometimes it communi
 cates with the stomach by a canal : at other times it has-
 no apparent communication,      and in this case it contains
a peculiar organ of a red colour and of a lamellaied struc
ture, according to the observations of M. Duvernoy. There
are some bladders, however, which are furnished with these
red bodies, and which have a canal of communication ; and
tome, but few in number, have peculiar muscles.        The opi
nions of authors vary as to the use of this organ and of its
different parts : in general it has been thought that it was
                                                      employed

   398                French National Institute.
  employed to change the specific gravity of fishes, and (hat
  for this purpose        the animal,       by means of its muscle?,
  compressed    this  organ,    and    thus  varied its dimensions ac
  cording   as it was   desirous    to  remain    in equilibrium, to as
  cend or descend in the medium in which it exists. As to
  the way in which the air gets admission, it has been thought
  that it was by means of the canal in such bladders as are
 furnished with it, and by means of the glands by secretion
 in those which have no communication externally. Besides,
 we know from the experiments of M. Biot, that this air
 is a mixture of oxygen and azote, and that its nature varies
 according to the depth at which the fish lives : so that the
 species which are procured from the bottom of the sea
 contain a greater proportion of oxygen, while those which
 are found near the surface yield more azote.               M. Delaroche
 having   collected   a  great  number     of  fishes in   the Mediterra
 nean, has describee! their swimming-bladders, and made us
 acquainted with some which were unknown before : he has
 confirmed the experiments of M. Biot ; and as to the uses of
 this organ, he adopts nearly the same results with preceding
naturalists.
    This air-bladder has also been the subject of some re
searches by Messrs. Humboldt and Provencal.                         They
wished to ascertain what were the relations between this
organ and respiration.          The chief results of their experi
ments are as follow : — The air contained in the swimming-
bladder does not depend upon the air brought into contact
with the bronchiae ; the absence of this organ does not affect
the process of respiration, but it seems to prevent the pro
duction of the carbonic acid gas.             Lastly, they have seen
tench, from which the swimming-bladder had been taken,
swim about, rise and sink in water, with as much facility
as those which are furnished with them.
    TrTese labours have given rise to a very detailed report of
M. Cuvier, in which Tie brings to view all the inquiries
which have been undertaken as to the swimming-bladder of
fishes, and in which he again takes notice of the various
questions which have arisen on the subject.                 After a pro
found discussion, he arrives at some general results which
we have mentioned above, and details every thing which
still remains doubtful on the subject*.
    There are some other experiments from which pbysiolo-
gists may derive great advantage.            These relate to the action
exercised by substances of various kinds on the bodies of
                                              p. 291 — 302.
                  •
                     See the present volume,
                                                                 animals

              De Luc's Electric Column.— Patents.            399
animals when introduced into the circulation.          Medicine,
 indeed, affords many experiments of this description : but
they are still too few in comparison with those which might
have been tried.
                     .    [To be continued.]
                         LX. Intelligence.
      _            DE LUC'S ELECTRIC COLUMN.
      In  our last number (p. 317), by a typographical omission
 we stated that " since that time (viz. 25th March) they
.(the bells) have been known once to cease ringing." — The
  sentence should have read      "  since thai time they have not
 been known once to cease ringing."
      We have since received notice, that on the 21st of May
  the small bells connected with De Luc's electric column
  were still ringing, and it was supposed had continued so
  without intermission since the 25th of March.
       We are also desired to request that those of our readers
  who may have constructed columns of the kind alluded to,
   will favour us with such observations upon them as they
  may make from time to time.
            LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
       To Luke Hopkinson, of Holborn, in the county of
   Middlesex, coach and harness maker, for certain improve
   ments to a bridle bit, or bits for bridles used in driving or
   riding horses or other animals. May 2, 1810.
       To Daniel Beaumont Payne, of the city of Bath, banker,
   for his new plan or method for more accurately and expe
   ditiously expressing and ascertaining the number, dates, and
   sums in bank bills, notes, and other securities for money,
   and preventing forgeries, frauds, and losses, by defacing or
   altering the same.     M'ay 2.
       To William Clerk, esq. advocate, for his method for pre
    venting smoke, dust, and the danger of fire, and for in
   creasing and regulating heat from stoves and chimney fire
   places for heating rooms, halls, passages, and stair-cases in
   public-buildings and dwelling-houses, and all other apart-     +
   ments where regulated heat and cleanliness are desirable,
    without obstructing the view of the burning fuel.     May 2.
        To Sebastian Erard, of Great Marlborough -Street, in the
    county of Middlesex, for certain improvements on piano
    fortes and harp. May 2.
        To John Maiben, of Perth, in the county of Perth,
    sadler and ironmonger, for certain apparatus for making
    carbonated hydrogen gas from pit-coal, and for using the
    same for lighting mills, factories, houses, lamps, &c. the
    lights being regulated by means of syphons.       May 2.
                                                        METEORO-

 400                                          Meteorology.
                         Meteorological table,
                      By Mr. Caret, of the
                                           Strand*
                                        For May 1810.
                           Thermometer.                              1 M
                                   j2                              Q • »
                                                                  j
                                        u .
   Days   of                            O u     Height of             1
                      -S c
   Month.
                                Noon.   P-6    tne BarOm.
                                                                    Degrees
                                                                                              Weather}
                                                                              Hygron
                      P    §                     Inches.
                      JO                                            nessbv
  April      44
            27                 58°      47°     30-16                67                Fair
            28
             47                64       48          •14              74                Fair
          80 48                69       52          •05              76                Fair
          30 41                68       54      89' 98               86                 Fair
    May     I         49       67       44          •85              68                Fair
              9       44       52       46          •80              45                Cloudy
                      44       49       45          •70              29                Cloudy
            6 5 4 $
                      45       47       40          •76              20                Cloudy
                      40       51       36          •80              36                Fair
                      40       50       40          •80              33                Fair
                      41       48       46          •55               0                Rain
            8 1                         50
                      49       69                   •67              51                Fair
            9         52       61       50          •80             40                 Cloudy
          10          59       65       51          •9S             42                 Cloudy
          11          47       55       42     30-08                43                 Fair
          19          42       56       45     29*97                41                 Cloudy
          13          50       47       47          '72              22                Cloudy
          14          49       59       49          •60             51                 Fair
          15          49       55       50          •33              15                Cloudy
          16          48       61       49          •45              25                Fair
          17 40                54       52          •46                                Rain
          18 40                43       44                            O 0
                                                    ¦56                                Rain
          19 42                59       44          •98             41                 Fair
          20 45                60       48          •95             47                 Fair
          81          57       61       52          •61             40             Fair
          22          54       60       49          •87             37             Showery
          23          50       60       48     30-10                42             Fair
          24          49       61       47          •13             76             Fair
          25          47       60       49          •05             46                 Fair
          26          46       68       47     2993                 61                 Fair
              N.B. The         Barometer's height         is   taken at one o'clock.
                                             ERRATUM.
Page 303, of the present volume— Article Royal Society, Mr. Gro«nbridg»,V
            formula— for " tang.               2-
                                      3-36 r" read " tang. Z— 3-86        »                        r"—
               representing Zenith distance.
               Z

                               [   401      ]
LXI.      The Bakerian Lecture for 1809.                 On some •new
   Electrochemical Researches on various Objects, particu
   larly Ike metallic Bodies, from Ike Alkalies, and Earths,
   and on some fiomlinations of Hydrogen.                    By HUM-'
   PHRY DAvr, Esq. Sec. R.S. F.R.'S. E. M.E.I.A.*
                           I.  Introduction.
A HAVE employed no inconsiderable portion of                    the time
that has elapsed, since the last session of the Royal Society,
in pursuing the train of experimental inquiries on the ap
plication of Electricity to Chemistry, the commencement
and progress of which this learned body has done me the
honour to publish in their Transactions.
   In this communication I shall, as formerly, state the re
sults.     I hope they will be found to lead to some views,
and applications, not unconnected with the objects of the
Bakerian lecture : and though many of them are far from
having attained that precision, and distinctness, which                 I
could wish, yet still I flatter myself, that they will afford
elucidations of some important and abstruse departments
of chemistry, and tend to assist the progress of philoso
phical truth.
II,  Some new Experiments           on I fie Metah from        the Jlxed
                                 Alkalies.
   In   the paper in which I first made known potassium
and   sodium to the Royal Society, I ventured to consider
these bodies according to the present state of our know
ledge, as undecompounded, and potash arid soda as metallic
oxides, capable of being decomposed and recomposed, like
other bodies of this class, and with similar phenomena.
   Since that time, various repetitions of the most obvious
of the experiments on this subject have been made in dif
ferent parts of Europe.             The generality of enlightened
chemists have expressed themselves satisfied both with the
experiments, and the conclusions drawn from them: but
as usually happens       in a state of activity in science, and
when the objects of inquiry are new, and removed from
the common order of facts, some inquirers have given hy
pothetical explanations of the phenomena, different from
those I adopted.
   MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard, as I have mentioned
            • from Philosophical  Trantactions for 1810, Parti
Vol.   35.  No.   146.  June 1810,                  Cc                'on

402          On some new Electrochemical Researches
on a former occasion, suppose potassium and sodium to be
compounds of potash and soda with hydrogen ; a similar
opinion seems to be entertained by M. Hitter.   M. Curau-
dau* affects to consider them as combinations of charcoal,
or of charcoal and hvdroiren, with the alkalies; and an
Jnqmrerf in our own couniry regards them as composed
of oxi/gen and hydrogen.
   I shall examine such of those notions only as have been
connected with experiments, and I shall not occupy the
time of the society with any criticisms on matters of mere
 speculation.
   In my two last communications, I have given an account
of various experiments on the action of potassium upon
 ammonia, the process from which MM. Gay Lussac and
Thenard derive their inferences.         At the time that these
 papers were    written,  I had seen   no  other account of the
experiments     of  the  French  chemists, than one given in a
number    of  the  Monitcur; and as this was merely a sketch,
which I conceived might be imperfect, I did not enter into
a minute examination of it.         I have since seen a detail of
their inquiry in the second volume of the Mem. d'Arcueil,
a copy of which M Berthollet has had the goodness to send
me, and the publication of which is dated June 7, 1809:
and from this detail, it seems that they still retain their
opinion ; but upon precisely the same grounds as those to
which I have before referred.        That no step of the discus
sion may be lost to the society, I shall venture to state
fully their method of operation, and of reasoning.
   They say that they heated potassium J in ammonia,
and they found that a considerable quantity of ammonia
was absorbed;        and hydrogen produced;         and that the
potassium    became     converted into  an olive-coloured fusible
substance; by heating this substance strongly, they ob
tained three-fifths of the ammonia again, two-fifths as
ammonia, one-fifth as hydrogen and nitrogen ; by add
ing a little water to the residuum, they procured the re
maining two-fifths, and found in the vessel in which the
operation was carried on, nothing but potash. — Again, it is
slated, that by treating a new quantity of metal with the
ammonia disengaged from the fusible substance, they again
obtained hydrogen, and an absorption of the ammonia ;
and by carrying on the operation, they affirm that they
         *  Jimrnilile Physiqitr, June 1808.
         t  Nicholson's Journal, August 1809, p. 258.
         t Mtm. (fdrcuei;, torn.ii.  page 309.
                                                             can

                       on various Objects,                       403
can procure from a given quantity of ammonia, more than
its volume of hydrogen.
   Whence, they ask, can the hydrogen proceed ? — Shall
it be admitted that it is from the ammonia ? But this, say
they, is impossible ; for all the ammonia is reproduced.         It
must then come from the water which may be supposed
to be in the ammonia, or from the metal itself.           But the
experiments     of  M.  Berthollet,  jun. prove   that  ammonia
does not contain any sensible quantity of water.           There
fore, say they, the hydrogen gas must be produced from
the metal ; and as, when this gas is separated, the metal is
transform's "nl° P°tash, the metal appears to be nothing
more than a combination of hydrogen, and that alkali.
    It is obvious, that even supposing the statement of these
gentlemen correct, their conclusions may easily be contro
verted,    They affirm that all the ammonia is reproduced)
but they do not obtain it without the addition of water,
And of the oxygen which this would give to the potas
sium, and of the hydrogen which it might furnish, to re
produce the ammonia, they take no notice.
    I have shown, by numerous experiments, many of which
have been repeated before members of this society, that
the results obtained, by applying heat to the fusible sub
stance, are very different from those stated by the ingenious
French chemists, when the operations are conducted in a
refined and accurate manner.
    In proportion as more precautions are taken to prevent
moisture from being communicated to           it,
                                                so  in proportion
is less ammonia regenerated     ;   and I have seldom obtained
as much as    ,'„ of the quantity absorbed. And have never
                                                    I
procured    hydrogen and nitrogen, in the proportions in
which they exist      in ammonia    ; but there has been always
an excess of nitrogen.
   The processes which     I have detailed    in
                                               the last Bakerian
lecture, and in the appendix to         it,
                                          show this; and they
likewise show that     a considerable quantity of potassium         is
always revived.
 I    have lately performed the experiments,        in    manner
                                                            a
which I     proposed, page 4o8 of the last volume of the
Transactions [Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiv. p. 344.] and the re
sults have been very satisfactory; as 'far as they relate to
the question of the nature of potassium.
      employed     tube of platma bored from        single piece,
                a a
 I                                                  a
which having       slop-cock and adaptor of brass, connected
with the mercurial apparatus, could be used as         retort; the
                                                        a
                            C  c   2                        potassium

404         On some new Electrochemical      Researches
 potassium was employed in quantities of from three to four
 grains, and the absorption of the ammonia conducted as
 usual, in a retort of glass free from metallic oxides; and in
a tray of platina.
    In some of the processes, in which the heat was rapidly
 applied, some of the gray matter, which I have formerly
 described as a pyrophorus, passed over in distillation, and
in these cases there was a considerable deficiency of hy
 drogen, as well as nitrogen, in the tesults of the experi
ment ; but when the heat was very slowly raised, the loss
was much less considerable, and in several cases I ob
tained more than four-fifths of the potassium which had
been employed ; and very nearly the whole of the nitrogen,
existing in the ammonia that had been acted upon.
    I shall give an account of one process, conducted with
scrupulous attention.      The barometer was at 30-2'n-, ther
mometer at 54° Fahrenheit.         Three grains and a half of
potassium     were  heated   in 12   cubical inches of ammo
nia, 7'5 were absorbed, and 3'2 of hydrogen evolved.
The fusible substance was not exposed to the atmosphere,
but was covered with dry mercury, and immediately intro
duced into the tube; which, with its adaptors, was ex
hausted, and 'filled with hydrogen.         They contained to
gether -!*„-  of a cubical   inch.   The  heat   was very slowly
applied by means of a fire of charcoal, till the tube was
ignited to whiteness.       Nine cubical inches of gas were
given off, and 4 of a cubical inch remained in the retort
and adaptors. Of the 9 cubical inches, J- of a cubical inch
was ammonia, 10 measures of the permanent gas, mixed
with 7'5 of oxygen, and acted upon by the electrical spark,
left a residuum of 7*5. The quantity of potassium formed,
 was such as to generate by its action upon water three
 cubical inches and -;% of hydrogen gas.
    Now if this experiment be calculated upon, it will be
 found, that 7'5 — '2 = to 7'3 of ammonia, by its electrical
 decomposition, would afford about 13'1 of permanent gas,
 containing 3'4 of nitrogen, and 9-7 of hydrogen.        But the
 3'2 cubical inches of hydrogen, evolved in the first part of
 the process, added to the 5-8 evolved in the second part of
 the process, =9; and the nitrogen in the 8'8 cubical inches
 of gas (or the 9 — '2 of ammonia) will be about 3, and
 if we estimate "34 of hydrogen, and '16 of nitrogen, in
 the *5, remaining in the relort ; there will be very little
 difference in the results of the analysis of ammonia by
 electricity, and by the action of potassium; and calculating
                                                             vipon

                       on various  Oljecls.                 405
 upon the -fa of hydrogen pre-existing in the tube and
 adaptors, the loss of hydrogen will be found proportionally
 father greater than that of nitrogen.
    In another experiment in which three grains of potassium
were employed in the same manner, 6-78 cubical inches of
ammonia were found to be absorbed, and 2'48 of hydrogen
Only generated. The distillation was performed, the adaptors
and tube being full of common air: 8 cubical inches of
gas were produced; and there must have remained in the
tubes and adaptors, the same quantity of residual air as in
the process last described.
    The 8 cubical inches of gas contained scarcely % of a
 cubical inch of ammonia; and the unabsorbable part de
tonated with oxygen, in the proportion of 11 to 6, gave a
residuum of 7'5. —The barometer was at 30-2in>, thermo
meter at 52° Fahrenheit.       Dr. Pearson, Mr. Allen, and
Mr. Pepys were present during the whole of these opera
tions, and kindly assisted in the progress of them.
    Now 6-78 — -4 of ammonia=6'38, and this quantity of
gas decomposed by electricity, would afford 11 '4 of per
manent gas, consisting of 2-9 nitrogen, and 8'5 hydrogen;
but there are produced in this experiment, of hydrogen,
 2-48 in the first operation, and 4-28 in the second, and
considering the nitrogen in the permanent gas as 3'32, -8
must be subtracted for the common air; which would
give 2' 52 for the nitrogen generated; and to these must be
added, the quantity of hydrogen and nitrogen in the tubes
and adaptors.
    The quantity of potassium regenerated was sufficient to
 produce 2'9 cubical inches of hydrogen.
    In all experiments of this kind, a considerable quantity
of black matter separated, during the time the potassium
in the tube was made to act upon water.
    This substance was examined.       It was in the state of a
fine powder.     It had the lustre of plumbago, it was a con
ductor of electricity.     When it was heated, it took fire at
a temperature below ignition ; and after combustion, no
thing remained but minutely divided platina.
    I exposed some of it to heat in a retort containing oxy
gen gas; there was a diminution of the gas; and a small
quantity of moisture condensed on the upper part of the
retort, which proved to be mere water.
    I made two or three experiments, with a view to ascer
tain the quantity of this substance formed, and to deter
mine more fully its nature.     I found that in the process in
 which from three to four grains of potassium were made
                                C c 3                        to

406           On some new Electrochemical Researches
to act upon       ammonia in a vessel of platina, and afterwards
distilled in      contact with platina, there were always from
four to six       grains of this powder formed ; but 1 have ad
vanced no        further in determining its nature, than in as
certaining,       that it is platina combined with a minute
quantity of       matter, which affords water by combustion in
oxygen.
   In the processes on the action of potassium and ammo
nia, in which iron tubes were used, as appears from the
experiments detailed in the last Bakerian lecture, and the
appendix, there is always a loss of nitrogen, a conversion
of a portion of potassium into potash, and a production of
hydrogen.         When copper tubes are employed, the hydro
gen bears     a  smaller proportion to the nitrogen ; and more
potassium is revived.
   In these experiments, in which platina has been used,
there is little or no loss of potassium or nitrogen ; but a
loss smaller or greater of hydrogen.
   It will be a-ked, On what do these circumstances de
pend ? Does the affinity of certain metals for potassium
prevent it from gaining oxygen from ammonia, and do
platina and copper combine with a small quantity of hy
drogen, or its basis?          Or are there some sources of inac
curacy   in   those    processes, in which nitrogen has appeared
to be decomposed ?          The discussion of these difficult pro
blems    will   be   considered   in that part of this lecture, in
which the nature of ammonia will be illustrated by some
new experiments.           The object of the present part of the
inquiry   is  the   demonstration    of a part of chemical doctrine,
no less important and fundamental to a great mass of rea
soning, namely, that by the operation of potassium upon
ammonia, it is not a metallic body that is decompounded
but the volatile alkali, and that the hydrogen produced does
not arise from the potassium,, as is asserted by the French
chemists,' but from the ammonia, as I have always sup
posed ; the potassium in the most refined experiments is
recovered,      but neither the ammonia nor its elements can
be reproduced, except by intioducing a new body, which
contains oxygen and hydrogen.
   I have made an experiment upon the action of sodium
on ammonia, with the same precautions as in the experi
 ments just detailed, a tray, and the same tube of platina
being employed.
   3'-rV grains of sodium I found absorbed 9- 1 of ammonia,
and produced about 4-5 of hydrogen, and the fusible sub
stance, which was very similar. to that from potassium,
                                                           distilled,

                        on various Objects,                  407
 distilled, did not give off TL of the ammonia that had dis
 appeared ; and this small quantity 1 am inclined to attri
 bute to the presence of moisture.     The permanent gas pro
 duced, equalled twelve cubical inches, and, by detonation
 with oxygen, proved to consist of nearly two of hydrogen
 to one of nitroo-en.     Sodium was regenerated, but an ac
 cident prevented me from ascertaining the quantity.
    Whoever will consider with attention, the mere visible
 phenomena of the action of sodium on ammonia, cannot,
 I conceive, tail to be convinced that it is the volatile alkali,
 and not the metal, which is decompounded in this process.
    As sodium does not act so violently upon oxygen, as
 potassium ; and as soda does not absorb water from the
atmosphere, with nearly so much rapidity as potash, so
 dium can be introduced into ammonia, much freer from
 moisture, than potassium.        Hence, when it is heated in
ammonia, there is no effervescence, or at least one scarcely
perceptible.     Its tint changes to bright azure, and from
bright azure to olive green, it becomes quietly and silently
converted into the fusible substance, which forms upon
 the surface, and then flows off into the tray.     It emits no
elastic fluid, and gains its new form, evidently, by combin
ing with one part of the elementary matter of ammonia,
whilst another part is suffered to escape in the form of
hydrogen.
    It will not be necessary for me to enter into a very mi
nute experimental examination of the opinion of M. Curau-
 dau, that the metals of ihe alkalies are composed of the
alkalies merely united to charcoal; the investigation upon
 which he has founded his conclusions, is neither so refined,
nor so difficult, as that which has been just examined.
This gentleman has been misled by the existence of char
coal, as an accidental constituent in the metals he employed,
in a manner much more obvious, than that in which
MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard have been misled by the
moisture which interfered with their results.
    M.Curaudau states, that when sodium is oxidated, carbo
nic acid is formed.      This I have never found to be the case,
except when the sodium was covered by a film of naphtha.
I burnt two grains of sodium in eight cubical inches of
oxygen : nearly two cubical inches of oxygen were absorbed,
and soda in a state of extreme dryncss, so that it could not
be liquefied by a heat below redness, formed.        This soda
did not give out an atom of carbonic acid, during its so
lution in muriatic acid. Three grains of sodium were
made to act upon water; they decomposed it with the
                               Cc 4                phenomena

408          On some neiv Electrochemical Researches
phaenomena      which I have described in the Bakerian lecture
for 1807-      Nearly six cubical inches of hydrogen were
produced.      No  charcoal separated ; no carbonic acid was
evolved, or found dissolved in the water. Whether the
metals of potash or soda were formed by electricity, or by
the action of ignited iron on the alkalies, the results were
the same.      When charcoal is used in experiments on po
tassium or sodium, they usually contain a portion of it in
combination ; and it appears from M. Curaudau's method
of decomposing the alkalies, that his metals must have
been carburets not of potash and soda, but of potassium
and sodium.
    M. Hitter's argument, in favour of potassium and sodium
being compounds of hydrogen, is their extreme lightness.
This argument I had in some measure anticipated, in my
paper on the decomposition of the earths ; no one is more
easily answered. Sodium absorbs much more oxygen than
potassium, and on the hypothesis of hydrogenation, must
contain much more hydrogen ; yet though soda is said to
be lighter than potash, in the proportion of 13 to 17
nearly*, yet sodium is heavier than potassium in the pro
portion of 9 to 7 at least.
    On the theory which I have adopted, this circumstance
is what ought to be expected. Potassium has a much
stronger affinity for oxygen than sodium ; and must con
dense it much more, and the resulting rugber specific gra
vity of the combination is a necessary consequence.
    M. Rittcr has stated, that of        atl
                                        the metallic substances
he tried for producing potassium           by
                                          negative Voltaic elec
tricity, tellurium was the only one            by
                                           which he could not
procure it. And he states the very curious fact, that when
a  circuit of electricity   completed
                           is               water, in  means of
                                                            by
two surfaces of tellurium, oxygen        given off at the posi
                                           is
tive surface, no hydrogen at the negative surface, but                a
brown powder, which he regards as         hydruret of tellurium,
                                               a
is  formed and separates from it; and he conceives that the
reason why tellurium prevents the metallization of potash
is, thatit  hasa  stronger attraction for hydrogen than that
alkali.
   These circumstances of the action of tellurium upon
water, are so different from those presented                by
                                                      the action
of other metals, that they can hardly fail to arrest the at
tention of chemical inquirers.        have made some experi
                                      I
ments on the subject, and on the action of tellurium on
              HastenfraU, Annul, de Cliim. tome xxviii. p. 11.
                                                             potassium,

                          on various Oly'ccts.                               409
potassium, and I find that instead of proving that potassium
is a compound of potash and hydrogen, they confirm the
idea of its being as yet like other metals undecompounded.
   When tellurium is made the positive surface in water,
oxygen is given off; when it is made the negative surface,
the voltaic power being from a battery composed of a
number of plates exceeding 300, a purple fluid is seen to
separate fiom      it,
                    and diffuse itself through the water; the
water gradually becomes opake and turbid, and at last de
posits    brown powder.
          a                   The purple fluid            is,
                                                       find,   I so      a
lution of compound of tellurium and hydrogen in water;
              a
which, in being diffused,        acted upon
                                      is                  by
                                                   the oxygen of
the common air, dissolved in the water, and gradually loses
a  part of its hydrogen, and becomes           solid hydruret of
                                                     a
tellurium.    The compound of hydrogen and tellurium pro
duced at the negative pole when uncombined                      is
                                                         gaseous at
common temperatures, and when muriatic acid or sul
phuric acid are present in the water,           not dissolved, but
                                                it   is
is given off, and may be collected and examined.
 I    acted upon potash        means of
                               by           surface of tellurium,
                                                a
negatively electrified,        a by
                               part of the large Voltaic appa
ratus lately constructed on       new plan in the laboratory of
                                      a
the Royal Institution, an account of which, with figures,
will be found annexed to this paper. 1000 double plates
were used.     The potash was in the common state, as to
dryness. There was         most violent action, and
                              a
                                                           solution  a
of the tellurium, with much heat, and metallic mass,      a
not unlike nickel          colour, was formed; which when
                          in
touched       by
             water, did not inflarne nor effervesce, but ren
dered the water of         beautiful purple colour, and when
                              a
thrown into water entirely dissolved, making           bright pur
                                                                a
 ple tincture.     Itimmediately occurred to me, that the
whole of the hydrogen, which in common cases would
have been furnished from the decomposition of the water
had in this instance combined with the tellurium, and that
the tellurettfd hydrogen (if the name may be
                                                         used) had
formed with the oxidated potassium, i.e. the potash, a
 peculiar compound, soluble                in
                                    water; and this       found to
                                                                I
be the case; for on pouring         little diluted muriatic acid
                                           a
into the mixture,       effervesced violently, and gave
                         it
                                                              smell      a
very like that of sulphuretted hydrogen; metallic tellurium
was formed where         came in contact with the air, and
                         it
muriate of potash was found dissolved in the mixture.
     Itseemed evident from this fact, that          the action of
                                                          in
tellurium negatively electrified upon potash, potassium was
                                                          produced

410        On some nSiv Electrocltemical Researches
produced as in all other cases, and that it combined with
the tellurium, and formed a peculiar alloy ; and this opinion
was further confirmed, by the immediate action of potas
sium upon tellurium.       When these metals were gently
heated in a retort of green glass, filled with hydrogen gas,
they combined with great energy, producing most vivid
heat and light, and they composed an alloy of a dark cop
per hue, brittle, infusible at a heat below redness, and
possessing a crystalline fracture.   When the tellurium was
in excess in this mixture, or even nearly equal to the po
tassium in quantity, no hydrogen was evolved by the action
of the alloy upon water ; but the compound of telluretted
hydrogen and potash was formed, which remained dis
solved in the fluid, and which was easily decomposed by
an acid.
   The very intense affinity of potassium and tellurium for
each other, induced me to conceive that the decomposition
of potash might be easily effected, by acting on the oxide
of tellurium and potash at the same time, by heated char
coal ; and I soon proved that this was the case.        About
100 grains of oxide of tellurium, and 20 of potash, were
mixed with 12 grains of well burnt charcoal in powder,
and heated in a green glass retort ; before the retort be
came red there was a violent action, much carbonic acid
was given off, a vivid light appeared in the retort, and there
was found in it the alloy of tellurium and potassium.
   In attempting to reduce some oxide of tellurium by char
coal, which Mr. Hatchett had the kindness to give me
for the purposes of these experiments, and which must
have been precipitated by potash, or 'from a solution in
potash, I found that a sufficient quantity of alkali adhered
to it, even afterit   had been well washed, to produce an.
alloy  of  potassium and tellurium   ;  but in this alloy the
potassium   was   in very small quantity.   It was of     asteel
gray colour, very brittle,  and much   more  fusible  than  tel
lurium.
 I   shall not arrest the progress of discussion,   byentering
at present into  a   minute detail of the properties of the
aeriform compound of tellurium and hydrogen              shall
                                                      ;  I
mention merely      some  of  its  most  remarkable  qualities,
and agencies, which, as will be shown towards the close
of this paper, tend to elucidate many points immediately
connected with the subject in question.        The compound
of tellurium  and  hydrogen  is   more analogous to sulphuret
ted hydrogen,   than  to any other   body.   The smell of the
                                                              two

                                 bn various Otjectst                              411
two substances is almost precisely the same*.        Its aqueous
solution is of a claret colour ; but it soon becomes brown,
and deposits tellurium, by exposure to air.       When disen
gaged from an alkaline solution by muriatic acid, it reddens
moistened litmus; but after being washed in a small quan
tity of water, it loses this property ; but in this case like
wise it is partially decomposed by the air in the water; so
that it is not easy to say, whether the power is inherent in
it, or depends upon the diffusion of         small quantity of
                                                       a
muriatic acid through it.      In other respects,       resembles       it
a  weak acid, combining with water, and with the alkalies.
It  precipitates most metallic solutions.                     It
                                                   instantly de    is
composed       byoxymuriatic acid, depositing      film, at first  a
metallic, but which          soon converted into muriate of
                                    is
tellurium     f.
    As arsenic has an affinity for hydrogen,        occurred to    it
me as probable, that        would present some <phaenomena
                                   it
analogous to those offered by tellurium, in its action upon
potassium, and       its operation upon water, when electri
                           in
fied.
   Arsenic made the negative surface,        water,    in   means            by
of part of the new battery, containing 600 double plates,
      a
became dark-coloured, and threw down            brown powder  a                       ;
but     likewise gave off
         it                   considerable quantity of inflam
                                         a
mable gas.
    Arsenic negatively electrified         solution of potash,
                                                 in   a
likewise afforded elastic matter but in this case the whole
                                             ;
solution took      deep tint of brown, and was pellucid; but
                       a
it became turbid, and slowly deposited       brown powder,a                           by
the action of an acid. When arsenic was made the nega-
   * In some experiments, made on the action of tellurium and potassium, in
 the laboratory of my friend John George Children, esq. of Tunbridge, in
which Mr. Children, Mr. Pepys, and Mr. Warburton co-operated, the ana
logy between the two substances struck us* so forcibly, as for some time to
induce us to conceive that tellurium might contain sulphur, not manifested
in any other way but by the action of Voltaic electricity, or by potassium            ¦,
and some researches made upon the habitudes of different metallic sul-
phurets, at the Voltaic negative surface, rather confirmed the suspicion for      ;
most of the iiilphurets that we tried, which were conductors of electricity,
absorbed hydrogen in the Voltaic circuit.      The great improbability, how
ever, of the circumstance that sulphuric acid, or sulphur in any state of oxy
genation could exibt In    metallic solution, which was not manifested by the
                            a
action of barytes, induced me to resist the inference and further researches,
                                                          ;
made in the laboratory of the Royal Institution, proved that the substance
in question was new and singular combination.
                   a
     +From the results of one experiment which         tried,
                                                       I        seems that tel
                                                                    it
lurium, merely by being heated strongly in dry hydrogen, enters into com
bination with it. An accident prevented me from ascertaining whether the
compound so formed,       exactly the same as 'that described iu the text.
                            is
                                                                                  tive

412             On some new Electrochemical                Researches
live surface, in contact with solid potash, an alloy of arserric
and potassium was Formed/of a dark gray colour, and per
fectly metallic ; it gave off arseniuretted hydrogen by the
action of water \fith inflammation, and deposited a browB
powder.
    When potassium and arsenic* were heated together in
hydrogen gas, they combined with such violence as to pro
duce the phenomena of inflammation, and an alloy was
produced of the same kind as that formed by means of the
Voltaic hattery.
    As tellurium and arsenic both combine with hydrogen,
it appeared to me probable, that by the action of alloys of
potassium, with tellurium and arsenic, upon ammonia,
some new phenomena would he obtained, and' probably,
still further proofs of the decomposition of the volatile al
kali, in this process afforded ; and this T found was actually                     ,
the case.
    When the easily fusible alloy of tellurium with potas
sium, in small quantity, was heated in ammonia, the sur
face lost its metallic splendour, and a dark brown matter
was formed, which gave ammonia by exposure to air; and
the elastic fluid, which was generated in this operation,
consisted of four-sixths nitrogen, instead of being pure
hydrogen, as in the case of the action of potassium alone.
    The alloy of arsenic and potassium, by its action upon
ammonia, likewise produced a gas which was principally
nitrogen ; so that if it be said that the metal, and not the
volatile alkali, is decomposed in processes of this kind, it
must be considered in some cases* as a compound of nitro
gen, and in others a compound of hydrogen ; which are
contradictory assumptions.
    None of the chemists who have speculated upon the
imaginary hydrogenation of potash, as far as my know
ledge extends, have brought forward any arguments of
analysis, or synthesis.            Their reasonings have been found
ed, either upon distant analogies, or upon experiments in
   * In reasoning upon the curious experiment of Cadet, of the production of
a volatile pyrophorusby     the distillation of acetite of potash, and white oxide
of arsenic, Fourcroy Connais. Chem. torn. viii. p. 1 97, [ conceived it probable,
that this pyrophorus was a volatile alloy of potassium and arsenic.            But
from a repetition of the process I find, that though potash is decompounded
in this operation, yet that the volatile substance is not an alloy of potassium,
 but contains charcoal and arsenic, probably with hydrogen.             The gase»
 not absoibable by water given off in this operation, are peculiar.          Their
 smell is intensely foetid.   They are inflammable, and seem to contain char
 coal, arsenic, and hydrogen-, whether they are mixtures of various gases,
 or a liiigle compound, I am not at present able to decide,
                                                                          which

                            (m various Objects.                          413
which agent, which            they did not suspect were concerned.
No person, I believe,            has attempted to show that when
potassium or sodium is burnt in oxygen gas, water is form
ed, or that water is generated when potassium decompose*
any of the acids*; and no one has been able to form potas
sium, by combining hydrogen with potash. I stated in.
the Bakerian lecture for 1807, that when potassium and
sodium were burnt in oxygen gas, the pure alkalies were
formed in a state of extreme dryness; and that 100 parts
of potassium absorb about 18 parts of oxygen, and 100
parts of soda about 34 parts.             Though, in the experiments
from which these deductions were made, very small quan
tities only of the materials were employed ; yet still, from
frequent repetitions of the process, I hoped that they would
approach to accuracy ; and I am happy to find that this
is the case ; for the results differ very little in some ex
periments which I have made upon considerable portions
of potassium and sodium, procured by chemical decom
position.
     When potassium is burnt in trays of platina, in oxygen
 gas that has been dried by ignited potash, the absorption
of oxygen is about 44 of a cubical inch for every grain of
 the metal consumed j and wheu sodium is burnt in a si
 milar manner, about a cubical inch is taken up for every
             '
 grain f. The alkalies so formed, are only imperfectly fu-
 eible at a red heat; and do not, like the easily fusible alka
 lies, give indications of the presence of moisture.
      M. D'Arcet has shown ny some very well conducted
 inquiries, that potash and soda J, in their common state^
 contain a considerable proportion of water; and M. Ber-
     • When in October 1807, I obtained a dark-coloured       combustible sub
 stance from boracic acid, at the negative pole in the Voltaic circuit, I con
 cluded that the acid was probably decomposed, according to the common
 law of electrical decomposition.     In March 1808, I made further experi
 ments on this substance, and ascertained that it produced acid matter by
 combustion; and I announced the decomposition in a public lecture de
 livered in the Royal Institution March 12.        Soon after 1 heated a small
 quantity of potassium, in contact with dry boracic acid, no water was given
 off in the operation, and I obtained the same substance as I had procured
 by electricity.   MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard have likewise operated upon
 boracic acid, by potassium, and they conclude that they have decompounded
 it ; but this does not follow from their theory, unless they prove that water
 is given offin the operation, or combined with the borate of potash: the
 legitimate conclusion to be drawn from the processes, on their hypothesis,
 was, that they had made a hydruret of boracic acid.
     f The quantities of gas given out by the operation of water, are in a si
 milar ratio. Sec page 43 of the last Bakerian lecture [Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii,
 p. 432,] and page 26 of this paper [p. 407_and 408 preceding.]
     | Annalu de Chime t Nov. 1808, page 1J5.
                                                                       thollet

  4  J4          On some new Electrochemical Researches
  thollet concludes, that 100 parts of potash, that have been
 kept for some time in fusion, contain 13-89 parts of water,
 which is lost when the alkali enlers into combination with
 muriatic acid ; and the same sagacious observer, from some
 very minute experiments, infers, that muriate of potash,
 which has been ignited, contains in the 100 parts 66'66
 potash, and 33-34 muriatic acid, a determination which
 differs very little from that of Bucholz.
      To determine the relation of the dryness of the potash,
 formed from potassium, to that which has been considereJ
 as freed from the whole or the greatest part ot its water, iu
 muriate of potash, I made several experiments.                   I first at
 tempted      to   convert    a   certain  quantity   of   potassium into
 potash, upon        the    surface   of   liquid  muriatic   acid ; but in
 this case the heat was so intense, and hydrogen holding
 potassium in solution was disengaged with so much ra
pidity, that there was a considerable loss of alkali ; yet
even under these circumstances, I obtained from ten parts
 of potassium 17 '5 of dry muriate of potash. The most
successful and the only mode which I employed, that can
be entirely depended upon, was that of converting potas
sium into muriate of potash, in muriatic acid gas.                    1 shall
give    the results   of   two   experiments      made   in  this manner:
 five grains of potassium inserted in a tray of platina, were
made to act upon 1Q cubical inches of muriatic acid gas,
that had been exposed to muriate of lime; by the appli
cation of a gentle heat, the potassium took, fire, and burnt
with a beautiful red light * ; and the whole mass appeared
in igneous fusion ; a little muriate of potash in the state of
a white powder, sublimed and collected in the top of the
vessel in which the experiment was made.                        Nearly 14
cubical inches of muriatic acid gas were absorbed, and
about five of hydrogen were produced.                     The increase of
weight      of   the  tray   was   about    4-5   grains; and it did not
lose any weight by being ignited.
     The second experiment was conducted with still more
attention to minuteness.              Eight grains of potassium were
employed       ;  above    22   cubical   inches of muriatic acid gas
were consumed ; the potassium burnt with the same bril
liant phenomena as in the last experiment, and the in
crease of weight of the tray was 6 \ grains.                 The muriate
of potash was kept for some minutes m fusion in the tray,
    * As a retort exhausted of common air was lined, the smalt quantity of
residual common air may have been connected with this vividness of com
bustion.                            v
                                                                           till

                             on various Objects.                                       415
till   a white fume began                but
                                      to rise from         it,
                                                did not lose        it
the -jV of   grain
               a            in
                      weight.        the        After
                                          muriate of potash
had been washed out of the tray, and      had been cleaned     it
and dried,      was found to have lost about
                   it                              third of               a             a
grain, which was platina      metallic state, and that had
                                       in   a
alloyed willi the potassium where     was      contact with
                                                      it            in
the tray, during the combustion.             There was no appearance
of  any   water   being separated      in  the  process.      little mu  A
riate of potash sublimed; this was washed out of the re
tort, and obtained           by
                              evaporation           did not equal
                                                      :   it          of           i
a  grain.
    Now   if  the data for calculation be taken from this last
experiment,        grains of potassium will combine with 1-4
                   8
grains    of   oxvgen, to form 9-4 grains of potash, and 6*6
 l-4 = 5-2, the quantity of muriatic acid combined with the
potash, which would give                   in
                                         the 100 parts       muriate of  in
potash,    35-6    of acid,    and   64-4    of potash     but 35-6 of
                                                                     ;
muriatic acid, according to M. Berihollet's estimation,
would demand 71*1 of alkali,                  the state of dryness in
                                                 in
which     it  exists in muriate of potash, and 71* 1—64*4 =
fi*7— so that the potash taken as                 standard
                                                      a         M. Ber-       by
thollet, contains at least         per9 cent,   more    water than that
existing in the potash formed                   by
                                            the combustion of potas
sium in muriatic acid gas, which consequently may with
much more propriety be regarded as the dry alkali *.
    After these illustrations,            trust the former cpniior.3
                                           I
which    I   ventured to bring forward, concerning the me
tals of the fixed alkalies, will be considered as accurate,
and that potassium and sodium can with no more pro
priety be considered as compounds,                    than any of the
common metallic substances               and that potash and soda,
                                            ;
as formed      by the combustion of the metals, are pure me
tallic oxides, in which no water              known to exist.
                                                 is
    Thess conclusions must be considered as entirely inde
pendent of hypothetical opinions, concerning the existence
of hydrogen in combustible bodies, as common principle      a
of inflammability, and of intimately combined water, as an
essential constituent of acids, alkalies, and oxides            thi part      :
                                                                                   -
of the inquiry         shall reserve for the conclusion of the
                        I
lecture, and       shall first consider the nature of the metal of
                   I
ammonia, and the metals of the earths.
                          [To be continued.]
  * Consequently M. Berthollet's fused potash             must contain nearly 23 per
cent, of water. From my own observations              I   am inclined to believe, that
potash kept for some time in      a   red heat contains 16" or 17 percent, of wa
ter, taking the potash formed         bythe combustion of potassium as the dry
standard.
                                                                              LXII.    01-

                                   [   416     ]
  LXII.       Observations respecting a New Scale             for   the Ther<
        mometer.        By Richard YValker, Esq. of Oxford.
  There         are four     different thermometers in use at this
  time,     viz. Fahrenheit's,         Reaumur's, Celsius's, and De
, I'Isle's.
       Fahrenheit's scale, which is used inGreatBritain, has the
  zero, or commencement of the scale, placed at 32 degrees be
  low the freezing point, and 212 is the boiling point of water.
       Reaumur's, or the French scale, modified by De Luc, in
  which the 0 is placed at the freezing point, and from thence
  to the boiling point are 80 degrees*.
       Celsius's scale is used in Sweden; in this 0 is placed at
   the freezing point, and from thence to the boiling point
   are 100 degrees.
       De I'Isle's scale is used       in Russia; in which 0 is placed
   at   the boiling point of water, and the freezine; point is 150.
       With respect to Fahrenheit's scale, it may oe considered,
   now,     as having no foundation           whatever in any principle,
   and is in fact upon that account universally disapproved
   of, and evidently upon the decline.
        Reaumur's scale, and others in which the freezing point
   of water has been adopted for placing the 0, or com
   mencement of the scale, has been hitherto deemed the least
    objectionable, on account of its being an invariably fixed
    point.
        In   the construction       of thermometers two fixed points
    are required     :  accordingly, the scales of all thermometers
    have hitherto been, and probably ever will be, adjusted by
    means of the freezing and boiling points of water; the latter,
    as is well known, being an equally fixed point with the
    former, under certain circumstances well known to the
    philosopher and the artist.
        The freezing and boiling points of water, then, may be
    considered as applicable only to the due arrangement of
    the proportions and precision of a thermometneal scale,
    and consequently either of them unfit for the place of com-
    menjement of it : hence the place where 0 should be
    placed is yet a desideratum.
         Considering the thermometer as a measure of heat, leav
     ing the negative term cold out of the question, the pro-
        * A thermometer called the centigrade hai lately been introduced in
     France, which is in fact no other than that of Celsius, with the addition of
     decimal divisions.
                                                                              per

    Observations on       a  New Scale for the Thermometer.                 417
per place for 0 would undoubtedly be that point at which
heat commences j but the physical causes, which are knpwn
to exist, to prevent that point being ever ascertained, ex
clude entirely the hope of fixing it there ; to say nothing
of the' inconvenience which must arise from the scale be
ing incumbered with a multiplicity of figures, tit that part
which is most familiar and in most frequent, use.
    Hence we are under the necessity here, as in many other
instances, of using the positive and negative signs.
    Having been for a very long time engaged in thermome-
trical experiments and observations, — the imperfection of
all the scales in use, and the consequent dissatisfaction of
various persons respecting them, frequently occurred to me;
and it is long since that I was impressed with the opinion,
strengthened by that of several of my friends, of the pre
ference which was due to the one I am now about to men
tion.
    It has been ascertained             by physiologists as a fact, and
of which I      have perfectly satisfied myself, by repeated ex
periments on others as well as myself, that 62 of Fahren
heit is that point at which the human body in a state of
health is unconscious of either heat or cold, that is, in a
state of rest, or when free from any considerable bodily
exertion ; and this is really the case at all seasons of the
year, in this climate, and probably in all other climates; for
the temperature of the human body, or blood heat, as it is
called, is determined every whereto be 98, and it has been
found that the vital functions have the power of regulating
the sensation of heat; so that any temperature above 62
of Fahrenheit, under ordinary circumstances, shall give a
sensation of heat, and any temperature below G2 of Fahren
heit a sensation of cold*.
   * Dr. Cullen, in speaking of the influence of temperature on the human
                              •' If the
body in this climate, says :            temperature at any time applied is under
62 degrees, every increase of temperature applied will give a sensation of
heat; but if the increase of temperature does not arise to 62 degrees, the
sensation produced will not continue long, but be soon changed to a sen
sation of cold. In like manner, any temperature applied to the human
body lower than that of the body itself, gives a sensation of cold i but if
the tcmperatuVe applied does not go below 62 degrees, the sensation of
cold will not continue long, but be soon changed to a sensation of heat."
C'ullen's Practice* of Physic, vol. i. 1784,p. 91, 92.
   This point is so nicely balanced, and so accurately just, viz. at 36 degrees
below blood-heat, or 98, that a variation of one, or at most two degrees,
above or below that point, actually produces a sensation of heat or cold ; and
which, by experiment properly made, would be found to be equally the case
in the torrid and frigid zone as in temperate climates : hence this point may
be considered as the actual, or natural nought, with respect to heat and cold,
en the thermometer.
    Vol. 35. No.        146.   June     1810.           Dd               Upon

 418           Observations respecting  a New Scale
     Upon this principle the present scale is founded, whicfl
  T cannot h trip thinking is perfectly unexceptionable, being
 fixed on an unalterable basis; and that in a thermometer
 thus constructed, there will be ever a coincidence in the
 central point of this thermometer with that precise tem
 perature which is most congenial to the feelings of the
 human body, and prove universally and permanently a
 correct standard for reference, and consequently, I should
 think, render this instrument more intelligible and interest
 ing, and of course more extensively useful.
     With respect to the divisions, I adopted those of Fah
 renheit from an opinion of that being the fittest, consider
 ing those of Reaumur, the centigrade, See. as being too
 few, and decimal divisions unnecessary in a thermometrical
 scale.
    Hence it will follow, that 0 being placed at 62° of Fah
 renheit, 150Q will be the boiling, and minus 303 the freez
 ing, points of water; and all other points on Fahrenheit's
 scale may be reduced to this, by subtracting 62 for any
 degree above 0 of Fahrenheit's, and adding 62 for any de
gree below o.
    This thermometer may be considered as particularly ap
 propriate to the purpose of regulating the heat of rooms,
 &c. and showing the exact variations in the air from that
 temperature which is at all times most congenial and sa
 lutary to the human body.
    The difficulties that may occur in the introduction of a
 new thermometrical scale, are not more, perhaps less, than
 in many other innovations, viz. the New Style — the New
 Chemical Nomenclature, &c.
    The mechanical method of graduating this thermometer
 is thus: the freezing and boding points of water having
 been taken in the usual way, the freezing point is to be
 marked 30, and the boiling point 150 ; this space is then to
 be divided into six divisions, or parts =3o° each, and the O
'placed at the first division above 30, or the freezing point;
 the scale is then to be completed by marking in the tenths
 above and below O, continuing the graduation to anv de
 sired extent.
     Sir Isaac New ton, who I believe was the person that
 originally fixed on the freezing and boiling points of wa
  ter, conjointlt/, for the adjustment of a thermometrical
 scale, places his zero at the freezing point, from a notion
 of that being; the utmost degree of cold ; and Fahrenheit,-
 for a similar reason, placed his zero afterwards at 32 de
 grees below the freezing point, the degree of cold which

                               for   the Thermometer.                          419
he had produced by a mixture of ice and salt, which he
at that time believed to be the greatest degree of cold in
nature *.
    There is no scale which I have met with, which seems
to have been founded upon the principle I have adopted :
thermometers indeed have been constructed in England,
for particular purposes, in which 0 was placed at what was
supposed to be the middle state of Ike air in this climate;
but this principle is of too local and vague a nature to
merit attention.
    I know of one objection, only, which can be started
against the adoption of the alteration in the scale I have
proposed, viz. the too frequent occasion, as niieht be
urged, for the use of the plus and minus characters ; but
the fact       is,
                that in      'scale founded upon this principle,
                                     a
there     less occasion than ever for the use of either of
          is
them, as must be apparent' to any one upon the least re
flection.
    For meteorological observations this scale will be parti
 cularly appropriate      the zero in this instance being the
                               ;
mean temperature of the greatest heat and greatest cold
experienced       the hottest and coldest climates, collectively
                     in                                                            t
as well as in the temperate ciimalesf.
    At Quito      Peru, which
                     in                peculiarly situated between
                                                 is
the extremes of heat and cold, the temperature of the air
is  uniformly, or with very little variation, throughout the
year at 62 of Fahrenheit        and this ;    considered to be the
                                                           is
 healthiest spot in the world                I.
     Ifwe had no means of correcting or regulating the tem
 perature of our apartments                  by
                                      fire, we should find     few        a
 degrees, viz. ten below the point of 62, much more un
 comfortable than the same difference alove 6-2; and              a            in
 difference of thirty degrees from that point the cold would
 be intolerable,     the first instance; whereas at thirty above,
                          in
 no considerable inconvenience           experienced but the dif
                                                      is         :
 ference would be exactly the inverse of each other, were                          it
   * Sir Isaac Newton's thermometer was constructed in 1701, and Fah
renheit's in 1724.
 |   In some parts of Africa the thermometer rises sometimes up to 12 a/ore
                                                                          1
62 of Fahrenheit, viz. 174, and in some parts of North America            some
                                                                          it
times sinks to 112 telow 62 of Fahrenheit, viz. —50. A similar circumstance
takes place in the temperate or middle climates thus in England the ther
                                                            ;
mometer rises sometimes to 126, and sometimes sinks to —             2,
                                                                  viz.       dif
                                                                               a
ference, each way, of 64 degrees.
 J   The mean annual temperature of Quito         62; and the utmost limits
                                                           is,
of variation throughout the year are from three or four degrees        '.uui that
 point, to as many degrees above it.
                                             D   d    2                   -not

420                  Observations     respecting a New Scale
not that the human body, from a well-known provision in
the animal ceconoiny, has the innate power of resisting, of
rather of diminishing, the effect of extreme heat to a cer
tain extent.
     My chief object in the present paper has been to inforce
the propriety of the alteration suggested, in the place of
the zero in a thermometrical scale.                  With respect to the
fittest mode of division               to be adopted, I have preferred
that of Fahrenheit, for the reason above stated; but since
the mode of decimal divisions seems at the present time
to be gaining ground, I have exhibited a scale of the centi
grade division likewise in the annexed table. (See Tab. II.)
     It will be apparent, in adopting the centigrade divi
sion in the stead of Fahrenheit, that there will be a dif
ference, occasionally, amounting to -J-d of a degree, between
them ; but as the three leading points correspond precisely,
so slight a variation in the others is of little or no conse
quence; and indeed all the points cannot be perfectly ac
curate upon any uniform scale: thus, the precise point at
which quicksilver freezes was ascertained to be — 38 and
    of Fahrenheit, but is marked at s— 3<j.
     There are four different proportions of the scale, which
I should recommend to be used according to circumstances j
viz. 1st, a portable scale extending from —30 to +30;
Sdly, one for ordinary meteorological use in this climate,
extending from — 70 to +70*; 3dly, from —100 to
 + 150 1 » and 4thly, a thermometer of coloured alcohol, ex
tending from — 162 to + 40 J.
     I flatter myself that I have adduced sufficiently satisfac
tory reasons for the adoption of the scale I have here sug
gested; and, when the usual prejudices for an old sy
stem have subsided, and the apparently insurmountable
difficulties attending the introduction of anew one are con
quered, that the one I have now offered to consideration
will be admitted to be perfectly reconcileable in a philoso
phical view; convenient and useful in application; not
liable to be affected by new discoveries or fresh theories in
future; and, in short, a scale dictated as it were by nature,
for universal application.
    * A local scale of this kind in every cli'rarc would be
                                                               particularly useful
in tii e place itself, and interesting every where else.
   + The freezing point of quicksilver upon t liis sc:i!c is — 101 ; but as quick*
silver ceases to measure tempernture at —100, the scale of a quicksilver
thermometer may terrainntc there.
    } Quicksilver is preferable to alcohol for thermometers, as far as it*
range poes, for several reasons ; but, principally, because it is found to bo
more ucifcriu in its expansion by beat than alcohol or spirit,
                                                                     P.S.-Be-

                        Jbr   the Thermometer.                  421
     P. S. — Before    I became acquainted with the circum
 stance    which   induced me to adopt the scale which I have
 now proposed, I endeavoured, with a view of pla ing the
 vsero at the lowest natural point, to obtain, by inference,
the utmost degree of natural culd.
    In order to effect this, 1 formed the following table,
which is deduced from Mr. Kirwan's table of the mean
annual temperature of every latitude; in which, of course,
 the latitudes within nine or ten degrees of the pole were
deduced, like mine, by inference drawn from the others:
and I presume, by comparing the results in this table with
 actual observations as far as these have gone, they will be
found to accord sufficiently, to show that the principle I
have adopted, in deducing the results, may be relied on.
(See Tab.' I.)
    Hence it appears, if the results in this table are admitted
1o be correct, that the scale would commence at 68 de
grees below the present 0 of Fahrenheit, or 100 degrees
below the freezing point of water; and that any greater
•degree of cold than this, which already has or may here
after be produced by art, would, alone, require the minus
sign.
    The greatest degree of artificial cold hitherto upon re
cord is —91 of Fahrenheit:            how far future experiments
may carry     this  point, or  whether  there be a finite point at
 tainable by art, is perhaps impossible to say.
    Knowing that cold is produced by adding snow to o/co-
Jiol, and presuming that alcohol is the last liquid in nature
which would freeze,, or whose power of producing cold
with ice reaches to a lower temperature than any other
substance, I formerly entertained a hope of ascertaining
the ultimate point to which this could possibly be carried ;
but partly on account of the difficulties of such an under
taking, but more especially in consequence of other pressing
avocations which deprive me of the opportunity, I have
relinquished my intention, at least for the present.
    The method I should have pursued woulc! have been to
have formed mixtures of alcohol and nitric acid, increasing
the proportion of the alcohol as the temperatures at mixing
became lower; finally, using alcohol alone with snow,
till I should arrive at the points where alcohol itself
ceased, when mixed with snow, to produce cold.
     The attempts hitherto made for ascertaining what is
usually calkd the natural zero, carry that point so ex
tremely low, apd the results are so very discordant with
                                D  (1 3

422             Observations     respecting a New Scale
each other,      that any idea of fixing the 0 there, I should
think, must      be entirely relinquished.
     With respest to the freezing, point of mercury being, as
has been suggested bv several philosophical persons, a fit
 place for the zero, it perhaps may be sufficient to observe,
 that this would be adapting a scale of heat to a. particular
 thermometer,       instead of applying a thermometer to a scale
 of temperature.
     The table of temperatures applies more particularly to
 the different degrees of latitude specified, from the equator
 to the north pole in the eastern hemispliere, where the gra
dations or diminutions of heat are tolerably uniform.                       In
the western hemisphere, the diminutions of heat from the
 equator to the norlh pole are found, from causes well
 known, to be very irregular or anomalous; and in general
 the cold is considerably greater on the same parallels of
latitude in this, than in the eastern hemisphere.
     From the equator proceeding towards the south pole, the
 diminutions of heat are found to be tolerably uniform ; the
 chief difference consisting in the cold being somewhat
 greater in the higher latitudes, on the same parallel, than
 on the north side of the equator.
     Notwithstanding the irregularity as to diminution of
 temperature which is observed in the latitudes between
 the equator and the polar regions in the western hemi
 sphere, and the difference before mentioned on the south of
 the equator ; there is good reason to suppose that, at the
 poles, as at the equator, the variation of temperature is not
 considerable, because the maximum of cold (or minimum
 of heat) is at the poles, as the maximum of heat is at the
  equator*.
      Hence, although       every latitude between the equator and
  the poles may be liable to considerable anomalies or irre
  gularities, with respect to heat and cold, according as they
  are more or less exposed,         so as to receive the currents of
  air from higher or lower latitudes ; yet at those two points
  where there is only one of these causes operating upon each,
  the variations in the temperature, at the same seasons, in
  different years, may be but small, comparatively with the
  others, particularly the middle latitudes.
      In latitudes, therefore, even at some distance from the
      * The maximum of cold at the pales is perhaps more complete than the
  maximum of he;. t, from a well-known      cause, is at the equator: viz. the
  sun's annual palh, respectively to the eanh, being not confined to the line of
  the equator.
                                                                       poles,

                                               for             the Thermometer.                                                                          423
poles, (as in latitudes at some distance from the equator,)
 the temperature may be nearly or quite the same as at the
 poles : thus, at Albany Fori, Hudson's Bay, N. latitude 52,
\V. longitude 82, the thermometer has sunk to —50, which
is the greatest degree of natural cold ever observed; and
is within eighteen decrees of that which I have estimated
to be the greatest natural cold.
                                                               Table I.
        A       Table   of the Temperatures of different Latitudes.
                                                               Greatest  Heat
                                                Cold.
                                                                                Greatest  Heat
                                Temperature.
         •a                                                                                      of                           of
            a    9 o                                                                                                      «
                                                                                                                    Z2
                                                                                                          Ninety.
                         Mean                                                                                                          Nine.
                 > -3                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                 Series                       Series
                                                Greatest          in Shade.        in Sun.
         %
                 2H                                                                                                  CO                        w
                31*       31-                  -64                52              78              95                 21        26
                                                                                                                                                   6 4
        <J0
        8032-6-           33* —52                                 55              82              85                 22        27
        7037-2"           37' — 38                                60              88              75                 23        28                  8
        6044-3-           44- —                     21            68             97               65                 24        29               10
        5052-9-           53-                  —           2      78            108              55                  25       30                12
        40,62-            62-                  +     17           88            119              45                  26        31               12
        30 70-7-          71-                  + 36 98                          130              35                  27        32               10
                          78-                  + 53 106                         139               25                 28       3"3
                                                                                                                                                4 6 8
        20|77-8-
        1082-3-           82-                  +    67         111              145                1.5               29       34
         0|84-            84-                  +    79         114              149                  5               30       35
        A   J
                 B        C                        D           E                F                 d                   e   /                     8
.   Nota        bene. — A              is      the latitude,                             in      tenths of degrees, from
the equator to the pole.
    B   is      Kirwan'sof the mean animal temperature of
                                        table
each latitude in    the heat increasing, but in a diminish
                            A          :
ing ratio, from the middle latitude, viz. 45, the mean an
nual temperature of which      57-5 to the equator; and the              is
cold    increasing, but                             in         a       diminishing                                  ratio, from latitue'e
45 to the pole.
    C   isKirwan's table     reduced to the nearest whole      B
numbers.
    L)   the greatest cold of each latitude A, deduced
        is                                                                                                                                               hy
subtracting the number in       from the parallel number in             d,
C, up to latitude 40, and from thence up to latitude QO,
                                 from the number        the
                                                                                                                                           in
subtracting the number in                                                 C                                                                d
                                                                                                                                           ;
first producing the plus degrees, and the latter the minus
degrees.
    E   is      the greatest heat                              in           the shade                       of        each         latitude A,'
                                                                   D            d
                                                                                4                                                              deduced

424              Observations respecting a new Scale
 deduced by adding the number in e to the parallel num«
 her in C.
     F is the greatest heat in the sun of each latitude A, de
 duced by adding the number in
 numbers in E.
                                    f   to each of the parallel
    d is au increasing series of ninety, in -number corre
 sponding with the degiees of latitude from 0 to 90, in co
 lumn A, viz. from 5 to 95.
    e is a decreasing series of nine, in number from latitude
   f
 0 to 90, viz. from 30 to 21.
       is a decreasing series of nine, in number from latitude
 O to 90, viz. from 35 to 26.
    g is a decreasing series of nine in number from the mid
 dle latitude of 45 up to 90, and the same down from lati
 tude '45 to 0— latitude 45, being 13.
    The temperatures marked in columns D, E, F, give the
 temperatures of ordinary years; in order to give the defect
 or excess of extraordinary seasons the parallel number in
g must be subtracted, or added to either of the columns
inD, E,F.
    Mr. Kirwan has given the mean annual temperature of
every latitude, from the equator to the north pole : in this
table each tenth only is given, but the temperature of each
intervening latitude may be obtained easily by calculation
from those given, viz, by allowing one-tenth for each de
gree   of latitude, in the columns d, e,f, g.
    N. B. The     thermometer, in taking observations, is sup
posed to be placed at about 5 or 6 feet from the ground,
and perfectly insulated or detached from any body which
can cause reflected heat, when placed in the sun ; and for
observations in the shade, placed in a north aspect, where
the sun never reaches.
    Hence, according to this calculation, the greatest cold at
the poles, or the greatest natural cold, is at —68 of Fah
renheit, or 100 degrees bdow the freezing point of water ;
therefore, in order to reduce Fahrenheit's scale to this, 68
must be added to every degree of Fahrenheit's above the O;
and tor any degree below the 0 of Fahrenheit, that num
ber must be subtracted from 68.          .  ,  .
    It might be expected, as the gradations in the above
table are uniform,     and calculated from the equator to the
poles, that the temperatures in this table should correspond
\vith considerable exactness with actual         observations in
every instance; but it should be recollected, that a dif
ference must occasionally arise from various causes, viz.
                                                       difference

                                far   the Thermometer.                         435
difference            of elevation ; vicinity to, or distance from, the
seat;                    of mountainous and woody coun
               the intervention
tries,                   currents of hot or cold air, from
              intercepting the
                                           J
lower or higher latitudes ; difference of soil, as to its
power of absorbing, accumulating, or reflecting heat, &c.
All of which irregularities, however, it might perhaps be
possible to calculate and allow for.
   From the equator to 23| degrees on each side of        the            it,
progressive variations in temperature differ somewhat
from the other latitudes this     allowed for in the columns
                                      ;        is
of the mean annual temperatures, and likewise             the            in
three succeeding columns, which may be considered as
tmanatians from the first.
 I    shall now conclude                  by
                              presenting the following Table,
{see  next page) which   exhibits   comparative view of the
                                                    a
scale of Fahrenheit's thermometer with mine.
                          Explanation     of   the four Columns.
   Nota lene. —             A
                       my proposed scale, having the zero at
                                is
mean temperature.
        Fahrenheit's scale.
          is is is
     CB the centigrade measure, adapted to column A.
   D my former scale, having the zero at the point                             I
have estimated to be the greatest natural cold.
   The four additional points marked thus * are appropriate
to this climate, viz. the greatest degree of cold, which was
observed on the morning of December 2.3, 1796: and the
two greatest degrees      Keat, viz. in the shade and
                                     of                    the           in
sun, observed in     the afternoon of July 13, 1808. — The
temperature      springs, means of course thp constant tem
                          of
perature of ordinary (unmediated) springs, which            all          in
climates corresponds pretty exactly with the mean annual
temperature of the place, which        London        in
                                                 51'Q.         is
   N. B. Thermometers have          point marked temperate,
                                                 a
viz. at 56 of Fahrenheit; but b"l\         the middle point of
                                                          i?
the scale, that being the mean annual temperature of lati
tude 45.                               KICHAKD WALKER.
      Oxford, May 31, 1810.
                                                                    ^-
                                                                     ,
                                                                         _
 f   Hence     follows that in islands, particularly small islands, surrounded
                     it
by   alarge extent of sea, the winter* are wanner, acid the summers- colder,
than on continents.                                             •<
J    The winters in those parts of North Am-rica. jvhich have been culti
vated, arc ranch less rigorous now than formerly, principally in conse
quence of the destroying of forests, &c. which present several source* of
cold, amongst which evaporation      no inconsiderable one.
                                          it
                                                                         TABL»,

426    Observations on a new Scale for the Thermometer .
                                TABLB II.
  A Table   of the   most essential   Points in a Scale of Heat.
       W.                                 F.       W.       W.
                        Water
     +  150
                         Boils.
                                      + 212. . + 100. ..280
                         Spirit
     + 114-              Bulls.
                                      + 176...    +76... 244
                        Fever
      -f-ou  —-
                         Heat.        + 112.. .+ 33.. .180
         ««             Blood
                                                  + 24.. .166
       1
                         Heat.         + 98..   .
      j- ^n  *     Greatest Shade
                                       + 92.. . +   20 . . .160
                  Heat ill England.
                       Summer
      T  **
      4-14.
                   -    Heat.
                                       +  76.. .. + 9..    .144
                        Mean
           n —                         +  62.. .. + O.. .130
         _          Temperature
      ~~
               of Springs in Fngland.  + 52        -7..    .120
                        Water
      — 30
                       Freezes.        + 33       -20..    .100
              f     Greatest Cold
      -64            in England.
                                         —2        — 43      66
     — 101           Quicksilver
                       Freezes.        -39         -6?       «9
                  Greatest Natural
     — 112                             — 50
                   Cold observed.                  -75       18
                    Greatest Cold
     -130              Natural.         -68        -86        O
                    Greatest Cold
                      Artificial        -91       — 102    — 23
                       A                  B         c        D
                                                         LXIII.

                                    [    427         ]
JLXIII.   On the Properties of Furze or Whins.                        By Major
    SPENCER COCHHANE, of Muirfield- House,                               Had-
                                                                      near
    dington *.
SIR,    JL HE Society having honoured me by publishing in
their 25th volume my communication, stating the advan
tages arising from the culture of poppies, and that seven
ounces of fine salad oil were furnished by expression from
two pounds of the seed ; I now beg leave to add, that I am
informed, considerable quantities of poppy seeds have been
lately bought up, in different parts of the country, and the
expressed oil from them sold at the price of Florence oil j
and that emulsions made from poppy seeds answer in every
respect the purposes of those made from almonds.
    The following communication may perhaps he deemed
worthy the notice of the society; it relates to the use of
Whins or Furze. Its utility as food for cattle has been long
known, though probably not sufficiently appreciated; but as
 a medicine, I never till within a few years heard of it.    My
 information was first received from a gentleman who has
 been an officer in the army, a friend and relation of mine ;
 he is seventy-five years of age, and in good health, and
 what he says may be depended upon.             In October 1806,
he informed me that his sight had been much strengthened
 by drinking an infusion of whin or furze blossoms, dried in
 the sun in summer.       The infusion is made from a tea-cup
 full of the blossoms, in a tea-pot in the manner of tea, and
 the dose half a tumbler at night; that he never had a cough
 since he first used         it,
                           which was fifty years ago      acts as     ;   it
a   diuretic, and       by
                       perspiration, and, when the dose       in               is
 creased, promotes sleep.        In October 1808, he informed
 me that he still continued the use of the whin-tea, that he
 had no cough, and that his skin was remarkably fine and
 soft, which he attributes to its use.
  I    have also used the whin blossoms with good effect my
  self, and can safely recommend them.
     My friend supposes the young shoots of furze may an
  swer if  the blossoms cannot be got        he informs me, that
                                                         ;
 when an epidemical cold came from Germany, and destroyed
 many horses      inEngland, the east wind continued sixv\veeks,
  and the infection came over to Ireland, where he had the
 care of    a  troop, in so poor      village that he could get
                                                 a
    * From Transactions
                            of the Society for   Ike Encmaagtmen'   ofArtt, Manvfao
 lures, and Cummerce,     for 1809.
                                                                               neither

 428              Observations en growing Timber.
neither bran nor malt for mashes, which were ordered for
the horses with sulphur, after bleeding: That he ordered
the men to cut furze, and ordered them to give it to the
horses, after they had beat it well on the pavement: that
at first they had to mix it with oats, but that in two days
the horses devoured it like clover.                  That by these mrans
he recovered them all, though every other troop lost two or
three ; and that his was the only troop in good condition
at the review.         I remain with esteem,, sir,
                                    Your sincere and humble servant,
   Muirfield, Jan. 22, 18C9.                        SrENCEH CoCHRANE.
To C. TAYLOR, M.D. Sec.
LXIV.      Additional Observations for the Purpose of ascer
    taining the Value of growing Timber at different and
    distant Periods of Time. By                Mr.   CHARLES    WAISTELL,
    of High Holborn, London *.
SIR,    IN the    Society's last volume, under the head of Agri
culture,    are some tables and observations of mine, on the
growth of timberf; antl I have given one instance of six
acres of very bad land, planted with Scotch firs under my
directions, which at 29 years growth, and at the small price
of   I s. a foot, had paid the owner 5/. per acre per annum
compound interest.             My motive in communicating these
tables, observations and facts to the public, was to promote
the planting of inferior and almost useless soils, in order
to obtain from them timber of our own growth, sufficient
for at least many of the purposes for which foreign tim
ber is imported at an immense annual expense.                               For
instance, much of such inferior soils will be found on Con-
nock Heath in Staffordshire, on the moor lands in the
north of thit county, and on the moors in Derbyshire,
Yorkshire, and northwards to Scotland, also on Bagshot
Heath, Salisbury Plain, the ht'aths and wastes in Sussex,
Hampshire, and Dorsetshire, and in many other counties
in England, and also in Scotland and Wales. In that pa
 per I suggested, that information of very great value on the
 subject of planting, might be obtained from noblemen
and gentlemen to whom the Society had given medals and
 premiums for planting trees, if they would communicate
 to the'^ociety their subsequent observations on such plan-
    * From Transactions
                          of the Society for the Encouragtmeni of Arts, Manufac
 tures, and Commerce,    for 1809.
    f See Philosophical  Maga&iiic, vol. xxxiii,
                                                                        utions  ,

                   Olservatians on growing Timber.           42f
tations ; but it is to he regretted that the Society have not
yet received any communications on the subject.
      I have been solicited to republish my tables, &c. by
different gentlemen, who I have reason to believe are very
competent to judge of them, and I have in consequence
several additional tables in forwardness with this view; but,
previous to such publication, I wish to be furnished with a
great variety of facts as to the growth of timber, and the
management of plantations ; ana L shall fee! much obliged
to any persons who will have the goodness to send me
 their observations and statements of facts, respecting the
 growth and management of plantations ; or, if they prefer
 Jt, they may send them to you at the Society of Arts, &c.
The names of those who send such statements will be either
 given or suppressed as may be requested.
       I will recapitulate nearly in the words of my former com
 munication, several particulars on which information is
 wanted.        It would, for instance, be desirable to have the
 nature of the soil and under strata described, on which
  plantations have been made ; its value per acre ; the mode
  in which it was prepared for planting; the sorts of trees
  planted thereon, and which of them were found best suit
  ed thereto ; the distances at which the trees were first
  planted ; at what periods they were thinned, and how many-
  cut out at each thinning ; and their measure and value ; the
  present height, distance, measure and value of the trees
  now growing on an acre ; what distances are found most
   advantageous ; also to what proportion of their heights
   they should be pruned up, and the best and most expedi
   tious mode of performing the operation.
        Great loss is frequently sustained by omitting to thia
   plantations properly, and indue time, but I am not in pos
   session of facts to calculate with accuracy what this loss
   may he; I will however venture to give a short statement
   of some calculations I have made, as to the loss that would
   now be sustained by letting trees grow to a great agje.
        In Miller's Gardener's Dictionary, it is stated That in a
   fall of oak timber in Lord Bagot's woods, Mr. Marshall
    counted the rings of one tree, which was sound at the butt,
    and found the number to be about 200. Its bole was 22
    feet long, and 108 inches in circumference in the middle.
    Its contents 110 feet, which at 2s. amounts to III.          I
    think it was last year, that a fine sound oak-tree was cut
    down, between Shrewsbury and Oswestry in Shropshire,
    of 300 years of age, and sold by auction for 52/. 55. —And
    under my direction, many oak trees were cut down, some
                                                              year*

430                Olservaiions on growing Timber.
years ago, that could not be less than 300, and some of
 them probably 400 years of age, and even more. In Hun
ter's Evelyn's Silva is given the circumference of 10 trees,
and not one of which was probably less than 500, and some
of them probably 1000, years old.
    Lord Bagot's tree of 200 years old, above mentioned,
would, at the present price of 3s. a foot, be worth ]fil. 10».
Supposing that 3s. a foot should cdntif ue to be the price
of oak-timber for the next 20O years, we will inquire
what sum might be raised by growing four oak-trees in
succession, upon the same spot of ground, each tree to be
cut clown when 50 years of age, and that their boles should
be of the same length as that of Lord Bagot's, viz. 22 feet.
    I fix on fifty years of age, as being convenient for my
calculation ; and nearly the most profitable period at which
to cut down trees of 22 feet bole, which have grown at the
medium rate of one inch in circumference, and la inches
in height annually.
    After its 52d year, such a. lole ceases increasing, aftej-
the rate of 5 per cent, per annum * : but the whole tree, in
cluding the top part above the bole, may continue increas
ing after that rate until its 6 1st yearf-
    I do not fix on 50 years of age as being the most profit
able age at which to cut down trees ; probably 60 or 70
years of age would in some instances be preferable.                 Sup
posing    an   oak-tree    has    increased   as above   mentioned,    its
bole of 22 feet would, at 50 years of age, measure 39
inches in circumference at the middle, and one-fourth of
this, namely 9| inches, squared and multiplied into 22 feet,
its length gives 14 feet 6 inches for its contents, which at
35. a foot, its present value, amounts to 2/. 35. 6d.               Sup
posing 2/. 3s. 6d. to be the value of each of the four trees
of 50 years of age, grown in succession upon the same spot
of ground, in the period of 200 years, we will calculate
to what the three first trees would amount, if their value
was placed out at compound interest, for the respective
terms of 150, of 100, and of 50 years.
£.     s. d.                                                  £.    s. d.
» 3 6 Accumulating during 150 years, at
                 5 per cent, per annum compound
                 interest, will amount to            -     3,280    0    O
236            Accumulating         as above    for 100
                                                      -
                  years, would amount to                     286 0       O
   • See Table 12 of a bole of 24 feet, in the 2Cth volume of the Society"*
Transactions, page 68.
   -| See my fine Table in ditto, page 49.
                                                                  Accu-

                 Observation! on growing Timber      .           431
£.    s. d.                                                    s. d.
2     3   6    Accumulating as above for 50
                 years, will amount to           -        24   O    0
               Add the value of the tree to be cut
                down at the end of 200 years               2   3    6
             Total amount in 200       years   —       3,592   3    6
             And      carrying forward this calcu
                lation, the total amount of the
                produce in 300 years would
                amount to              —         £.4 72,408    0    O
    In former times, when the value of oak-woods was
tsiimated by the number of hogs their acorns would fat
 ten, the great age of trees wouldl>e of small consideration;
 but in the present times, I am persuaded, that if gentlemen
 who have many trees standing of the age of 150 years ana
upwards, would give this subject its due consideration,
 they will be aware of the immense loss to which they are
 voluntarily subjecting themselves. — And this great loss is
 much to be regretted, in a political point of view, espe
 cially as the produce of this island is insufficient for its
 necessary consumption.
    My motives for troubling you with this hasty production
 are, to promote the good of the public, by endeavouring
 to persuade gentlemen to bring forward well ascertained
 facts, respecting the most profitable management of grow
 ing timber trees, and to induce them to investigate, with
 accuracy, this very curious and important subject.           If you
 think it is likely to have those effects, I shall thank you to
 lay this paper before the Society of Arts, &c. for their
Consideration.
                              I am, sir, your obedient servant,
    No. 99, High Holborn,      ,             ClIARLES WaISTELL.
           Oct. 1809.                                   .
  LXIV. A List of about          Five Hundred Collieries in and near
     to  Derbyshire.        By   Mr. John Farey, Mineralogical
     Surveyor.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
  Sir,   I  inclose a list, of such collieries as T have either
  visited or obtained information concerning, in the course
  of my recent examination of the county of Derby, and the
  borders of the seven adjacent counties.          Should you deem
                                                                  the

432          List of Collieries in and near Derlysliire.
tbe same    worthy of a place in your Philosophical and Geo
logical Magazine, it may be proper to observe, that the
names of the places in the first column, are not always
those of the parish in which the coal -works are situate,
but of the nearest or most convenient place, _sho\vn in ge
neral maps, by which to refer to the precise site of the
collieries.   Also, that many of these works are now dis
continued : yet as in almost every instance, more of this
valuable mineral remains still ungotten, in or near to the
same spot, the recording of all places where coals have at
any time been worked, seems an object of some im
portance.     In the report on the county of Derbv, which
I  am at present employed in preparin?, for the Board of
Agriculture, I intend to give in one alphabetical list, the
bearings and distances of each of these collieries, from the
fcnvns mentioned in the first column, with the particular
place in the series of strata to which each colliery is to be
referred, as far as I am able in the present instance : thff
collating of the great mass of information which I have
been favoured with, from the several coal-masters, and
their agents and workmen, being yet unfinished, as well as
the reexamination of some parts of the interesting coal
fields, within the limits of my intended map, in districts
where the alluvial coverings, the faults and stupendous dis
locations of the strata, have presented great, but as I trust*
not insuperable difficulties, to the complete elucidation of
these highly important strata.        In the report I shall di-
Stinguish-such of the above collieries as now are, or recently
have been, in work.       Where no county is mentioned to
the places in the first column, Derbyshire is to be under
stood; in which county I find the coal strata or measures,
distributed over not less than 19O,OOO acres of its surface !
J  shall esteem it a great favour, if proprietors of estates, or
others, who happen to be possessed of correct accounts of
the sinkings or measures al any of the collieries below, in
documents to which I may not have had access, or respect
ing any ancient collieries within these limits, which may
have eluded my inquiries, that they will communicate co
pies of such particulars (addressed as below) as soon 'as
convenient;     carefully distingishing the bearing and di
stance from one at least of the above places; the time of
ceasing to work, old collieries, if known, &c. The borings
or sinkings, where trials to any depth have been made,
whether successful or hot, ivould be alike acceptable, such
being the materials from which, principally, a correct ac
                                                          count

        Names of Collieries in and near Derbyshire.                       493
count of the subterranean geography of the district, or the
knowledge of its strata, is to be drawn.
                            I am, sir,
                                              Your obedient servant,
J2, Upper Crown Street, West-                               JoflN FAREV,
     minster, June 5, 1810.
   Places' Name>.                            Names of Collieries.
                             f Alfreton,    Four- lane - ends, Green.-
                                  hill-lane, High-field-lane, Nether-
                            J
Alfreton   ,
                           .\ Birchwood, Oakerthorpe, Riddins,
                                |      Swanwick-green,Swanwick-   delves,
                                L      Somercotes, Somercotes-furnace,
Ashly  de la- Zouch,
                                     Alton -grange, Southwood.
  Leicestershire . ..          }
Ashover                  Alton, Birkin-lane.
Ashton-under-line,       Car -lane,     Crickety, Fairbottom,
  Lancashire                Hays, Hurst-brook, Knoll.
                       pBigging, Conduit-moor, Fox-Ears,
                            Lawn (or Casteven or Kesteven),
Aston, Yorkshire . .<
                            Pidgeon-bridge,   Aston - common,
                       L    Swallow-nest.
                                f
                         Attercliff - common,      Bright - side,
Attercliff, Yorks. . <      Darnall, High ?haze]s,Tinsley- park,
                     (. Wash ford.
Awsworth, Notts.         Awsworth, Newthorpe-common.
                                C Barlborough
                                               - common,    Beighton        -
                                    field, Hazlewell, Westfield, Kni-
Barlborough                         taker,   Pebley - lane, Spinkhill -
                                    common.
                                /"Barlow-common, Cutthorpe,       Far-
Barlow                         ¦<   lane, High-ash, Sudbrook, WiJ»
                               C ders-green.
Barnsley, Yorks... Gober-hall.
Basioiv            ,    Baslow, Chatsworth old Park,
Beaudesert - Park,   "»
                        E ° ton.wood.
  Staffordshire. . .j
Beeley                                          Harwood-Grange,
                                     Beeley-moor,
Beighton                         Berley-moor, Nether-field,
                                'Belper-gutter, Belper-lane-end, Eel-
                                    per Town, Pent,
Belper   .........                                        Chev'm-side,
                                    Daily-gutter, I lopping- hill, Open-
                               .<j     wood-gate,     Swinney.
                                     Biddulph-hall,     Crabtrce,    Childer-
Biddulph, Staff.
                     |   . .
                               \       play, Falls, New-Pool.
  Vol.   35.   No.   J   46. June 1810,                      E   e       Bih

434         Names   of Collieries in and near Derbyshire.
    Places' Names.                         Names of Collieries,
Bilborough, Notts.             Bilborough, Holly-wood, Nuthall.
Btackfordby, Leices.            Blackforaby, Norris-hill.
Black well . . :                Blackwell, Diinmings-dale, Newton.
Bolderstone-chapel, 1           Stock.br;d
    Yorkshire              J                 °
 r, ,                        S Palterton,      Shuttlewood - common,
Bohover
                             }     Stanfrey.
Boothorpe,      Leices-\ Little-worth, Milk-hill,                   Sweet-hill-
    lershire               J       oak.
 BrSd?ehT!:.                    HaSen-fie'^ Holes.
                           }
     ¦  •
                           / Brimington,        Brimington-moor, Hol-
                           \ Gpyte-moss,
 t>          t
          °                        lingwood-common, Wildens-mill.
 Burton                                         Thatch-marsh.
 Calke                          Brians-coppy.
                                                CowPasture>           Fernylee'
 Chapel-en-le-Frith
                           {^Ocross.
                             Rapel-town,            Heasley-Park, Par-
 Chapel-Town,
         , ,.     '                kins-wood, Sniithv-wood-engme,
     vr
     *«rksflire
                           <
                                                                           ^
                             ^     Thorncliff.                  -
                            i'Delph-house, East-wall, Eaes, Mov-
 Cheadale, Staff ...       <      berley, Shaw       (or Sham), Shaw,
                           i.    Woodhead.
 nL   jj/   1    ci /r
 Cheddleton, Staff.      .
                            f   Crown- point,     Cnnsal-wood,            New-
                            |      stead)FSha|-erlong) Wetley-moor.
                               "Ash-gate,      Boythorpe, Chesterfield-
                                   town's-end,      Chesterfield- furnace,
                                   Calow, Dunston, Grass-hill, Hady,
                             ,     Hasland, Little-common, Louns-
 Chesterfield              ^       ley-green, Moor-top, New-Bramp-
                                   ton, Newbold-common, Newbold-
                                    field, Stone-gravel, Tapton, Wal
                                    ton, Wingerworth-park, Winger-
                                    worth -furnace.
                                G                                  Round-hole'
 Church-Gresley      . . .
                            (      Woodw^rd?^'
 Clown                          Clown..
                             ("Benty-field,      Codnor            nether- park,
 Codnor
                            \ Cole-Orton,
                                    Codnor upper-park.
                                                Lount
 Cole-Orton,Leicest.                                      new, Lount old.
 Conisborongh, Yorks. Conisborough, Dennaby.
 Cossall, Notts                 Cossall, Robinets.
 Crich                          Plaistow-Green.
                                                   H*S'           Lower "Hag'
 Dale-Jbbe,,
                            {   ^ffl**                                   Den by

       Names    of Collieries in and near Derbyshire.                    435
    Places' Names,                       Names of Collieries.
Denluy     ""    ""•      fDenby, Denby-hall, Roby
                                Roby west- field, Smithy-houses.
                                                                 east- field,
                                               Parsons - field, Swetley
Dilhorne,' Staff.     ..     D^rne
                                 (Lowes   ) .
                                             Bank-end,       Diglee, Fur-
                                nace-clough Gee, Hag-bank, Hoo-
                                lane, Lyme, Lyme-park, Norbury,
                         {Allington,
                                 Poynton, Red-acre, Worth,
Dore                         Dore, Ringing-low-bar.
                          C Apperknowl-common, Cole- Aston,
Dronfield               .<       Dronfield,       Hill-top, Ounston,
                          (_    Slubley, Woodhouse.
                          /"Duckingfield, Dunkirk,                Flowery-
Duckingfield, Ches.<             field, Hough-hill, Newton-moor,
                          V.     Rabbit-hole, Score- wood.
n            .   n     \T    Adelphi-furnace,
                                    v                Duckmanton-com-
Duckmanton           °' <{_ mon, ¦»«•
                 (Ions)                       1., V»    1      .
                 v
                                        Middle-Duckmanton.
                                           Brinsleynew, Brinsleyold,
Eastwood, ' Notts. . \ Be|geflee^
                           I     Last wood.
Eccleshall Barlow, ~\ Grey - stones, Mill - house, Mo3s?
    (in Sheffield,)              Smelt jng,      Trap-lane, Whitley-
                         J
                           >
    Yorkshire                    wood.
                          /"Arbor-lands,Bole-hill,Bramley-moor,
Eckington      ...... X          Coldwell, Eckington, High-lane,
                          (_     Mossborough-moor, Troway.
                           f Birchen - booth, Black - clough (or
Flash (in Alston-         ' Beat), Blue-hills, Chest, Dane-head,
    » ,_,}¦ q. rr        { Dane-thurn, Diamond-hill, Gold-
  jleitt), btajr                         Haz]e _ barroWj
                               sitch>                             ]sjotDuryj
                               Penny-hole, Whiteshaw.
                                                  Foxton-wood,        Stile-
Foxton,
            Stafordsh.{Cl™^™d>
Fullwood-Chapel,           \ &tanage*
                              cfanao._
 (in Sheffield) Yorks.     )
Glossop                      Combs, Simondley.
Greastiorough,           \ Cinder-hill        (or Middle-field),      Haw-
   Yorks                 J      wood.
Greasley, Notts. . .         Beauvale-abby, Greasley, Limes.
                          /'Ballyfield, Gleedless-common, Hans-
Hans wor/Vi, Ybrfo. -<          worth,         Hansworth - woodhouse,
                                 Intake, Orgrave, Woodthorpe.
Harthill, Yorks. . . Woodhall-moor.
Hartshorn . .                Gosley-waste, Hartshorn,
Halhersage      ......       Stanage-pole.
                                    Ee2                                Hay

436              Names       of Collieries in and near Derbyshire.
      Places' Names.                           Names of Collieries.
                     <;'w                            Burn'd-edge,     Moor-top.
                            ^;}Aspinshaw,
                                      HeaSe'   Heage-bent, Morley-park,
Hease
   °
                               \ ] \{
                                        Town-field.
 tj                                   Aldercar, Heanor, Langley, Miln-
neanor
                                         hay, Shipley.
Heath                                  Heath, High-house.
Heather, Leicester.                     Heather.
Higham                                Higham.
 Holhrook                             Holbrook.
 Holmesjield                          Bank, Salters-sitch, Thickwood.
 jj     i    ™                  \     Horsley, Horsley-woodhouse,  Slack-
                                \        fields.
 Hyde-Chapel,                    f     Broomsteer,   Denton,    Hyde-lane,
       Cheshire                \          Werneth-low, Woodley.
 T7,     .                       f      Cotmanhay-wood, Ilkeston, Ilkeston-
 llkesion.                    i           common, Little- Hallam.
 Jpstone, Staff.
                             ....{      ^ShXlT
                                  rGander-lane,          Killamarsh,
                                                                         IPSt°ne*
                                                                     Nether-
 Killamarsh                      -<       moor, Killamarsh old-delph, Over-
                                  (.      thorpe.
 Kimlerwortk,                     ( Blackburn-bank, Bradgate, Kimber-
       Yorks                     I     worth, Meadow-hall.
                                   rFroghall, Garstone, Hazles-cross,
 Kingsley Staff .,                     Hodge-hay, Jack-elm,' Kingsley-
                                  (_      bank, Lees, Bake-edge, Boss-bank.
                                   f"Blake-low,      Bollington,      Cliff-bank,
                         Eastborough-lane,                Mac-  Hurdsfield,
                                 \ I
                         clesfield  - common,   Biley - clough,
 Macclesjield, Ches.
                          Shrigley-fold, Swanco, Throllcs-
                                  |
                          nest.   L
 Marple- Chapel, Ches. Brabins, Chapel-house.
 Matlock                Lea, Lumsdale, Tansley-green.
                     CDonisthorpe, Measham, Measham-
 Mtasham
          i
                                    0akthorpe>
                     /"Bore-lane, Broadhurst-edge, Comp-
 Mellor (hi Glossop)       stal-bridge,
                                  -J      Ludworth, Old-hall-
                     V.    wood, Shaw-hay.
 Mexlorough, Yorks. Mexborough.
 Morley                                 Morley.
          Ianrad,                       King-bank, Park, Botches, Scout-
 Mosslev
 Mossiey, iMncasli.              \
                                   ^      miU, Wrndy-bank.
 Mottram, Cheshire.                     Hague-bank, Hill-end, Hodge-hall.
                                                                   Newall

         Names    of Collieries in and near Derbyshire.                    437
      Places' Names.                           Names of-Collieries.
                               fBretby, Hall-fields, Newall, Newall-
  Newall (in Stapen-)                park, Perkins,. Stanton, Swadlin-
     liiU)                           cote, Water-field, Wooden-box,
  New-Mills (in
                              I
                              |
                                     Wood-field.
                               S Eaves -knowl,       Lower -house, Tor-
     Glossop)                 <     mine, Warps-moor.
  Norton, Staff.     ....        Bow-green, Whitfield.
  Norton                        Lees-hall.
                             C Ankerbold, Berrisford-moor,               Clay-
  North-Winjield . . .<            cross, Henmore, Loco-lane, Pilsley-
                            v. lane, Tupton-green, Woodthorpe.
  Oakmoor-Mills            "\
     (near Alveton)
    Staff.
  Over-Seal, Leicest.
                          J >Beelow, Car- wood.
                                Warren-hill-furnace.
 Packington, Leicest. Packington.
                                                               new Colliery,
 Pelsall (near-Blox-fB™WI}'ms> E^»g^
                                                          Goscot, Lords-
    wick)' Staff. ... .1
                                   Essmgton-wood,
                            v.      hay, Pelsall, Wyrley-bank.
                                Bu"              Flash-house, Fullshaw,
 Penistone,7 Yorks. . . \             -ho"S|?
                             (     Law,     Midhope-stones, Paw -hill.
 Pentrich                       Castle-hill, Harts-hay, Pentricht
 Pinxlon . .                    Carter-lane, Pinxton.
 Pott-Shrisley,           /Bakestone-dale,
                                                     Berristow,      Harrop,
    Chesh                  j       Pott -hall, Spons-moor,            Spons,
                           (_      Styperson.
 Rainow-Chapel,             i Kerridge-east-side,        Kerridge -north-
    Ckes/t                  (      end, New-post,      Rainow-How.
                                                                      ^
 Rawmarsh, ' Yorks.        J Nether-Hough           Over-Hough,         Raw-
                           j*^^
                            (     marsh,     btubbing-lane.
                                                   BuUerly-Car'
 Ripley (inPentrich)
                           ( Clough,         Herringthorpe,         Hill-top,
Rotherham, Yorks.         <        Kimberworth-park, Mossborough-
                          (.      common.
Rudgley,      Staff.  . .     Bruerton.
                          C    Crooks-moor, Deep-pits, Harbour-
Sheffield, Yorks.     . .<       thorn, Manour,Park-furnace,Ponds,
                          (.     Sandy-gate.
Shirland                      Shirland, Smithy-moor, Stretton.
Silkstone, Yorks.     . .     Silkstone.
Skegby, Notts                 Shilo, Dirty-Hucknale, Skegbv.
                          jSmalley, Smalley-common,                  Simon-
imaUelf                   }       field, Woodhouse-lane.
                                    E   e 3                         Smithsby

438           Names    of Collieries in and near Derlyshirei
    Places' Names.                           Names of Collieries.
Smithsby                         Pistera.
South-Normanton           .      Berristow, South-Normanton.
 Dl      •   s    ir l       iArmitage,         Dune;worth,       Low -ash,
Stannington,Yorks.\                 Storr|/Wads,|y.
Stanton (by Dale)         t      Hal lam-bridge (or Nutbrook).
Slanlon-Harold,             >
                                Heath.£nd     ' Stanton-Harold.
    Leicester.
Slapleford, Notts. . Bramcote.
Staveley i . :                   Norbrigs, Staveley, Woodthorpe.
Sutton (in Scars-           j   Sutton,      Sutton-common, Wood*
    dale)   a                I     nook.
Swepston, Leicester. Swepston.
TaThitorth, War- )
                                 p0lesworth, ' Waverton, Wilnecote.
    wicksnire               S
Tankersley, Yorks.              Tankersley-park.
Taxhall, Cheshire . Castedge, Gap-sitch.
                                                  Grass-moor (Piatt's),
      r
Ttohple-Normanton\G™*-moor>
                             (     Lings.
Teversall, Notts. . . Dunshill.
Thursfield, Staff. . Bemersley-green.
Ticknall                        Ticknall4 White-holly-coppy.
Todwick, Yorks. . . Tod wick-moor.
Tibshelf                        Biggin* Harstoft, Tibshelf.
Tteton, Yorks                   Cat-cliff.
Wales, Yorks. ..^               Wales.
Walk, Yorks                      Abdy, Wath-wood.
Wmlworth.ChapelJConw^\Elsk^                                           Low/
    Yorkg                   j'      wood,    Park-gate,
                                                            "°°!?er>
                                                            Swallow-w.ood-
                                    nook, Wentvvorth-park.
                                          - common,        West-Hallam,
 West-Hallam
 west    tiauam               \ Stanley
                              }     West-Hallam windmill-hill.
 Whiston, Yorks.        . .      Royds-moor.
 Whittinglon                     Glass-house-common,          Whittington-
            °                 t     moor.
 Wickersley,      Yorks.    .     Brecks, Hollings-moor.
 Wincle-Chapel,               5  Green-hill, Hay, Latche, Mouse-trap,
     Cheshire   *              i     Robins-clough,    Quarnford.
 Whksworlh.        ......         Alderwasley, Wigwell.
 Wollaton, Notts.        . .      Aspley, Trowel-moor, Wollaton.
 Woodhead, Cheshire               Crowden-clough.
 Worslorough, Yorks.              Stainborough-park,     Worsborough.
 ^               aPe^'
                                  Deep-car, Hunshelf, Westwood.
     Yorks                     ^
                                                                  LXVI.  The

                               t   439      ]
LXVI.       The Croonian       Lecture.        By WILLIAM         HYDE
               WOLLASTON,         M.D.     Sec.  R.S.*
1 AM aware      that the remarks, which I have to offer on the
present occasion, may be thought to bear too little direct
relation to each other for insertion in the same lecture ; yet
any observation respecting the mode of action of voluntary
muscles, and every inquiry into the causes which derange,
and into the means of assisting the action of the heart and
blood-vessels, must be allowed to promote the design of
Dr. Croone, who instituted these annual disquisitions.
And it has always appeared to be one great advantage at
tending the labours of this society, that it favours the pro
duction of any original knowledge, however small, in a
detached form ; and enables a writer to say all that he
knows upon a particular subject, without inducing him to
aim at the importance of a long dissertation.
    I shall therefore make no apology for dividing the fol
lowing lecture into three distinct parts.
   In the first of which I shall treat of the duration of vo
luntary action.
    In the second, I shall attempt to investigate the origin
of sea-sickness, as arising from a simple mechanical cause
deranging the circulation of the blood.
    In the third, I shall endeavour to explain the advantage
derived from riding, and other modes of gestation, in as
sisting the health under various circumstances, in pre
ference to every species of actual exertion.
         Part  I.  On iJie Duration      of Muscular Action.
   The necessity of occasional intermissions from a series of
laborious exertions, is within the experience of every one;
the fatigue of continuing        the effort of anyone voluntary
muscle without intermission even for a few minutes is also
sufficiently known ; but there is a third view of the dura
tion of muscular action which appears to have escaped the
notice of physiologists; for I believe it has not hiiherto
been observed that each effort, apparently single, consists
in reality of a great number of contractions repeated at
extremely short intervals : so short indeed that the inter
mediate relaxation cannot be visible, unless prolonged be
yond the usual limits by a slate of partial or general de
bility.
            • From Philosophical  Transactions  for 18 10, Part L
                                  £  e 4                          I have

440           Oft the Duration of Muscular Action.
     I have been led to infer the existence of these alternate
 motions from a sensation perceptible upon inserting ihe
 extremity of the finger into the ear.    A sound is then per
 ceived which resembles most nearly that of carriages at a
 great distance passing rapidly over a pavement.
    The rapidity of the motion varies according to the degree
 of force with which the finger is retailed in its place;
 The sound thus perceived is not at all dependent on tlie de
gree of pressure upon the tympanum j for, on the contrary,
 the vibratory sound is most distinct when that pressure is
 slight, if the finger be at the same time rendered rigid by
 the forcible action of antagonist muscles; and when the
ear is stopped with great force without the presence of
muscular aption, no such sound is produced. For instance,
if the head be rested upon the hand in such a position, as
to press with its whole weight upon the ball of the thumb
applied to the ear, no noise is perceived, unless the extremity
of the thumb be at the same time pressed against the head,
or unless the action of some other^ muscles be communi
cated to the ear. by any inadvertence in the method of con
ducting the experiment.
    When I endeavoured to estimate the frequency of these
vibratory alternations, they appeared to be in general be
tween 20 and 30 in a second ; but it is possible that the
method [ employed may be found detective, and it is to
be hop.cd that my estimate may be corrected, by some
means better adapted to the determination of intervals that
cannot actually be measured.
    It was by imitation alone that I was enabled to judge of
their frequency.     For this purpose I contrived to render1
the vibration itself, and the imitative sound, both audible
by the same ear.
    While my ear rested on the ball of my thumb, my elbow
was supported by a board lying horizontally, in which were
cut a number of notches of equal size, and about one-eighth
of an inch asunder. Then, by rubbing a pencil or other
found piece of wood with a regular motion along the
notches, I could imitate pretty correctly the tremor pro
duced by the pressure of my thumb against my head; and
by marks to indicate the number of n itches passed over in
five or ten seconds, observed by my watch, I found re
peated observations agree with each other as nearly as couJd
be expected ; for I could not depend upon exerting the
Same decree of force in different trials.
    That I might not be deceived by the resemblance of tre
mors, which coincided only at alternate beats, and there
                                                           fore

                On the Duration       of Muscular Action.               441
fbfe might be considered as octaves in music to each other,
I sometimes employed notches at greater and sometimes at
less distances from each other, but the result was neverthe
less the same; and in order to avoid any error that might
be caused by some accidental quality of the sound arising
from the length of the muscle employed, or length of
the bones concerned in conveying the imitative sound
 to my ear, I made the following variation of the experi
 ment.       My ear was stopped by a cushion pressed upon by
 the end of a notched slick that rested on my foot, and thus
 conveyed the vibraiion from the muscles of my leg to tho
 ear, along with the tremor produced by friction upon the
 notches; and still the results were nearly the same; vary
 ing in frequency between 20 and 30 in a second, according
 to the degree of force exerted in the experiment *.
     As a further proof that I was not much deceived in my
judgement of the frequency of these vibrations, I requested
 two or three of my friends to repeat the same experiment
 for me, aixl our agreement was such as to confirm me in
 opinion, that there could be no very considerable error in
 the estimate.
     The greatest frequency that I think I have observed, was
 about 35 or 36 in a second, and |he least was as low as 14
 or 15; but in attempting to lessen the number of vibra->
 tions, there appears to be a degree of unsteadiness which
 prevents any accurate measurement of the real number.
      It is very probable, that in cases of great debility the
  number may be even considerably less, and may be the
  reason of that visible unsteadiness, which is known to oc
 cur in persons enfeebled by age, or much reduced by dis
  ease.
      Possibly the foregoing observation may not be altogether
 new to some members of this society, as it is now about 1 7
  or 18 years since it first occurred to me, and I was then
  accustomed occasionally to mention it in conversation with
  my friends ; but I am not aware that any other person has
  made the same remark respecting the vibratory nature of
  muscular action, although I find that Grimaldi had ob
     ' The resemblance of the muscular vibrations to the sound of carriages at
  a distance, I apprehend to arise not so much from the quality of the sound,
  as from an agreement in frequency with an average of the tremors usually
  produced by the number of stones in the regular pavement of London,
  passed over by carriages moving quickly.
     If the number of vibrations be supposed 24 in a second, and the breadth
  of each stone be about six inches, the rate of a carriage thus estimated
  would be about eight miles an hour; which agrees. with the truth as nearly
  as the assumptions on which   the estimate is founded.
                                                                       served

442                                  On Sea-Sickness.
served the sound that occurs upon stopping the ears, but
ascribed    according to the notions that prevailed in his
                  it,
time, to the hurried motions of the animal spirits*.
                              Part   II.   On Sea-Sickness.
   The second remark which         have to offer to the society
                                               I
relates to sea-sickness, the cause of which has not hitherto
been fully explained    and although the explanation which
                                 ;
I am about to propose, may not appear altogether satisfac
tory to persons who, when at sea, are also rendered giddy
by the incessant motion of the waves, and are consequently
liable to consider as cause and effect phaenomena which in
their minds are constantly associated         yet the observation
                                                        ;
on which            founded may deserve to be recorded, on
                    it   is
account of the degree of relief that may be obtained in that
most distressing affection.
   After had been harassed
             I                                 by
                                     sea-sickness during      short   a
voyage for some days, and had in vain attempted to ac
count for the difference between the inexperienced passen
ger, and those around him more accustomed to the motion
of the sea,     imperceptibly acquired some power of resist
                    1
ing its effects, and had the good fortune to observe             pe       a
culiarity in my mode of respiration, evidently connected
with the motion of the vessel, but of which, in my then
enfeebled state,     was unable to investigate either the cause
                          I
or consequence.       In waking from state of very disturbed
                                                    a
sleep,   I found that my respirations were not taken with
the accustomed uniformity, but were interrupted                irre   by
gular pauses, with an appearance of watching for some
favourable opportunity for making the succeeding effort                       ;
and     seemed as
        it               the act of inspiration were in some
                               if
manner to be guided          the tendency of the vessel to pitch
                                      by
with an uneasy motion.
   The mode          which
                         by     afterwards conceived that this
                                           I
action could primarily affect the system, was                    by
                                                            its in
fluence on the motion of the blood           for, at the same in
                                                        ;
stant that the chest      dilated for reception of air, its vessels
                                 is
become also more open to the reception of the blood, so
that the return of blood from the head          more free than at
                                                            is
any other period of       complete respiration.
                                 a                  On the con
trary,     the act of expelling air from the lungs, the ingress
             by
of blood      so far obstructed, that, when the surface of the
                  is
   * Vera itaque ratio experiment! pridicti est, quia in digito et brachio
totoque corpore continuato fiunt multi moius ac trcmorcs, ob spirituum
agitationcm hue Him: perpetuo accurrentium.     Grimaldi, Physicomathesis
de .uinine, p. 383.
    1
                                                                           brain

                          On Sea- Sickness.                     ,443
brain is exposed by the trepan, a successive turgescence
and subsidence of the brain is seen, in alternate motion
with the different states of the chest. It is probably from
this cause that, in severe head-aches, a degree of temporary
relief is obtained by occasional complete inspirations.
     In sea-sickness also the act of inspiration will have some
tendency to relieve, if regulated so as to counteract any
temporary pressure of blood upon the brain ; but the cause
of such pressure requires first to be investigated.
     All those who have ever suffered from sea-sickness
 (without being giddy) will agree that the principal uneasi
ness is felt during the subsidence of the vessel               \)y
                                                                 the
sinking of the wave on which          it  rests.It   is during this
subsidence that the blood has              atendency to press with
unusual force upon the brain.
     If person be supposed standing erect upon deck,
      a                                                             Js*
                                                                    it
evident that the brain, which            isuppermost, then sustains
 no pressure from the mere weight of the blood, and that
 the vessels of the feet and lower parts of the body must
 contract, with  a   force sufficient to resist the pressure of          a
 column of blood, of between five and six feet from the head
 downwards.
      If the deck were     by  any means suddenly and entirely
 removed, the blood would be no longer supported                    by
                                                                   itt
 vessefs     but both would fall together with the same velo
         by ;
 city      the free action of gravity    ; and the same contraction
  of the vessels which before supported the weight of the
  blood would now occasion       it   to press upon the brain, with
a    force proportional to its former altitude.
      In the same manner, and for the same reason, during                 a
  more gradual subsidence of the deck, and partial removal
  of support, there must be     a   partial diminution of the pres
  sure of the blood upon its vessels, and consequently                    a
  partial reaction upon the brain, which would be directly
  counteracted   by   a full inspiration.
      The consequence of external motion upon the blood will
  be best elucidated       by  what may be seen to occur       in coa
  lumn of mercury similarly circumstanced.
      A barometer, when carried out to sea in calm, rests at
                                                     a
  the same height at which          it  would stand on shore but,
                                                                ;
  when the ship falls     by  subsidence of the wave, the mercury
 is   seen apparently to rise    in   the tube that contains    it,
                                                                  be-,
   cause  a portion of its gravity    is then  employed   in
                                                           occasion
  ing its descent along with the vessel        ;    and accordingly,
if  it   were confined in   a  tube closed at bottom,     itwould no
   longer press with its whole weight upon the lower end. In
                                                                         the

   444                              On Sea-Sickness,
   the same manner, and for the same reason, the blood no
   longer presses downwards with its whole weight, and will be
   driven upwards, by the elasticity which before was merely
   sufficient to support it.
        The sickness occasioned by swinging is evidently from
   the same causes as sea-sickness, and that direction of the
  motion which occasions the most piercing sensation of un
  easiness, is conformable to the explanation above given.
        It is in descending forwards that this sensation 14 pe/-
  ceived ; for, then the blood has the greatest tendency to
  move from the feet towards the, head, since the line joining
  them is in the direction of the motion.                 But when, in the
  descent backwards, the motion is transverse to the line of
  the body, it occasions little comparative inconvenience,
  because the tendency to propel the blood towards the heaj
  is then inconsiderable.
       The regularity of the motion in swinging, afforded me
  an apparently favourable opportunity for trying the effect
  of inspiration; but although the advantage was manifest,
 I   must confess, it did not fully equal the expectations I had
  formed from my experience at sea. It is possible that the
  suddenness of the descent may in this' case be too great
 to be fully counteracted by such means ; but I am inclined
  to think that the contents of the intestines are also af-.
 fected by the same cause as the blood ; and if these have
 any direct disposition to regurgitate, this consequence will
 be in no degree counteracted by the process of respira
 tion.
      A friend of mine informed me that he had endeavoured
 to counteract this mechanical effect upon the stomach, and
 had experienced immediate relief from a slight degree of
 sea- sickness, by lyin^ down upon the deck with his head
 towards the stem of the vessel ; by means of which, upon
 pitching, he was in the attitude of a person descending
 backwards in a swing.
      Whether the stomach be or be not thus primarily af
 fected, or only by sympathy with the brain, the sensation,
 of sinking; is in all cases referred directly to the stomach,
 which is seized with such instantaneous retching, that no
 person, who has not been so situated can form a just con
 ception of it*.
                                                                             In
    * There is one occasion upon which      a slighter icnsation of this kind is
perceived, and it appears to indicate the direction of the m:>tion from
which it arises, to be downwards.       " In a country subject to frequent re
turns of earthquakes," it is said* that " a few minutes before any shock came,
                                                                           many
     .;  Phil. Trans, vol. ilii. p. 41.

                On the salutary Effects     of Riding, &c.                445
   In thus referring the sensations of sea-sickness in so
great a degree to the agency of mere mechanical pressure,
I feel confirmed by considering the consequence of an op
posite motion, which, by too quickly withdrawing blood
from the head, occasions a tendency to faint, or that ap
proach to fainting, which amounts to a momentary giddi
ness with diminution of muscular power.      At a time when
J was much fatigued by exercise, 1 had occasion to run to
some distance, and seat myself under a low wall for shelter
trom a very heavy shower.      In rising suddenly from this
position I was attacked with such a degree of giddiness,
that I involuntarily dropped into my former posture, and
was instantaneously relieved, by return of blood to the head,
from every sensation of uneasiness.
   Since that time, the same affection has frequently oc
 curred to me in slighter degrees, and I have observed, that
it has always been under similar circumstances of rising
suddenly from an inclined position, after some degree of
previous fatigue.    Sinking down again immediately re
moves the giddiness ; and then, by rising a second time
more gradually, the same sensation is avoided.
Part   HI.       On the salutary Effects of Riding, and other Modes
                               of Gestation.
     In the preceding instances of disturbing the circulation
of   the blood, by external motion, the effect is disagreeable,
and proportionally prejudicial.   There may indeed be casts
of disorder, in^whicb it will be salutary, but these are pro
bably less frequent than is generally supposed.
   In the observations which follow, general opinion will
concur with me, on the benefit derived from external or
passive motion, and I hope that, in ascribing its good
effects to their true cause, I shall enable others to make a
valuable distinction, which has not yet been preserved with
due care, between one motion which is salutary, and an
other which is very frequently pernicious.      For, although
many people could foretel it by an alteration in their stomachs; an effect
which     (it  added) always accompanies the wave-like motion of earth
                is
quakes, when          so weak as to be uncertainly distinguishable."
                     it   is                                           (Michell,
Phil. Trans, vol. li. 610      )
  It  seems that the vapours to which these tremendous concussions are
owing, immense in quantity, and of prodigious force, being for     a  time con
fined on all sides, elevate the surface ol  a   country to a   vast extent until
they either find vent, or meet with some partial cause of condensation and
                                                                         ;
hence the alternate heaving and subsidence of the ground will produce
much the same effects as the rising and falling of the swell at sea.
                                                                             the

 446             On the salutary Effects  of Riding,
 the term    gestation is employed by medical writers, as a
 general   term comprehending riding on horseback, or in a
 carriage, and although the merits of such motions, espe
 cially the former, were cleat ly noticed, and perhaps even
 ovtr-rated, by the discernment of Sydenham, I believe that
 no explanation has yet been given, of the peculiar ad
 vantages of external motion, and am persuaded, that the
 benefits to be derived     from carriage exercise are by no
 means in so high estimation as they ought to be.
    Under the common term exercise, active exertion has
 too frequently been confounded with passive gestation, and
 fatiguing efforts have consequently been substituted for
 motions that are agreeable, and even directly invigorating,
 when duly adapted to the strength of the invalid, and the
 peculiar nature of his indisposition.
    The explanarion which I am about to offer of the effects
 of external motion upon the circulation of the blood, is
 founded upon a part of the structure observable in the ve
 nous system, the mechanical tendency of which cannot be
 doubted.     The valves which are every where dispersed
ihrough those vessels, allow free passage to the blood, when    -
propelled forward by any motion that assists its progress ;
but they oppose an immediate obstacle to such as have a
contrary tendency.      The circulation is consequently helped
forward by every degree of gentle agitation.       The heart is
supported, in any laborious effort that may have become
necessary, by some obstacle to its exertions ; it is assisted-
i» the creat work of restoring a system, which has recently
struggled with some violent attack : or it is allowed, as it
were, to rest from a labour, to which it is unequal, when
the powers of life are nearly exhausted by any lingering
disorder.
    In the relief thus afforded to an organ so essential to
life, all other vital functions must necessarily participate;
and the various offices of secretion, and assimilation,      by
whatever means they are performed, will not fail to be pro
moted during such comparative repose from laborious ex
ertion.
    Even the powers of the mind itself, though apparently
least likely to be influenced by mere mechanical means,
are manifestly, and in many persons most immediately,
affected by these kinds of motion.
    It is not only in cases of absolute deficiency of power to
carry on the customary circulation,         that the beneficial
effects, of gestation are felt, but equally so when com
parative inability arises from redundancy of matter to be
                                                     propelled.

                   and other Modes    of Gestation.          447
propelled.      When from fulness of blood the circulation
is obstructed, ihe whole system labours under a feeling of
hurry and agitation, with that sensibility to sudden im
 pressions which is usually termed nervousness. The mind
becomes incapable of any deliberate consideration, and is
impressed with horrors that have no foundation but in a
distempered imagination.
     It is in moderate degrees of this species of affection that
 the advantages     of carriage exercise are most sensibly felt.
 The composed serenity of mind that succeeds to the pre
 vious alarm, is described by some persons with a degree
 of satisfaction that evinces the decided influence of the
 remedy.      With this steadier tone of mind, returns its full
 power     of cool reflection ; and if the imagination becomes
 more alive than usual, its activity is now employed in con
 ceiving scenes that are amusing and agreeable.
 •
     As an instance of direct relief to a circulation labouring
 from mere fulness of blood, I may adduce that of a person,
 whose friends, as well as himself, were apprehensive, from
  the violent and visible throbbing of his heart, of the ex
 istence of some organic mischief, and were in some mea
 sure alarmed for the consequences.
      He was persuaded, and not reluctantly, to go without
 delay for medical advice, and was accordingly conveyed
 in a carriage to the house of some physician of eminence,
  but did not succeed in rinding him At home.        As the sym
  ptoms did not appear to admit of delay, and were at least not
  aggravated by the motion, it was hoped that the wished-for
  advice might be obtained at a part of the town which hap
  pened to be at some distance.         But the second attempt
  proved as fruitless as the former, and a thiid was made
  with the same event. Since the throbbing had by that
  time considerably abated, he was contented to postpone
  any further efforts to the following day, and directed the
  carriage homewards.        By the time that he returned to his
  friends, he found that the motion of travelling over several
  miles of pavement had apparently removed the complaint.
  The pulsation of the heart and arteries had subsided to their
  natural standard, and he congratulated himself, that his
   search of a remedy had not been ineffectual, although he
   had been disappointed as to the source from which he
  thought he had most reason to expect relief.
      If vigour can in any instance be directly given, a man
  may certainly be said to receive it in the most direct mode,
   when the important service of impelling forward the cir
   culation of his blood is performed for him by external
                                                           means.

448              Modes     of Tuning Instruments.
means.    The main spring, or first mover of the system, is
thereby, as it were, wound up ; and although the several
subordinate operations of so complicated a machine can
not be regulated in detail by mere external agency, they
must each be performed with greater freedom, in conse
quence of this general supply of power.
   In almost every treatise on the subject of chronical dis
eases, arc* to be found numerous instances of the benefit
produced by the several modes of gestation which have
been most generally adopted ; as riding on horseback, in
carriages, sea-voyages, and swinging.   And in many cases
which might be adduced, it has appeared too clear to
admit of a doubt, that the cure of the patient has been
owing solely to the external agitation of his body, which
must~be allowed, at least, to have had the effect above ex
plained ; that of relieving the heart and arteries from A
great part of their exertion in propelling the blood, and
may therefore have contributed to the cure, by that means
only.
   The different modes above mentioned are adapted from
their nature to different degrees of bodily strength ; and if
there are cases in which that which appears most eligible
may not suit the situation or circumstances of the patient,
it cannot be difficult to contrive other means of giving
motion, so as least to incommode, and yet to give the!
greatest relief.  A very gentle and long continued, or even
incessant motion, may suit some cases better than any
more violent and occasional agitation ; and in this way,
probably, it    is,
                 that sea-voyages have sometimes been at*
tended with remarkable advantage.
LXVII.    Comparative Tables of the Beats       of
                                             the Tempered
  Consonances in M. Kirnberger's      and the Isotonic or
  Equal Temperament Systems        Tuning; with Remarks
                                       of
  on the common System used       Organ liinerS, compared
                                    by
  with that   M. Kirnierger. By the Rev. C. J. SMYTH,
                of
  Minor Canon     tlie Cathedral, Norwich.
                      of
J.  HP. opinions of profound theorists are ever entitled    to
attention ;   but should not be received with implicit faith.
If such man as Sir Isaac Newton was capable of mis
         is a
                                                         a
take, so     an Emanuel Bach, or Kollmann.
                                    a            To the latter
gentleman    the musical world    under
                                  is     the greatest obliga
tions for reducing the theory of Composition to      a degree
                                                          "
                                                             of

                  Modes   of Tuning Instruments.              449
oF simplicity, before his writings unknown.          But the opi
nions he has advanced, with respect to the temperament
of the musical scale, require that minute investigation and
submission to calculation, which, if they had been advanced
by a person of less celebrity, might have been passed over
in silence.
    One of the grand objects at which he appears to aim, is
to establish an equal temperament      on the piano-forte (that
is, that all chords of the same    kind    shall be alike, as to
their degree of imperfection) :   to  ihis  I raise no objection;
the rage for modulation at present exerting its energies, to
their utmost possible extent ; a rage very favourable to the
talents of those, who have not invention sufficient to pro
duce novel and beautiful melodies, and yet aspire to the
character of interesting composers.                              \
    I shall first presume to offer a few observations on the
unequal temperament of Kirnberger, which Mr. Kollmann
supposes
           " one of the best hitherto known." Not having
the happiness to be able to read German, I know not what
M. Kirnberger has offered in its behalf; or those impor
tant observations which major Templehoff (in an Essay in.
that language published in 1775, Berlin) is said by Dr.
Robison in the Eneyc. Brit., art. Temperament, to have
made, on Kirnberger's system.
    Preferring at all times experiment to theory, I tuned my
piano-forte according to Mr. Kollmann's printed directions,
with a view to hear the effect of one of " the best unequal
temperaments."        I cannot speak favourably of the result.
I will below subjoin a table of the beatings of the tempered
consonances, in order to give those professors who may
feel no inclination to submit to the drudgery of calculation,
some idea of what the effect of this temperament would be
on an organ, where those leating.1 are most distinctly heard:
a. formidable host of foes, inimical to correct, and even tole
rable tune. It appears to me, in the outset, doubtful whether
a tempered      system should have any perfect chords (but
the octaves); as those chords, whenever they are heard, will
render the ear less disposed to be pleased with the imperfect
harmony which follows.
    We will suppose the performer on the organ, to begin
with Kirnberger's system in the key of C, answering to the
tenor clif ; here is a chord absolutely perfect ; so also4s the
chord of G, the fifth of the key; hut the chord of the
 fourth of the key ranks, in point of importance, next to
 the key-note and its fifth ; and here unfortunately is a
 chord of which A, the major third to F, beats 149 times
    Vol. 35. No. 146. June 1810.               Ff               in

 450             Modes      of Tuning Instruments.
 in 15".   From the       key of C a modulation will
                                                  naturally
 be expected into the key of G; which modulation will re
 quire the dominant of G, viz. the chord of D with a major
 third, fifth, and seventh. Now the A is half a comma too
 flat, as a fifth above D, and will beat 75 times in 15". And
 this we may take, as the first instance of " a very fine va
 riety of perfection." Surely Mr. Kollmann would have
 been more consistent in the ifse of terms, if he had said
 " varieties of imperfection." The next chord which oc
 curs is lhal of E, the fifth of which is perfect, but the
 major third beats 255 in 15". The chord of F has already
 been spoken of; proceed we then to examine the chord of
Bb ; the fifth is perfect, the major third beats 399. This
chord on Eb beats 266.
    Now let us compare this temperament with that upon
organs tuned in the usual manner. I do not give the beats
in extreme keys, because they are too rapid to be heard as
beatings, except in the lowest part of the scale, and have a
rough effect, which is more tolerable than beatings not too
rapid to be perceived as beatings.       One chord, viz. that
of AI> or G* has a peculiar character,      (itcalled the wolf)
                                                  is
the fifth being almost the fifth part of      minor tone too
                                              a
sharp, and the beatings are distinctly heard in the middle
and lower part of the scale.
      Chords on the Organ, as tuned in the usual Planner.
C, G, D, A, and E, sood.
 B,F*, C* and G*. The major thirds almost one fourth
                        of minor tone too sharp, and
                                   a
                        Ab (or G*) has also fifth almost
                                                       a
F,    lib and Eb, good.      one-fifth ofta minor lone too
                             sharp, as before observed.
   When we hear an organ tuned         in this manner, we may
consider ourselves at     feast, in which there are dishes- of
                          a
various qualities; while     M. Kirnberger's feast of exquisite
                              in
viands, but eight dishes are very palatable, and those who
are fond of sour crout and olives, and, like many of our
best composers, have no objection to    a  slice of wolf, though
they would not choose to dine entirely upon that outlandish
animal, have an opportunity of gratifying their peculiar
palates.   Until, therefore, some irrefragable arguments are
prodiJfed, to prove die superiority of M. Kirnberger's      tem
perament to that in common use,        I   presume our organ-
builders and organ-tuners will, in spite of any charges of
obstinacy, ignorance, or policity, continue to tune as their
ancestors did before them      :as I cannot flatter myself the
                                                           public

                 Modes     of Tuning Instruments.                     43 1
public will ever go to an enormous expense, for many ad
ditional pipes, in order that our old and young organists
may perform their wonderful feats of -modulation (which
require as little genius as application) without torturing
those who prefer tolerable tune, to the parade of science.
Further observations, on mean-tone temperaments, may
be offered hereafter.
                                                    C.  J. Smyth.
    M. Kirnberger's Temperament,                  Beats in 15".
            (The Vibrations communicated by Mr. Farey.)
    Keys. Vibration! in 1".   Sds.   lllds. 4ths. Vths.  6ths.  Vlths.
     C    4 SO
     B    450                      0 383        0     0       0  383
     Bb   426-6667              474 399         0     0 574      399
     A    402-4922              224    153   150   112    299    188
     Ab   379-2593              383    355      0     0 510 355
     G    360                   399       0     0     0 533         0
     Gb   337-5                 188    287      0    17      0 287
     F    320                  355     149      0     0 474 300
     E    300                      0   255   112      0      0 255
     Eb   2844444              287     266      0     0 383 266
     D    270                  300        0     0   75 399          0
     Db   252-8395             255    237      17     0 153 237
     C    240                  266        0     0     0  355     112
                              3131 2484      279   204 3680 2782
                              2484
                               279
                               204
                              3680
                              2782
                            12560 Sum total-
                                   Ff2                              The

452                         On Crystallography.
             The Isotonic Scale*, Beats in 15".
                (The Vibrations communicated by Mr. Fariy.)
                                                                 1
     Keys.    Vibrations   in 1".    3ds.    lllds.   4ths.          Vths.    6ths. Vlths.
      C         480
      B         453-0613              366 269               30          22    428     309
      *         427-6307              345     254           28          21    403     291
      A         403-6312              326     240           27          20    381     274
      *         380-9784              308     226           25          19 360 259
      G         359-5939              291     214           24          18 339 244
      *         339-4127              274     201           22          17 320 230
      F         320-3612              259      190          21          16 302 218
      £         302-3819              244      180          20          15 285 205
      *         285*4090              230      169          19          14    269         194
      D         209-3913              218      160          18          13    254         133
      *         254-2725              205      151          17          12    240         173
      C         240                   194      142          16          12     226        103
                                     3260 2396         267            199 3807 2692
                                                                                           \
                                      267
                                      199
                                     3807
                                     2692
                                    12621 Sum         total
                                                                                          ...
LXVIII.         On Crystallography.             ByM.HAvr. Transited
froth     the last   Paris Edition of his Traite                      de     Miireralogie.
                             [Continued     from p. 863.]
             GEOMETRICAL            CHARACTERS              Of       CRYSTALS,
                16. Forms.          Nucleus or primitive                form.
It  is very rare to find a mineral under its primitive form
given immediately by nature, and there is a certain num-
Eerrfif species in which this form    known only from the
                                                      is-
Tesults of mechanical division and by theory.      The just
measurement of actions susceptible of producing       only as                   it   is
  *   Sac our   xxviikb volume, p. 65, and our xzizth volume, p. 347.—Ebit.
                                                                                                it

                       On Crystallography.                   453
k  were a point which frequently escapes in the process of
crystallization, amid that multitude of circumstances which
influence in so many ways the progress of this operation.
    The diversity of the primitive forms ought to be re
garded as a certain indication of a difference in nature be
 tween two substances, and the identity of primitive form
indicates that of nature, at all times when this form is not
one of those which have a marked character of. regularity,
such as the cube, the regular octahedron, &c.
    Secondary forms.      Jn order to describe more easily the
 secondary   forms,   we shall suppose them always situated in
 such a manner that the line which may be considered as
 their axis has a vertical position, and then the faces parallel
 to this axis will themselves b,ear the name of vertical faces ;
 we shall call horizontal faces those which will be perpen
dicular, aod oblique faces those which will be inclined to
 wards it.
    We are sometimes in the situation of indicating the in
cidence of a face which is presented in front in the pro
jection of a crystal, on that which is adjacent to it behind
 the same crystal.      We shall then give to the latter the
 name of returned facet.      Suppose, for example, that in the
distich topaz represented (fig. 61, PI. VII) it is requisite to
 indicate the angle formed by one or other of the panes o, o,
 with that which is contiguous to it in die posterior part,
we shall say that the incidence of o on the returned pan*
is 93° 6'.
    The forms of crystals are subject to various kinds of al
teration* purely accidental.     One consists in certain faces
being    nearer   to, or more  distant  from, the centre in one
crystal  than   in  another which   belongs to the same, variety,
 in such a way, however, as constantly to preserve a certain
character of symmetry. In several cases these variations only
fall on the dimensions of the faces, and not on the number
of their sides. This happens with certain dodecahedral
garnets, which in the case of perfect symmetry would have
their surface composed of twelve equal and similar rhombs,
and which are lengthened in the direction of an axis which
would pass by two of their opposite solid angles taken among
those which are formed of three plane anJHes.         The dode
cahedron is then presented under the appearance of a solid
with six panes which arc elongated rhombs, with summits
of three faces each which are true rhombs. In other cases,
Ithe faces themselves, or some of them at least, change their
figure, by the increase or diminution of the number of
                             Ff3                            their

454                  On Crystallography.
their sides.   Thus, upon the hypothesis that the cube per
forming    the function   of
                          the primitive form undergoes a
decrement by a simple range around its eight solid angles,
it may happen that the effect of the decrement remain* in
terrupted, at the term at which all the faces which it pro
duces are equilateral triangles far enough removed from
the centre to avoid meeting, and then the faces parallel to
those of the primitive cube will be octagons.        If, on the
contrary, the same faces come in contact, the primitive
planes will preserve the form of the square : finally, if they
intersect each other, they will be changed into hexagons,
without the primitive faces ceasing to be squares, and these
variations might pass through an infinity of degrees which
will be as many approximations, with respect to the form
of the complete octahedron, which is the object towards
which the law of decrement tends.
   But amid all these diversities of positions, the mutual 'HIT
cidences of the. faces of the crystal are constant.        This
truth, which has been placed beyond all question by the
numerous observations of Rome de PIsle, is a necessary
consequence of the integrant molecule being itself invari
able in its form, and also from the law of decrement in its
turn having a -constant progress, which is only arrested
more or less far from ils limit in the different crystals re
lative to one and the same variety.
   A second cause of variations is that which disturbs the
symmetry and regularity of the crystalline form, and the
effect of which is to destroy the, equality of the analogous
faces, in such a way that some lake a very visible extension,
while others almost entirely escape the eye. The theory
pught to make an abstraction of these variations, and re
gard them as null : but they are visible enough to confuse
the mind of a person not much habituated to these exer
cises, and wha cannot easily distinguish ihe type froia the:
true form through the traits which disfigure   it,  and thisis
the source of the greatest difficulties which the study of
crystallography presents.    The projections traced from re
gular crystal?, and the copies in rflievo of these bodies, may
be of great use to the naturalist, in order to bring back the
rest, by an exercise of imagination, to the symmetry from
which   they are separated.
   These imitations of the work of nature will serve to
obviate a difficulty of another kind, namely, that which
arises from the grouping of crystals partly concealed by
each other, or frqm their slight projection above the ma
                                                         trix.

                        On Crystallography.                  455
trix, in which they     seem to be more or less fastened, so
that it behoves   an observer to complete, in his imagination,
each of these partial forms.
  In short, I have been more than once surprised to see
with what facility young mineralogists, who have joined to
a taste for the science an aptitude for geometrical con
ceptions, have referred every thing to its right place in
crystals the faces of which were the most deranged, or
have profited from the trifling part of a crystal sunk in
its matrix, in order to guess at the rest.     It would even
seem that there is a peculiar satisfaction    attached   to the
solution of these small problems : every person      is pleased
with giving proofs of sagacity, and with understanding
nature as if by half a word.
   In order to determine the mutual incidences of the faces
of a crystal, or of its salient angles, an instrument is used
which was invented by M. Carangeau.          This instrument,
which strongly resembles the graphomtter, is composed of
a semicircle    MTN    (fig. 77), of brass or silver, divided
into degrees, and which has two arms A B, FG, one of
which FG is slit from « to R, excepting at K, where a
small piece is left uuslit in order to give more solidity to
the instrument.     This arm is attachen at R and at c to a
brass rule situated behind, and which is of a piece with the
semicircle.    The junction of the arm with this rule is
 produced by means of two screws which are inserted into
the slit.   The other arm A B is slit in the same manner
from x to r, where it is attached abo -e the former by
 means of the screw at this place, and which traverses the
two slits.   On loosening the screws, we can shorten at plea
sure the parts c G, c B, of the two arms, as circumstances
require.
   The arm A B having only a single point of attaching at
c, where the centre of the circle is, has a movement around
this* centre, while the arm GF remains constantly in the
direction of the diameter which passes by the points zero
and    180°.
   It may be useful to remark, that the upper part of the
arm A B ought to be bevilled off towards its edge sz, the
direction of which being prolonged below, passes by the
centre c of the instrument.    The reason of this  is,that this
edge     what
        \£        called
                  is     the ind^x  line, e.
                                          i. that which   indi
cates on the graduated circumference the measurement of
the angle wanTed.
   Let us now suppose that we wish to measure on        crystal
                                                         a
the angle formed       by
                       two adjoining planes.   We know that
                               Ft'4                          thi«t

       •
458                    On CrystatttigTOpky.
this angle is equal to that of two lines drawn from one
and the same point of the edge which joins these planes,
with the condition that they are perpendicular to this ridge
 and laid down on the same planes.         In order to have this
 angle, we shall arrange the instrument so that the portions
c G, c B of the two arms may leave no light between them
 and the planes in question, and at the same time their edges
may be perpendicular to the edge of junction. In this case,
 the faces which embrace the crystal are tangents to the two
planes whosa incidence we seek for.         This being done, we
shall seek on the circumference of the instrument, the
degree     which the. index line sz marks, or the angle
which this line forms with that which passes by the centre
c and by the zero point, which angle is equal to that
formed by the two portions G c, c B of the arms, since it
is opposite to it at the summit.
    It is an advantage to be able to shorten these parts at
pleasure, to avoid the obstacles which would render the
operation impracticable, and which might be occasioned
either by the matrix to which the crystal adheres, or from
the adjoining crystals in which it is partly fastened.
    But there are cases in which this precaution is not suf
ficient, and in which we should find ourselves constrained
by the part of the semicircle situated towards M, if its
position was invariable.       The ingenious inventor of the
instrument has guarded against this inconvenience by the
following contrivance.
    The stalk at c ha?, besides the two arms, a stay or rod
of steel placed below the copper rule on which the arm
G F is immediately applied. The upper extremity of this
rod, or that which is situated towards O, has a hole into
which a steel peg also enters, furnished with a screw in a
similar manner.       In addition to this the semicircle is di
vided at 90°, so- that, by means of a hinge with wtych it is
provided at the same place, the quarter of the circle J1 M
js folded below the quarter of the circle T N> and is as. it
were suppressed.       When we wish to execute this move
ment, we must loosen the screw which fastened the upper
part of the rod cO, we must disengage the hole at the end
of this rod from the screw which is inserted into       it,  and
we must pull down the rod until          it   beneath the copper
                                              is
rule which has the arm G F. When the angle measured
exceeds 90°, we must return the quarter circle TM to itsj
place, in   order to ascertain its value.
  It   will be easy to appreciate the utility of the goniometer,
if we reflect how interesting  it   is that descriptions of cry
                                                              stals

                        On Crystallography.                45?
stals should indicate the angles which their face? make
with each other. Such are the indications which make the
description start up, as it were, by palpable and truly cha
racteristic traces.     Without these requisites, a description
would be a rude and imperfect sketch, which might be re
ferred to many different objects.
     Thus we do not describe doclecahedral zircon when we
merely say that it is a prism with four panes terminated by
 summits with four rhombs which arise on the longitudinal
 ridges.     This character would also suit the harmotome
 (the   cruciform   hyacinth), the stilbite, oxidized tin, &c. :
 but if you add that the panes form right angles with each
 other, and the faces of the summit are inclined to each
 other by 124° 12', the description will be restrained to
 zircon. If you say that the inclination is 121° 57', it will
 be the harmotome ; or, if you say that there are two dif
 ferent inclinations, the one 123° 3 2^ and the other 112°
  14', it will be the stilbite.
      There are several varieties of one and the same substance
 which may present forms of the same kind, and which will
  only be distinguished by the measurements of their angles.
  Of this description are the six rhomboids on one hand,
  and on the other the two dodecahedrons with rhombic
  faces which are found in carbonated lime.         How can we
  exactly describe all the varieties which differ from each
  other more or less, if we do not precisely mark the dif
  ferences ?    And there are even cases in which the use of
  the goniometer is the only way to avoid an error which
  would not fail to slide into the description.       Thus the
  calcareous rhomboid, the- angles of which only differ in
  about 2° 18' from the right angle, was at first taken for
  a cube, and would have continued to be cabled cubical
  calcareous spar, if geometrical measurement* had not rec
  tified this denomination, doubly defective, either in itself,
   or with reference to the theory which demonstrates that
   the existence of the cube does not agree here with that
   of any symmetrical laws of decrement.
       One of the principal causes of this neglect of gonio-
   metry arises from the kind of rule to which some minera
   logists arc restricted, of confining themselves to characters
   susceptible of being determined solely by a reference to the
   senses: and on this account we are deprived of the re
   sources presented     by the instruments which give to our
    organs a new degree of delicacy, and render them capable
    of attaining, in the determination of the distinguishing
    Characters of minerals, that precision which is in its turn
                                                              the

438                            On Crystallography.
  the principal character of the sciences.        I have known
 some admirers or' simple and unaided ocular demonstra
 tion, nevertheless, approve of using an eye-glass. Now
 what is a goniometer but a kind of geometrical eye-glass,
 which enables us to perceive those minute differences, and
 imperceptible gradations, which escape the eye?
     With respect to plane angles, we have sometimes indi
 cated them also*, particularly those of primitive forms,
 and those which imprint on secondary forms a character
 of simplicity and regularity, such as the angles of 90°,
 60°, &c.
    We shall conclude from what precedes, that every cry
 stalline form, when we consider only what is invariable in
it,  i.e. the number and the respective inclinations of its
 faces,'    so truly characteristic, that
            is                               may serve of itself
                                                it
 to determine, independently of every other consideration,
the species to which the crystal belongs that presents                  it,
provided       be not
                 it     cube, a   regular octahedron,
                                      a                   regular
                                                               a
tetrahedron,      rhomboitlal dodecahedron, or regular hexa-
                      a                                   a
hedral prism.      Thus the form of the dodecahedron with
triangular scalene faces inclined among each other alter
nately       H4° 20' 26", and 104° 28' 40", indicates by
            by
itself variety of carbonated lime.
       a
    Hence       would be possible to compose
                 it                                  method,
                                                          a             by
means of which, any crystalline form being given, we
might succeed in ascertaining in what species           ought to
                                                              it
be placed.
  It   iseasy to perceive, that        considering the faces of
                                           by
crystals relative to their number which varies from four to
60 and upwards, with their vertical positions, inclined or
horizontal, with the other modes of existence of which
they are susceptible, we should have divisions and subdi*
visions so much the clearer,         geometry was called in to
                                          if
determine and circumscribe          them.        method of this
                                                     A
kind would be purely factitious, but             would fulfil its
                                                     it
principal object      and we might even conceive that
                          :                                 geo    a
metrician with its assistance, who was no naturalist, and
who had only before his eyes the collection of crystalline
forms executed in wood, might succeed in arranging this
collection. There would only be the forms common to
various species which would lead to several name*., among
which we could only choose from the inspection of the
natural crystals,             by
                         combining with the form         seconda
  • We
        may measure these anjjles by meant of
                                                a  card properly cut, or by
two very thin rules of steel, which turn on each other by means of hinge,
                                                                   a
                                                               character

                         On Crystallography.                       459
character on which the last step would depend, by which
to attain our object.        Thus the taste joined to the cubical
form would instantly indicate muriate of soda.               A metallic
colour of a bronze yellow reflected by a body of the same
form would characterize sulphurated iron.
    17. Structure-        Mechanical Division.          The character
furnished by this operation is, as we have already re
marked, the only one which does not participate in the
Variations produced by the mixture of heterogeneous                sub
stances,     the influence of which modifies the hardness,
specific gravity, fusibility, &c. and even the results of the
analysis.      It may perhaps disappear in the unshapen masses
which have undergone a confused crystallization ; but
wherever it is possible merely to have a glimpse of                it,   it
is"1 susceptible neither of more nor of less.            It removes in
some measure every thing which                 ismerely accessary in
 the composition of        a   substance   ;  and while in all other
respects this substance           marches through        succession of
                                                         a
 shades, ihe measurement of the primitive angles stops at
 the same degree     ;   and as soon as the substance changes its
 nature,   thereis    an  abrupt leap in the value of the angles.
     We may venture to hope, that those who peruse this
 treatise with attention will perceive the advantage              which
 we have made of the character in question, for the deter
 mination of the species.           In our first researches we had
 nothing further in         view   than   to make   it  the basis of     a
 theory fitted    for  throwing lights      on  crystallography.    But
 the various applications which we have made of this theory
 Jed us to exclude from such          a  species crystals which had
 been referred to    it,  and which rejected the laws of structure
 of which the forms relative to this species were suscepti
 ble; whereas other crystals, hitherto placed in different
 species, were subject to laws which solicited their intimacy            ;
 and from that moment we conceived that this theory, which
 at first appeared restricted to   a    simple branch of mineralogy,
 conic! extend its influence to the whole science, and con
 tribute to give more regularity and justness in the distri
 bution of the subjects which         it  embraces.
     18. Fracture.       This ought not to be confounded with
 Structure.      Having broken        a mineral, when we perceive
 internally a    scaly, gratuitous     or  fibrous texture, this  is the
 effect ot an arrangement which preexisted                in the body.
 But if   we find an undulated surface, or          a species of small
 scales, which are nothing else than very thin fragments,
 still partly adhering to the substance, this aspect              is the
 pfiect  of fracture.     But    it
                                as    depends originally    ona  certain
                                                                   mode

 4o"0                     Royal Society.
 mode of aggregation, it is generally discovered in all thev
 pieces of the same substance, and it is this which may
 serve as a character for recognising it.
    Minerals in which there is wanting some one of the
 sections necessary for completing the primitive form, pre
 sent a fracture properly so called at the place where these
 sections ought to exist.    For example, in the amphibole,
 the joints parallel to the panes of the prism are ve"ry di
 stinct, whereas we perceive none in the direction of the
 bases ; so that the crystal is broken, instead of allowing
itself to be divided in the same direction.    There are there
fore, in these cases, longitudinal joints with a transverse
fracture. In other cases the joints are parallel to the bases,
 and the fracture is longitudinal.      We shall point out the
 different directions according to which the fracture takes
 place ; and when there will be no joints visible in any di
 rection, as takes place with respect to agate-quartz, we
 shall say that the fracture is indefinite.
                         [To be continued.]
          LXIX.    Proceedings    of Learned Societies.
                        ROYAL    SOCIETY.
 JVlAY   31. —The   conclusion of Mr. Home's paper on the
 organs of generation in ovi-viviparous animals, particularly
 the squalus or shark genus, and the opossum, was read.
 Mr. H.'s observations chiefly applied to the squalus acan-
 ihias, or picked dog-fish, common on the shores of Nor
 folk ; and the kangaroo, particularly the latter, the young
 of which not deriving its nutriment by a navel-string, or
 from the uterus of its mother, is supported by external
 agents, of which air forms an essential part. He a^o no
 ticed the fact, that fish deposit their eggs on rocks and
 plants near the surface of the water, which there contains
 more atmospheric air, and that this air is necessary to the life
 of the young fish, which are enveloped in a gelatinous fluid.
    June 7j— was occupied in reading Mr. Brande's appen
 dix to Mr. Home's paper, consisting of a chemical analysis
 of the peculiar gelatinous-like matter in which the ova of
 sharks, spawn of frogs, &c.are nourished. By the friendly
 assistance of Sir Joseph Banks, Mr. B. obtained some of
 what is called star-shot jelly from Lincolnshire (that sub
 stance found near marshes, which Mr. Pennant justly con
jectured to be the excrement of herons after feeding on
frogs) j the matter which envelops frog-spawn, and that
                                                          which

                          Royal Society.                    461
           includes the ova of sharks : these he respectively
analysed, and found them to possess similar properties, but
all very different from gelatin, however .analogous in their
external appearance, and which he concluded to be a pe
culiar animal matter not yet described.          This jelly-like
matter is insoluble by water, but it absorbs water in great
quantities, and becomes proportionally enlarged in conse
quence : acids and alkalies, however, dissolve it; but in
none of its characters does it evince any identity with ge
 latin or albumen.
      A mathematical paper on multi-nomials, by Mr. Knight,
 was communicated to the secretary (Mr. Davy), and laid
 before the society ; but it was not of a nature to be read.
      Mr. Hubbard communicated a letter from Sir John      —   —,
 containing a plan for purifying the air of coal-mines.
 The author, having observed that workmen, descend into
  wells with the greatest safety after throwing a quantity of
  water into them, proposes the like expedient to purify coal
  mines, by projecting water, in quantities sufficient to absorb
  the choke-damp (carbonic acid gas), against the cieling of
  mines, by means of an instrument like a fire-engine, made
  with an end like that of a watering-pot, to throw the water
  like a shower-bath, and thus present the greatest possible
  surface to the noxious air. This machine, the writer con
  cludes, might be both supplied with water and worked by
  the steam-engines in all coal-mines.     Several other minute
  operations and less important advantages were stated ,13
   likely to result from the adoption of this plan ; on con
  cluding which, the society adjourned till
      June 21, — when a part of a paper by M. Delille,
   translated from the French, was read,          describing the
   lohan upas, or poison-tree, of Java. The author is a French
   physician, a member of the National Institute of Egypt,
   and transmitted this paper from the East Indies to the
   Royal Society, by means of an English lady. The botani
   cal account of this poisonous plant he received from one
   of the French naturalists who accompanied Capt. Baudin,
   and who resided some time in Java ; where he visited the
   interior of the country, and with much difficulty succeeded
   in prevailing on the natives to show him the different poi
    son-plants, which they carefully conceal in order to use
    them during war.      Hence the reason of so many fables as
    have been repeated respecting the extraordinary destructive-
    ness and influence of the upas, which in the language of
    the Javanese signifies vegetable poison, and is applied only
    to the juice of the bohan tree, and another twisted-stemmed
                                                            plant.

462                      Royal Society.
 plant.   The bohan is a large tree, which this writer coA
siders a new genus : the other plant, yielding an equally
powerful poison, is of the woodbine genus.          The upas, or
poisonous juice, is extracted by an incision in the bark with
a knife, and carefully collected and preserved by the natives
to be used in their wars.     As to its diffusing noxious efflu
via in the atmosphere, and destroying all vegetation around
it,  the absurdity of these stories      isbest exposed     bythe
fact, that the climbing species requires the support of other
plants to attain its usual growth.      Dr. Delillc made several
experiments with the upas on dogs and cats.          An incision
was made in the thigh of     a  dog, and eight grains of upas
dropped into  it:    shortly after the dog began to vomit, and
continued vomiting at intervals, till he became convulsed,
the muscles of his head greatly distorted, and he died in
20 minutes.      Six grains were put into the thigh of another
dog,   which   also  vomited first his undigested food, next     a
white foam, and died contracted and convulsed in 15 mi
nutes. — cat was also treated in like manner; but she was
        A
still sooner and more convulsed, and her muscles con
tracted:  she continued leaping up for        few minutes, and
                                              a
fell down dead.     All these animals died crying and greatin
agony. — After repeating     a number of experiments on the
deleterious and prompt effects of this powerful poison
when applied externally  ;   the author gave     grain and
                                                  a         ahalf
toa   dog, which he took into his stomach, but        itonly pro
duced a   slight purging. To another four grains were given,
which in about four hours produced both vomiting and purg
ing, and the dog died in the course of half day. On examin
                                              a
ing the bodies of these animals after death, no very extra
ordinary appearances were discovered; the ventricles of the
heart were full of blood, and some slight traces of inflam
mation appeared     in   the stomach ;   but the derangement
was not so great as might have been expected from such a
violent and sudden death.        From this circumstance, the
author concluded that the absorbents had transmitted, the
poison to the nerves of the stomach, and that this peculiar
vegetable poison acts exclusively on the nerves.
    *#* In the account we gave (in our last number) of
Mr. Macartney's paper on luminous animals (not insects
merely) there were some mistakes.          He stated that they
belong to several classes, as mollusca, insects, worms and
zoophytes. — There  is  but one species of mollusca luminous,
the pholas dactylus.       The medusae that were ranked by
Linnaeus amongst mollusca are now placed more properly
with zoophytes. — The medusa scintillans, one of the lu
                                                           minous

  Royal Institution.       — Wernerian Nat. Hist.          Society.   46*3
ininous species, was not given to Mr. Macartney by Capt.
Horsburg, but discovered by himself.    The pyrosoma at-
lanticum of Peron was called, in our account, the pyro
soma atlantica of Perot.
   A great part of Mr. Macartney's interesting paper is
taken up with the anatomical description of the organs
from whence the light issues in certain species.
                          ROYAL    INSTITUTION.
    In the concluding lecture at the Royal Institution, the
large Voltaic apparatus, consisting of 2000 double plates of
tour inches square, was put into action for the first time.
The effects of this combination, the largest that has ever
been constructed, were, as might have been expected, of a
very brilliant kind.
   The spark, the light of which was so intense as to re
semble that of the sun, struck through some lines of air,
and produced a discharge through heated air of nearly
three inches in length, and of a dazzling splendour.       Se
veral bodies which had not been fused before,            were
fused by this flame ; the new metals discovered by Mr.
Tennant, indium, and the alloy of indium and osmium.
Zircon and alumine were likewise fused ; — charcoal was
made to evaporate, and plumbago appeared to fuse in vacuo.
 Charcoal was ignited to intense whiteness by it in oxy-
muriatic acid gas, and volatilized in              it,
                                           but without effect
 ing its decomposition.    A large Leyden battery, containing
 24 coated jars, was charged        momentary contact of the
                                      by   a
wires to       degree that required from 20 to 30 turns of
               a
Nairne's electrical machine of eight inches diameter. AH
 the electrical phsenomena of the passage of electricity to              a
 distance; the discharge through     Torricellian vacuum; the
                                            a
attractions and repulsions of light bodies, were demonstrated
in   adistinct way      means of this apparatus.
                          by                           may be  It
 hoped that the application of so powerful an instrument,
 and such easy methods of producing the most intense heat,
 will lead to some new facts in analytical science.
              WERNERIAN        NATURAL     HISTORY       SOCIKTY.
     At   a   meeting    of this Society,
                                    IQth May last, the Rev.
John Fleming, Bressay,                     of several rare ani
                                  read an account
mals found          by
                 him in Shetland, particularly Pleuronectc*
punctatus,   specimen of which he exhibited to the Society
                a                                                        ;
Lucernaria quadricornis; Echinus miliaris, &c.       and some ;
undcscribed species, particularly    Flustra, which he pro
                                               a
posed to call Flustre, Eliisii, in honour of Mr. Ellis, the
                                                     illustrator

464               French National Institute.
illustrator of the corallines. — At the same meeting, Dr.
John Barclay read remaiks on some parts of the structure
of the large marine animal cast ashore in Stronsay last
year.
    At a meeting on the 26th May, Dr. John Yule read a
summary of experiments and observations on the germina
tion of the Gramirieae, in which he stated some new facts
respecting the ceconomy of this useful class of plants, il
lustrated by a series of drawings and specimens of the ger
minated seeds of the Cerealia or cultivated species ; and of
the buds of the stem, and panicle of viviparous Grasses. —
And the secretary read a communication from William
Filton, esq. on the porcelain-earth of Cornwall.
               FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
                     [Concluded from p. 399.]
  Messrs. Majendie and Delisle have communicated to the
dass their experiments made on animals by means of the
matter with which the natives of the Isles of Java and of
Borneo poison their arrows.    [See ROYAL SOCIETY, two
pages back.]
   M. Vauquelin has also made some experiments of this
kind : at the end of his chemical analysis of the juice of the
belladonna, he speaks of the effects of this substance on
animals.     Those which he forced to swallow      it,  fell down
asif  intoxicated, in a  delirium precisely similar to that pro-»
duced  by  opium.                         ,
   M. Sage    has reported on   the same  subject some more ex
periments, which chance threw in his way, or which he
collected from authors, and which confirm the action of
this juice on the nervous system, and particularly on the
brain.
   A young practitioner in medicine, whose name has been
mentioned in former annual reports, M. Nysten, has at
tempted to ascertain the effects of different gases injected
into the blood-vessels of animals he used the greater part
                                     :
of the gases with which we are acquainted.          Atmospheric
air, oxygen gas, the oxidulated azotic, carbonic acid, car
bonic, pnosphuretted andhydrogenatccl gases, &c. are in no
respect deleterious.     The oxy-muriatic, nitrous acid, and
ammoniacal gases seem to act          by very violently irritating
the right auricle and the pulmonary ventricle. The sul
phuretted hydrogen, oxide of azote, and azotic gases in
jure the contractile power of these parts: others also change
 the nature of the blood so completely, that respiration can
 no longer conver   it  from venous blood into arterial, &c.
                                                         MEDICI KB

                    French National Institute.              461
                    MEDICINE AND SURGKRY.
     M. Desessartz has communicated the history of an epi-^
demic disease, which raacd in three adjoining villages at the
same time.       Although generally depending on the incle
mency of the weather, and on the bad quality of the fruits of
the season, "this epidemy presented a sensible variety in the
nature and intensity of the symptoms, which necessarily
gave rise to essential modifications in the treatment.       He
shows that the differences depended on the exposure pecu
liar to each of these villages, on the quality of their
respective soils, productions, and way of life of the inha
bitants.
     M. Sage has presented to the class some reflections on
the best means of remedying the bite of the viper, and a'
description of the effects of the poison of the tarantula,
with the means employed in Spain for remedying it. All
these remedies consist in the internal and external use of the
volatile alkali.
     M. Tenon continues to enrich the art of surgery. He
has communicated to the class three memoirs, one on the
exfoliation of the bones, another on the operation of tre
panning the cranium, and a third on some kinds of her
nia. In the first he inquires if the hones of the great ex
tremities of the body are exfoliated after amputation; and
 it results from his numerous experiments on dogs, hares, and
sheep, that after all amputations, the denuded extremity of
 the long bones is exfoliated, as also happens to the flat
 bones when laid bare, before being covered with a cicatrix.
 In the second he gives the description of all the phaenomena
 which take place in the cure of a wound in the head, in
 consequence of which the trepan was resorted to, and
 which was cured after 151 days' treatment.
      In the third, he describes an ingenious method resorted
  to by himself, for the redaction of two crural herniae, and
 gives some observations on the operation for an inguinal
  hernia.    In order to succeed in the reduction of these crural
  IK nine, " I directed an assistant to get upon the bed of the
  patient, and place himself between the knees of the latter,
 making him raise them as high as possible : the pillows be
  ing withdrawn, I employed another person to hold the lee
  arid tioot on the ruptured side, and to turn strongly inwards
  the great toe as well as the knee and thigh." When mat
  ters were thus arranged, M. Tenon succeeded by degrees in
  returning the intestines into the abdomen, so that the pa
   tient bad no occasion for any operation.
      Vol. 35. No. U6. June 1610.       Gg                M. Pel-

468                  French National Institute.
   M. Pelletan has communicated to us some interesting
observations on aneurisms, and on the chirurgical operations
which these diseases require.
   M. Larrey has submitted to the class a memoir, on which
a report has been made, and which suggests, in cases of
gunshot wounds followed by gangrene, that we should not
expect to put a stop to the gangrene by performing ampu-
ta.tion.
             AGRICULTURE AND RURAL (ECONOMY.
   M.    Sylvestre, in the name of a committee, has made a
report to the Institute on a work by M. Yvart. entitled,
Method of improving Agriculture by Manures (assolemens).
"  The science of manuring," says the leport,          "  has for its
object    to  render   any   soil capable  of  yielding crops con
stantly   in  the  most    profitable  manner,   and without being
deteriorated. This work, he adds, fulfils the important
object which the author proposed, and merits the appro
bation 06 the class."
    M. De Cubiere has read a memoir on the bald cypress
(cypress chauve) : it has for its object to enlighten agricul
turists, to give them new ideas as to the vegetation of this
fine tree, and to make them acquainted with all the ad
vantages which they may expect from its culture.             The re
port   which     has  been  made   of this work,   by pur colleague,
M.Mirbel, has obtained for M.De Cubiere the approbation
of the class.
    M. Leblanc, who spent several years in America, has
communicated to us his views with respect to the facility of
naturalizing the Vigonia sheep in the Alps and Pyrenees,
and on the uses of their wool.
    M. Poyfere-de-Cere read a notice on thp washing of the
 superfine wools in Spain, and on the great washing-house
 at Alfaro, near Segovia; a memoir, in which will be found
 an account of an expeditious, easf, and ceconomical method
 of cleansing wools, and constructing washing stations.
    Finally, our colleague, M. Percy, having collected in
 Spain some curious observations on the manufacture of the
 amphori and alcazara* used by the Spaniards for keeping
 their liquors cool, has communicated them, with the addition
 of some important reflections as to the utility of these ves
 sels, and on the influence which they exercise on the li
 quids they contain.
                                                      PCX. Notices

                                                                      :
                                   [  467   ]
                   LXX.    Notices respecting New Books.
       M r. Leybourn,       of  the Royal  Military College, has just
       published the tenth number of the Mathematical Reposi
       tory, containing solutions to the mathematical questions
      proposed in the eighth number, and a series of new
      questions to be answered in a subsequent number ; au
      essay on polygonal numbers ; a new demonstration of the
      binomial theorem; an illustration of the forty-seventh pro
      position of the second book of the I'riucipia ; a curious
      indeterminate problem ; solutions to a curious problem in
      dynamics ; and a continuation of Le Gendre's memoir on
      elliptic transcendentals.
          Mr. W. Moore, of the Royal Military Academy, has in
      a good state   of forwardness, A Treatise on the doctrine of
      fluxions  ; with  its application to all the most useful parts
      of   the true theory of gunnery, and other very important
      matters relating to military and naval science. The fluxions
      will be preceded by such parts of the science of mechanics
     as are necessary for reading the wor* without referring to
     other authors; and the whole will be so arranged, that any
     person moderately skilled in algebra, geometry, and trigono
     metry, and having a knowledge of the most common pro
     perties of the come sections, may proceed to these inquiries
     with every interest and success.     The whole will be printed
     in one volume octavo, and will be particularly adapted to
- .  all military institutions of eminence.
         Mr. Marrat, of Boston, Lincolnshire, has in the presa
     a   work   on mechanics, which is principally     intended for
     the use of schools, &a.
         The author's principal aim in composing this work, haS
     been to make the subject easy to be understood by students,
     to facilitate the business of instruction, and to condense as
    much useful matter as possible into a small compass.          In
    order also to blend theory with practice, and to remove the
    irksomeness which students mostly complain of in study
    ing the theory, a great number of examples will be given
    in almost every section; these will he found of service in
    fixing the principles in the mind, and cannot fail of ren
    dering the subject more easily attainable, and, conse
    quently, of creating a stimulus to further exertions.
         The work will be divided into five books ; the first of
    which treats of statics, the second of dynamics, the third
                                    Gg2                           Qf

468           Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
of hydrostatics, and the fourth of pneumatics.     In these
four books       subjects are prosecuted as far as could be
                the
done without introducing the fluxional calculus; but to
render the work of more general utilitv, and to accommo
date students in the higher classes, a fifth book is added',
in which several hranches in the preceding books are very
much extended. The work will be comprised in one oc
tavo volume, and will be accompanied by thirteen copper
plates.
  M.Viborg,     professor in the Royal Veterinary School, in
Sweden,                                  " O'l the use of the
              has published a dissertation
flesh of horses." — The publication of thi- paper has had
the effect of introducing the use of this article as food
throughout Sweden, and the but' hers' shops are now sup
plied with the carcases of horses, in addition to those of
oxen.    M- Viborg assures his readers, that the flesh of those
animals, when roasted,     preferable to thai of oxen.
                              is-
      LXXI.         Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    DE LUC'S ELECTRIC      COLUMN.
The    small bells noticed in our last three numbers, still
continued to ring on the 25th instant (June), as they had
done since the 25th of March, without being known to
have once      ceased   ringing.    We   are happy to be enabled       to
add, that those who wish to possess electric columns, fitted
up in the form of rods, as described    our number for March
                                          in
last, may  obtain them  of Mr.  Blunt, optician, Cornhill.
   The success of the several charitable institutions for the
relief of the indigent blind, has suggested the humane idea
of bringing forward, for the equal relief of their opulent
brethren in this country,     plan, similar to that
                                a                          by
                                                        which
M. Haiiy,      Paris, taught them, several years ago, reading,
               in
writing, arithmetic, music, and the rudiments of the
sciences generally.
                           LOCUSTS.
                                               Rome, 29th May, 181C-
  For  some days past crowds of people, excited    curio    by
sity, have been thronging the banks of the Tiber to wit
ness  a singular phenomenon.        wind from Africa has
                                         A
brought into these countries an immense swarm of locusts.
These insects, having wasted the country, and now unable:
to find subsistence, have waged war among themselves, and
devour each other. The weaker party take flight, and, pur-
          •
                                                                 sued

                                                              •
               Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.         469
   sued by the vanquishers, throw themselves in myriads into
   the Tiber. The day beiore yesterday this river was covered
   with them.
   Report to the Committee of the Honourable House of Com-
      mans, on the Petition of the Trustees of the British
      Museum ; respecting tlie Purchase of Mr. Oreville's Col
      lection of Minerals.
                                             London, May 9, 1810.
      WE    the undersigned, having been requested by the com
  mittee of the honourable house of commons, on the pe
  tition of the trustees of the British Museum, to make a
  careful examination of the collection of minerals belonging
   to the right honourable Charles F. Greville, and to put a
  value upon (be same with as much fairness and accuracy as
  possible ; — have now to report :
      First. — That on the 2d of this month we assembled at
  the house of the late Mr. Greville on Paddington Green,
  commenced our inspection of the collection of minerals ;
  and continued the same, day after day, up to the Qth in
  stant.
     Second. — That we have found the specimens scientifi
  cally arranged, for the greater part, in glazed drawers,
  which are contained in cabinets made of beautiful maho
  gany.
     Third. —That, exclusive of these cabinets, there are two
  others, containing models in wood and in clay, the for
  mer having been most accurately made by the Count de
  Bournon for the late Mr. Greville, exemplifying and elu-
. cidating the various figures    and modifications of crystal
  lized mineral     substances; a  series of great importance to
  mineralogical     science.
      Fourth. — That, in addition to the minerals contained in
  the drawers, there are arranged on the upper part of the
  cabinets many large and magnificent specimens, several of
  which are uncommonly rare and highly valuable.
      Fifth. — That the whole collection consists of about
  20,OOO specimens.
     Sixth. — That the. specimens in general throughout the
  collection appear to us to have been selected with very
  great judgement, both as to their utility and beauty.
      Seventh. —That the series of crystallized rubies, sap
  phires, emeralds, topazes, rubellites, diamonds, arid pre
  cious stones in general, as well as the series of the various
  ores, far surpass any that are known to us in the different
  European collections.
                                G g 3                    Eighth.

470            Lilt of   Patents   for   new Inventions.
  Eighth. —That we consider the entire collection             to be
equal in most, and in many parts superior, to any              other
similar collection which any of us have had opportunities
of viewing in this and other countries.
   Ninth. — That having accurately examined and separately
valued the different cabinets and detached specimens, we
find the total amount to be thirteen thousand seven hundred
and twenty-seven pounds. £\3,l<n.
   WM. BABINGTON.                 ROBERT FERGUSON.
   L. Comte DC BOURNON.           CHARLES HATCHKTT.
   RICHARD CHENHVIX.              WM. H. WOLLASTON.
   HUMPHRY DAVY.
   We whose names    arc underwritten', and who have signed
the foregoing report, think it but an act of justice on our
part, to request   permission to state to the committee
the very great services which have been rendered by the
Count de Bournon, during the whole of the inspection
and valuation of the collection, with which he alone was
                                                                   it it,
 well acquainted, having principally contributed to form
 and having been occupied for several years in arranging
 for the late Mr. Greville.   Without the able assistance of
 the Count de Bournon, so justly celebrated for his profound
 knowledge      in
                 mineralogy, the inspection and valuation
 would have required very great length of time, and after all
                         a
 would most probably have ueen less accurately performed.
    We therefore unanimously concur in giving this public
 testimony to the merits and services of Count de Bournon.
     We also have to make our acknowledgments to Mr.
 Lowry and Mr. Jonville, who obligingly attended the in
 spection at onr request, and rendered us much valuable as-
'sistance.*
     WM. BABTNGTON.              ROBERT FERGUSON.
   RICHARD CHENEVIX.                     CHARLES HATCHETT.
   HUMPHKUY DAVY.                        WM. H. WOLLASTON.
            LIST OF PATENTS        FOR    NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Joseph Halliday, master of   the band belonging to
 the Cavan regiment of militia, for ceriain improvements
 in the niueical instrument called the bugle horn. — May
 5,   181O.
      To William Chapman, of the town           and county   of New-
 castle-upon-Tyne, civil engineer, for awheel or wheels to
 be moved      by
              water, steam, or any other suitable fluids or
 gases, and to be applicable to mechanic       or other purposes
 where     a moving force    isrequired. — May 9.
      To   John Bosworch,     of Birmingham, in the county of
                                                           Warwick,

              List of Patents for new Inventions.           471
Warwick, coal dealer, for improvements in carriages to
facilitate the unloading of heavy coals and other things. —
May 9.
    ToSirlssac Coffin, bart. vice admiral of the blue squa
dron, who, in consequence of a communication          to him by
a certain person residing abroad^ is become possessed of
a new invention of a perpetual oven for the making of all
kinds of bread, a patent for the same, dated the 1 5th of May.
    To James Bell, of Ficldgate-street, Whitechapel, sugar-
refiner, for his certain improvements in the manner of
 refining sugar, and of forming sugar loaves of a particular
description. — May 17-
    To Charles Stewart, of the parish of St. Martin in the
Fields, in the county of Middlesex, cabinet-maker, for cer
 tain improvements in the constniction of dining- and other
 tables. — May 22.
    To John Onions, of Broseley, in the county of Salop,
 iron-master, for his machine for thrashing corn and other
 grain, on a new construction. — May 22.
    To William Docksey, of the city and county of Bristol,
 millwright, for improvements in the process of manu
 facturing an article commonly called ivory black, and for
  pulverizing, grinding, or reducing to a subtle and fine pow
 der, all articles capable of a more easy separation of their
  parts or constituent principles by torrefaction, heating, or
  calcination in open or close kilns, ovens or furnaces, espe
  cially potter's clays, flints, colouring and glazing materials.
  — May 22.
     To Joseph Anthony Berrollas, of CowperVrow, Clerken-
  well, in the county of Middlesex, watchmaker, for his
  warning watch on a new construction.
                                             — May 20.
     To George Hickford, of Chadacre-Hall-Farm, in the
  parish of Strumpling, in the county of Suffolk, farmer,
  for his improvements upon the plough heretofore used for
  draining land, and the machine for drawing the same
  through the ground, whereby a horse will be able to per
  form a much greater quantity of work in the same time
  than by the methods now in use. — June 8.
     To John Williams, of Cornhill, in the city of London,
  stationer, for certain apparatus or additional parts to be ap
  plied to and used w ith wheel carriages in order to render the
  same more safe and commodious. — June 8.
     To Mary Townley, of Ramsgate, in the county of Kent,
  for the prevention or cure of smoky chimneys. — June 8.
     To Arthur Woolf, of Lambeth, in the county of Surry,
  engineer, for certain improvements in the construction and
                                                         working

  472         List of Patents for new Inventions.
  working of steam engines, calculated to lessen the con
 sumption of fuel. — June 9.
    To Joseph Warren Revere, of Poston, in the United
 States of America, at present residing in London, for a
 new and improved method of splitting hides and shaving
leather — June 1 9.
    To Joseph Clisild t)aniell, of Frome, in the county of
 Somerset, clothier, for certain improvements on machines
 called eigs and shearing frames, used for dressing cloths,
 and in the clothing manufactory. — June 1,9.
    To Malcolm M'Gregor, of Bell Yard, Carey-street, in
the county of Middlesex, musical instrument maker, for
certain flute or musical wind instruments with improved
keys, which keys are also applicable to flutes and various
other wind instruments now in use. — June 19.
    To George Adams, of the Woodlands, in the parish of
Lindridge, in the county of Worcester, farmer, for an im
proved method of cultivating of land, and of feeding and
consuming the produce thereof by cattle and sheep, and of
preserving and applying the manure of and made by such
cattle and sheep, by means of certain houses made and built
 for the protection of cattle and sheep from weather, and
feeding the same thereon, and moveable by means of wheels,
slides, iron railways, or otherwise, invented and found out
by him. — June 19.
    To John Lindsey, (late lieut. -col. of the 71st regt.) of
Grove House, in the county of Middlesex, for his boat
and various apparatus, whereby heavy burthens can be con
veyed on shallow water ou rivers wherein shoals and other
difficulties impede navigation, whereby the lives of men
will be saved from wrecks and other situations of immi
nent danger at sea or on rivers, whereby the apparatus
above specified may, in its consequences and constructions,
embrace other important results highly beneficial to the
British navy and commerce, by enabling the bottoms of
ihips to be examined with accuracy and expedition without
the necessity of moving the masts or cargo. — June 19.
   To William Bell, of Handsworlh, near Birmingham,
in the county of Warwick, engineer, for his improved
machine for the purpose of cutting pasteboard, or cards
out of pasteboard or paper, and for cutting various other
articles. — June 19.
   To James Frost, of Little Sut ton-street, Clerkenwell,
brass-founder, and James Frost the younger, his son, also
brass-founder, for improvements upon cocks, or an im
proved lock cock. — June 22.
                                                  MKTKORO-

                               Meteorology.                               473
                    meteorological table,
              By Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                            For June       1810.
                Thermometer.                       A-"w   *
                                                   u .
                                                   Q ^   B
  Days of                    — J=
                                     Height of     ¦sis
  Month.               O
                       o
                                    the Ba-om.     <u >• c       Weahec
              P= 6
                      z         z      Inches.     bn!
                 s            -
                                                         >"
                                                         *
                                                   Q c
   May    27   47     60°     46°    2995            40     Fair
          28   48     56      45      30-13          53     Fair
          29 46       51      46         •40         71     Fair
          30 49       65      51         •30         66     Fair
          31   52     66      50         •30         60     Fair
            I  53     65      52         •29         77     Fair
           2   54     69      54         •25         79     Fair
           3   53     66      50         •22         63     Fair
           4   52     65      55         •20         90     Fair
            5  54     55      50         •24         41     Cloudy
           e   51     70      55         •19         79     Fair
            7  54     67      56         •11         55     Fair
            8  56     70      60         •05         76     Fair
            9  59     73      55      29*94          52     Fair
          10   59     70      55         •72         41     Cloudy
          11   58     68      54         •82         53     Fair
          12   54     66      53         •94         59     Cloudy
          13   55     60      50         •85           0    Rain
          14   50     63      54      30-15          70     Fair
          15   54     66      51         •)9         79     Fair
          16   52     62      46         •03         55     Fair
          17   50     60      54      2995           51     Fair
          18   56     70      60         •95         65     Fair
          19   60     70      60         •95         51     Cloudy
          80 63       72      63         •95         42     Cloudy
          21   64     77      66      30*20          92     Fair
          22   66     73      55         •30         55     Cloudy
          S3   54     69      55         •38         57     Fair
          24   56     73      60         •25         61     Fair
          S5   59     73      66          09         77     Faii-
          26   59     61      55         •05         30     CIoudy
           N. B. The Barometer's height is taken at one o'clock.
                                ERRATUM.
  In Mr. Davy's article  {see page 409)  for Plates IX  and X, read Plates XIT
and XIII.

                                      C     m      ]
                    INDEX to VOL. XXXV.
ACCUM'S           Hydra-pneumatir table,     Cavendish on dividing instruments,
    247; analysis of a chalybeate well,          168; eulogium on,                     229
                                         179  Chin coal volatilised in vacuo,         463
Acid,    chromic,   to obtain, 20; action     Chemical instruments simplified,         248
   of sulphuric acid on, 27 ; fluoric,       Chimneys known to the ancients, 234
   exper. on, S08 ; muriatic, do. S09;       Chromales.       On,                        20
   oxymurialic, do, S09; biiracic, do.       Clarke's meteorological table,           238
                                        413  Coal mines.      On foul air in,      3, 461
Agriculture.      Papers on,        73,466   Cobalt, mine of, discovered,              159
Air-bladder of fahes. On,         291,398    Cochrane on furze,                       427
Alum shales, in Yorkshire,              256  Collieries in Derbyshire,                431
Alumine fused,                          463  Columbium and tantalum id entitled ,20 1
Ammonium.         On,                   310  Crystallography,        Hauy's, 145, 187,
Analysis of black sand from river Dee,                                    261,342,452
   98 ; of iserine, 103 ; of Jjray copper    Cupping instrument.        Healy's,        81
   ore, 105 ; of crude platina, 164; of      Curaudau on potassium,            402, 407
   ehalybeatewell at Middleton Hall,         Cuvier's mineralogy of environs of
    179; of tobacco, 3 13 ; of belladon         Paris, 36 ; remarks on, 112; on
   na, 314 ; of ancient pigmeqts,315 ;          fossil animals, 386 ; on fossil bones,
   of star-shot jelly                   460     215 ; on air-bladder of fishes, 291
Anatomy,                           59, 161   Davy's lecture at Royal Institution,
Animal secretions.      Home on,        108      225 ; remarks by tne French Na
Animal torpidity.       On,             241     tional Institute on discoveries of,
Apothecaries.      Caution to,          235     307; Bakerian lecture, 401 ; lecture
Architecture in wood.      On,          155     at Royal Institution,                 463
Arms and legs. Substitutes for,         236  Delaroche on air-bladder of 6shes, 291
Arseniale of lead, native, described, 87     De Luc's electric column, 205,317,468
Arsenic in the Voltaic circuit,         411  Derln/shire.     Collieries in,          431
Artificial stone.    A singular,        153  Diamond.       Exper. on,                313
Astronomical instruments.       On divid     Distillatutn improved,                   315
   ing,                          168, 277    Electric column, De Luc's, 205, 317,
Astronomicalrefractions. Groombridge                                            399, 468
   on,                                  303  El'ctrq.chemieal experiments on blood,
Aximulha! refraction. On,               287      110; French remarks on Davy's,
Bukerian lecture.      Davy's,         .401     and on GavLussac'sandThenard's
Blanchard's rain table,                 238     exper., 307 1 researches, 401 ; with
Blind.     Education of the, 235, 468           the                       of the Royal
                                                     lar^e apparatus
Blood, electro-chemical experiments             Institution,                          4G3
   on,                                  110  Erpeclorated matter.       On,             12
Boots, new,            66, 232, 382, 467     Eye. Adjusting power of,                   83
Botany,                          232, 389    Farcy's geological remarks on the
Brain.      Inquiries of,          59, 161      Stratification of France and En
Brandc on use of magnesia in cases of           gland, 1 1 3, 256 ; on musical inter*
   calculi, 155, 225 ; analysis by, 460         vaU, 173; on alum shales in York
Brine k ley on parallax,                303     shire, and orbicular sienite, 256;
Brogniart's mineralogy of environs of           on collieries,                        431
   Paris, 36; remarks on,               112  Fire escape, Davis's,                    305
Bucluinnan on ceconomy of fuel, 72           Fishes. On air-bladder of, 291 Respi
Calculi, urinary.      Remedy for, 155,         ration ot,39i: sexual organs of, 460
                                        225  Flint glass.    French,                    76
Canal from Okeham to Stamford, 140           Floating bodies. On,                       31
Cancer.      On,                          66 Fatus.     A remarkable,                 154
Carey's meteorological table, 80, 160,       Forces.    On the composition and de
                      240, 319, 400, 473        composition of,                       323
Carmichael on cancer,                     06 Fcnsier's    description
                                                                '       of electric co
fan on salmon fry,                      251     lumn,                          205, 317

                                      INDEX.
Fossil bone! of horses, 216; of wild         Locusts in Italy,                    468
   boars, 219; of other animals, 8 18,       Luminous insects. On, 304, 383, 463
                                       386   Lussacs exper. on potassium. Examin
French National Institute, 232, 306,           ed,                                402
                                  386, 464   Macartney on luminous insects, 304,
Fruit trees. Knight on,                2)0                                  383, 462
Fruits, petrified,                     389   Magnetism,                           157
Fuel.    On (economy of,                72   Marrat's translation of Monge on
Furze.     Properties of,              427      forces,                     323, 467
Cases to counteract in coal mines, 3 ;       Marriage tokens.      On,             76
   to combine in chemical union, 312;        Mathieu on orbicular granite,        223
   injected into blood-vessels of ani        Medicine, 66, 77, 155, 225, 427, 465
   mals,                               464   Meteorology, 80, 160,238, 319,400,
Gelatinous matter covering certain ova,                                           473
   analysed,                           460   Migration of birds.     On,          241
Geology, 36, 112, 156, 230, 256, 364,        Mineralogy,      36, 112, 156, 230, 256
                                       386   Mines, to ventilate,                    3
Gizzards of birds compared,            303   Monge on forces,                     323
Glass, ancient,                        233   Mules.     Curious remarks on,       213
Glass of antimony,   " spurious, in the      Murial'   if soda.    On,             74
   market,                             235   Muscular ar'i'in. WMlaston on, 439
Goniometer.      Wollaston's,           94   M sua. . Uervals. On calculating, 175
Gregor on native arseniate of lead, 87       Nctvi malerni. On,                    35
GreviUe's Collection. Report on, 469         Optics,                               83
Groombridge on astronomical, refrac          Orbicular granite found inCorsica,223
    tions,                             303   Orr on floating bodies,               31
Gypsum strata near Paris,              256   Osmium fused,                        463
Hackney Literary and Philosophi              Ovi-viviparous animals. On,          460
    cal Society,                       231   Oxide of chrome, to obtain, 20 ; ac
flail on substitute for hemp,          180      tion of acids on, 27 ; action of
Haiiy's Crystallography,       145,   187,      alkalis on,                         28
                           261, 342, 452     Palladium.     On, 164; Native,      16S
Healy's cunning instrument,             81   Parallax of certain stars,           303
Hemp from bean-stalks,                 180   Parents. Influence of, on offspring,
Henry on muriate of soda,               74                                        210
Hernia.     Cure for,              77, 465   Paris.    Mineralogical survey of en
Herschel on coloured rings, 155, 225 ;          virons, 36; remarks on, 112; fur
    vindication of,                    289      ther remarks,                     256
Home on animal secretions, 108; on           Parkinson's " Organic Remains." No
    gizzards of birds, 303 ; on sexual          tice on,                          233
    organs of whales,         384, 460 ;     Parsmps. On culture and uses of, 176
    Brande's appendix to ditto,        460   Pasley on telegraphs,                339
Humboldt on respiration of fishes, 393       Patents, 79, 158, 237, 319, 399, 470
Humming-bird.       Torpidity of,      244   Pearson on expectorated matter, 12;
Hydro-pneumatic table, Accum's, 247             on proposal of, for obtaining equal
fridmm fused,                          463      temperature in houses,       62, 157
lserme.     Analysis of,               103   Peltigreu-oa injuries of the brain, 161
Jena. University of,                   234   Physiology,                          S9S
Johns's apparatus for decomposing            Ph''Sohure>ted  hydrogen.   On,      311
    potash.                            321   Plaster for buildings     On,        316
Knight on influence of parents on            Pompeia. Discoveries in,             233
    offspring, 210; on the functions         Potash. Apparatus for decomposing,
    of the leaves of trees,            22 'i                                      321
Lacepede on air bladder of fishes, 291       Potassium. Inquiries respecting, 401 ;
 Lax on dividing instruments,          277      on production of, 307 ; action of,
 Learned Societies, 74, 154, 225, 303           310 1 apparatus for making,       321
                                383, 460     Pottery, ancient,                    233
Lectures,                          79, 318   Publicnlirms, neio, 66, 232, 382, 467
Legs and arms. Substitutes for,        236   Ram table. Blanchard's, 238 ; quan
It   Hardy on parsnips,                176      tity of rain in 1808,             2 (9
Lmneaa Society, •                .76, 384    Richardson on whynn dykes,           364
                                                                              Riding.

 476                                INDEX.
Riding.     Salutary effects of,      445  Tellurium in the Voltaic circuit, 408 ;
Kilter on potassium,             402, 408     compound of with hydrogen, 409
Royal Society, 74, 154, 225, 303, 383,     Temperature, artificial.    Medical ap
                                      460     plication of,                 62, 157
Royal Institution,               225, 463  Thenar aVs tiper. on potassium.      Ex
Sage on petrified fruits,             889     amined,                           402
Salmon leaps.      On,                163  Thermometer.    Walker's new scale for,
Salmon fry. On,                       251                                       416
Sea-sickness.     On,                 442  Thomson's analysis of black sand from
Secretion, animal.     Home on,       108     the river Dee, 98 ; ditto of iserine,
Sicnite. Orbicular blocks of, 222, 256         103; ditto of gray copper ore, 105
Smith on torpidity,                   24 1 Timber, growing. On value of, 428
Smith's geological discoveries,       1 14 Titanium found in the river Dee, 99
Smyih, on tuning musical instru            Torpidity of animals. On,            241
   ments,                             448  Travels of discovery,                S18
Societies, Learned, 74, 154, 225, 303,     Tutting of musical instruments,      448
                                 383, 460  Universities in Westphalia,          234
Society of Antiquaries, 75, 155,225, 304   Uranium found in the river          Dee,
Society </ Arts, ice,                 805                                       103
Sodium. Inquiries respecting, 407 ;        Vauqitelin on chromate of iron,      &c ,
   on production of,                  307     20 ; on air-bladder of fishes,    291
Specific gravity increased by conden       Vegetables. Exper. on,               313
   sation,                            317  Volcanoes connected with each other,
Squalus genus. Home on,               460                                       235
Star-shot jelly analysed,             460  Waistell on growing timber,          428
Stervens on .r/.iinuthal refraction, 287   Walker, B., on adjusting power of the
Stone, artificial, that generates lieat,      eye, 83 ; new thermometer,        416
                                       158 tternerian Society, 156, 230, 305, 385,
Stratification of France and England,                                           463
                                      114  Westphalia.     Universities in,     234
Sulphur, ts in the Voltaic circuit, 411    Whales.     Notice on, 231 ; Home on,
Sulphuretted hydrogen.      On,       31 1                                      46Q
Surgery,                              465  Whiims.     Properties of,           427
SwaJUncs.     On nat. hist, of,       242  Whynn dykes. On natural,             364
Switzerland.      Avalanches threatened    If inter on manufacture of alum, 257
   in,                                235  Wollaston's Croonian lecture, 439;
Tannin, artificial.    On,            314     goniometer, 94 ; paper on palla
 Tantalum andCohtnibzum identified 201        dium, 164; ou identity of colum-
Taunton's surgical cases,               59    bium and tantalum,                201
Telegraphs.    The present French, 339     Zircon fused,                        46S
Telfnras Report on canal from Oke-         Zoology,                             393
   ham to Stamford,                   140
                 END OF THE TH1RTV-F1FTH                 VOLUME.
               Printed by Richard Taylor and Co. Shot Lane, Lvndtn.

       Eaiiy PI. 7.
Zig.M.       68
                    lovrry Sc.


     Th i7. Ma?. Vol. X SXV7 V. II
// O

i.
                               V
fy.7£.±.
          A
               *c^|
                   t
            fT\
             ,     1
     .— f
                     lowrv Sc.


fhiioManHE.roi.xnr.
         \
            -Zf»77' Si-.
                    Op   •


      Haiiyflg.
fy-t-
                fy.i.
                      OF


                                 . n .v.
. \lr <'arfntti,tliir Dt\itii»<!


                                                              ft V.
                                                  . Vol .~XXX5T.
   , \!' Cnreiidi.ihd Dn-iJi/itj In.itrnnii'iit .
ia


. Vcw    £u, irical ,A[>/> I
                             ,
  Fia . f.


                              na.Mu.ni.asr.fi.Ta.
   ,\i'u- EleclrictK       •
                     -Af/1
                             -.
MS






Larry ,fe.

Lmrry .tc.

                     fhil.)i<y. Val.
     A*
  A3
          Apparatus for
        Decomposing
J4S


                            Vel.
Cap* fasleyj Telegraph.
               Mi Ji>hns it   u
              pparatus  for


                                          Ml. .%. JW.
        A*      A + Cap*fasleyj Telegraph .
  A3         AS
                                                   M
    ' •-; •<
J4S


Composition I- Decomposition of Forces. nu

fomposi&on   .£•                   <>fForces.
                   Decomposition                FM. Man re/. UUCVfL.r.

    -
••:

                         fl. a.
IIAUY PLATE H. f. lfa,t.        Pat. JZZT.

•


                               fkil. Mag.
Dayyj .Electro -chemical -Apparatus    .


                                    fhil.Miy. Vol.ZXST. fl.~SS.
?rofeticr Davy'j .Electro -chemical


                                            Phil. May.
                            -chemical Apparatus.
    Bvfefror Davy's Electro
  *
J4f


                                                  . Vol .
    Irofefjor Davys .Electro- chemical Apparatus.
                                                             •
1*6                                                     J.Jtrtrr. jt .


                                       THE
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
                               COMPREHENDING
         THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                  THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                     GEOLOGY, AGRICULTURE,
             MANUFACTURES AND COMMERCE.
                BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
                    MJU.A.      F.S.A. Edin.  and Perth, &c.
   « Nec aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex k fila gignunt, nee n otter
»ilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Jo it. Lifs. Mmit. J'olH. lib. i. eap. I.
                               VOL. XXXVI.
 For   JULY, AUGUST, SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER, NOVEMBER,
                            and DECEMBER, 1810.
                                  LONDON:
         rmiKTBO      BY SICHAXD TAYLOR AND CO., SBOB LANK:
   And   onld by Ricbarosons; Cadell and Davis* ; Lonoman, Hurst,
         Rees, and Ormej Vernor, Hood, and Sharfe; Murray;
              Hichlet; Sherwood and Co.; Harding; London:
                     Constable and Co. Edinburgh: Brash
                          and Reid, and Niven, Glasgow:
                           k GILBERT & H0BGEI,Dublm.

f
               *  *  • sv.
         "      "
             '      -1 1
                          CONTENTS
                                     OP THE
•
               THIRTY-SIXTH VOLUME.
  A REVIEW of the                First Volume of M. J. A. DE Luc'i
     Geological Travels in the North of Europe : with Re
     marks on some         of the Geological Points which are      there
     in  discussed                                                       3
  Observatiojis on the Effects of Magnesia, in preventing
     an increased Formation of Uric Acid; with some Remarks
     on the Composition         of the Urine                             8
  Remarks on      Mr, RICHARD WALKER'S             proposed   Alterations
     in the Scales     of Thermometers                                 16
  The    Bakerian      Lecture     for   1809.    On some new Elec
     trochemical Researches           on various Objects,    particularly
     the   metallic     Bodies,     from   the  Alkalies,   and Earths,
     and on some Combinations            of Hydrogen ..       ..   17,85
  Description      and Analysis of the Meteoric             Stone  which
    fell at Weston, in North America,                the  4th December
      1807                                                             32
  Proposal    for  constructing,       and putting in its Place, an Iron
     Tunnel under        the   River Thames. By Col. LENNON            34
  Six Theorems, containing the chief Properties of all Regular
     Douzeave Systems of Music ; with Twelve Corollaries
     thence deduced,         showing others of their Relations and
     Thirteen     Scholia, containing the Temperaments of as
    many Systems, calculated thereby.              Wilh Remarks        39
  Report on the Memoirs presented to the Society of Phar
     macy at Paris, in consequence of the Prizes offered in the
     Year    1809                                                      53
  Vol.36. No.       152. Dec. 1810.                     a              Of

                             CONTENTS,
                                                                       on Clouds
                       of Solar and Lunar Attraction
Of the    Influence
   and Vapours         ...     ,
                                                                                   58
On Crystallography .           By M.Hauy. Translated from                         the
                                              dc Mineralogie             64,     121
   last Paris Edition       of his Traite
                                        '                                          81
On Pendulums
                                                                                 Pa-      *
Report     of the  Dublin Cow- Pock Institution, under the
   tronage of His Grace the Lord
                                              Lieutenant,       for 809 96
                                                                       1
                    thai a further Publication of the late
                                                                                Mr.
Information,
                                                                 is in   hand.     —
    Smeaton's E?igincery Designs and Papers
                                              British Strata, by the late
    Copy of a List oj tlie principal
                                                                         on Geo
    Rev. John Michel, {of ivhose posthumous Papers
                                                     is requested;) — with
    logical Subjects, further Information
                                                     on Limestones, — and
    some Experiments of Mr. Smeatons
                                                                                  108
                             Air. Tofielil
     Queries respecting
                                  Varieties     of British         and Foreign
An Analysis of          several
                                          with   a view to explain              llieir
    Salt,    (Muriate of Soda,)
                                                                         106,      171
     Fitness for different (economical Purposes
                                                                                    the
 Descriplion      of  a Metallic Thermometer for indicating
                                                                                   119
     higher Degrees      of Temperature
 Dr. Healy
                                                                                   131
                   on Cupping
                                                                                   132
 Observations on the Purity           of Standard Gold               .    . .
                                                                  takes place in
 An Estimation of          the Loss     of IVvight which
                                                                                   148
     cooking Animal Food             . .    . .
 Letter from       M. ViTALts, Professor of Chemistry at Rouen,
     to  M. Bouillon Lagkange, on the Amulgam of Mer
                                    Arbor Dianee                           . .      143
      cury and Silver, called
                                                          , .      . .
                                                                                    141
 Analysis of       the  Alropa Ptllndonna            .    ,
                                            treated as Rupture . .                  151
  Case   of Hydrocele, improperly
                                                                                     161
  A Sketch of a History of Pus
  Remarks on the Rei>. C. J.
                                         Smyth's letter on Systems of
                                                      xxxv. p. 448 .                 165
       Tuning Musical Instruments. Vol.
                              the Instructions given         in an      anonymous
  An Examination of
       Pamphlet published in        1 809,   for Tuning         an   Equal Tem
                                                                            , .      1 67
                    of the Musical Scale
                                                    . .     . .     . .
       perament
                                                              and Smyrna; to
  Analysis of the Scammonies from Aleppo
                                                                                which

                                  CONTENTS.
    which are subjoined some Observations on the red Colour
    given to Turnsole by the Resins                     181
On prime and ultimate Ratios; with their application to
  the first Principles of the Jluxionary Calculus   186                        .'.
Comparative Examination                      of   the Mucous    Acid formed                 by
    the   Action    of     the   Nitric Acid:        1st, on the Gums;                 2dly,
    on the Sugar           of  Milk                                           '.   .     191
On the Prussic and Prussous Acids                                                       1   96
Memoir       on the    Muriate
                         Tin           of              205
The Case       Man who died in consequence
              of  a                            the Bile            of                       of
  a Rattle-snake  with an Account
                           :                            of
                                     the Effects produced
     by   the Poison                                                                    209
On extracting liquid Sugar from Apples and Pears                               . .      218
On Musical Time                                                                         220
Comparative Analysis              of   Socolrine and Hepat          Aloes
                                                                   ic                    22   1
Analysis   Aloes
              of                                                    —          .
                                                                               .         224
A Fatal Case     Inguinal Hernia
                      of                                .
                                                        .    .,     .   .      .   .     230
On the New  Mountain   Barometer                                                         24   1
On the Land Winds       Coromandel, and their
                                  of                                    Causes           243
Hints respecting a New Theory on the Orbits                        of    Comets          253
Description        of  a  for securing Persons attempting
                            Machine
    Depredations without affecting their Life or Limbs 256
An Account       New Method       increasing tlie charging
                                                   of
                   of of
                       a
  Capacity    coated Electrical Jars                   25Q
Method     constructing commodious Houses with Earthen
             of
  Walls                                                263
Memoir on the Alterations which the Light      the Sun un          of
    dergoes on passing through the Atmosphere                            .         .
                                                                                   .     27   1
On the       Application          of   the       Barometer   for   indicating               the
    Weather,       and      for   measuring         of   Heights    in       the       Atmo
    sphere                                                                               275
(Economical           Process     for       the   Preparation      of   the sublimed
    Muriate       Mercury (Calomel): to which
                  of                                               is   subjoined an
    easy     Method    purifying the Calomel
                            of                                     used    in Com
    merce                                                                                281
Description        of
                 Process
                       a    means     which we may metal
                                            by          of
  lize Potash and Soda without the Assistance  Iron  283            of
Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems                           286, 378, 413
                                                                               On

                                CONTENTS.
   On the Decomposition         of Water by Charcoal . . . . 303
   Cases   illustrating    the Effects    of Oil of Turpentine in ex
     pelling the Tape-worm                                         306, 335
   Description    of   a   Camp Telegraph                               321
   On the Penetration        of Balls into uniform resisting Sub
     stances                                                            325
  A   short Account       of  the Improvements       gradually     made   in
     determining the Astronomic Refraction . .               .. 340, 446
   Some   Particulars respecting the Thunder-storm at London,
     and in its Vicinity, on the 3\st of August 1810 . . 349
   Researches on the ory muriatic Acid, its Nature and Combi~
     nations; and on the Elements           of the muriatic Acid.     With
     some Experiments          on Sulphur and Phosphorus, made            in
     the Laboratory      of   the  Royal Institution         . .  352, 404
   Of the   Bogs in Ireland                                       361, 437
   On purifying Olive Oil for the Pivots           of  Chronometers     372
  A   further     Set    of Fifteen       Corollaries,   to   the Musical
     Theorems in Page 39, by means              of which,    the Tempera
     ments    of any  one   of the Co/words being given, all the other
     Temperaments and          all the Wolves can be calculated with
     the  greatest facility                                             374
   On the Barometer                                               376, 467
  Theoretical Suggestions        for    the  Improvement       of Practical
     Surgery                                                            401
  Memoir      on the  Diminution of the Obliquity of the Ecliptic,
     as  resulting from ancient Observations                            424
  Reply to Mr. M.'s Rtmarks on Mr. Smyth's Comparative
     Table in vol. xxxv. p. 488                                         435
*
  Description of a Manometer, by means of which we may
     ascertain the Changes which take place in the Elasticity
     and in the Composition of a determinate Volume of Air 458
  Notices respecting New Books                                     75, 391
  Proceedings     of Learned     Societies    70,   152,   232, 392, 469
  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles             75, 154, 234, 308,
                                                                  394, 47»
  List of Patents                               78, 159, 238, 318, 399
  Meteorological      Table      ,. ..    80, 160, 240, 320, 400, 473
                                                                     THE

                              THE
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
1,   A Review of the First Volume of M. J. A. De Luc's
    Geological Travels in the North of Europe : with Re
   marks on some of the Geological Points which are there
    in discussed.   By a Correspondent.
                          To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,    As    a reader  of your Magazine,    I have been much
gratified of late, by  the extracts, remarks, and observations
which have been given by you, er communicated by your
correspondents, on subjects connected with Geology, or
Geognosy, as it seems now the fashion with many to call
it; and having just finished the perusal of a very useful
as well as entertaining work, the first volume of M. J. A.
De Luc's Geological Travels in the North of Europe, very
lately published, I beg to communicate a short account of
the same.       The travels which are detailed in the present
volume, were, it seems, undertaken, for collecting an ex
tended body of facts in refutation of certain tenets of the
late Dr. Hutton, and other geological writers, and in con
firmation of the doctrines advanced by the author in his
"  Elementary Treatise on Geology," lately published. The
route of our author commenced on the 23d of July 1804,
at Berlin ; he proceeded by way of Zehdenick, Furstenberg,
Strelitz, Malchin, Lague, Rostock, Wismar, Travemiinde,
Lubeck, Eutin, Kiel, and Sleswigh, to Husum ; from
whence, on the 26th of August, he embarked for Harwich,
to pursue a similar course of investigations in England, the
details of which are to form the subject of his second
volume, the publication of which will not I sincerely hope
be long delayed.
   The objects of M. De Luc's travels here detailed, are
first stated in 27 propositions or heads : the first eleven, and
the 13th, 14th, and 15th of which, relate to the question,
   Vol. 36. No. 147. July 1810.             A2          Whether

 *     Review of the first  Volume  of M. J. A. De Luc's
  Whether the present rivers and streams of water, have ex
 cavated the valleys through which they flow? a question,
 which some months       auo exercised the pens of two of your
 correspondents, I recollect.      M. De Luc seems to consi
 der it as fully proved, by the numerous facts which he
 adduces in the volume before me, that rivers and brooks
 have no tendency to deepen their channels, but, on the
 contrary, are in every instance, with greater or less rapidity,
 filling up the bottoms of the valleys with the matters
 which they sweep away from the fett of the falling cliffs
 and sleep banks that they undermine, in the more rapid
 parts of their courses : and that the whole of the matters
 so removed by the currents of rivers, arc dropped before
 they reach the depths of the ocean, and arc even met by
 and mingled with large quantities of pure sand, thrown up
by the tides, from such deep parts of the ocean.           The
growth and operation of peat, in filling up some vales, is
exemplified by instances at pages 131, 137, 146, 247, 334,
344, &c. ; and in lessening, if not at length entirely filling
up and obliterating, lakes, and natural pools of water in
other instances, af pages 138, 141, 144, 145, 146, 147, 17 1#
 185, 187, 190, 101, 233, 275, 281, 344, 347, Sec.
    The 12th, lfith, and 17tb heads, relate to the question
 Whether the holders or blocks of granite and other stones,
have emigrated on the surface of the earth?      The instances
are very numerous which M. De Luc describes, through
his whole route from Berlin to Husum, of blocks of granite
and other primordial stones some of stupendous size, and of
vaiious species, found on the tops of graveily eminences,
in the face and at the feet of gravelly cliffs by the sea side,
and on some plains, at pages 123, 127. 129, 135, 137,
 156, 160, 172, 173j 178, 180, 181, 194, 195, 205, 213,
220, 223,221, 226, 228, 234, 237, 238, 248, 251, 249,
255, 256, 257, £65, 272, 273, 274, 277, «78, 279, 285,
291, 293, 301, 302, 30J, 313, 323, 329, 333, 334, 344,
367, 373, 381, 384, 386, 387, 388, 8cc.        These instances
are considered by our author as concurring in proving, the
impossibility of such blocks being transported along the
present or any former surface of the earth, to the places
where they are now found, and as establishing or gene
ralizing the supposition made by Mr. Wraxall and M. De
Saussure in particular instances elsewhere, that such blocks
" seemed as if they had fallen
                                  from the sky."
    I confess, however, sir, that I was somewhat disap
pointed in finding no attempt in all these details, at point
ing out the exacV places of the crater-like orifices, whence
                                                          these

         Geological Travels in the North   of Europe, &c.      S
  these primordial stones and gravel were projected from be
  neath, by the explosions of gases and torrents of water,
 that the descending masses of strata forced from the ca
  verns previously existing under them, at the time that the
 dislocations of the strata and formation of mountains, hills
 and valleys, by the subsidences and angular motions of the
 •trata,took place, according to the theory of M.De Luc : who,
 at page 6 1 of the present volume, speaks of "certain circular
  ridges of hills, which if seen from a distance by those un
 acquainted with their nature, might be taken for the bases
 or circumferences of large volcanic cones, which had fallen
 in ;" as existing along the course of the Rhine, covered by
 such primordial blocks.      I naturally expected, I say, that
 many    similar  spots  would  have been pointed out, in the
 <U+25BC>ast tract" of gravel and holders in the north of Europe,
 which he has so well described in this volume.
     At pages J 23, 1 27, 129, 277, &c. my author speaks of
 flints, which had belonged to the chalk strata, as constitut
 ing part of the gravel, and considers such, as the remains
 of dissolved strata of chalk ; but wherever he speaks of the
 undisturbed strata, below the gravel and holders, in his
 route on the south side of the Baltic, they are uniformly
 said to be of sand, clay, and marie, and seem to me to
 answer either to the upper part of the Paris strata, de
 scribed in your 35th volume, p. 56, &c. or to strata cover
 ing them, and answering to some that cover the chalk in
 England, and in the Netherlands also, according to the
 opinion of your correspondent, Mr. Farey, p. 131 of your
 tame volume.
     And here it may be proper to remark, that M. De Luc,
 in the volume before me, p. 218 and 250, speaks, on the
 authority of M. Von Willich, of similar strata of gand and
clay in the island of Kugen in the Baltic, as beine, if I
rightly understand him, upper strata to the cliffs of chalk,
 with layers of flints and marine bodies, 500 and even 360
feet high, in the peninsulas of Wittow and Jasmund, in
the north part of that island : and at page 387, on the
authority of M. Hartz, he mentions, cliffs or strata of
chalk and flints in Hedding in the island of Zeland, and
also in the promontories of Maglcbye and Mandemark in
the island of Moen or Mona belonging to Denmark : all
of which seem, I think, to confirm Mr. Farey's opinion
above referred to, viz. that the chalk strata (instead of be
ing dissolved) still underlay all the country, across which
M.De Luc travelled: the coal and sandstone strata in the
island of Bornholm (p. 387), probably answering, to those
                                A3                           «f

6       Review  of the first Volume of M.       J.  A. De Luc's
of Leige    and other continental collieries, above the chalk,
 and not to any part of the British series of strata, of which
the chalks seem nearly the uppermost.
    The important question, as to whether the chalk under
lays the south-eastern shore of the Baltic, might, I think,
receive an answer, by a minute examination of the straw
of the higher parts of the islands of Hiddensee and Um-
 mantz on the west of Rugen and of Greifswaldiska Oe on
 the south-east, which are said (p. 249), on the autho
rity of M. Von Willich, to consist of calcareous strata,
which contain marine bodies, and are intermixed with
 strata of porcelain earth ; since these would, seemingly,
answer to the very characteristic limestones and potter'*
clays of the basin of Paris, page 44, &c. of your 35th
volume.
    If Mr. Farey be right, in asserting (p. 130 of the above
volume), that three miles, (or 5280 yards) in thickness of
strata are known in England, below the chalk strata, of
which I have been speaking, without the intervention of
granites of any kind, or of any of what M. De Luc calls pri
mordial stones, in such strata (as I have understood to be
the case), does it seem probable, that the numerous ca
vernous blasts and torrents, to which M. De Luc resorts,
for projecting his primordial blocks towards the sky, whence
they fell to the earth's surface, could have failed to have pro
jected along with them, numerous and large specimens of
 the hard British limestones, sandstones, basalts, and others?
 but of which we read nothing in the volume of geological
 travels before us, except of a few flints.
     From numerous passages in this volume, and in the
 Geology of M. De Luc lately published, it is plain, that at
 the time of writing them, this veteran geologist was un
 acquainted with the suggestions of Mr. Farey, in various
 parts of your late volumes, as to the reversed action of
 gravity, and the tidal currents, occasioned by a former and
 vast abruptions, as Dr. William Richardson calls them*
  (or the denudations as Mr. F. calls them), which the
 earth's surface in so many places has sustained, are sup
 posed to have been occasioned, as well as the transportation
 of its alluvia, and the excavation of its numerous valleys
  also, if I mistake not the drift of Mr. Farey 's argument*
  with Mr. Carr, in your 33d and 34th volumes.
     I very much wish, sir, that I could call the attention of
         * See page 1 14 and page 258 of our 33d volume.— Editor.
                                                                 M. De

         Geological Travels in the North   of Europe, &c.        f
 M. De Luc     to the above subjects, and that we might hear,
 what his long experience in studying nature, and in the
 consideration and discussion of geological systems, would
 offer, on this new hypothesis, for explaining the disrup
 tions of the strata, the transportation of alluvial matters, and
 others of the vast and most mysterious operations, to which
 the terraqueous globe has been subjected.
    But it is perhaps high time thai I should mention the
 remaining subjects of the volume, which I undertook to ex
plain, and as soon as possible conclude this desultory letter.
    The 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, and 22(1 propositions, or
heads, are employed on the question, Whether the gulfs
and sleep eliffs on the coasts of the ocean, were occasioned
ly its action? At page 333 it is said, " that the inden
tations of the coasts have not been formed by the sea, but
are simply the extremities of vales, or other original in
flections of the surface, which lay below the level of the
aea, when it came first to occupy its present bed;" and
in numerous parts of the volume before me, facts are ad
duced, to show that, so far from the sea being now capa
ble of excavating gulfs, such are almost uniformly in the
process of Jilling up.
     I am yet by no means satisfied, with the evidence
adduced, to decide the other part of this proposition as
M. De Luc has done, viz. that the cliffs on the sea-shore
did not originate witb the action of the sea.          A neces
sary consequence of numerous valleys having opened in
to the sea below its present level, as stated above by
M. De Luc, is, that separating ridges or points of hills
equally numerous, projected or run out into the sea; and
from having often and attentively observed, the great ef
fect which waves propelled by a high wind, oblique to the
shore in particular, have upon all projecting points, and
the powerful tendency which the beach or strand has to
assume a regular line without sudden indentations, in al
most all situations, I am inclined to ascribe to the waves a
power, of commencing and carrying on the ravages which
most points of hills projecting into the sea have suffered :
yet, without at all invalidating or calling in question the
Mosaic chronology, which M. De Luc is so properly in
tent on supporting ; and I am further disposed to assume,
that so correct an observer and reasoner as M. De Luc,
could not have overlooked these circumstances, had he not
too much relied on his position, of the original marine cliffs
or facades, being the mere effect of the subsidences and
angular motions of the strata : and not duly considering,
                               A4                             that

8                      Observations        on the Effects        of
that the valleys being of the same or usual form, whicli
descend into and much below tke level of the sea, the se
parating hills must have been of such usual form also; and
since, on following any ridge of hill on land, we scarcely
ever meet with a facade or perpendicular rise in or across its
height, it follows, that the numerous and almost invariably
abrupt endings of hills at the sea, is the effect of their
abrasion, or being worn away by the waves, and not of
faults or depressions.
   The 2Jth head discusses the question, Whether the level
of the present sea has ever changed ? Here I cannot but
admire the address, with which M. DeLuc has brought
the numerous and, indeed, invariable instances of the hori-
zontality of the new formed or modern alluvial lands, to
bear on the question, and prove, as several others of the facts
which he relates also do, that the sea has remained at its
present level, or very near     ever since the present race of
                                          it,
men, animals, or plants have existed upon the earth; and
I may add perhaps, ever since the present race, of fish also,
have existed in its waters.
   The remaining four heads, viz. the 23d, 24th, 25th, and
26th, relate to the question, What       the age   our present
                                                        is            of
continents      From
                 ?      chain of facts-, too numerous for me
                                a
here to particularize, as they run through the whole book,
my author endeavours' to prove, and successfully, as think,                   I
and have hinted already, that natural appearances and the
•tate of society concur in proving that, our continents can
not at the most, be more ancient than the Scripture chrono
logy represents them to be.       wait with some impatience
                                            I
for the appearance of the 2d volume of these Travels, which
is  to treat of scenes somewhat more familiar to me, and
am, sir,                           Yours, Stc.
    July   i.isio.                                                              A.B.
II.    Observations on the Effects    Magnesia, in prevent
     ing  an increased Formation                     of of
                                       Uric Acid; with some
     Remarks on the, Composition   the Urine.  Communicated
                                                of
      byMr. WILLIAM T. BRANDE, F.R.S. to the Society for
     the Improvement      Animal Chemistry, and
                                of                  them la                by
     the Royal Society *.
JVlR. HOME'S      inquiries into the functions ot the stomach,
and   his discovery  of liquids passing from the cardiac por
tion,  into  the circulation   of the blood    led him to con-f,
             *   From the Philosophical    Transactions      fur 1810, Part   I.
           t     Phil. Trans.   1808.
                                                                                   eider,

             Magnesia   in Calculous Complaints.             9
sider, that the generality of calculous complaints might
possibly be prevented, by introducing into the stomach,
such substances as are capable of preventing the formation
of uric acid, and that this mode of treatment would have
many advantages over the usual method, which consists in
attempting to dissolve the uric acid after it is formed.
   He consulted Mr. Hatchett on the substance most likely
to produce this effect, and asked if magnesia, from its in
solubility in water, was not well adapted for the purpose,
as it would remain in the stomach, until it should combine
with any acid, or be carried along with the food towards
the pylorus.
   Mr. Hatchett knew of nothing more likely to p»oduce
the desired effect; and on putting this theory to the test of
experiment, it was found by a very careful examination of
the urine, that in several instances where there was an in
creased formation of uric acid, magnesia diminished it in
a much greater degree than had been effected by the use,
and that a very liberal one, of the alkalies in the same
patient.
   This circumstance led Mr. Home to wish for a more
complete investigation of the subject, and he requested
me to assist him in the prosecution of it. Since that time
many opportunities have occurred of carrying on the in
quiry during an attendance on patients labouring under
calculous complaints.
   It is proposed to lay the results of our joint labours be
fore this society, with a view to establish a fact of so much
importance in the treatment of those diseases.
   The four following cases include the principal varieties
of the disorder, which have been met with, and are there
fore selected from among many others, to prevent unne
cessary repetitions.   In each of them the urine was occa
sionally carefully analysed.
                            Case  I.
   A   gentleman, sixty years of age, who had been in the
habit   of indulging in the free use of acid liquors, had re
peatedly passed small calculi composed entirely of uric
acid ; his urine immediately after being voided, deposited
at all times a considerable quantity of that substance, in
the form of a red powder, and occasionally in large
crystals.
   Nine drachms of subcarbonate of soda, dissolved in wa
ter hisrhly impregnated with carbonic acid, and taken in
the course of the day at three doses, appeared to have no
                                                         effect

  10               Observations  On the  Effects of
 effect whatever on the formation of uric acid; the red
 sand was deposited as usual, and the small calculi continued
 to form.
     On account of the inefficacy of this medicine, he was
 advised to try the vegetable alkali, and three drachms of
 subcarbonate of potash, dissolved in water slightly impreg
 nated with carbonic acid, were taken at similar intervals.
     The deposit of uric acid in the urine was now some
 what diminished ; but during this free use of alkalies,
 which, with little interruption, was persevered in for more
 than a year, the small calculi still continued to be voided.
    The very unusual disposition to form uric acid, and the
 complete failure of the common alkaline medicines, ren
 dered this case particularly favourable for the trial of mag
 nesia, as it would afford an opportunity of comparing its
effects with those of the alkalies.
    Previous to giving the magnesia, the urine was ex
 amined, to ascertain the quantity of uric acid it contained :
 this being done, the patient was directed to take fifteen
grains of magnesia three times a day, in an ounce aud a
half of infusion of gentian: in a week the uric acid was
found, by examining the urine, to have diminished in
quantity, and after the first three weeks it was only occa
sionally met with.
    The use of magnesia has been persevered in for eight
months, during which time no calculi have been voided,
nor has there been any material deposit in the urine.
    This patient was extremely subject to heartburn, and he
likewise complained of a sense of weight and uneasiness
about the region of the stomach, both of which symptom*
have disappeared.
                            CASE  II.
    A  gentleman, about 40 years of age, had during four
years occasionally voided considerable quantities of uric
acid, in the form of red sand, and had once passed a small
calculus.
    His urine was generally more or less turbid, and after
taking any thing which disagreed with his stomach, even
in a slight degree, the red sand often made its appearance.
He had never used the alkalies nor any other medicine, to
alleviate his disorder : he was consequently desired to take
a drachm and a half of subcarbonate of soda, dissolved in
a pint and a half of water highly impregnated with carbonic
acid, in the course of the day, and to persevere in ihi»
treatment for some time.
                                                           Oa

            Magnesia    in Calculous Complaints.                    11
    On the 30th of January 1 809, he left London, and re
turned on the 6th of March following.                     <¦.-»
    During   his  absence   he  had     voided  rather less uric acid
than usual, but had had one severe attack, in conse
quence of which, twenty drops of the solution of pur©
potash were added to each dose of the soda water : this,
however, had not the desired effect; for on the 10th of
March, having taken more wine than usual on the preced
ing day, he was attacked with pain in the right kidney,
and voided with his urine a considerable quantity of uric
acid, in the form of minute red crystals.           During the suc
ceeding day,     he  made   but  little  water,   which   deposited a
copious   sediment   of red  sand.
    For the removal of this symptom, he was directed to take
magnesia, in the dose of twenty grains every night and
morning, in a little water ; for three successive days his
bowels were unusually relaxed, but afterwards became re
gular.    He persevered in its use for six weeks without in*
 lermission : his urine was several times examined during
that period, and contained no superabundant uric acid; and
he has not had the slightest return of his complaint, al
though he has put himself under no unusual restraint in
 his mode of living,                                                  7
                             Case     III.
    About the middle of October 1808, a gentleman, forty-
 three years of age, after taking violent horse exercise, was
 seized with pain in the right kidney and ureter.               In the
 course of the night he passed a small uric calculus.              For
 some months previous to this attack, he had felt occasional
 pain in the kidney, but had never voided either calculi or
 sand. His urine was now always turbid, and occasionally
 deposited red sand.
    On the 28th of October he began the U3e of soda water,
 and for a time his urine was much improved in ap
 pearance, but the uric acid gradually returned, and at the
 end of December, notwithstanding            the continued use of
 the soda water, he voided more sand, and his urine was
  more loaded with mucus than it had ever been before.
    In consequence of these symptoms, on the 3d of January
  1809, he was directed to take twenty grains of magnesia
 every night.
    The urine was examined after the third dose, and the
 deposit of red sand was diminished in quantity, but it
 did not disappear entirely, after the magnesia had been
 taken for three weeks.
                                                                About

 IS              Observations on the Effects of
    About this time (on the 96th of January) he caught
cold, and his urine was again very turbid, but this was
found to be wholly the effect of mucus, and the symptom
soon left him.
    On the 30th of January he took twenty grains of mag
nesia, and repeated it every night and morning, until the
 1st of March, when his urine was perfectly healthy, and
he left it off.
    On the 1st pf June he again voided a little uric acid, in
the form of red crystalline sand : this attack was attended
with a slight pain along the right ureter. He returned to
the use of the magnesia, which he took twice a day for
three weeks, in the same dose as before, and from that time
to the middle of November there had been no symptoms
of a return of the complaint.
                           Cask IV.
.  A  gentleman, aged fifty-six, after recovering from a se
vere fit of the gout, voided constantly a large quantity of
mucus in his urine, a symptom which he had never before
noticed.    There was also, occasionally, abundance of red
sand, consisting principally of uric acid, but he had never
voided a calculus.
    His stomach was uncommonly weak, he was often af
fected with heartburn, and an almost constant pain in the
neighbourhood of the right kidney.       He had been in the
habit of taking tincture of bark, and other spirituous me
dicines, from a belief that the pain in his right side arose
from gout in the stomach.
    He had already attempted to use the alkalies, which had
produced such unpleasant sensations in the stomach, that he
could not be prevailed upon to try them again in any form.
   Under these circumstances, he readily acceded to a new
plan of treatment.      He was directed to omit the use of
spirituous medicines, and take twenty grains of magnesia
three times a day in water ; but this operating too power
fully upon the bowels, the same quantity of magnesia was
taken twice a day only, with an addition of five drops of
laudanum to each dose.
   This plan was pursued without intermission for three
weeks, and he received considerable benefit, as far as con
cerned the state of the stomach, and pain in the region of
the kidney.     The urine, which was examined once a week,
was also, on the whole, improved ; but it occasionally de
posited a very copious sediment, consisting of uric acid,
with a variable proportion of mucous secretion. .. .
                                                        After

              Magnesia in Calculous Complaints.               13
    After a further continuance of the use of the magnesia
for three weeks, the urine was often much loaded with
uric acid and mucus; but these appearances, which before
the use of the magnesia were constant, are now only occa
 sional, so that the disposition to form a redundant quan
tity of uric acid is much diminished : it is also deserving
of remark, that there has not been the slightest symptom
 of gout from the time of the last attack, which is more
 than a year back, a longer interval of ease than this patient
has experienced for the last six years.
     He has now omitted the regular use of the magnesia;
but on perceiving any unpleasant sensation in the stomach,
he returns to it for a week or ten days, and then again
leaves it off.
    From the preceding cases it appears, that the effects of
magnesia taken into the stomach, are in many respects dif
ferent fronj those produced by the alkalies, in those patients
in whom there is a disposition to form a superabundant
 quantity of uric acid.
    With a view to ascertain their comparative effects on
healthy urine, when taken under the same circumstances,
the following experiments were made.
                   Experiment    1.   On Soda.
    Two drachms of subcarbonale of soda were taken on
 an empty stomach at nine o'clock in the morning, dis
solved in three ounces of water, and immediately afterr
 wards, a large cup of warm tea.
    In six minutes, about one ounce of urine was voided;
 in twenty minutes six ounces more ; and after two hours,
 a similar quantity.
    The first portion became very turbid, within ten minutes
after it had been voided, and deposited a copious sediment
 of the phosphates, in consequence of the action of the al
 kali upon the urine.    It slightly restored the blue colour to
 litmus paper reddened with vinegar : the alkali, therefore,
 was not merely in sufficient quantity to saturate the un-
 combined acid in the urine, and consequently to throw
down the phosphates ; but it was in excess, and the urine
 was voided alkaline.    .
    The urine voided after twenty minutes, also deposited a,
cloud of the phosphates ; but the transparency of that void
ed two hours after the alkali had been taker), was not dis
 turbed.
    Here, therefore, the effect of the alkali upon the urine,
 was at its maximum, probably in leg* than a quarter of an
                                                            hour

14               Observations on the Effects   of
hour after it had been taken into the stomach, and in lens
than two hours the whole of the alkali had passed off.
    Experiment   2.    On Soda, with excess   of Carbonic Acid.
   The same quantity of soda, dissolved in eight ounces of
water very highly impregnated with carbonic acid, was
taken under the same circumstances as in the former ex
periment, and the urine was voided at nearly similar in
tervals.
   The separation of the phosphates was less distinct, and
Jess rapid.    In two hours after the urine had been voided,
there was a small deposit, composed principally of phos
phate of lime ; there was also a distinct pellicle on the sur
face, consisting of the triple phosphate of ammonia and
magnesia.     This appearance, produced by the escape of
the carbonic acid, which had before retained the ammonia-!
co-magnesian phosphate in solution, and which now oc
casions its deposition on the surface, is by no means un
common, even in the urine of healthy persons : in the pre
sent instance, it appears to prove, that carbonic acid passes
off from the stomach, by the kidneys ; for, after taking the
alkalies, in water very highly impregnated with       it,
                                                      the pel
licle is uniformly produced, and      also much more abun-?
                                         is
dant and distinct than under any other circumstances.
    In similar experiments with potash, the results were          in,
all cases as similar as could be expected in researches of
this nature.
                 Experiment    3.    On Magnesia.
   Magnesia was taken under circumstances similar to those
of  the soda in the former experiment: in the quantity of
half  a  drachm,      produced no sensible effect upon the
                      it
urine during the whole day. When taken in the dose of
a drachm at nine o'clock in the morning, the urine voided
at twelve o'clock became slightly turbid    at three o'clock
                                               :
the effect of the magnesia was at its maximum, and        dia
stinct separation of the phosphates took place, partly in
the form of      afilm, which when examined was found to
be the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia, and
partly in the state of     awhite powder, consisting almost
entirely of the triple phosphate and phosphate of lime.
   The effect of large doses of magnesia, in producing            a
•white sediment in the* urine,   very commonly known, and
                                    is
has been erroneously attributed to the magnesia passing"
off by the kidneys.
   These experiments show that magnesia, even in vcrf
                                                        large

               Magnesia in Calculous Complaints.               13
                                                                  '
large doses,     neither produces so rapid an effect upon the
urine, nor so    copious a separation of the phosphates, as the
alkalies ; on    this its value as a remedy in calculous dis
orders seems     materially to depend.
                    Experiment   4.   On Lime.
     Two ounces of lime water, taken in the morning upon
 an empty stomach, with a cup of milk and water, pro
 duced no effect whatever.
     A pint of lime water, taken at four intervals of an hour
 each, produced a slight deposition of the phosphates at the
 end of the fifth hour.     The urine voided at the third hour
 was not at all affected ; at the fifth hour, the effect appeared
 at its height, but was not nearly so distinct as from small
 doses of soda, notwithstanding        the insoluble compounds
 which lime might be expected to form with the acids in
 the urine.
     The unpleasant taste of lime water, the quantity in which
 it requires to be taken, on account of the small proportion
 of the earth which is held in solution, and the uncertainty
 of its effect, are circumstances which render it of little use,
 excepting in some very rare cases, where it has been found
  to agree particularly well with the stomach.
      The effect of carbonate of lime upon the urine was much
  less distinct than that of lime water: at times it produced
  no effect, but when taken in very large doses, a slight de
  position of the phosphates was produced.
      These experiments were repeated upon three different
  individuals, and there was always an uniformity in the re
   sults.
      When the medicines were taken some hours after food
   being received into the stomach, their effects upon the
   urine were retarded, but not prevented.
      The effects of many other substances upon the urine
   were examined into during this investigation ; but they
   varied so much according to circumstances, that no satis
   factory results were produced.
      As it is found in the foregoing experiments, that the
   effects of soda on the urine are modified by the presence of
   carbonic acid, the following experiment was made, to as
   certain whether any sensible effects are produced by that
   acid on healthy urine.
      Twelve ounces of water very highly impregnated with
   carbonic acid, were taken upon an empty stomach at nine
   o'clock in the morning.          At ten o'clock about eight
    Dunces  of  urine  were voided, which had a natural appear

 16       On Alterations in the Scales            of Thermometers.
 ance, but, when compared with urine voided under common
circumstances, was found to contain a superabundant quan
tity of carbonic acid : this gas was copiously given off
when the urine was gently heated, or when it was exposed
under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump.
   In a patient who had a calculus of large dimensions
extracted from the bladder, composed entirely of the phos
phates, and whose stomach did not admit of the use of
stronger acids, carbonic acid was given in water; it was
found peculiarly grateful to the stomach, and upon ex
amining the urine during its use, the phosphates were
only voided in solution ; but when at any time it was left
off, -they were voided in the form of white sand.
III.  Remarks on Mr. Richard Walker's proposed                            Al
   terations in the' Scales           of'
                            Theimometers,   our                  in        last
   Number,
                         .   To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,     The reading of Mr. R. Walker's paper on thermo
meters in your last number, induces me to trouble you, for
the purpose of pointing out to that gentleman, what                         I
conceive to have been the reason, why various improve
ments and suggested reforms, in the weights, measures,
and modes of estimating quantities in this country and
others, have been neglected and most of them forgotten, viz.
their authors' having neglected to asign new and appropriate
names and characters to the new denominations or things,
which     was their object to introduce
         it                              but transferring the
                                                   ;
old names, as foot, inch, ounce, pound, degree, &c. &c. to
things almost as new and dissimilar, as these are from each
other.
   If the most precise and short compound words were
fixed on, indicative of degrees of heat and degrees of cold,
derived perhaps from the Greek or Latin, as being dead or
standard languages universally understood, to be used as new
prefixes or additions (with distinctive characters* which
could be used as abbreviations of these) to the number of
thermometric divisions proposed, instead of using either the
word degrees or the character in present use          do not
                                            0
                                                                 I
                                                                 ;
despair of seeing Mr. W.'s scale or even scales (if each have
their own names and characters) adopted         many, since by
  * Perhaps the initial Greek letters of the    names   might answer these pur
poses.
                                                                      negative

          On sbme new Eleclrocliemical           Researches.              1 f
negative signs would thus become unnecessary, and no con
fusion could arise from their use ; while on the other hand,
every true friend of science and accuracy, will naturally ad
here to the divisions in use, as answering their intended ends,
although not in the best or most perfect manner} and set
their face against imperfectly contrived changes.
    It would have been desirable, in the last note at bottorrt
of page 420, that Mr. R. Walker had pointed out a material
circumstance affecting the uses of mercurial and alcoholial
thermometers, viz. the very different periods of time ne
cessary, for each to act in, or acquire and indicate the
temperature of any medium under experiment. — See the
Monthly Magazine, vol. xvii. p. 213.
                               I am, sir,
                                            Yours, &c.
   July3, 1810.                                        LONDINKNSIS.
IV.    The Bakerian Lecture for 1809.                On some neu> Elec
    trochemical Researches on various Objects, particularly
    the metallic Bodies, from the Alkalies, and Earths^
    and on some Combinations of Hydrogen.                       By HUM
    PHRY DAVV, Esq. Sec. U.S. F.R.S.E. M.R.I.A.*
                  [Continued from vol. xxxv. p. 415.]
III.    Experiments on Nitrogen, Ammonia,                 and the    Amal
                        gam from slmmonia.
 V-/NK of     the Queries that I advanced, in attempting to
 reason    upon the singular phaendmena produced by thft
 action of potassium upon ammonia, was, that nitrogen,
 might possibly consist of oxygen and hydrogen, or that it
 might be composed from water.
    f  shall have to detail in this section a great number of
 laborious experiments, and minute and tedious processes,
 made with the hopes of solving this problem.                   My results
 have been for the most part negative ; but I shall venture
 to state them fully, because I hope they will tend to eluci
 date some poiiits of discussion, and may prevent other che
 mists from pursuing the same paths of inquiry, and which
 at first view do not appear urtprdmisirig.
     The formation of nitrogen lias been often asserted td
 take place in many processes, in which none of its known
 (Combinations were concerned.             It is not necessary to enter
into the discussion of the ideas entertained by the German
            * From Philosophical  Traniactions   for 1810, Part I.
V«l» 36. No. 147.      July   1810.                  B             chemists.

18               On some new Elect rocfumical Researches
chemists, on the origin of nitrogen, produced during the
passage of water through red-hot tubes, or the speculations'
of Girtanner, rounded on these and other erroneous data ;
the early discovery of Priestley on the passage of gases
through red-hot tubes of earthen-ware, the accurate re
searches of Berthollct, and the experiments of Bouillon La
Grange, have afforded a complete solution of this problem.
   One of the most striking cases, in which nitrogen has
been supposed to appear without the presence of any othtr
matter but water, which can be conceived to supply it&
elements, is in the decomposition and recomposition of
water by electricity*.   To ascertain if nitrogen could be
generated    in this manner, I had an apparatus made, by
which a quantity of water could be acted upon by Voltaic
electricity, so as to produce oxygen and hydrogen with
great rapidity, and in which these gases could be detonated,
without the exposure of the water to the atmosphere ; so
that this fluid was in contact with platina, mercury, and
glass only; and the wires for completing the VoUaic and
common electrical circuit were hermetically inserted into
the tube.     50O double plates of the Voltaic combination
were used, in such activity that about the 'eighth of a cu
bical inch of the mixed gases, upon an average, was pro
duced from 20 to 30 times in every day. The water used
in this experiment was about a half a cubic inch ; it had
been carefully purged of air by the air-pump and by boil
ing, and had been introduced into the tube, and secured
from the influence of the atmosphere whilst warm.        After
the first detonation of the oxygen and hydrogen, which
together equalled about the eighth of a cubical inch, there
was a residuum of about ,'T of the volume of the gases j.
after every detonation this residuum was fonnd to increase,
and when about 50 detonations had been made, it equalledV-
pather more than ± of the volume of the water, i*e.       of a        -j-
cubical inch.       was examined
                      It              the test of nitrous gas
                                             by                              j
it contained no oxygen six measures mixed with three
                                   ;
measures of oxygen diminished to five; so that       consistedit
of 2-6 of hydrogen, and 3-4 of-     gas having the characters*
                                             a
of nitrogen.
   This experiment seemed         favour of the idea of tt*e
                                        in
production of nitrogen from pure water in these electrical
processes     but though the platina wires were hermetically
               ;
aealed*into the lube,     occurred to me as possible that at
                              it
     *   See Dr. Pearson's elaborate experiments, on the decomposition of   water
         ectrical explosions. Nicholson's Journal, 4to, Vol.
                                                         i.   page 3O1.

                           oft   various Objects.                             Id
 the moment of the explosion by the electrical discharge,
 the sudden expansions and contractions might occasion
 some momentary communication                with the external air
 through the aperture; and I resolved to make the experi
ments in a method by which the atmosphere was entirely
excluded. This was easily done by plunging the whole of
 the apparatus, except the upper parts of the communicating
 wires, under oil, and carrying on the process as before.            In
this experiment the residuum did not seem to increase
quite so fast as in the former one.           It was carried on for
nearly two months.        After 310 explosions, the permanent
gas equalled -fifo of a cubical inch.          It was carefully exa
 mined : six measures of           it,
                                   detonated with three measures
of oxygen, diminished to rather less than one measure —                   ;   a
result which seems to show, that nitrogen                 not formed
                                                             is
during the electrical decomposition atfd recompo-Mtion of
water, and that the residual gas             ishydrogen.     That the
hydrogen    is in excess, may be easily referred to             slight
                                                                  a
oxidation of the platina.
   The refined experiments of Mr. Cavendish on the defla
gration of mixtures of oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen,
lead directly to the conclusion, that the nitrous acid some
times generated in experiments on the production of waterj
owes its origin to nitrogen, mixed with the oxygen and
hydrogen, and          never produced from those two gases
                      is
alone.    In the Bakerian lecture for 1806,               have stated
                                                            I
several facts, which seem to show that the nitrous acidj
which appears in many processes of the Voltaic electrization
of water-, cannot be formed, unless nitrogen be present.
   Though in these experiments               endeavoured
                                             I               to guard
with great care against     all causes   of  mistake,   and  though           I
do not well see how        could fall into an error, yet
                           I                                      find1
that the assertion, that both acids and alkalies may be pro
duced from pure water, has asiain been repeated*.                 The
energy with which the large Voltaic apparatus, recently
constructed in the Royal Institution, acts upon water, en
abled me to put this question to            more decided test than
                                             a
was before   in  my power.         had
                                    I    formerly found in an ex
periment,   in which   pure  water   was    electrified in two gold
co.nes in  hydrogen gas,    that  no  nitrons   acid nor alkali was
formed.    It might DC said, that in this ease the presence of
hydrogen dissolved in the water, would prevent nitrous
acid from appearing;        Itherefore m.ide two scries of ex
periments,   one   in   ajar filled with oxygen gas, and the
              *
                  Nicholson's Journal, August 1809,   p.   256.
                                    B    2                            other

 to            On  some netv Electrochemical  Researches
 other in an apparatus in which glass, water, mercury, and
 wires of plalina only, were present.
     In the first series 1000 double plates were used, the two
 cones were of platina, and contained about T'Tof a cubical inch
 each, and filaments of asbestus were employed, to connect
 them together.       In these trials, when the batteries were in
 full  action,  the  heat was so great, and the gases were dis
 engaged with s>o much rapidity, that more than half the
 water was lost in the course or a few minuses. By using
 a weaker charge, the process wa*-"arricel on f«r some hours,
 and in some cases for from two to three days.           In VK> in
 stance, in which slowly distilled water was employed, and
 in which the receiver was filled with pure oxygen from
 oxymuriate of potash, was any acid1 or alkali exhibited in
 the cones; even when nitrogen was present, the indications
 of the production of acid and alkaline matter were very
feeble ; though, if the asbestos was touchsd with unwashed
hands, or the smalkst particle of neutro- saline matter in
troduced, there was an immediate separation of acid and
alkali, at the points of contact of the asbts-tus with the
platina, which could be made evident by the usual tests.
    In the second series of experiments, the oxygen and hy
drogen produced from the water were collected under mer
cury, and the two portion* of water communicated directly
with each other, in several trials made in this way, with
a combination of M)O plaies, and continued for some days,
it was always found that fixed alkali separated in the glass
negatively electrilied ; and a minute quantity of acid, which
could barely be made evident by litmus, in the glass posi
tively electrified.     This acid rendered cloudy nitrate of sil
ver.     Whether its presence was owing to impurities wliich
might risr in distillation with the mercury, or to muriatic
acid existing in the glass, I cannot say ; bat as common
salt perfectly dry is not decomposed by si lex, it se.ems very
likely that muriatic acid in its arid state may exist in com
bination in glass.
    I tried several experiments on the ignition and fusion of
platina by Voltaic electricity, in mixtures of the vapour of
water and oxygen gas. I thought it possible, if water could
be combined with more oxygen, that this heat, the most
intense we are acquainted wiih, niieht produce the effect.
When the oxygen was mixed with nitrogen, nitrous acid
was formed ; but when it consisted of the last portions
from oxymuriate of potash, there was not the slightest in.-1
dication of such a result.
   Water in vapour was passed through oxide of man
                                                            ganese,

                        on varions  Oljectt.                    fi
ga-nese, made red hot in a glazed porcelain tube, the bore of
which was nearly an inch in diameter; in (his case a so
lution of nitrous acid, sufficiently strong to be disagreeably
sour to the taste, and which readily dissolved copper, was
forme*!.
   This experiment was repeated several times, and, when
the diameter    of the tube was I true, with precisely the same
results. When red oxide ol lead was used instead of oxide
of   manganese, no acid was however generated ; but upon
this substance a single trial only was made, and that in a
small tube, so that no conclusion can with propriety be.
drawn from this failure.
    1 stated in the last Bakerian lecture, that in attempting
to produce ammonia from a mixture of charcoal and pearl-
ash, that had been ignited by the action of water, in the
manner stated by Dr. Woodhouse,           I failed in the trial in
which the mixture was cooled in contact with hydrogen.
I have since made a number of similar experiments. In
general, when the mixture had tiot been exposed to air,
there was little or no indication of the production of the
volatile alkali ; but the result was not so constant as to be
entirely satisfactory; and the same circumstances could
not be uniformly obtained in this simple form of the ex
periment.      J had an apparatus made, in which the pheno
mena of the process could be more rigorously examined.
Pure potash and charcoal, in the proportion of one to four
in weight, were ignited in the middle of a tube of iron,
furnished with a system of stopcocks, and connected with
a pneumatic apparatus, in such a manner that the mixture
eould be cooled in contact with the gas produced during
the operation ; and that water exhausted of air could be
made to act upon the cooled mixture, and afterwards di
stilled from it : figures of this apparatus, and an account
of the manner in which it was used, are annexed to this
paper.     In this place I shall state merely the general re
sults   of  the operations, which were carried on for nearly
two months, a variety of precautions being used to prevent
the. interference of nitrogen from the atmosphere.
    In all cases in which the water was brouaht in contact
with the mixture of charcoal and potash, when it wa* per
fectly cool, and afterwards distilled from it by a low heat,
it was found to hold in solution small quantities of am
monia; when the operation was repeated upon the same
mixture, ignited a second time, the proportion diminished;
in a third operation it was sensible, but in the fourth barely
perceptible.     The same mixture, however, by the addition
                                B 3                             of

22        On some new Electrochemical Researches
of   a new quantity of potash, again gained the power of
 producing ammonia in two or three successive operations j
 and when any mixture had ceased to give ammonia, the
 power was not restored by cooling it in contact with air.
     Ammonia was produced in a case in which more than
 200 cubical inches of gas had passed over from the action
 of water upon a mixture, and when tht last portions only
 were preserved in contact with it during the cooling.        In
 a comparative trial it was however found, that considerably
 more ammonia was produced, when a mixture was cooled
•in contact with the atmosphere, than when it was cooled
in contact with the gas developed in the operation.
     I shall not attempt to draw any conclusions from these
processes.      It would appear from some experiments of
M Berthollet, that nitrpgen adheres very strongly to char
coal*. The circumstances that the ammonia ceases to be
produced after a certain number of operations, and that the
quantity is much greater when free nitrogen is present,
are perhaps against the idea that nitrogen is composed in
the process. But till the weights of the substances con
cerned and produced in these operations are compared, no
correct decision on the question can be made.
    The experiments of Dr. Priestley upon the production of
nitrogen, during the freezing of water, induced that philo
sopher to conceive, either that water was capable of being
converted into nitrogen, or that it contained much more
nitrogen than is usually suspected.
     1 have made some repetitions of his processes.  A quan
tity of water, (about a cubical inch and a quarter,) that
had been produced from snow, boiled and inverted over
mercury whilst hot, was converted into ice, and tha.wed in
 ] 6 successive operations ; gas was produced, but after the
 first three or four times of freezing there was no notable
increase of the volume.      At the end of the experiment,
about -jij- of a cubical inch was obtained, which proved to
be common air.
     About four cubical inches of water from melted snow
 were converted into ice and thawed, four successive times,
 in a conical vessel of wrought iron. At the end of the
 fourth process, the volume of gas equalled about -fa of the
volume of the water.       It proved to contain about -rig- oxy
 gen,       hydrogen, and -rV nitrogen.
     Mr. Kirwan observed the fact, that when nitrous gas
and sulphuretted hydro_en are kept in contact for some
                 • Mem. d'   Aicutil,           ii.
                                        torn.         page 485.
                                                                  time,

                        on various Objects.                    S3
  time, there is a great diminution of volume, and that the
  nitrous gas becomes converted into nitrous oxide, and that
  sulphur is deposited which has an ammoniacal smell.            I
  repeated this experiment several times in 180O with similar
  results, and I found, that the diminution of the volume of
  the gases when they were mixed in equal proportions, was
 to rather less than {, which seemed 10 l>e nitrous oxide.
      In reasoning upon this phenomenon, I saw grounds for
 a minute investigation of it. Sulphuretted hydrogen, as
 appears from experiments which i have stated on a former
  occasion, and from some that I shall detail towards the
  conclusion of this lecture, contains a volume of hydrogen
  equal to its own.      But one of hydrogen demands half
  its volume of oxygen to convert it into water, and nitrous
 gas consists of about half a part in volume of oxygen ; so
 that, supposing the whole of the hydrogen employed in ab
 sorbing oxygen from nitrous gas, nitrogen alone ought to,
 be formed, and not nitrous oxide.       Or, if the whole of Ac
 gas is nitrous oxide, this should contain all the nitrogen of
 the nitrous gas, leaving none to be supplied to the am
 monia.      I mixed together five cubical inches of nitrous
 gas, and five of sulphuretted hydrogen over mercury, the
 barometer being at 29*S'n>, thermometer at .51° Fahrenheit;
 twelve hours had elapsed before any change was perceived ;
there was then a whitish precipitate formed, and a deep
 yellow liquid began to appear in drops, on the inside of the
jar, and the volume of the gases quickly diminished ;
after two days the diminution ceased, and the volume be
came stationary; the barometer was at 30-45"1', and ther
mometer 52° Fahrenheit ; when it equalled 2-3. The gas
 proved lobe about \ nitrous oxide, and the remaining
fourth was inflammable.        An experiment was made ex
 pressly to determine the nature of the deep yellow liquid in
 the jar.      It proved to be of the same kind as Boyle's
fuming liquor, the hydrosulphuret of ammonia, but with
sulphur in great excess.
     In this experiment there was evidently no formation
of nitrogen, and ibese complicated changes ended in the
production of two new compounds; nitrogen, hydrogen;
oxygen and sulphur combining to form one; and a part of
the nitrogen and oxygen, becoming more condensed, to
form another.
     Having stated the results of the investigation on the pro
duction of nitrous acid and of ammonia, in various pro
cesses of chemistry, I shall notice some attempts that I
made to decompound nitrogen, by agents which I con-
                               B  4                       ceived

  S4          On some new Electrochemical          Researches
  ceived might act at the        same time on oxygen, and on the
  basis of nitrogen.        Potassium, as I have before slated,
  sublimes in nitrogen, without altering it, or being itself
  changed : but I thought it possible, that the case might be
  different, if this powerful agent were made to act upon ni
  trogen, assisted by the intense heat and decomposing ener
  gy of Voltaic electricity,
      I had an apparatus made, by which the Voltaic circuit
  could be completed in nitrogen gas, confined by mercury,
  by means of potassium and platina.             The potassium, in the
  quantity of about two       or  three grains, was placed in a cup
  of platina,   and   by  contact     with a wire of platina it could
  be   fused and sublimed      in   the  gas.   The quamiiy of nitro
  gen    was  usually  about     a  cubical   inch.    The battery em
  ployed    was always   in  full  action   for these experiments, and
  consisted of one thousand double plates.            The phaenomena
  were very brilliant : as soon as the contact with the potas
  sium was made there was always a bright light, so intense
  as to be painful to the eye ; the platina became white hot ;
  the potassium rose in vapour; and by increasing the di-r
  stance of the cup from the wire, the electricity passed
  through the vapour of the potassium, producing a most
  brilliant flame, of from half an inch to an inch and a
  quarter in length ; and the vapour seemed to combine with
  the platina, which was thrown off" in small globules in a
  state of fusion, producing an appearance              similar to that
  produced by    the  combustion       of iron  in oxygen gas.
'
      In all trials of this kind, hydrogen was produced ; and
  in some of them there was a loss of nitrogen. This at first
  seemed to lead to the inference that nitrogen is decom
  pounded in the process ; but I found that, in. proportion
  as the potassium was introduced more free from a crust of
  potash, which would furnish water and consequently hy
  drogen in the experiment, so in proportion was there less
  of this gas evolved ; and in a case in which the greatest
  precautions were taken, the quantity did not equal               i  of
  the volume of gas, and there was no sensible quantity of
  nitrogen lost.
      The largest proportion of nitrogen which disappeared in
  any experiment, was -Jy of the quantity used; but in this
  case the crust of potash was considerable, anil a volume of
  hydrogen, nearly equal to { of the nitrogen, was produced.
  It cannot be said that the nitrogen is not decomposed in
  this operation ; but it seems much more likely that the
  slight loss is owing to its combination with nascent hy
  drogen, and its being separated with the potassium in the
                                                                   form

                           on various Objects.                          9&
form of the gray pyrophoric sublimate, which I have found
is always produced when potassium is electrized and con
verted into vapour in ammonia.
    The phosphuret of lime in its common state is a con
ductor of electricity ; and when it was made the medium
 of communication between the wires of the great battery,
 it burnt with a most intense light. It was ignited to
 whiteness in nitrogen gas; a little phosphuretted liydrogen
 was given ofl from        it,but the nitrogen was not altered;
 the apparatus was similar to that used for the potassium.
    As almost all compounds known to contain hydrogen
 are readily decomposed            oxymuriatic acid gas,
                                     by                        mixture
                                                                    a
 of nitrogen and oxymuriatic acid gas was passed through
a   porcelain tube heated to whiteness            the products were
                                                  ;
 received in  a   pneumatic apparatus over water, there was              a
 small loss of nitrogen          but the greatest part came over
                                 5
 densely clouded and as nitromuriatic acid was found dis
                   ;
 solved in the water, no conclusions concerning the decom
 position of nitrogen can be drawn from the process.
    The general tenour of these inquiries cannot be const-
tiered as strengthening          in any considerable degree, the
 suspicion which   I     formed of the decomposition of nitro
 gen,  by  the distillation of the olive-coloured substance from
 potassium and ammonia,              tubes of iron.
                                      in
     In reasoning closely upon the phenomena               this opera
                                                               in
 tion,it  appears to me indeed possible to account for the
 loss of nitrogen, without assuming that                has been con
                                                          it
 verted into new matter            Though the iron tubes which          I
 used were carefully cleaned           yet still
                                          ;       itwas not unlikelv
 thata   small quantity of oxide might adhere to the welded
 parts; the oxygen of which, in the beginning of the pro
 cess of distillation, might form water with hydrogen, given
 off from the fusible substance which being condensed in
                                              ;
 the upper part of the tube, would be again brought into
 action towards the close of the operation, occasioning the
 formation, and possibly the absorption of some ammonia,
 and consequently      a  loss of nitrogen, and the production of
 an increased proportion of hydrogen.                 have made one
                                                      I
 experiment,     with   the    hopes   of  deciding  this question,     in
 an iron tube used immediately after the whole internal
 surface had been cleaned             by
                                     the borer; six grains of potas
 sium were used     in     a  tray  of  iron, nearly thirteen cubical
 inches of ammonia were absorbed, and about six of hydro
 gen produced.       Thirteen cubical inches of gas were evolved
 in the first operation which consisted of nearly one cubi
                           ;
                                                                    cal

26                   On some new Electrochemical Researches
 cal inch of ammonia, four of nitrogen, and eight of hy-
 drogen.      The portion of gas given off in the second ope
 ration equalled 3 '6 cubical inches; which consisted of
 8-5 hydrogen, and 1-1 nitrogen.          The potassium produced
 in the operation was sufficient to generate 3*1 cubical
 inches of hydrogen.
    As the iron in these experiments had been heated to in
 tense whiteness, aud must have been very soft ; it was not
 impossible, considering the recent experiments of M. Has-
 senfratz *, that the loss of so large a portion of potassium
 might depend upon an intimate union of that body with
 iron, and its penetration into the substance of the tube.
 This idea is countenanced by another experiment of the
 same kind, in which the heat was raised to whiteness, and
 the barrel cut into pieces when cool : on examining the
 lower part of               it,
                        found in
                               I         very thin 6Im of potash;
                                            it   a
 but  which,       conceive,
                         I     could   scarcely equal      grain in     a
 weight.      The  pieces of  the barrel  were  introduced  under                  a
jar inverted in water; at the end of two days nearly 2'3
 cubical inches of hydrogen were found to be generated.
    In the experiments detailed in page 53 of the last volume
 of the Transactions t, loss of nitrogen, and production of
                                        a                           a
 hydrogen, was perceived in           case in which the residuum
                                            a
 from    a  portion of fusible substance, which had been ex
 posed to      low red heat, was distilled in
                     a                            tube of platina;
                                                            a
 but in this case the residuum had been covered            naphtha,     by
 and         possible that ammonia might have been regene
             by is
        it
 rated       hydrogen from the naphtha, and absorbed by that
 fluid and
        ;         part of the hydrogen might likewise proceed
                         a
 from the decomposition of the naphtha               and in several
                                                                :
 experiments in which        have burnt the entire fusible sub
                                    I
 stance,     Ihave found no loss of nitrogen.
    Even the considerable excess of hydrogen, and deficiency
 of nitrogen, in the processes in which the fusible substance
    distilled with     new quantity of potassium, page 451                      J,
is is
                               a                                                   it
    possible to refer to the larger quantity of moisture, which
 must be absorbed                  by
                           the fusible substance from the air,
 during the time occupied in attaching the potassium to the
 tray, and likewise from the moisture adhering to the crust
 of potash, which always forms upon the potassium, during
 its exposure to air.
    These objections are the strongest that occur to me,
   *    Journal da Mines, Avnl 1808, p.      875.
 f      Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiii. page 8.     J    Ibid. TO!, xxiiv. page 339.
                                                                               against

                        on various Oljects.                      5?
            the mode  of explaining   the phenomena by suppos
ing nitrogen decomposed       in  the  operation ; but they cannot
be considered as decisive on this complicated and obscure
question, and the opposite view may be easily defended.
    Though I have already laid before the Society a number
of experiments upon the decomposition of ammonia, yet I
shall not hesitate to detail some further operations which
have been conducted according to new views of the subject.
     J concluded from the loss of weight taking place in the
electrical analysis of ammonia, that water or oxygen was
 probably separated in this operation ; but I was aware that
ejections miirlit be made to this mode of accounting for
the phenomenon.
 .  The experiment of producing an amalgam from ammo
nia, which rruviieraled volatile alkali, apparently by oxida
tion, confirmed the notion of the existence of oxygen in
 this substance , at the same time it led to the suspicion, that
ot the i.wo gases separated by electricity, one, or perhaps
 both, might contain metallic matter united to oxygen : and
 the results of the distillation of the fusible          substance,
 from potassium and ammonia, notwithstanding               the ob
jections I have made, can perhaps be explained on such a
 supposition.
     1 have made    a number of experiments upon the decom
 position of considerable quantities of ammonia, both by
 Voltaic and common electricity; and I have used an ap
 paratus (of which a figure is attached to this paper) in
 which nothing was present but the pas, the metals for
 conveying the electricity, and glass. The ammonia was
 introduced hy a stopcock which was cleared of common
 air, into a globe that was exhausted, after being rilled two
 or three times with ammonia : the gas that was used was
 absolutely pure, the decomposition was performed without
 any possibility of change in the volume of the elastic mat
 ter, and the apparatus was such, that the gas could be ex
 posed to a freezing mixture, and the whole weighed before
 and after the experiment.
     The object in keeping the volume the same during the
  decomposition, was to produce the condensation of any
  aqueous vapour, which if formed in small quantity in the
  operation, (on the theory of the mechanical diffusion of
  vapour in gases,) might in the common case of decompo
 sition, under the usual pressure, be in quantity nearly twice
  as much in the hydrogen and nitrogen, as in the ammonia.
      In all instances it was found, that there was no loss of
  weight of the apparatus, nor was there any deposition of
                                                          moisture,

 S8            On some new Electrochemical Researches
 moisture, during or after the electrization ; but the wires
 were uniformly tarnished ; and in an experiment in which
 surfaces of brass were used, a small quantity of olive-co
 loured matter formed on the metal ; but though in this case
 nearly eight cubical inches of ammonia were decomposed,
 the weight of the oxidated matter was so minute as to be
 scarcely sensible. By the use of a freezing mixture of
 muriate of lime and ice, which diminished the temperature
 to —15°, there was a very feeble indication given of the
 addition of hydrometrical moisture.
    In these experiments the increase of the gas was uni
 formly (within a range of five parts) from 100 to 185,
 and the hydrogen was to the nitrogen in the average pro
portions of from 73*74 to 27*26; the proper corrections
being made, and the precautions before referred to being
taken*.
    Assuming the common estimations of the specific gra
vity of ammonia, of hydrogen, and nitrogen, the con
 clusions which I bave advanced in the Bakenan lecture for
 1807 would be supported by these new experiments ; but
as the moisture and oxygen visibly separated cannot be
conceived to be as much as               ^   or -rV of the weight of the
ammonia, I resolved to investigate, more precisely than                      I
had reason to think had been hitherto done, the specific
gravities of the gases concerned in their dry state ; and
the very delicate balance belonging to the Royal Institution
placed the means of doing this in my power.
    Nitrogen, hydrogen, and ammonia, were dried by a long
   • Philosophical Transactions 1S09, page 459. M. Berthollet, Jun. in the
second volume of the Memoirs of Arcueil, has given a paper on the decom
position of ammonia, and he enters into an examination of my idea of the
oxygen separated, in the electrical decomposition of ammonia, which he
supposes I rate at 20 per cent, and at the same time he confutes some ex
periments which he is pleased to attribute to me, of the combustion of
charcoal and iron in ammonia.        His arguments and his facts upon these
points appear to me perfectly conclusive; but as I never formed snch an
opinion, as that SO of oxygen were separated in the experiment, and never
imagined such results as the combustion of iron and charcoal in ammonia,
and never published any thing which could receive such an interpretation,
I shall not enter into any criticism on this part of his paper. The experi
ments of this ingenious chemist on the direct decomposition of ammonia
seem to have been conducted with much care, except as to the circumstance
of his not boiling the quicksilvers which I conceive has occasioned him to
•vcr-rate the increase of volume.       At all events a loss of weight is more
to be expected than an increase of weight, in all very refined experiments of
this kind. It is possible that the volume may be exactly doubled, and that
the nitrogen may be to the hydrogen as one to three ; but neither the
numerous experiments of Dr. Henry, nor those that I have tried, establish
this; it is one of the hypothetical inferences that may be made, but it can-
Hat be regarded as ail absolute fact.
                                                                  continued

                            on various Objects,                         eg
continued exposure to potash, and were very carefully
weighed.      Their relative specific gravities proved to be at
30* S'0, barometer, 51 0 Fahrenheit's thermometer.
    For nitrogen, the 100 cubical inches           29 8 grain*..
    For hydrogen, ditto                             2*27
    For ammonia                                    18*4
Now, if these data be calculated upon, it will be found,
that in the decomposition of 100 of ammonia, taking even
the largest proportions of gases evolved, there is a loss
of       * j and if the smallest proportion be taken, the loss
will be nearly
    These results and calculations agree with those that I
have before given, and with those or Dr. Henry.
    The lately discovered facts in chemistry, concerning the
important modifications which bodies may undergo by very
slight additions or subtractions of new matter, ought to>
render us cautious in deciding upon the nature of the pro
cess of the electrical decomposition of ammonia.
    It is possible, that the minute quantity of oxygen which
appears to be separated is not accidental, but a result of
the decomposition ; and if hydrogen and nitrogen be both
oxides of the same basis, the possibility of the production
of different proportions of water, in different operations,
might account for the variations observed in some cases in
their relative proportions ; but on the whole, the idea that
ammonia is decomposed into hydrogen and nitrogen alone,
by electricity, and that the loss of weight is no more than
is to be expected in processes of so delicate a kind,            in  is,
my opinion, the most defensible view of the subject.
    But if  ammonia be capable of decomposition into nitro
gen and hydrogen, what,          will be asked,
                                   it               the nature of
                                                      is
the matter existing in the amalgam of ammonia             what ?           is
 the metallic basis of the volatile alkali       These are ques
                                                  ?
 tions intimately connected with the whole of the arrange
 ments of chemistry      ;and they are questions, which, as our
instruments of experiment now exist,          will not,
                                               it        fear, be
                                                               I
 easy to solve.
 I    have stated   inmy former communication on the amal
gam from ammonia, that, under all the common circum
 stances of its production,      seems to preserve
                                   it                 quantity of
                                                           a
 water adhering to          it,
                            which may be conceived to be suffi
 cient to oxidate the metal, and to reproduce the ammonia.
   • 100 of ammonia at the rate of 185, will give 136-9 of hydrogen, weigh
ing 3-1 grains, and 481 of nitrogen, weighing 14-33 grains; but 18-4— 17-4
 —1
  ,  and*t   the rate of 80, 133 of hydrogen weighing
                      1                               30  1 and 47 of nitro
gen weighing   14, and 18   4— 17 = 1-4.
                                                                   I   have,

3O            On some new Electrochemical Researches
     Ihave tried various devices with the hopes of being able1
to form it from ammonia in a dry state, but without suc
cess.    Neither the amalgams of potassium, sodium, of
barium, produce it in ammoniacal gas; and when they are
heated   with muriate of ammonia, unless the salt is moist,
there is no metallization of the alkali.
   I have acted upon ammonia by different metallic amal
gams negatively electrified, such as the amalgams of gold
and silver, the amalgam of zinc, and the liquid amalgam
of bismuth and lead ; but in all these cases the effect was
less distinct than when pure mercury was used.
   By exposing the mercury to a cold of —20° Fahrenheit,
in   a close tube,I have succeeded in obtaining an amalgam
in   much more solid state ; yet this decomposed nearly as
     a
rapidly as the common amalgam, but it gave tiff much more
gaseous matter; and in one instance 1 obtained a quantity
which was nearly equal to six times its volume.
   The amalgam which I have reason to believe can be made
most free from adhering moisture, is that of potassium,
mercury, and ammonium in a solid state.          This, as I have
mentioned in my former communication, decomposes very
slowly, even in contact with water, and, when it has been
carefully wiped with bibulous paper, bears a considerable
heat without alteration.      I have lately made several new
attempts to distil the ammonium from             it,
                                               but without suc
cess. When     it  strongly heated
                     is                in green glass tube filled
                                            a
with hydrogen gas, there       always
                              is         partial regeneration of
                                         a
ammonia; but with this ammonia there              from yT to -fa
                                                    is
of hydrogen produced.
   As    (Joes not seem possible to obtain an amalgam in an
         it
nniform state, as to adhering moisture,               not easy to
                                                       it   is
say what would be the exact ratio between the hydrogen
and ammonia produced,          ifno more water was present
than would be decomposed in oxidating the basis. But in
the most refined experiments which            have been able to
                                                I
makey this ratio     (hat of one to two
                      is                    and in no instance
                                             ;
in which proper precautions are taken,         ~k less
                                                 is       but un ;
der common circumstances often more.           If this result          is
taken as accurate, then       itwould follow, that ammonia
(supposing    itto be an oxide) must contain about 48 per
cent, of oxygen, which, as will be hereafter seen, will asirce
with the relations of the attractions of this alkali for acid?,
to those of other salifiable bases *.
                                                                       If
  * Even !n common air, the
                               amalgam evolves hydrogen and ammonia,
nearly in these proportions, and in one experiment whiih  lately tried.
                                                             I
                                                                     tkere

                           on various Oljects.                            31
    If hydrogen      be supposed to be a simple body, and nitro
gen    an   oxide,  then,  on the hypothesis above stated, nitrogen
would      consist   of nearly 48 of oxygen, and 34 of basis ; but
if the opinion       be adopted, that hydrogen and nitrogen are
both oxides of the same metal, then the quantity of oxygen
in nitrogen must be supposed less.
     These views are the most obvious that can be formed,
on the antiphlogistic hypothesis, of the nature of metallic
substances ; but if the facts concerning ammonia were to
be reasoned upon, independently of the other general phae-
nomena of chemical science, they perhaps might be more
easily explained on the notion of nitrogen being a basis,
which became alkaline by combining with one portion of
hydrogen, and metallic, by combining with a greater pro
portion.
     The solution of the question concerning the quantity of
 matter added to the mercury in the formation of the amal
gam, depends upon this discussion ; for, if the phlogistic
view of the subject be adopted, the amalgam must be sup
 posed to contain nearly twice as much matter as it is con
 ceived to contain on the hypothesis of deoxygenation.                     In
 the last Bakerian lecture, I have rated the proportion at
 -n&oa ; but this is the least quantity that can be assumed,
 the mercury being supposed to give off only one and a half
 it» volume of ammonia.             If the proportion stated in page
 56 [page 30 preceding] be taken as the basis of calculation,
 which is the maximum that I have obtained, the amalgam
 would contain about TsVr of new matter, on the antiphlo
 gistic view, and about ^^ on the phlogistic view.
     I shall have occasion to recur to, and to discuss more
 fullv, these ideas, and I shall conckide this section by
 stating, that though the researches on the decomposition
 and composition of nitrogen, which have occupied so large
 a space in the foregoing pages, have been negative, as to
 the primary object, yet they may not possibly be devoid of
 useful applications.           It does not seem improbable, that
 the passage of steam over hot manganese may be applied
 there seemed to lie no absorption of oxygen from the atmosphere. This
 circumstance appears to me in favour of the antiphlogistic view of the me
 tallization of the volatile alkali ; for if the hydrogen be supposed to be
 given off from trie mercury, and not to arise from the decomposition of water
  adhering to the amalgam, it might be conceived, that being in the nascent
 state, it would rapidly absorb oxygen.      In my first experiment* upon the
 amalgam, finding that common air, to which it had been exposed, gaveleir
 diminution with nitrous gas than before, I concluded naturally, that oxy.
 gen had been absorbed ; but this difference might have arisen, partly at
  least, from the mixture of hydrogen.     Whether in any case the amalgam
 absorbs oxygen gat, is a question for further investigation.
                                                                            to

32                   Description and' Analysis
to the manufacture of nitrous acid. And there is reasb«
to believe that the ignition of charcoal and potash, and
their exposure to water, may be advantageously applied to
the production of volatile alkali, in countries where fuel is
cheap.
                          [To be continued.]
V. Description and Analysis of the Meteoric            Stone which
   fell  at  IVeston, in North America,       the  4tk December
    1807.     By DAVID BAILIE WARDED, Esq. Consul'
    general of the United Stales at Paris *.
                           DESCRIPTION.
 J. HIS  aerolite presents, in general, the same characters as
those    hitherto  examined.      It is enveloped with a thin,
black, and uneven crust.          The mass is principally com
posed of a granular substance, which breaks easily ; it has
an earthy appearance and a gray cinereous colour, which,
in certain parts, passes to a whitish gray.
    Those portions which possess this last tint, and which are
as if glued in the mass, have a round form, so that they
are distinguished by circular or oval spots which interrupt
the general colour.       Its specific gravity is about 3-3 ; the
sharp parts    cut glass.
    In observing the fractured parts of the stone, wt there
perceive : 1°. Particular globules which are easily detached ;
little cells in which they are placed, and of which the sub-
Stance is like that of the stone itself, except that its grain
is more compact, and its fracture smoother.
    lil exposing it to a strong light, we see traces of a la
mellar tissue : 2D. grains of metallic iron, which, by polish,
assume a whiteness, )ield to the hammer, and attract very
 sensibly the magnetic needle : 3°. grains of oxided iron of
the colour of rust : 4°. metallic particles extremely small,
of a silver white colour, which seem to be of iron ; and
 this opinion is strengthened, when we recollect that the
 native iron of Kamerdorf, and that of pseudo-volcanitf
 origin, present, in certain parts, a silver white colour.
    F have not seen any mark of sulphurated iron, although
 I found it by the analysis, as will hereafter appear.
    All the fragments of this stone have a magnetic property,
 but without polarity ; and the iron, which is very visible TH
 certain parts, is so disseminated in all others where it
 escapes the eye, that the property of which there is ques
                * From Annala dt Chimit of March 1810.

                                       Stone,
                        of a Meteoric                          33
lion, manifesta itself    even in the smallest particles isolated
by     trituration.
     I found it even in the globulous bodies which are first
mentioned.
     Pieces of this stone weighed from six to even 100 pounds.
                             ANALYSIS.
     Having ascertained, by preliminary essays, that this stone
contained chrome, nickel, iron, manganese, lime, magnesia,
sjlt'x, alumine, and sulphur; I employed the following me
thod of separating each of these substances.
      1°. 100 grains of this stone, from which the metallic iron
was isolated, by means of the magnetic needle, after being
pulverised, were treated with a considerable quantity of
water, through which was passed a current of oxygenated
muriatic gas : by this means, the sulphur being converted
into sulphuric acid, by the oxygen of the oxygenated mu
riatic acid, sulphates and muriates were obtained.
      2°. The whole was evaporated        to siccity, and treated
with two parts of alcoholic potash : after fusion the mass
presented a fallow colour, and its dissolution in water was
of a fine yellow.
      3°. The portions of the mass, which remained nndis-
 solved in water, were dissolved in an excess of muriatic
 acid; and being evaporated to siccity, 1 separated the silex,
 which after calcination weighed 41 grains.
      4°. Into the muriatic acid was poured carbonate of potash
 in excess, which formed an abundant precipitate after an
 hour of ebullition.
      5°. The liquor contained sulphate and chromate of potash:
 after being made acid, it was precipitated by muriate of
 barytes in excess, and there was obtained sulphate of barytes,
 corresponding to 2-j- of sulphur : and saturating afterwards
 the excess of acid by an alkali, I obtained chromate of
 barytes, corresponding to 2-J- of chromic acid.
      6°. The precipitate, No. 4, was submitted (still in a
  humid state) to the action of alcoholic potash, and after
  filtration, the liquor gave, by means of the muriate of am
 monia, a grain of al-uminti?-
      7°. Ammonia was poured into the remains of the pre
 cipitate, after having dissolved it in an excess of muriatic
 acid. The oxides of iron and manganese were precipitated,
 and the lime and magnesia remained in dissolution.
      8°. The precipitate was isolated, and the lime separated
 from the magnesia by the oxalate of ammonia, which,
  after calcination, weighed three grains.
      Vol. 36. No. 147. July 1810.              C             The

 34                  Proposal   for   an Iron Tnxnel
    The magnesia       was    precipitated by caustic potash: it
 weighed, after desiccation,        16 grains.
    9°. The    oxides  of  iron  and   manganese were dissolved in
 an excess of muriatic acid, and pouring, by little and little,
 saturated carbonate of potash into the dissolution until red
 floccules were •visiMe, and then leaving it to repose 24
hours, all the carbonate of iron precipitated, whilst that of
 the manganese remained in the liquor.
    The carbonate of iron, after calcination, gave 24 grains-
of oxide i and that of manganese, deposited by ebullition,
by the same operation, only 1^' — Which makes in all: —
              1   Silex                             41
                  Sulphur                            2-J.
                  Chromic acid                       S£
                  Alumiiie                            1
                  Magnesia                          16
                  Lime            ,               •
                                                     3
                  Oxide   of iron                   30
                  Oxide   of manganese      ....     1-j.
                  Loss                               3
                                 Total            loo
    Analysis of    the inetaltic     iron isolated by the magnetit
needle.   1°.  10O parts   of this stone    gave 28 of metallic iror>,
which is very brittle, owing to the nickel it contains.            2°.
4€> grains of this iron were dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid,
and by means of ammonia ii> excess the oxide of iroiv
was separated, which weighed 45 grains.              The dissolution
of nickel in this alkali was evaporated to siccity to expell
all the ammonia.          The oxide of nickeF was redissolved
by muriatic acid, and precipitated by the prussiate of
potash, which gave on* graia of the prussiate of nickel.
We may infer, from these physical characters, and results
of chemical analysis, that this stone is like all other me
teoric stones hitherto known.
V.   Proposal for constructing, and putting in its Place,
    an Iron Tunnel under the River Thames.                By Colonet-
    LENNOX,
                          To   Mr. Tilloch.
StR, 1 HEREWITH          send you a plan for a tunnel under th«
Thames, which I hope you will not deem unworthy of z
place in your valuable Magazine.
                                                                Being

                              under the River Thathes.
   Being informed that no particular plan has yet been de
termined on by the Thames Tunnel Company *, they are
extremely welcome to adopt this if they think fit. 1 can
not avoid encouraging a hope, that it will be found practi
cable : but, should my partiality render me too sanguine in
favour of       it,
               as the idea,   believe,
                                    I     new, the publication of
                                                    is
it may lead to some other of more ingenuity, and which
may be easier and safer        the execution.
                                    in
   Explanation of plan for constructing
                              a                   tunnel of cast-
                                                             a
iron under the river Thames
    Fig. I.     A, (Plate II.) section across the river. The
                A
waving line shows the present depth of the river)           a, the        a
additional depth required                 by
                                  the plan.
    Fig. 2.     B    three of the frames of which
                     B   B,                                   pro-       it   is
  osed that the whole tunnel shall be formed           they are to   :
     of cast-iron, each of one piece, and to be joined together
 by ethe flanches ddd$ which are all one foot broad and four
inches thick, with the screws eee, in figs.         and 4, of four
                                                                 2
inches diameter, with half-inch sheet-lead between — or                        :
the joints may be secured with the cement employed by
steam-engine builders.
    Fig. 3.     C, section of the tunnel, showing the above
                C
three frames, in figs. 2, in perspective        each frame to be
                                                         ;
ten feet        length, eighteen feet wide inside, and twelve
                in
Feet high at the sides; the top to be convex, rising two feet
in the middle; to be four inches thick at the bottom and
sides, and three at top. Each frame will weigh upwards of
 forty tons t.
    Fig. 4, D      D, elevaiion of the same frames, which
                      D
shows the screws that unite the exterior flanches, and also
the iron cramps,            which embrace the two adjoining
                          ff,
flanches at bottom       these cramps to be each twelve inches
                               ;
broad, six inches thick, and two feet high.
    Fig. 3.    g, tubes of eight inches bore, with openings
                g
to receive leakage water, and to convey            to one of the
                                                             it
ends to be pumped out.
    Hi, screw-holes. The dotted line                expresses the
                                                         k   k
paving when the whole          completed.
                                     is
   * believe the Thames Tunnel Company have settled the plan they mean:
        I
to follow but as the ideas suggested by Col. Lennox may prove useful on
            ;
 some future occasion,    have given
                          I               place in this number. —Edit.
                                           it   a
 f    Should the carriage of pieces of this weight from the foundry be found
impracticable, the sides, and top and bottom, may be cast in separate pieces,
with flanches to join them at the corners, in this case the joinings of the
different parts may be so disposed thai no two of the transverse joinings
•hall coincide, which will give additional strength to the whole, as every
joint may thuj be supported with three solid pieces at that place in which
it fall*.
                                          Cs                                       By

  36                   Proposal for an Iron Tunnel
      By   the section across the river it appears that the depth
  of   the bed at low water (being only about 30 feet) is not
   sufficient to admit of' laying down a tunnel snch as I pro
   pose upon the bottom, without obstructing the course of
   the stream, or interfering with the ease of navigations
  therefore, the first thing necessary would be, to excavate
  the bed of the river entirely across to about 16 t'cct deeper,
  and from fio to 80 feet wide -f and to render it as even as
  possible throughout } which I conceive may be effected
  without extraordinary labour or difficulty.               This being
  done as far as from b to e, fig. 1, about 600 feet or some
  thing more, 1 will .next suppose eighty of thosu frames,
  previously formed agreeably to the plan and section, figs. 2
  and 3, to be joined by screwing them strongly together,
  as represented      in figs. 2 and 4, with half-inch sheet-lead
 between       the flanches ; which operation should be per
 formed on the bank of the river rather below the level of
 low water, in a situation where the tide may have free ac
 cess to it.
     If then the ends of these 80 tunnel-frames so joined be
  (when empty) close slopped with strong oak plank, and
 well secured so as to render them perfectly water-tight, a
 mac/line is formed which on (he admission of the tide will
float; as may be proved by the subjoined calculation,
 which for greater security does not include the convexity
 of the top. At spring-tide, therefore, the whole may he
 floated to the required situation, and iy additional weights
 applied sunk in its proper place. But in case of any irre
 gularity in its descent, or unevcnness of the bottom pre
 pared to receive it, iy removing those additional weights it
 will again beco-me buoyant, when the necessary remedies
 may be applied and obstacles removed. When once pro
 perly placed, by turning cocks fixed in each end it will
 soon fill with water and be permanently bedded.
     Calculation of the weight of this tunnel in round num
 bers   : —
     Cast-iron    . .  20,020 cubic feet ....  about 4,27O       tons.
     Lead                 566                               178
     Oak                  200                                  5
                                           Tons   . .     4,45aT
     Water displaced 1,850,000 cubic       feet . . .     5,162
     This tunnel will require to sink it more than 709
     Exclusive of the convexity at top estimated at 6»
                                             Total    . .   769-
                                                                  Witfe

                               under tlie River Thames.                        37
    With respect to the manner of sinking this machine, I
 propose that two short ropes of sufficient strength, with
 loops at each end, should be passed over each frame, and
 slightly secured to keep tlicni in their places ; that when
 the machine is floated to its destined situation, (which
 should be about an hour before low water at the lowest
 tide,) anchors and cables shall be in readiness to secure it
 in its place ; and that theu a number of boats (suppose 160)
 shall attend, half on one side and half on the other, each
 with five tons of ballast conveniently disposed so as im
 mediately to hook on to the ends of the short ropes before
 mentioned, in such a manner that one end of the tunnel
 shall not sink before the other, but both exactly together.
These weights may be so regulated as occasion may re
quire, should there appear any irregularity in its descent ;
 and when it is placed as desired, and water admitted to fill
it,  they may be removed altogether*.             The whole of this
 operation may,      amI    persuaded,    be  effected   in two hours,
 that preceding and that following ebb-tide,                   if
                                                            every pre
 vious arrangement be properly made.
    This part of tne tunnel          then supposed to occupy the
                                        is
space from       to   fig.      andI,  to be p'aced so as that the
                           it c,
                  b
 upper surface of      shall be nearly equal to, or rather below,
the present bottom represented                   by
                                            the waving line.       After
which,     bypiling  off   the   tide  from   low-water     mark,    the
ends may be finished, as on dry land              which mav be done
                                                      ;
either   by   continuation of the same frames, or
              a                                                  arches by
of masonry or of brickwork, as may be judged best.                            It
will then only remain to open the communication with
the middle part,             by
                        removing the oak planking at each end,
and pumping out the water; when,                    layingby  sufficient
                                                                    a
quantity of Tj3llast so as to form             road-way clear above
                                                      a
the lower flauchcs, and restoring the banks to their former
state, the tunnel will be immediately ready for use.
    In the execution of this project             situation should be
                                                      a
selected close to low-water mark, of nearly 300 yards in
length, where       would he necessary to lay down blocks of
                      it
sufficient strength to support the great weight, and upoo
which the whole 80 frames may he sc rewed together, the
level of which should be at least 15 feet below that of
spring tides to ensure its floating when completed.
  It   may be objected to this great machine, that from its
   * Or
         perhaps the sinking mav be conveniently effected by merely ad
mitting from 800 to 1000 tons of w;iler into the tunnel,     pump of siilli-
                                                               a
eient power being properly secured in e;ich end frame to pu'np out 'J00 or
900 tons, should   be found necessary to float the tunnel again.
                  it
                                        C    3                               vast

  38              Proposal for an  Iron Tunnel, &tc.
 vast weight and great length, the power of 67 screws at
  each joining would be inadequate to hold the whole per-
  fectlv together; and that in case of accident the whole
  must be infallibly lost, as it would then be impossible to
  remove it from the spot on which it would immediately
  sink, or even to separate the different parts of it. But as
 thejlunnel formed in the manner proposed will le sub
jected to no particular force whatsoever at its launching,
  but be altogether equally home up by the rising tide ; as
  the weights necessary to sink it may he all so gradually
  applied as to ensure its regular descent, to which the
 form of the whole when joined as above, viz. convex at
  the top and rising at the ends, together with the greater
 thickness of the metal at the bottom, are circumstances
  particularly favourable ; and as from the nature of the
 bottom it is sure to rest on a soft and uniform bed of sand,
 on which it cannot meet with any object to occasion any
 partial bearing, — I conceive the danger of accident is very
 remote, and the strength of the entire sufficiently secured :
 besides, trials may be made in a safe situatjon.
     The chief difficulty appears to me to be the excavation
 of the bed of the river to the depth required. The best
 mode of effecting this, or whether it would not be better
 to choose another situation in which the existing depth
 might be found sufficient, I leave to more able and ex
  perienced engineers to determine; stating merely, that as
  the materials of which the tunnel is to be composed can
 be procured for about ^"44,000; allowing fifty per cent,
 additional for all other charges incurred in its execution,
 I  do not conceive the expense would exceed the sum of
 ^"66,000.
     I beg leave further to add, that if it should be desired to
 enlarge this tunnel so as to afford a foot-path in addition
 to the space allowed for two carriages to pass, I conceive
 it may safely be done by giving it six more feet in width,
 making altogether 94 feet between the interior flanches ;
 and in order to afford it still greater strength, I would in
 this case omit the interior lateral flanches, and in the room
 thereof, apply plates of cast-iron of three or four inches
 thick, the full heiubt of the sides, to extend from the mid
 dle of one frame lo that of the ne*t, to be fastened by a
 number of the same kind of screws to the sides of the twa
 adjoining framt' s, with sheet-lead between and completely
 covering the joint inside.       This would give the tunnel
 great additional strength without       much increasing       it*
 weight, besides that it would leave nearly a foot more         of
                                                             free

                  Theorems on         Musical Temperament.                       39
  free space   inside ; the increase of expense on this account
  would not, I suppose, much exceed twelve or fifteen thou
  sand pounds, in addition to that before stated.
                           I am, sir,
                               Your obedient humble servant,
    Bath, June 1810.                VV. CaULFIELD LENNOX.
 VI.      Six Theorems, containing the chief Properties of all
       Regular Douzeave Svstems of Music ; with Twelve Co
       rollaries thence deduced, showing others  their Relations
                                                            of'               ;
       and Thirteen ficholia, containing the Temperaments       as          of
       many Systems, calculated thereby. With Remarks.         By
       Mr. John Farey.
                                 To   Mr.   TUloch.
 Sir,  I    am much pleased to observe,               that at length    a   be
 ginning has been made, at publishing tables of the Beats
 in 15"; made      the 72 concords in different systems of
                       by
 Musical Temperament,        your new correspondent Mr.
                                      by
 C.J. Smyth, of Norwich, in your last Number, who will,
I  hope, persevere, and give us tables of many other systems;
 accompanied         by
                    such critical remarks, on their comparative
 merits and defects      practice, as he appears well qualified
                            in
 to make, either      your Magazine, or in the separate work
                      in
 which he has announced on the subject.
    Some time ago,      had thoughts of preparing
                          I                            work on    a
 Harmonics, perhaps as kind of supplement to Dr. Robert
                                  a
Smith's justly celebrated work but the prospect being now
                                            ;
rather distant, of my being able to find leisure to complete
this design, lam induced        the above paper of Mr. Smyth's,
                                      by
and the publication of small work on Harmonics,
                                 a                         Mr.         by
J. Marsh of Chichester, to transcribe from my papers some
 Theorems, showing the properties of regular douzeaves, or
of such systems of twelve notes in the octave, as have all
their fifths alike tempered, except, that between *G and
bE, when there         bearing fifth or quint wolf: but first
                      is
                      a                                                     I
beg to make      few remarks.
                 a
   In douzeaves, or systems of twelve notes, there are ge
nerally 16 wolves or tempered concords, differing* from
   •
      Wolves, taken in their general sense, arc not always larger than the
 temperaments, but may be equal to them, as happens throughout the iso
 tonic or equal temperament scale, aud may eveu be less than their re
 spective temperaments, in some cases, as in scholia
                                                        1   and   7
                                                                  :they are, in
fact, the places in the douzeave or other defective scales, where the resulting
intervals or unavoidable inequalities fall, and, as such, are very important
to be knowa and attended to by the composers of music, to be performed in
such scales,
                                      C4                                    the

40                   Theorems          on      Musical Temperament.
the temperaments proper to the six several concords re
             '
spectively.
  In regular douzeaves, none of these wolves occur, in
any of the six concords, upon any of the four middlemost
key-notes, viz. G, D, A or E respectively.
      C, F, bB and bE                have no wolves in their major concords
                                       (i e. the         III,
                                                   V or VI upon them, re
                                          spectively.)
      B, *F, *C            and       *G    have no wolves in their                  minor con
                                          cords    (i.   e.   3d, 4th, or 6th.)
      Whence         follows (see Dr. Smith's Harmonics, Plate
                       it
XIX,      p. 162, 2d edit.) that in major Keys, modulation can
be made from                C*s, through the keys G, D,
                                  by                           and                       A        E
without      false concords    or wolves; but     we proceed further  if
 by  *s,    Bhas    false III, *F has its
                       a                                        III
                                                and VI false, *C has
its    III  and VI false, and *G has its V,             and VI false,      III
which last chord Mr. Smyth calls the wolf,                     way of                   by
eminence, p. 450 of last volume.
    And in major keys, modulation can also be made from
C      bybs, through        bB, and bE, and no major wolves occur,
                                 F,
(yet   bE   has     false
                       a
                          4th)    but on proceeding further to bA
                            III
                                           ;
(or *G)      its V,       and  VI  are false, as above.
    In minor Keys, modulation can be made from                  bv *s                   A
through           E, *F, *C, and *G, without any minor wolf* (yet
                       B,
*G has false Vth), but on proceeding further to *D (or bE),
             a
its 4th, 3d and 6th are false.
    And in minor keys, modulation can also be made from
A      by bs through D and G, without any false concords or
wolves       ;but on continuing thus to modulate,          has   false              C        a
6th,    F  hasjts 3d and 6th false, bB its 3d and 6th false, and
bE (or *D) has its 4th, 3d, and 6th false, as above.
      The six following                    Theorems,          express      in    terms,      of   the
                 r               t     .
fractions — and                  —
                                      (either proper or improper)                   of the small
intervals Schisma and most Minute* or        and m, all the                2
temperaments and wolves of the 72 concords, in any re
gular douzeave      and whence,
                            ;        such temperaments can
readily be calculated for any proposed system, or the va
rious properties and relations of its intervals can be dis
covered and computed       and     means of other theorems,
                                           :             by
the heats can be calculated from such temperaments,                                                in
terms of    and m.2    In the article beats     the "Edin-                     in
                 • Sec vol. xxviii.
                                    p. 142, and engraved table, plate V.
                                                                                             burgh
                                               1

               1.                                                                         or        system               of     12                where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -§
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5       »    5
Tfieofem                  In     any    regular                 douzeave,                                                             notes,
       1                                                                                                                                                                                        2   -f-   ~—       m    ;
       1       major      fifths
                                        are      each            tempered                 (flat)         by                                                                            -y                                     g_   2       ^
                                          <                                                                                                                                                                                   8"-"        3
                           the                                                    fifth        or       wolf         on        *G                 is   between            1>A and         bE)      ;                          5-
       throwing                    bearing,                 resulting                                                                 (that
                                                                                   Vth             or        wolf        will        be                                                  —2        +      —    —        m.   \     3      2
       then,        the    value       of       this           resulting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              «      3     —-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a>    3      M
                                       1                                                                                                                                                   —    2         — m                ^
Theorem        2.         And,
                                       1       »n«or           fourths
                                                                                  will         each           be         (sharp)                                                                    +              ;               2      „"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              He.          3
                                                                                                                                                                            12.*—        llr              u— llt             «o      „
                                                                                        _             .„       ,                                                                               2                        m.    e           "
                                               4th        or     wolf        on       l>E          will        be                                                                                  H                                 3-
       and,     the       resulting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                                                                  is     4r               w— 4/               8*8
                                   8                                                                                                                                          —        -—       -\
                                                                                                                                                                                                2
Theorem        3.                                           </tircfc       will      each           be         (sharp)                                                                                             -m;        So**4
                          And,           mo/or
                                                                                                                                                                                               ^                              o"          ^
                                                                                                                                                                                   gj.                                               o
                                                                                                                                                                 ......                         2  -J              m.                o*   -3
       the     4    resulting
                                       Illds           or      wolves         on          *G,            B,         *F    and         *C      being
                                                                                                                                                       each                                                                   g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *      «•   S
                                                                                                                                                                             4r-ll.<                  .   At-u                     4
                                                                                                                                                                             —     -—           2   -)                 m     j
Theorem        4.         And,
                                   8     minor              5ix</w         will       each              be      (flat)
                                                                                                                                                                                  i-8r                                        gl»          tr
                                                                                                                                                                                  — —           2   H         —    *».
       ibe    4     resulting
                                       6ths          or     wolves           on           C,    bE,           bB         and    F         being
                                                                                                                                                  each                                                                       ^       g"S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              »T3          -

                                                                                                                                                                                                              3r
     Theorem            5.         And,      9     minor           thirds           will        each    be        (flat)                                                                                                                 +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ^-^m;
              the    3       resulting
                                                 3ds      or      wolves            on      bE,        bB     and      F                    each
                                                                                                                              being
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      m""1"*
        Theorem         6.                   9                     sixths           will        each        be                                                                                                —    *—     —
                                   And,               major                                                       (sharp)                                                                                                                        ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -2       +                  m      ;
               the    3      resulting           Vlths          on           *F, *C             and     *G                     each                                                                                    — —                        —
                                                                                                                  being                                                                                                          -2      +             m.
           Whence             we                                   derive                         useful                                     viz.
                                     may          readily                           many                          Corollaries,
        Corollary
                         1.         The          sum         of        the        11                                         of      the                     and       its                    is    a
                                                                                           temperaments                                     fifth,                               wolf,                   constant                                        viz.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     quantity,
               122       -f-m         or     the       Diaschisma.
                             _
                                ,\   \f
                     For     — -—         is
                                           2                                                                                                                                                           lly—        llr            12$                       lis
                                                      the      first                 of     the       sum        of   the                                      in   theorem
                                                                           part                                               temperaments                                               6,   and                                      2     or                   2
                                   is                                                                                                                                                     111
               =     — 122                 the                               of     this        sum     and                                                     —
                                                   aggregate                                                          the    wolf:          likewise                         m      -f                 "m     is       the
                                                                                                                                                                    ^—                                                           aggregate             of     the
                                                      =      — —             =—
                remaining                part,                         m                   m,     and        therefore               122    +m          with                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                      negative           signs,        indicating                     fiat        tempera*
               ment,
                               is     that         which                                   to     the       fifths                                      as   I                               in
                                                                   belongs                                                  collectively,                              observed                     volume               xxix.         p.    348      :
                                                 in                             "                                                                                                                                                                            yet,
S5 3_          Mr.      J.     Marsh                   his     recent                                   of                                                                                                  is     "
                                                                                     Theory                      Harmonics,"                  p.       14,     says,         that      (he     same                      a    Diesis          or
                               "                                                                                                                                                                                                                      quarter
S"             tone,"               the     same                           as     the      3thirds               mentioned             in    §                                                         !!
                                                          degree                                                                                     27,"      that      is,     212     +        2m              See         cor.      3.

              Tlieorems on Musical Temperament.                                43
Corollary 2. The sum of the                     11   temperaments of th«
     minor fourth, and its wolf,              is constantly      122 +m, as
     observed     above.
Corollary 3.      The sum of the 8 temperaments and 4
     wolves of the major thirds, is 842 + 8m, or four en
     harmonic Diesises.
Corollary 4. The sum of the 8 temperaments and 4 wolves
      of the minor sixths, is —842 — 8m, as above.
Corollary   5.    The sum of the 9 temperaments and 3 wolves
     of the minor thirds, is —962 —9m, or three Semitones
     minimum.
Corollary   6. The sum of the 9 temperaments and 3 wolves
     of  the major sixths, is 962 + 9m, as above.
Corollary 7. The sum of the temperaments of the minor
     third and of the major third, is equal to the tempera
     ment of the fifth.
         „ 3r— 11* 1 lx— 4r «= — r the
         For   —                       —                 ,   _
                                                             first part of the
                            1
     temperament of the fifth, and so of the latter part. —
      (See Dr. Smith's Harmonics, cor. 6, p. 42.)
Corollary 8. The sum of the temperaments of the fifth
     and of the major sixth, is equal to the temperament
     of the major third.
               —r                          llx— 4r              —t
         _,
         For
                        Ws—Zr
                                       «=
                                                           ,
                                                     2:' also   —      +
                                                                           a— 3*
                s              s               s                  a          u
          u—4t            lis— 4r              u—At
                 m.or                  2  H            m, as in theorem 3.
            a                   s                 u
      (See  Dr. Smith's Harmonics, cor. 8, p. 43.)
       ....
Corollary   9.    The difference between the wolf                      and    the
     temperament        of each of the six concords                      respec-
                                         12r—
     tively, is the same, viz.
                                     .           12*
                                              — ¦— 2 +          -— m,
                                                             12*— v
                                                             —             and is
     what   Dr. Smith, at pages 160, 223, &c. calls the Diesis;
     it  is the difference between adjacent fiat and sharp
     notes, as between *D and bE, *A and bB, &c. p. 163.
        _, llr— 12*               —r      12r— 12j            , 11/— a        —/
        For                —           —               2, and              —
                  *                s            s                    u         u
     =1
          12t—u       .
                  m, in
                             .     ...
                           the fifths.
                                              A.
                                             Also,
                                                      Sr—s —       lis— 4r
                                                                              ,a=
     J2r—   J25                8/       «— 4/        12/— «             ,
                2,   and
                        ,
                             —     —             =
                                                                   .
                                                             m, in the ma-
    jor third,    as before, and so          of all   the others.
                                                                      Corollary

44
       ---
Corollary
       or the value
       5w-7<
               Temperaments
                10.
       5-0136K— 7t
           As
                u
                   is
       the process in page
                                        of different musical Systems.
                                  The minor Limma of Dr. Smith,
                                      of a sharp or
                     mj or, without f*, we
                                     m.
                                 easily deduced
                                               ,             ,fc
                                                                   a   fiat,
                                                                             have
                                                          from my theorems above,
                                                       158, of the Harmonics. As
                                                                                  is,
                                                                                          --
                                                                                          -
                                                                                          58-14Q&-7r
                                                                                                        £
                                                                                                              p. 223,
                                                                                                              +    f+
                                                                                                                       -f
                                                                                                                       is by
                                 --
           --
       also the following,
           --
Corollary       1
                1        .       The major Limma of Dr. Smith                                       is                 S
           r                                            . .             c
                                       m; or, without r,
                                                                                      ,
       + f-|                                                                 we have
                                                                        ----
                                     5/
       +
           4-0136K
                         -        +
                                          m.
Corollary       12.               The      mean Tone                   of regularly                tempered        sy-
                                                                                                                    '
                                               --
                     .                    — 2r                              Qu—2t                              .
                                                               c
       stems, is                                   2   -4-    2f       H                  m   j     or, without
     f  we have
                                  104-2992.5—
                                       —      2r^             2     +       -—
                                                                            Q-0272U—
                                                                                -
                                                                                     2t
                                                                                                   m.
                                           *                                          u
     By multiplying these general Corollaries,    should, per                                 I
haps,  exceed  your limits.    must therefore content myself
                                                   I
for the present with the following, as particular applications
of the theorems and corollaries above, viz.
                             If
                                                                                               -- —
Scholium        ].                 a   douzeave he required, in which                                     tltejiftlu
       should        be      perfect, we have                      by      theorem        1,                       =O;
                                                         --
                                                                                                         (-
                                          -- --
       which condition will be answered,     and  each = O                        if      r         /
       and     and // each = +
               s                 which values substituted in
                                                         1    ;
                    ic HT-12J      llt—U
       -
        L ret.                         — m, gives — 12
       the fifth wolf       —2             i                   -\
                                                                             U
                                                                                          '
                                                                                                                        S
       — m as            it       ought to do,                by
                                                               cor.          l.
                             .                               Us— 4r                     u—4t
                                                                                                                   112
                                   ,
           Also, m theorem                         3,                      s      +                in gives
       •f m or c,                a    major comma, as the sharp temperament
       of each major third in this                 system  also in theorem 6.     ;
       115— 3r       2
                     +                 ----
                                      u— 3t
                                            m gives 112 +m or c, as the sharp
    • By an examination of
                              plate V in your 28th volume, and of more ex                                 a
tensive table of Intervals,    appear*, that the number of 2», alway» exceeds
                                          it
the number of m's in ratios between those of 12-5         and 1O-:   (tho»e of        :
                                                                                      1                  I
8  and g). But the major comma and its aliquot parts, most frequently
occurring in temperaments, have adopted its ratio of 11
                                           I                     and thus find                •.   1,
f  ^ -1496Z + -0136m      from which equation, the latter ones in cor. 1O.
                                   ;                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                         1
find 12 ue obtained.                                                                                               tciu-

        Temperaments        of different musical Systems.                    45
     temperament of the major sixths; which last tem
    peraments prove the same as they must do, to fulfil
    the conditions of cor. 8.
        Though the fifth wolf is here so large, the Illds and
     Vlths wolves are each 2 only.
        This system approaches very near to that of Mer-
     cator, wherein the octave is divided into 53 equal
     parts, and where —'0350942 is the flat temperament
     of the fifth.       See M. Sauveur's general table of tem
     pered systems, Mtm. de l'Acad. 1711, l6mo. p. 416.
Scholium 2.       If a douzeave be required, in which the ma
    jor thirds should be perfect, we have in theorem 3
                                                    r                     w— 4t
      11*— 4r
           *
                = o,' or    lli = 4r, whence — = — ; also
                                          ,
                                                    s
                                                             11
                                                              4             a
      = 0, or    «=±:  it and     — =— ; whence it              appears,    that
      the fifth is to be flattened     —2      + 4-m, or — c: and,
                                        4            4              4
      by substituting      the  above  values    in   the    wolf,    the same
      appears   to  be   212   +  2m,  as   in cor.   3  ;  and   by   the same
      in  theorem     6, we get           +             or           trie sharp
                                   -^-2        ^-m>          \c>
      temperament of the major sixth ; the same with that
      of the fifth ; see cor. 8.
         This is the Mean Tone system of Salinas, Zarlino,
      Aretinus, &c. Dr. Smith's Harmonics, p. 36, 41,&c.
       wherein the adjacent flat and sharp notes are distant
       212 + 2m, or an enharmonic Diesis, as appears by
       substituting the above values of
                                                  — and        — in cor.     9.
          It is  also    nearly the same with a division of the
       octave into 112 equal parts, (see M. Sauveur's table
       above quoted), wherein — 2,S2Q02 is the flat tempera
       ment of the fifth; -i-c       above,    being — 2'751§66£.
 Scholium 3.       If a  douzeave be required, in which the major
       sixths should     be perfect, we have in theorem 6,               — ——
                                .        r       11        ,      u—Zt
       = 0,' or   11 J = 3r,  whence — =
                                         s
                                                —— ;
                                                  3
                                                      '  also
                                                                    u
                                                                           = 0,'
       or, u = 3r; whence          — = — , and          ——
                                                              2 +      —  m, or,
       —c, is   here the flat temperament           of the fifth : and by
                                                                            sub

40          Temperaments          of different   musical Systems.
      substituting the same in the wolf we get 3SS +3m f
     as    in corollary 6; likewise in theorem 3, we have
     -~-S +          .  m, or —c, the sharp temperament of the
       3             O              O
     major third also, as is consistent with cor. 8. The
     Hid       and Vih wolves are here each 28^2 + 2$m. (See
     Harmonics, p. 42.)
          This system approaches very near to a division of
     the octave into 19 equal parts, where — 3-69472 is
     the flat temperament of the fifth, (Dr. Smith, Har-
     monies, p.    1
                                     ,
                         158,' makes it
                                                1
                                                —c    — —3
                                                             c   xc — —— c
                                                                          47
                                                4       35               140
     or —3*69552)            ;   ——C      above, is —3-6692882.            See
     M.     Sauveur's table.
         The     cases of equality of iemperaments between the
     III    and VI, and between the V and VI having occur
     red, in schol. 1 and 3, I.proceed to
Scholium 4. If a douzeave be required, in which the
     major fifth shall be as much tempered fiat as the
     major sixth is sharp ; from theorems 1 and 6 we have
     —r
            =
                 lli-3r                                    r
                            , or 1 Is =± 2r: whence — = — '; also
                                                                    11
       t             $                                     s         2
     — - = -—— '.            or  u—2t;* whence — = — '; and              —2
        u             u                              U     2              2
     4. —m,  2
                      or
                           2
                              c,   is here    the  temperament        of the
    fifth    :  and by substituting this value in theorem 6, we
    have       -—2      -f- — m, or — -c, for the temperament of
                 3            3           3
    the major sixth also. The V and VI wolves are here
    each 4<tyZ+ 4|m.
Scholium 5.         If a douzeave        be required, in which the major
   fifth      shall   be   as  much    tempered  fiat as the major third
    is tempered fiat} from theorems 1 and 3, we have
     —   -=      — —— , or Sr-ts 1 is i whence — =               —     : also,
       $              s                                  s         o
              =3  — — — or 5/=w,            whence  —=    —- : and
                                                               '         —2
        u             u                              u     5              5
     +    -r
           5
               m> or    "rc>
                         5
                               ,s nere the temperament        of the fifth :
    and by substituting this value              in theorem 3, we         have
    -ii-2      +   — m, or— c, for the flat temperament of the
      5             5            9
                                                                        major

         Temperaments      of different   musical Systems.         4 J
    major third also:          the temperaments of the major
    sixths being - — X + -ym> or — c.
       .  ,   . .     22 „        2           2
         This is the system of Mr. John Holden, since me
    tamorphosed into an irregular douzeave in the article
     Monochord, Enc. Brit. 3d edit. vol. xii. p. 240, and
    intoa still different one, by the Rev. Mr. Hawkes. (See
     your xxvith volume, p. 171, and xxxth volume, p. 5.)
         It also approaches near to M. Sauveur's system of
     43 equal parts in the octave, (see his general table
     above referred to) wherein —2* 11 772 is the flat tem
     perament      of the fifth j —c above,being — 2-2015732.
         One other case of this kind, viz. where the major
     thirds are tempered flat as much as the major sixths
     are tempered sharp, will be found to arise from dif
     ferent considerations in scholium 11.
Scholium 6.       If a douzeave be required, in which the tem
     perament and wolf of the fifth shall be equal, we have
     from theorem 1, — r = 1 lr— 12j, or 1 2r = 1 2s, whence
      —= —;          also  -< = 11/-b, or 12l = u, whence —
      =   —,                             — c, is the flat tempera
                and 2 +     -^m, or
     ment of the fifth, in this case : and which substituted
      in theorem 3, either for wolf or temperament, gives
                2
      72 + -g-m, or
                          —7
                              c,  the sharp temperament        of the
                                                                3
      major third; also, in theorem 6, gives 82 + -^-m,
            Q
      or  — c,    the sharp temperament         of the major sixth.
          This is  the Isotonic or Equal Temperament System of
      Mersennus, &c. called by Mr. Marsh and others, though
      improperly, the Equal Harmony System (see scholium
                                        : see also Dr. Smith's Har
       10). See vol. xxix. p. 347
      monics, p. 158 and 167-        In  the latter page, however, the
      temperaments of the        Vth,VIth     and Hid arc mistakenly
       said to be         — and — , instead of ~, — and
      of a comma,      as they are above, very nearly.
 Scholium 7. If a douzeave be required, in which the several
       wolves shall differ from their respective temperaments,
                                                                    we
       by the least known Interval or most Minute (m) :
                                                                 have

¦4a          Temperaments                    of different musical System!.
                                                                   l2s
       have from corollary 9,
                                                    12r^
                                                                                           or   |2r=          12j          j
      whence            -       =     — -j                         = —1.' whence                                  —.
                                       l '
                                           also,
                        s                               u                                               u          1
       By which we obtain in theorem 1, —2 as the flat tem
      perament  of the fifths, and —2 — m its flat wolf: also,
      in theorem 3, we get 72 +m the sharp temperaments
      of the major thirds, and 72 their wolves ; and by theo
      rem 6, we obtain 82 + m the sharp temperaments of
      the major sixths and 82 their wolves.
            This       is   my Equal Temperament System, whose tem
      pered fifth, and consequently all its other intervals,
      can be tuned on an Organ by means of perfect intervals
      only, viz. 5 4ths — 3 Vths —     = V —2. (See vol.           III
      xxviii. p. 65) ; such tuning to be upwards from C as
      far as b A and downwards from c as far as bE, between
      which notes, the wolf 2 + m, will result. The beats
      calculated by Mr. Smyth, at page 452 of your last
      volume, belong in fact to this system, and not to the
      9trict Isotonic above, but the difference in practice
      would be imperceptible between these two systems.
Scholium 8.                 If a      douzeave be required, in which the ratio
      of the temperaments                     of the major thirds shall be to
      their wolves as 1| to                   35*, that is, or as 5 to 14, we
      have from theorem 3.                         As        5 : 14 : :           —- — —            :       8r~s.
                                                                                                                       '
                                                                                           s                 u
      whence 1545— 56r =40?—                                5.?,   or 159$ = 96r,and                              ^—
                                                        u— At                8t
      =
             53
            -^r i
                            ,
                        also,3 as 5          : 14 : :   —                :
                                                                             —  ,'     whence 14a —
            32                                               u                u
                                                             t
      561    =40(\or
                 '                    14« = 96/, and         — =
                                                                              7
                                                                             -/— : and
                                                                                                        53
                                                                                                             2—
                                                              7/             48                         32
        7
             m is the flat temperament                             of    the fifth, which sub
      stituted in the first theorem gives                                         —
                                                                                                +
                                                                                      ^—-2              "^f"111*
   * Mr. Marsh, assuming the true major third to be 48
                                                             degrees or parts,
Aates, the tempered ill to be = 49$, and the wolf or " extended third," (a*
he elsewhere calls      to be 51 parts: in the system which he most ap
                                it;          ^
proves;I  therefore take the excess of these above the Hid, as giving the ratio
of his temperament and wolf, in order to obtain the values of nis notes     my                               in
theorems.    It  not however clear, that such
                  is                              exactly his meaning; since,
                                                                   is
150 being assumed as the measure of the oclavr, the values of the major third
and of the diesis can be no other than 48'28921, &c. and SMSSSTS, fee. or
very nearly in the ratios of 6122, 1972 and 212: and           not possible for       it   is
48 and 6  truly to represent the major third and diesis in such ectave, or in
any other.
                                                                                                                  the

             Temper amenls        of different musical Systems.                   49
         the sharp     wolf. In theorem        3, we get the sharp tempera           -
                                                  3          5
         ment    of the major third = 4—2              H
                                                              — m, and      its wolf
                                                  8         112
                 l        7
         = 12— 2 +                And in theorem 6, thesharp tempera
                          -g-m.
         ment of the major sixth               =6^-2 +-^m,                  and its
                      20         21.
         wolf    I3j22 + T6-m.
            This is Mr.        J.  Marsh's approved method of tuning
         a douzeave.         Theory of Harmonics, page 1 3.
            The system nearest to this of any which                    I  remem
         ber to have met with, is that of a division of the oc
        tave into 67 equal parts, (see M. Sauveur's table above
        referred to), where —1*764552 is the flat temperament
        of the fifth , which here is —1-65742; and the same
        differs considerably from the other system recom
        mended by Mr. Marsh page J 8, which, perhaps after
        the example of Dr. Smith, he has borrowed from
 -»     M. Hcnfling without acknowledgement. See my 10th
        scholium.
            By Dr. Smith's Harmonics, 2d edit. p. 84, prop.XI,
        latter part of cor. 3, *' when the bases and beats (of
        two tempered consonances) are the same, the tempera
        ments have ultimately* the inverse ratio of the major
        terms" of the perfect ratios of these consonances.
        Whence
 Scholium a.          If a douzeave be required, wherein the fifth
        (f)   and    the  major third (*) to the same base shall beat
        equally quick, the former flat and the latter sharp ; we
                                                                 —t       1 1 s— 4r
        have from theorems 1 and 3, as 5 : 3 : :                      :             ,
                                                                        r
          i
        whence 55s— 20r = — 3r,' or 55s = 23r,' and
                                                                    ,
                                                                      —     =   —
                                                                                55
                                                                                    ;
                                                                        s       23
                             —t        u—4t
        also,  5:3::               :           , whence 5a— 20/= —3t,
    * The ultimate ratios are in     these cases, very near to the exact ratios :
                          5
thus in scholium 9, — rC, or 2-3930132, results from the ultimate ratios ;
the true temperament being 2-393693X, as derived from the length of string
I of  the Vth, in the equation 4Z«— i3=i; the difference being less than.
    7
          of a 2,  an interval altogether imperceptible  in practice.
lOOOo'n
                                                                              1
     Vol. 36. No."l47. July            1810.                D                    «r

50        Temperaments          of different musical Systems.
                                   t                     55
     or        = 23r,      and    —         5
                                                 and     —  -S +      — 5
                                                                           m or
           5w
                                      =-^i
     —c5
              is the flat temperament           of the fifth.      In theorem
                           3            17
     3, we get       18   -—2 + -^-m           the 9harp temperament            of
                                                                             22
                                                                          l —m
                                                              12
     the major third; and in theorem 6, 20r)— 2 +
     the sharp temperament of the, major sixth.
         This is the system for defective scales which Dr. Smith
      describes, ancf recommends, pages 219, 215, 189,211,
      and 212: and of which Mr. Atwood has (but without
      acknowledgement) given the lengths of strings in his
      " Rectilinear Motion, 8cc."
          A system, wherein the octave is divided into 7*
      equal parts, to be found in M. Sauveur's table, and
      where the temperament is V— 2-38385:, differs but
      very little from V— 2*3930122 in this system.
 Scholium 10.        If  a douzeave be required, wherein the jiftfr
      (¦$•) and   the    major sixth (£) shall beat equally quick,
      the former flat and the latter sharp: we have from
      theorems       l   and 6,' as      5 : 3 : :  —    :  —        -,' whence
                                                     s          s
                                       a
      55f — 15r = 3r, or 555= 18r and                   —?"
                                                             —  -55— :   also, as
                                                         s       IS
                          u—3t
      5:3:: —
                   t
                       :          , whence bu—         lot =3/ or 5b =         18*
                   u          u
      and                    and              +        m               is the flat
             V==:^5                 3tV2           78      orTVc
      temperament         of   the   fifth: which in theorem 3, gives
            —I           — m or    — c, for     the   flat temperament          01
      the major        third    :  and in theorem 6, gives                      ¦+>.
               or           the sharp temperament           of  the sixth.
      -^-m         -^c>
          This    is the      famous System of Equal Harmony in
       3  octaves, invented by Dr. Robert Smith. See his
       Harmonies, pages 216, 191, 206, 212, 214, &c.
       And differs but little from M. Henfling's system,
   ,   (Mem. de 1'Acad. 171 1, 16mo, p. 408), wherein the
       octave    is divided into 50 equal parts, as Dr. Smith
       shows in his Harmonics, p. 157, and states its fifth to
                                                                                be
                                          1

                Temperaments                      of different musical Systems.                                                51
                                                   1                  l
                                                                      1
                                                                                         — —41—c.                 , .     ,     .
        be       flattened                          -c       — —— c             or                              which
                                                                           ...
                                                                                                                                18
    .                                             4            37                               148
        — 3-049662; or more correctly                                              it   is — 3-0481 12;                   —
                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                            c
    being —3-057742                                    in the system of this scholium.
Scholium 11.   If a douzeave be required, wherein the
     major third (i) and the major sixth (§-) shall teat
    equally quick, the former sharp and the latter flat ;
    we have                       from theorems                   3       and 6, as             5 : 5 : :       —                   :
                    liS
                s
                          , whence                  lis— 4r =              3r —         lis     or 22s =7r} and
    t
    — = —'
        22                               ,                                     u — 4t           3t — u                ,
        s
                                   :    also,'      as      5 : 5 : :
                                                                                   u
                                                                                            :
                                                                                                   u       ',    whence
                          7
    u — At              =     31 —            u or 2k = Tt and
                                                                                        t
                                                                                        — =       —j
                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                          22
                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                          -^
                2      2
                — m or                            is the                                           of the fifth.
        +              yc                                         temperament
                                                                                    lit
    Which in theorem 3,                                     gives         —~ 2              —                    or       -ic,
                                                                                                   -^-m,
    the flat temperament                                    of the major third                    ; and in theo-
    rem 6,
            /       .         .
                          gives
                                              U
                                                         + ~m>
                                                              l
                                                                           °r                   tne       sharp tem
                                                                                   y~c*
    perament                      of the major sixth*.
                This          is     the system                       which             Dr. Smith barely
    mentions                       at   page 220,                         on      account     of its dif
    fering so                      little         from        equal             harmony,                  in     my last
    scholium                  j wherein                  -~       or       -^qc             1S     the          tempera-
    ment            of the fifth, which                        here is
                                                                           .       2
                                                                                   — , or        —36       ;    the       dif
                                                                                                      ^
    ference being only the
                           y^g-th part
                                                                                        of a major comma or
   •0873642:                           also    i-      or    ~
                                                             03
                                                                  , and
                                                                                    -i-     or    —
                                                                                                   63
                                                                                                       ',       have           a
                                               9                                    7
                                         2
   difference of                                       or -349462, but little more consi-
                                                                                            17—
                                        gjc,
                                                                                                                              —
                                                                                                                              1
   derable,                 in         the major thirds                   ;     and              or               and
   or           —Q
                        have            a     difference          of — c, or -262092 in the
                                                                               1
   major sixths.
            This        system differs more from that                                           of M. Henfling;
                                             Dr. Robison, Sup. Enc. Brit. 3d edit, ii.662.
        *
                Mentionedjby
                                                         D    2
                                                                                                                          (see

54          Temperaments               of different musical Systems.
      (see Sauveur's               table above         referred    to) than the last,
                 2
     since — c = —3- 14512, and in his system — 3-048112
      is the temperament                   of the fifth.
 Scholium 12.           If a douzeave be required, wherein the mean
      Tone thereof is to its major Limma as 5 to 3, we have
                       ,,    •                  ,                      104-20025— 2r
      from corollaries 1 1 and J 2, as 5 : 3 : :                              1
                                                                                 j           :
      46l4g6*+5r
               2— - — , whence      ,
                                                230-74805+ 25r = 312-89765 —
                 s
                                                          r      82-1406
      6r, or       82-14965           =   3lr,
                                                       ,
                                                    and — =      —  ——     ; also as 5 :
               —Q-0272a—           It        •
                                              4-0136« + 5<
      3    : :                          :                      , whence 20•0680^i +
      25<    = 27-08l6u — 6t, or                      7-0136z<   =   —  3U and         —=
                                                                                       u
       -7     0136             .          82-14o6_             70136        .       ,    „
      temperament of the fifth.
            This is the system of                        M.     Huygens.        (See     Dr.
      Smith's Harmonics, pages 158, 168, 121, 208,
                                                  - "jc11
      224, &c.) whose temperament of the fifth, as calcu-
                                                           +--c - -—
                                                                                53
      lated by       Br. Smith,              is                      or               c,   =
      2-65192; mine above being about 2-65182.
            The octave here is supposed to be divided into                                31
      equal        parts. See M. Sauveur's table ; Mr. Ambrose
      Warren, in 1725, pretended to the discovery of this
      system. See Monthly Magazine, vol. xxix. page413.
 Scholium 13.           If a       douzeave be required, wherein the mean
      Tone thereof is to its major                      Limma as 9 to 5, we have
       r                n     •                   j                     1 04-20025—
                                                                                —         It
      from corollaries                 11    and 12,     as 9 : 5 : :                        :
                                                                                   s
       46-14o6* + 5r
                             , whence 4l5-34645 + 45r=521-4960s—
                                                               r       106-14Q6
       lOr, or 55r=                  106-14965,        and
                                                           ,
                                                               —  =         ¦    3
                                                                                      ; also
                                      Q0272U— 2t ¦             4-0136ii+5/
       as      9    :  5   :      :                          :                , whence
       36-1 224m + 45f              =45- 1360M— 10r, or 9-0136«=55*                      and
         t         Q0136                   .          106-I40fi           Q-0136
       — =                       '; and —                         2 —                  m   is
        u             55                                  55                  55
       the flat temperament                    of the fifth, = —1:93132.
                                                                                        This

                     Report on the Memoirs,     &c.                53
          This system answers to a division of the octave in
       to 55 equal parts, and according to the papers of
       M. Sauveur in the Memoirs of the Parisian Academy,
       for 1"07 and 1711, it was the system used by the
       Musicians of Paris at or previous to that time. See
       his general table of tempered systems above referred to.
                          I am, sir,
                                  Your obedient humble servant,
    Westminster, July 11, 1810.                        J^ FARKY.
 VII.   Report on the Memoirs presented to the Society of
    Pharmacy at Paris, in consequence of the Prizes offered
    in the Year 1809.           Extracted by M. BOUILLON LA-
    ORANGE from the full Report drawn up by Messrs.
    NACHET, DEROSNE, and VALLEB.
 \JF   nine memoirs sent to the Society, two have particu
 larly fixed the attention of the committee.             They were
 written in answer to the following question :
    "To prepare the acetate of potash, so as to obtain it white
 and saturated, without employing            radical vinegar, and
 without having recourse to fusion ; — to point out which of
 the two, the acid or the alkali, gives it the colouring prin
ciple."
    The first memoir, with the motto        Ex   cognilis incognita,
 is written with great precision.
    The author, after having ascertained the advantage which
would result from obtaining this salt in all its purity by a
simple and ceconomical process, begins by inquiring from
whence the colouring principle arises: It cannot, he says,
be owing to the alkali, when it is considered that the fusion
of the acetate of potash renders it insoluble, and that the
heat requisite for this fusion is not so strong as that which
is necessary for the preparation of any given potash ; and
on the other hand, it cannot be essential to the acetic acid,
when radical vinegar is capable of instantly furnishing a
colourless salt.        Consequently, this colouring principle
must be a foreign substance contained in common vinegar,
and which may be introduced into it in distillation.            But
this same principle is less volatile than the acetic acid,
since distilled vinegar leaves a residue of it if we evaporate
it a second time: it is not very soluble by itself, and it
cannot be dissolved except by the addition of acetic acid,
since it is precipitated, at least in part, when we saturate the
latter by potash : and finally, it has been ascertained that
                                       D3                          it

5i              Report on the Memoirs presented to the
it   is   of a vegeto-animal   natur.e, either from the smell which
it exhales when placed on hot coals, or by the prussiate
of ammonia which upon distillation furnishes the acetate
of potash prepared with distilled vinegar: ^i product
which does not give the same salt prepared with radical
vinegar: whence the author concludes that the radical prin
 ciple which colours the acetate of potash is nothing but a
 part of the ferment of common vinegar, carried into the
 distillation and more or less altered by this operation.
    Independently of this colouring principle, inherent in
 the constitution of common vinegar, the author ot the
 memoir mentions another still more capable of making
the acetate of potash look brown: this is the empyreumatic
oil with which the vinegar is charged when the distillation
is carried too far.   He further says, that this salt may also
be coloured by the oxides of iron and of manganese con
tained in the alkali, or by the metallic utensils used in its
preparation : but this colour being merely accidental, we
may avoid it entirely by using a pure potash and vessels of
tin or porcelain.     We must therefore adhere to the fer
ment and the empyreumatic oil.        The following direction?
are given for avoiding these two colouring principles: the
ferment may be separated from the acetate of potash the
more easily the less of it there is in the distilled vinegar^
and the latter will contain so much the less in its turn ; as
in common vinegar, the proportion of the ferment will be
smaller with respect to that of the arid, on account of the
quantity of ferment brought over in distillation being al
ways more or less in proportion with that which exists in,
common vinegar.       It follows therefore that it is necessary,
above all, to employ common vinegar, which is at once the
most acid and the least charged with ferment; and this re
quisite may be attained by choosing a clear vinegar, be
sides being very strong and completely fermented.          After
the choice of the vinegar, the process of distillation may
also have some influence on the quantity of the ferment
contained in distilled vinegar: for, since this principle is less
volatile than the acelic acid, the less of it will pass over iu
distillation, the more slowly this process is conducted ; and
in this respect we may admit a slight ebullition as being
the fittest degree of beat.
    If the preceding rules have been well attended to, the
distilled vinegar will contain so small a quantity of fer
ment that it will be capable of furnishing immediately an
acetate of potash almost entirely colourless ; but          not
                                                           if,
withstanding every precaution, the whiteness of the salt
                                                                 still

                         Society           of Pharmacy at Paris.                          9$
still leaves something to be tlesired, there remains a final
method of remedying                     it,
                             which* consists in filtering through
charcoal in powdec. The action of this substance, although
little known as to its theory,        nevertheless  iscertain in its
effects    since
           ;          sufficient to boil slightly with
                        it   is                              the so             it
lution of the acetate as above prepared, in order to obtain
it perfectly white after filtration and evaporation carefully
managed. As to the empyreumatic oil, there                only one         is
way of avoiding       which  it, to stop the distillation of the
                                              is
vinegar at the moment when this principle begins to come
over, and the product gives out an empyreumatic smell                                      :
for, beyond this term, the vinegar,         still white in appear
                                                            if
ance, wou!d not undergo any change of colour during the
evaporation of the acetate; and this colour, when once
produced, could not be removed, either            charcoal powder     by
or   by any  other means   whatever.
     The     memoir presents
              second                                    fuller details.    Its motto      is
taken from Boileau                :
                   " I.' artifice              agrlable
               DII plus aflVoux obje: fait un objct aimable.**
     The author describes in      the first instance the various
processes  hitherto adopted in preparing the acetate of potash.
He mentions as the most exact the process of M. Bouillon
Lagrange, which consists in crystallizing this salt           but he            ;
regrets not having been able to put          in practice, from the
                                                            it
difficulty of separating the crystallized acetate from the mo
ther waters, which are very thick. In order to obtain as ad
vantageous      result
                   a               by
                             more practicable process, he tried
                                       a
double decompositions        he treated acetate of lime with the
                                        ;
carbonate or sulphate of potash, but he did not obtain an
acetate of potash less coloured than           he had directly sa
                                                             if
turated the carbonate of potash with distilled vinegar.
     ftwould be necessary, as heJ observes, to employ           cry                  a
stallized acetate of lime, but in this case the process would
become too tedious and expensive. The decomposition of
the common acetate of lead                         by
                                      the carbonate of soda, fur
nished him with         tolerably white acetate of potash
                              a                                                      :    al
though this method unites with the facility of using             the                 it
advantage of being cheaper, the author of the memoir docs
not think      right to resort to
                 it                                 it,
                                         because the smallest neg
ligence in the operation may change           wholesome medicine
                                                             a
into deadly poison.
          a                 Recurring to the combination de
 scribed of distilled vinegar and potash, he first inquires
 whence arises the colour assumed              this salt during its
                                                             by
 evaporation     he :  also aware that
                             is                  owing to    foreign
                                                            it   is             a
 principle  contained       the  distilled
                                      in    vinegar;  but  he  after-
                                   D                    4      wards

$8                   Report on the Memoirs presented to the
wards saw that this substance was very slightly of a co
louring nature by itself: he observed that the acetate of
potash well saturated, is found as a consequence of its eva
poration with an excess of alkali ; and it is this excess of
alkali which reacts on the foreign principle contained in
the distilled vinegar, and colours it. In order to show
more clearly this reaction of the potash, he divided into
two equal portions a solution of acetate of potash : he eva
porated both at the same degree of heat, maintaining con
stantly in the one an excess of acid, and in the other an
excess of alkali : the salt produced by the liquor with ex
cess of acid was much less coloured than that furnished by
the liquor with an excess of alkali*. After having ascer
tained the origin of the colouring principle and the cause
which develops                    it,
                       the author next endeavoured        to destroy
it; and charcoal         his opinionin    the fittest agent: with      is
this view he filters the distilled vinegar through charcoal,
he then saturates       with carbonate of potash, leaving in
                                   it                                                              it
an excess of acid, which he takes care to keep constantly
in the liquor during its evaporation. The result             an ace                           is
tate equally white with that obtained           means of fusion.            by
   This process, although very simple, did not appear to
him to be practicable, because the acetate of potash                                               is
mixed with       certain quantity of acetate of lime, to which
                       a
the lime contained in the charcoal has given rise; and this
salt,      by
          altering the purity of the acetate 'of potash, retards
its desiccation.        would, indeed, be very easy to separate
                                  It
it    by
       adding slight excess of carbonate of potash, in order
                       a
to precipitate the lime; and we should afterwards put in an
excess of acid        but    : easier to saturate the acid first.
                                             it   is
The following        the process as described
                             is                     the memoir:                  in
    Pour into distilled vinegar        solution of carbonate of    a
 potash, until no more carbonic acid             extricated: after          is
 wards evaporate the liquor, taking care always to Keep an
excess of acid              when  in    reduced to three-fourths,
                                        it
                                         :                it       is
allow     to cool, in order to separate from           the sulphate
                                                                                      in it
               it
 of potash and some impurities; decant                 order to heat             it
it, and pour      when hot on
                       it           charcoal filter       a                           f.
    * We have reason to believe, from our own experiments, that the potash
 still reacts, but much less on the colouring principle, even when the liquor
 contains an excess of acid since by opernting in this manner we always
                                             ;
 obtain an acetate of potash which          more or less coloured, whilst the sani2
                                                         is
 vinegar       capable of furnishing acetate of lime, magnesia, and alumine,
                is
 which are very white.         Soda did not appear to us to act so strongly as
j>otash on this principle. — iY«(r                 l-y
                                        ll\f Cummitlrr.
     •fThe acetate of lime when dried         less deliquescent than the acetate of
                                                              i.
 potash, and yet         inucli more dilh'cult to produce tlie desiccation of u.
                        it   is                                                                     —
flult     tht A'.tllinr.
          by                                                                                       Jf

                        Society   of Pharmacy at Paris.                      SJ
     If  the filtered      liquor    does   not contain more free acid,
add a little distilled vinegar* ; then evaporate to dryness :
and if we wish to obtain the acetate of potash well cleaned,
we must, at the end of the evaporation, manage the fire
properly, and not stir it ; but in this case it is not so white
as when we separate it with a silver spatula, and throw it
on the edges of the basin as fast as it is formed at the sur
face of the liquid : this salt will also be whiter if dried by
small portions.
     On exposing for about 20 days to the solar rays the
liquor filtered over charcoal, the author obtained a salt
much whiter: hence he thinks that the same result might
be obtained, by exposing to the light an acetate of potash
made from distilled vinegar, without being filtered through
charcoal.
     He regrets that he has been unable to collect some
important facts relative to the colouring matter: he re
marked that it was partly precipitated after saturation ; that
 it is a little soluble in water, and that a portion remains in
 solution in the liquid acetate of potash ; that after having
 filtered distilled vinegar through very pure charcoal, like
 that which is produced from crystallized sugar, we no
 longer obtain, on saturating it with crystallized carbonate
 of potash, the same precipitate as before filtration.
      The author of the memoir concludes, therefore, —
      1. That the colouring matter of the acetate of potash be
  longs to a vegetable substance contained in distilled vinegar.
      2. That this colouring matter is destroyed by charcoal.
      3. That an excess of alkali, when we evaporate the result
  of the saturation of distilled vinegar by potash, may in
  fluence the whiteness of the acetate of potash.
      4. That in order to obtain the earth pure white and sa
  turated, it is sufficient to filter a concentrated solution of it
  over a small quantity of charcoal in powder ; to keep in it
  afterwards to the end of the evaporation an excess of acid,
  by adding from time to time distilled vinegar, and to ex-
  pos'e it for some days to the solar light.
      In a note which terminates this memoir, the author
  says, that according to the valuable observation of Messrs.
  Vauquelin, Pontier and Derosne, he obtained two hecto
  grammes of excellent acetic e*ther, by rectifying over pot
  ash the first products of the distillation of 70 litres of distil
  led vinegar.
     * A   little  acetic acid (radical vinegar) would be preferable ; very little
  is necessary    when care has been taken to filter the liquor in the neutral
  slate: we must also take care that it is out acid, iu consequence of the lime
  which is in the charcoal.
                                                                            The

     58             Of the   Influence     of Solar and Lunar
        The committee carefully repeated the experiments de
     tailed in the ab.ove memoirs.      If. we except the whitening
     eflects on exposing the acetate to the sun, which did not
     succeed with them, they pronouncec| them to be all cor
     rect; indeed, the principal agent in the whitening process
    was already known. Lowitz has recommended the use of
    charcoal, in order to obtain an acetate of potash less coloured
     than by the ordinary process ; but whether he has not suffi
    ciently described the method of using              it,
                                                   or employed vine
    gar of bad quality,
           a                 distilled or
                              ill              saturated, over which
                                                ill
    the depurating qualities of the charcoal had no influence,
    peveral chemists have been unsuccessful.
        From these considerations, and particularly from the sa
    tisfactory results obtained           by
                                       the committee, they think
    themselves warranted in concluding, that the' authors of the
    two memoirs would have done better                by
                                                  making known the
    principle and the causes of the colouring of this salt, at the
    fsame time that they indicated the means of preventing and
    removing them.
        By following carefully the rules which they prescribe,
    and   by taking all the precautions which they point out,
    we shall easily obtain, without having recourse to fusion,
    an acetate of potash very white and perfectly saturated.
    The society has therefore decreed            gold medal of the
                                                   a
    value of 100 francs to each of the authors of the memoirs.
I
       The author of the memoir first mentioned             M. Ber-
                                                             is
    noully of Bale and of the second, M. Frciny of Versailles.
                    ;
    VIII. Of the   Influence        of   Solar and Lunar Attraction on
          Clouds and Vapours.             By SALEM HARRIS, Esq.
                              To    Mr. Tilloch.
    SIR, AN perusing     the theory of the tides as originally laid
    down       by
               Kepler, and subsequently improved upon           Sir
                                                                  by
    Isaac Newton,    I was forcibly struck with an idea, that if
    the attraction of the sun and moon (more particularly the
    latter)is capable (as the ebb and flow of the sea appears to
    have    proved beyond dispute) of acting with sufficient
    power upon that immense and ponderous mass the ocean,
    to raise its waters on those parts which the revolutions
    of the heavenly bodies alternately place in the focus of
    their attraction ;its effects upon the clouds, the lighter and
    exhaling particles, or comparatively speaking the steam of
    those waters, must be still greater; and sufficient to pro
    duce, in conjunction with or opposition to the wind, those
    frequent and apparently uncertain        changes   which    we
                                                                  hourly

                            Attraction           on Clouds and Vapours.                                        59
hourly experience in the atmosphere.      Impressed witji this
idea, and not without some degree of wonder to find         as                                              it,
far as    could learn, unnoticed
                I                    the philosophical world,          by
I  began when at school to form       journal of the weather            a                                         j
noting at every observation the quarter of the wind, as well
as the moon's altitude and azimuth      and had the satisfac                ;
tion of finding my infantile speculation' so well grounded,
that     observed
           I       the weather almost invariably thick or
rainy, when the wind and moon, being at or near the same
quarter, were acting in conjunction        the latter drawing                   ;
the clouds, as    imagine, to her nearest point of the hori
                              I
zon, from whence the former drives them over its surfacej
and that      became proportionally clearer as their relative
                       it
change of situation enabled the wind to counterpoise the
1
moon's attraction, and prevent those vapours from collecting.
   In the year 1809,     voyage across the Atlantic, and
                                             a                                                                    a
residence of some months at Havannah, enabled me to
extend my observations to the northern extremity of the
trade winds, as well as the climate of the torrid zone, both
on sea and land.      shall therefore extract the journal of
                                        I
a few-days in each of the situations wherein         have no                                   I
ticed the weather with      slight comment on the nature of
                                       ;           a
the country and the prevailing winds, or periodical change
of seasons, leaving your philosophical readers.fo compare
my statement with the idea that gave       birth.                               it
     Journal            of    the Weather at Wandsworth,                                  near London.
Day        of   Time                                               Moons
                                              Moon's
     the         of          IViiid.                             Altitude 8i               Olservations.
                                             Azimuth.
Month.          Day.                                             Depression.
Oct.27, Morn                 s.s.w.                N.            50" Depr.        Very fine weather.
 1800. Even                       S.        S   E. by       S.   28° Alt.         Cloudy and rainy.
     38
                Morn         S.S.W.          N.N.W.              44° Depr.        Fine weather.
                Even         S.S.E.         S   E. by       S.   23°   Alt.       Cloudy and rainy.
            Morn Variab. fr. N.W. by N.                          :S5° Depr.       Fine weather.
     29          S.E. to S.W.
            Even S.W. byW.      S.E.                             24°   Alt.       Fair weather, but cloudy.
                Mom         S.E.byE.            N.W.    26° Depr. Veryfair.but rather cloudy
     30
            Even              Ditto.         S.E. by E. 23° Alt.  Very cloudy, but no rain.
                Morn        S. by      W.       N.W.             15° Depr.        Raining  a little, butappear»
    31                                                                              to be clearing off".
            Even              S.W.           E    S.   E.,       24°   Alt.                            ¦,
                                                                                  Very fine weather no elds.
    Nov. Morn                S.bv E.        N.W.    by   W        4°   Depr. Fine weather;          a   few light
    1       Even              S.W.               &               21°   Alt.       Ditto   ditto.          [clouds.
            Morn              S.W.          W.N.W.               5°    Alt.       Fine weather,   few clouds
                                                                                                   a
                                                                                    in the N.E. horizon.
    2
            Even        S.E. by E.          E. by N.             17°   Alt.       Cloudy, with a little rain.
                          strong.                                             j

60                   Of the     Influence     of Solar and Jjunar
Journal of the Weather at               Sea,    between    Madeira and             the Cape
                                       Verd Islands.
Pay of                                           Moons
          f
         Time
                                    Moon's
   the              Wind.                     Altitude or             Olservations.
                                  Azimuth.
Month.   Day.                                 Depression.
                (    E S.E.                               Very cloudy:       raining to wind
March Morn                         E. by S.   25°  Alt.      ward.
                ^nearly calm.
   16,
               \      N.W.        W. by N.      S° Depr.  Cloudy, but no rain.
 JSOO.  Even
               \ very light.
               <        N.         E. by
        Morn                              S.  14°  Alt.   Very   fine and serene.
                ( rath.str«ng.
   17
                        N.
        Even    \                  W. by   S. 19°  Alt.   Ditto        ditto.
                1 moderate.
                ?     N.W.         E. by N.        Alt.   Very fine     and    serene :  a few
        Morn                                    8°
                ( moderate.                                  light clouds.
   18
               \        N.                         Alt.
        Even                      W.by    N.    G°        Fair ( but rather cloudy.
                1 very light.
                (   N.N.W.                                Very   fine and serene.
        Morn                       E. by N.     0°
                1 nearly calm.
   10           <       N.
        Even                           W.     24°  Alt.   Ditto        ditto.
                1 nearly calm.
                (       N.                                Very    fine : a few light clouds to
        Morn                        E.N.E.      8° Depr.
                } nearly calm.                               windward.
   2P           (     S.W.
        Even                      W. by N.    37°   Alt.  Ditto        ditto.
               1 nearly calm.
                <     N.W.        N.E by E.               Cloudy     and rainy.
        Morn         strong,
                                              15° Depr.
                1                                •
                                                          Fair ; but cloudy in many parts
   21
        Even   j      N.W.
                                  VV. by S.   53°  Alt.      of the horizon, particularly
               1      fresh.
                                                             to windward,        and slight fly
                                                             ing showers occasionally *.
                ( N.W. by W.                              Very fine: a few clouds round
        Morn                      N.E. by E.  'JO" Depr.
                (    strons;.                                the horizon.
   22           \   N.N.W.
        Even                       W. by S.   58°   Alt.  Very fine : a few light clpuds.
                } rath. strong.
                <    N.N.E.                   34' Depr.
        Morn                         N.E.                 Very cloudy      ; with some rain.
                1
                    moderate,
   23           r      N.E.                               Very fine and serene : a few
        Even                       W.S.W.     81°   Alt.
               |   moderate.                                 light clouds.
                    N.  by W.                             Very      fair; hut many light
        Morn   5                    N.N.E.    42° Depr.
                                                             clouds, particularly to wind
                1 moderate.
   24                                                        ward and as far as the cast.
                     N.N.E.                               Very fine: light clouds in most
        Even   J                  W. by    S. 78°   Alt.
                                                              parts of the horizon.
                1 moderate.
                     N.N.E.                               Very cloudy       ; and a little rain :
        Morn   5
                > moderate.
                                  N.E.by N.   48° Depr.
                                                            appears now to be clearing off.
   25
               i       N.E.
                                     In the      Zenith.
                                                          Very fine : a few light clouds in
        Even                                                  several parts of the horizon.
   * Between the above two observations (about half past three P.M.) there was
rather a heavy squall of rain with a strong breeze from the N.W. ; the moon nearly
in the zenith, and most parts of the horizon cloudy.

                   Attraction       on Clouds and Vapours.                           61
        On the 16lh, I was in sight of Madeira, and crossed the
     tropic of Cancer on the 24th, in longitude 24° 30' west
     of Greenwich; the ship's course being S. S.W. The for
     mer part is consequently on the verge of the trades ; as the
     latter is of the torrid zone.             At this season of the year
     the winds are variable, but generally strong.
                  Journal of the Weather            at Havannah.
Day oj    Time                                  Moon's
                                   Moon's
  the      "f      Ifind.
                                  Azimuth.
                                             Altitude or             Observations.
Month.    Day.                               Depression.
 Sept.                                                   Very fine: a few light clouds
  10,
         Morn    N. by   W.        E. by S.  n* Ait.        to leeward.
 1809.   Even      N.N.E.             W.      10° Depr.  Fine: a few clouds to windwd.
         Morn        S.E.             E.       7° Alt.   Fair; but very cloudy.
   11
         Even      E.N.E.         W. by  S.    0°        Very fine and serene.
               5     S.W.                                Very fine:    a few clouds rising
         Morn                     E. by  S.    5° Depr.
  12            1 verv light.                               to windward.
         Even      E.S.E.         W. by   S.   8" Alt.   Very fair : some clouds to do. ]
               / nearly
                     S.E.
                                                  Depr. Very
                                                                 fine:  some clouds rising
   IS
         Morn
               \          calm.
                                      E.     21°
                                                            in the eastern horizon.
         Even       N.N.E.         W.S.W.    10°  Alt.   Very fine: a few clouds near
                                                            the moon.
                                                         [At noon this day the ther
                                                           mometer stood at 90".]
               5     E.S.E.                              Fine:     some clouds rising    to
         Morn                        E.      32° Depr.
  U            1 nearlycalm.                                windward.
         Even                   S.W. by W. 31" Alt.      Very fine and serene.
         Morn  f   S. by E.
                                  E. by N.               Very fine : light clouds rising
  15           ^nearlycalm.                  fSf Depr.      to windward.
         Even                       S.W.     35" Alt.    Very fine and serene.
         Morn      S.S.E.         E. by N.   G4°  Depr. Very fine:     some clouds to lee
                                                            ward.
  16
               <     N.                                  Very fine: some clouds to wind,
         Even                      S.S.W.    42«   Alt.
               1   strong.                                  ward.
        Havannah is situated but a few miles south of the tropic
     of Cancer, and          the land about it moderately high.                    It is
     sheltered by the hills of the Cavannah from all winds be
     tween N.E. and E.S.E., and these are by far the most
     prevalent.     In the evening, however, it often shifts to the
     north, or even a point or two to the westward.                           At this
     season of the year the weather is intensely hot, with fre
     quent and violent storms of rain and thunder, which usually
     take place between the hours of two and six in the after
     noon.
                                                                             Journal

62                       Of the   Influence     of Solar and Lunar
 Journal of    the Weather letween Bermuda and the Western                                Isles.
Day of
   the
          Time
            of       Wind.
                                    Moon's
                                                Moon's
                                              sIltitudeoT            Observations.
                                                                                            s  i i
                                   Azimuth.
Month.    Day.                                Depressioi
                 <   E.S.E.                                 Fine: but rather cloudy 67"
 Nov.    Morn                     W. by N.     17*   Alt.   '
                 \ very strong.                                 ii> many parts of the
   25,
                \     E.S.E.                                    horizon.
  1809.  Even
                X      light.       E.N.E.      8° Dep. Cloudy, with a lit. rain. 68*
                f    E. byS.
   26
         Morn
               \f    strong,
                       N.E.
                                      W.      25°    Alt.  Very fine and       serene.     67»
         Even
               \     strong.
                                  N.E. by E.   18° Dep.    Cloudy, with small rain. 69"
                r      n.e.
         Morn                      W. by   S. 34«    Alt.  Hazy weather.
               1 blows hard.
   27
                     N.N.E.                                Very thick and cloudy, 66" 30
         Even  J aheavy'gale.        N.E.     27° Dep.
                                                               with small ram.
                1
         Morn
                f    E.N.E.
                                   W.S.W.     41°    Alt.  Very fine -. a few clouds 67°
               1     strong.                                   in the horizon.
   28
               J"    E.N.E.          N.E.                  Cloudy, with occasional 69°
         Even                                 37° Dep.
                I    strong.                                   showers.
                  N.E.    by  E.                           Thick hazy weather,             67°
         Morn  5                 S.W. by W-   47°    Alt.
                1 verystrong.                                  with some small rain
   29                                                          at   intervals; appears
                                                               now to be clearing off.
                                                           Thick and cloudy, with 68.
         Even                      N.N.E.     46° Dep.
               \      fight.                                  small rain.
                                                           [Between the above ob
                                                              servations, hazy wea
                                                              ther with occasional
                                                              showers;       the wind
                                                              light and variable.]
                <        E.                                Fine : a few clouds, 67° 3C
         Morn                        S.W.     45°   Alt.
                ( moderate.                                   which are clearingoff.
                ( N.E. byE.                                Very fine : a few clouds 68"
               \
   SO
         Even                         N.      51° Dep.
                    moderate.                                 to windward.
                                                           [Much rain between 11
                                                              P.M. of the 29th and
                                                               1 A.M. of this day:
                                                              the wind and moon be
                                                              ing nearly in the same
                                                              point (E. by N.) and the
                                                              latter on the horizon.
                <    N.N.E.                   53° Alt.     Very fair, but          rather 57°
         Morn                       S.S.W.
 Dec.           J   moderate.
                                                         /    cloudy,      particularly
                                                              near the moon.
    1           f   N. byE.
         Even
               \   moderate.
                                      N.      55" Dep.     Fair; but cloudy in most 67° 30*
                                                              parts of the horizon,
                                                              particularly from N
                                                              to W.
        In this part of the globe, more particularly during                              the
     autumnal and winter months,                 the wind is usually strong ;
                                                                                       often

                 Attraction   on Clouds and Vapours.            63
 often increasing to a gale; the heaviest usually blows from
 the north and north-west.           These observations were made
 between the 35th and 37th degree of north latitude, and
 44° and 39° longitude west of Greenwich: the ship's
 course being E. by N.
     There are certainly many places, in which a particular
 wind almost invariably produces rain ; from the interven
 tion of a chain of hills, or even a single mountain that im
 pedes the regular course of the clouds, when moving in a
 certain direction; and breaks them over the valleys below.
 Or, the wind may be either sufficiently strong to over
 power the moon's attraction, or so light as to afford no
 assistance in spreading the clouds which have been' col
 lected on or below the horizon, and thus produce an ef
 fect upon the weather contrary to what might have been
-expected from the relative situation of the impelling powers;
  a circumstance which, though very material,              did not
  strike me when I began my observations ; and the ve
  locity of the wind is consequently unnoticed in the first
  part of my journal.      Our atmosphere may contain at times
  so little vapour, as to be incapable of producing rain, al
  though the moon and wind were acting ever so much in
  unison ; but this can always be ascertained by the state of
  the barometer.       When also the moon's altitude or de
  pression   is so great as to place her nearly in the zenith, or
  the nadir, her attraction can of course avail but little,
  either in assisting or counteracting the effect of the wind
  from whatever point it may happen to blow: its power, in
  short, must diminish in proportion as her distance from
  the horizon increases.
      I do not pretend to improve, much less to controvert, the
  theories of those many learned and scientific characters
  whe have written upon the nature and variation of the
  atmosphere ; for my knowledge in every branch of philo
  sophy is very slight; but I cannot help thinking, that a
  little attention to the subject which I have noticed, would
  frequently assist an observer of the weather, in foreseeing
  with additional certainty an approaching change; and            I
  offer these remarks to the public, with no other view than
  the possibility of their being investigated, by those who
  possess the knowledge and leisure requisite in philosophical
  Studies, to the advancement of science, as well as the bene
  fit of those professions, in which a dependence is placed
  upon the atmosphere.          I remain, sir,
                                    Your respectful humble servant,
     Richmond Green, July 10, 1S10.             SALEM HARRIS.
                                                            IX. On

                                  C
                                       64     ]
IX.      On Crystallography.            By M. HAUY.              Translated
 from the last Pans Edition            of his Traite de Mineralogie.
                    [Continued  from vol.    irxv. p. 460.]
            TABLE OF THE CRYSTALLINE FORMS.
 I.   Substances   which have a common primitive               form, with-
                          the same dimensions.
                                 1. CUBE.
    Names of the Substances.              Form of the integrant Molecule.
.DORATED magnesia            .....      Cube
Muriated soda                           Ditto
Amphigene*                              Irregular tetrahedron
Analcime                                Cube
Sulphurated lead                    ,   Ditto
Sulphurated iron                        Ditto
Oxidated tin                            Ditto
Gray cobalt                             Ditto
Calcareous scheelin                     Regular tetrahedron.
                    2. REGULAR OCTAHEDRON.
Fluated lime                            Regular tetrahedron
Muriated ammonia                        Ditto
Sulphated alumine                       Ditto
Spinelle                                Ditto
Pleonaste                               Ditto
Diamond                                 Ditto
Red oxidated copper                     Ditto
Oxidulated iron                         Ditto
Native bismuth                          Ditto
Native antimony                         Ditto
                   3. REGULAR         TETRAHEDRON.
Pyritous copper                         Regular tetrahedron
Gray copper                             Ditto.
               4. RHOMBOIDAL             DODECAHEDRON.
Garnet                                  Tetrahedron         with   isosceles
                                            triangles equal and similar
Sulphurated zinc                        Ditto.                               •
II.    Substances    the primitive forms of which only are
                                                                           of
    the same kind, with dimensions respectively peculiar to
    each.
                             1. RHOMBOTD.
                       * With       obtuse summits.
Carbonated lime                         Rhomboid
                                '                              Tourmaline

                             On Crystallography.                             65
   Names of the Substances.                  Form of the integrant Molecule.
 Tourmaline                         '.     Irregular tetrahedron
 Chabasie                                  Rhomboidal
 Dioptase                                  Ditto
 Sulphurated        aotimoniatcd
    silver . , ;                           Rhomboidal.
                        ** tVith       acute summits.
 Corundum                                  Rhomboidal
 Oligistoas iron                          Ditto
 Sulphurated iron                         Ditto.
                             2.  OCTAHEDRON.
                    * Pyramids u'ith square            bases.
 Alkaline    fluated    alumihe    . .     Irregular tetrahedron
 Zircon                                   Ditto
Harmotome                                 Ditto
Anatase                                   Ditto
Molybdated        lead                    Ditto
Mellite                                   Ditto.
               **    Pyramids with rectangular              bases.
Nitrated potash                           Irregular tetrahedron
 Carbonated lead                         Ditto
Sulphated lead                            Ditto
Oxidated zinc                            Ditto.
                 *** Pyramids with rhombic                bases.
Sulphur                                   Irregular tetrahedron
Red sulphurated arsenic         . . .     Irregular tetrahedron.
Blue carbonated copper          . . .    Ditto.
                       3. TETRAHEDRAL PRISM.
                          1.  STRAIGHT          PRISM.
                          * With square           bases,
Sulphated magnesia                       Isosceles-rectangle-triangular
                                              prism
Idocrase                                 Ditto
Meionite                  .              Prism with       square bases
Wernerite                                Ditto
Mesotype                                 Isosceles- rectangle- triangular
                                              prism
Chromated lead                           Ditto
   Vol. 36. No. 147. July 1810.                          E          Oxidated

66                        On Crystallography.
   Names of the Substances.             Form of the integrant Molecule.
Oxidated uranium                      Prism with square bases
Oxidated titanium                     Isosceles-rectangle-triangula?
                                          prism.
                    ** With rectangular          bases.
Cymophane                            Prism with rectangular bases.
Euclase                              Ditto
Peridot                              Ditto
Prehnite                             Ditto
Stilbite                             Ditto
Ferruginated      scheelin    ....   Ditto
                      *** With      rhombic bases.
Sulphated barytes                    Scalene - rectangle - triangular
                                         prism
Sulphated strontian         ......   Ditto
Topaz                                Prism with rhombic         bases
Staurotide                            Isosceles -rectangle-triangular
                                         prism
Macle                                Uncertain
Mica                                 Prism with rhombic bases.
Talc                                 Ditto
Arsenical iron                       Ditto
Sulphurated molybdenum            .  Ditto
Siliceo-calcareous titanium          Ditto.
       **** With        oblique-angled parallelogram bases.
Sulphated lime                       Prism with oblique-angled
                                         parallelogram bases
Epidote                              Prism with oblique - angled
                                         parallelogram bases
Axinite                              Ditto.
                         2. OBLiaUE PRISM.
                      * With rectangled        bases.
Borated soda                         Prism with rectangled bases.
                       ** With rhombic        bases.
Amphibole                            Prism with rhombic bases
Actinote                             Ditto
Pyroxene                             Oblique triangular prism
Grammatite                           Prism with rhombic bases.
       *** With       oblique~angled     parallelogram      bases.
Feldspar                             Prism      with oblique angled
                                         parallelogram bases
                                                               Disthene

                            On Crystallography.                        <J7
   H?uies of the Substances.           Form of the integrant Molecule.
Disthene                             Prism     with oblique        angled
                                        parallelogram bases
Sulphated copper                     Ditto.
               4. BEGirtAR HEXAHEDRAL              PRISM.
Phosphated lime                      Equilateral triangular prism
Telesie               ,              Ditto
Emerald                              D'lto
Nepheliue                            Ditto
Pycnite                   ,          Ditto
Dipyre                               Ditto
Sulphurated mercury                  Ditto.
                5. PYRAMIDAL DODKCAHRpRON.
Quartz                               Irregular tetrahedron
Phosphated lime                      Ditto.
III.   Forms which are found to le secondary                 in different
                                 species.
                                1. CUBE.
  Names of the Substances,                 Primitive Forms.
Fluated lime                         Regular octahedron
Native bismuth                       Ditto.
                    S. REGULAR       OCTAHEDRON.
Muriated     soda                    Cube
Sulphurated lead                     Ditto
Sulphurated iron                     Ditto
Gray cobalt                          Ditto.
               3. REGULAR        HEXAHEDRAL PRISM.
Carbonated lime                      Obtuse rhomboid
Corundum                             Acute rhomboid
Mic»                                 Straight prism with rhombic
                                        bases
Sulphurated       antimoniated
   silver                            Obtuse rhomboid
Phosphated lead                      Pyramidal dodecahedron
Sulphurated molybdenum           .   Straight prism with rhombic
                                        bases.
               4. RHOMBOIDAL         DODECAHEDRON.
Fluated lime                         Regular octsihedron
Oxidulated iron                      Ditto.
                                  E 2                          5. SOLID

                        On Crystallography.
  5. SOLID WITH 24 EQUAL AND SIMILAR TRAPEZOIDS.
   Names of the Substances.              Primitive Forms.
Muriated ammonia                    Regular octahedron
Garnet                              Rhomboidal dodecahedron
Amphigene                           Cube
Analcime                            Ditto
Sulphurated iron                    Ditto.
Explanation of the plan which         has leen adopted in the de->
         scriptions  of  the different species of minerals.
    After having given       the synonymy of the best known
authors, we have successively presented the essential cha
racter of the substance, and the physical, geometrical, and
chemical characters, the assemblage of which forms the
specific character.
    We have excluded from this character every thing con
nected with fugitive accidents, such as colours, when they
are owing to a principle which is only interposed in the
substance.
    In the detail of the geometrical characters, care has been
taken to indicate not only the direction of the natural joints,
but also the greater or less facility of obtaining them, their
difference of neatness in one and the same crystal, and
those, in short, whose positions are only presumed.            In
addition to this, we have made known, in a note, the re
spective dimensions of the molecule, and all that may serve
as data for applying the theoretical calculus to the laws of
 decrements upon which the secondary forms depend.
     After the indication of the chemical characters, we have
 given the result of the analyses of the substance which
 seem to have merited most confidence.
    The table of varieties, which follows the characters, is
 generally divided into two sections, one of which contains
 the descriptions of the forms, and the other refers to the
 accidents of lights.        The forms are either determinable,
 i. c. susceptible of being described geometrically, from the
 number, the disposition and the mutual incidences of their
 faces, or indeterminable, i. e. produced by a confused or
  precipitated crystallization, so that geometry cannot de
  scribe them, and we can at most indicate the vague rela
  tions which exist between them and known objects; as
  when we say of a mineral that it is cylindrical, globular,
  granular, &c. and the last term of this kind of degradation
  of forms is expressed by the word amorphous, which de
  signates a substance in masses of a certain volume com
  pletely irregular.                                          The

                             On Crystallography.                                69
       The description of         every determinable variety presents
  successively       the   name     which it bears, conformably to the
  principles      of  the  method     of nomenclature which has been
  above explained,         the indication of its representative sign,
 that    of its figure, its synonymy, according to Rome de
  J'Isle or other crystallographers; and lastly, the measure
 ments of its principal angles.              When the structure of the
 variety     is complex,     we   add    to   its description explanations
  proper    for   better  understanding the results of the laws upon
  which it depends.
      The indications relative to colour and to transparency
 compose the second section, under the title of Effects of
  light*.       It is proper to remark on this subject, that any
 given form may offer successively all the varieties of co
 lour and transparency, and that, in return, every colour
 and every degree of transparency may be met with in every
 kind of form.           But it is unnecessary to overload the me
 thod with all these combinations.                    It is sufficient, if it
 presents a method of indicating that which exists in any
 given variety, to describe this variety completely.                        Thus
 the table of the characters of telesle contains implicitly all
 the following combinations : primitive limpid tele.tie ; uni
 tary red transparent telesie ; amorphous translucid telesie.
      When the name which we have adopted for one species
 of mineral has been applied to different species, from a de
 lusive resemblance, such as colour, we indicate these double
 applications in a particular table placed at the end of that
 of the varieties ; and I hope I shall be applauded for the
 tedious task which I have entered upon, in order to clear
 up the confusion which arose from these communications
 of one and the same name to substances so ill adapted to
 be associated with each other.
     Each article is terminated by annotations relative to the
 situation of the substances in the ground, to the researches
which have made us acquainted with them, to its physical
 properties, its uses in the arts, medicine, &c. I have even
 thought it right to present most of these objects more in
detail than has been generally done, so as to avoid the
dryness of too concise indications, without however giving
myself up to a multiplicity of details which would appear
to be misplaced in a treatise upon mineralogy.
                                [To  be continued.]
     *  We h»ve placed the word limpid at the head of effects of colours, be
cause it seemed natural to commence here by the privation           of character,
since it indicates that the substance is in the greatest possible state of purity.
                                         £3                            X. Pro-

                           [   70   ]
              X. Proceedings of Learned Societies,
                        ROVAL SOCIETY.
J UNK 28,     The President in the chair.   The conclusion of
M. DC 1'Isle's   paper on the poison of the bohan upas and
antea was read.      The emetic power of this, poison sug
gested to the author the propriety of making some experi
ments with other emetics, by injecting them into wounds
and blood-vessels in the same manner as he did the upas.
 Ipecacuanha and tartar emelic were injected, and both pro
duced very violent eflccts, particularly llie latter j but they
were not so destructive to animal life as the upas.         On
dissecting the bodies of the animals killed by injecting this
poison, and comparing them with the effects of common
 emetics, he was led to conclude that the upas does not kill
by any specific action on the nerves, but that, by acting on
 the blood only, it is so instantaneously destructive to ani
mal life.
     A paper from Mr. Good was read, describing the nature
 of the horny concretions- which appeared all over the skin
of a heifer exhibited in London last year. The head, neck,
 and shoulders of this animal were thickly covered with
 little horns of various length and thickness, some of them
 nearly three inches long.    It appears that these horns were
 chiefly composed of calcareous matter, and that one-fourth
of them was of an animal nature.
     July 5, Dr. Wollaston read a paper on a peculiar species
of urinary calculus, which he called cystic oxide, only two
 specimens of which he has been able to procure.           The
 cystic oxide dissolves in solutions of all the alkalies, but
 not in saturated carbonate of ammonia.      Dr. VV. also took
 occasion to correct some essential errors in- his paper on
 calculi, which appealed in the Philosophical Transactions
 for 17U7; subsequent experience having convinced him that
 phosphate of lime and phosphate of magnesia rarely or
never exist together in the same calculus.
     A paper on muriatic acid, by Mr. Davy, was read. The
object of Mr. Davy's paper was to detail some new facts'
 respecting the muriatic acid. Finding that charcoal, though
ignited to whiteness, will not burn or decompose oxy-
muriatic acid gas, he was led to institute experiments to
determine whether oxygen could be procured from it by
any means: and the results of his inquiries are, that there
is no proof whatever of its containing that substance.
Muriatic acid gas may be decomposed into oxyinuriatic
                                                           acid

       Imperial Society of Natural History of Moscow.          J1
acid and hydrogen ; and recomposed ifrom these bodies.
In all cases in which oxygen gas is procured from oxy-
muriatic acid gas, water is present : and the oxygen is fur
nished by the water; and hydrogen is always combined
with the oxymuriatic acid gas; so that, as inflammable
bodies decompose water by. attracting oxvgen, so oxymu
riatic acid decomposes it by attracting hydrogen. Mr. Davy
has detailed some experiments which render it probable
that the body called hyperoxymuriatic acid is in fact the
simple basis of the muriatic compounds, and that it forms
oxymuriatic     acid by uniting to hydrogen, and common
inuriatic acid gas by uniting to more hydrogen.
    In attempting to decompose oxymuriatic acid gas by the
combustion of phosphorus and the action of ammonia,
Mr. Davy discovered a very singular cortipound; which,
though composed of rtxymuriaticl acid and ammonia with
a little phosphorus, is neither fusible, volatile, nor decom
posable at a white heat ; neither soluble in acid nor alkaline
menstrua; and possessed of no taste or smell.
     Mr. Davy has detailed nine modes of decomposing
common salt, founded upon these new facts, and has
formed nine deductions from them respecting the com
position of chemical agents in general.
   A paper on pus, by Dr. Pearson, was read. Previously
to the author's observations and experiments,' a brief his
torical account was given of what has been already done
on the subject. The conclusions among many others are :
That the pus consists essentially of three aiflerentsubstances',
viz. An opake animal oxide, seemingly already self-coagu
lated; -matter analogous to the coagulable lymph of the
blood, but in a different state of aggregation. 2. Innumerable
spherical particles, seen with the microscope, separable by
chemical asrents from the other parts.         3. A limpid co
agulable liquid,    in manv   properties similar to the serum of
blood.     The saline impregnations are the same as those of
serum of blood and expectorated          matter, especially mu
riate of soda, neutralized potash, and the phosphates of
lime.     Various other substances are frequently found in
pus,   which are considered to be accidental, and depend upon
different diseases.
   The Society then adjourned till Thursday the 8th of
November.
 IMPERIAL SOCIETY       OK NATURAL HISTORY         OF MOSCOW.
   M. Fischer, president of this society, has published the
following short account of their labours for the last four
                              E  4                          years.

>
72       Imperial Society of Natural History of Moscow,
years. This sketch is arranged under the following heads :
I.  Labours and Undertakings of the Society.      II. Mis
cellanies.  III. Promotions and Rewards. IV. Necrology.
V. Literary Novelties.     VI. Minutes of the Society, and
Report of the Presents made to the Society and to the Mu
seum of the Imperial University. The following are the
contents of the lirst branch of ihcir labours.
     Journey  to Siberia undertaken at t/ie expense of the Society.
    —This   expedition set out on the Qth of February 180<). and
    is to last three years.  It is composed of Professor Tauber,
    who is known from his description of the valley of Plauen
    in Saxony 5 M.James Mohr, known from his travels in
    Germany, France, England, and Sweden; and M. Helm,
    botanist and chemist, known by his description of several
    new plants, and by several analyses: this is his second visit
    to Siberia.    These gentlemen are accompanied by two pu
    pils,  Messrs.  Kotoroffand Leslivsky, and they are provided
    with every necessary, such as books, charts, instruments,
    and a chemical laboratory.      They were to be occupied the
    first year with the Ouxa) chain of mountains; the second,
    with that of the Altai ; the third, with the mountains of
    the Daourie ; and, if circumstances will permit them, they
    will also visit Kainschatka.      The profound erudition and
    zeal of the above gentlemen afford reason to hope for
    some important discoveries.        They are also accompanied
    by   a  draftsman,   and by  a  person who is acquainted with
    the art of stuffing and preserving animals.
   Description of the Government of Moscow. — His Im
perial Majesty having given five thousand roubles to be
expended in examining the immense district which goes
by this name, the professors of Moscow have recently
visited several parts of the country with this view.   The
following is an account of what has been already done :
Some astronomical antl trigonometrical observations have
been repeated at Moscow, and hi some districts of the go
vernment, such as Svenigorod berta, Moja;sk,' Riousa,            by-
professors Goldbach and Pamhner, attached to the reposi
tory for charts at St. Petersburg)!.   The latter has also
established, at the expense of the society, barometers and
thermometers at the above places, in order te obtain some
useful observations,
   M. Fischer undertook the natural history department           :
he was accompanied in his excursion        M. Drouginine,
                                              by
secretary to the society;  and     M. Gorkc, one of the
                                      by
pupils at the university of Moscow.      From the lateness
                                                                of

      Imperial Society of Natural History of Moscow.                     73
jrtf the season they procured but few plants or insects, but
 they were more fortunate in their mineralogical pursuits.
  Petrifactions of all kinds, several mineral sprinsrs rich in
  iron and carbonic acid, a good clay for earthenware, La
  brador stone, garnets in granite and in gneus, granatite
  in gneus, and a new earthy substance, were procured by
  them.     This new substance is of a very fine lavender blue,
  and is found in veins several lines thick between layers of
  cimolite, which in some places forms the transition to a
  true mountain cork. Sometimes it is found on round
  masses of flint, sometimes fossil shells are found in            it,
                                                                    and
  pectinites which are wholly black and changed into flint.
  This substance contains,            according to the analyses of
  Messrs. Helm and Muller, lime, alumine, and phosphoric
  acid.    It  forms, therefore,        a new species adjoining the
  Apaiite, and      it has been designated       bythe name of Ratof-
   kite, from the place where M. Fischer resides.
      Mr. Davy's experiments. — M. Jacquin in                 letter to
                                                              a
  M. Fischer informs him, that in concert with his friends
   the director Schreibers, colonel Tihursky, and M.Bremser,
  he repeated the recent experiments of Mr. Davy with suc
   cess.   They generally made use of        a    battery with vertical
   piles composed of 1300 pairs of disks, which were generally
   three inches in diameter, and formed together 70 square
   feet of surface in contact: — the experiment succeeded how
   ever with 30O pairs of disks, and        it   was even perceptible
   with 70 pairs. One        of  the  processes adopted       by
                                                             the above
   gentlemen seems to be somewhat novel               : they placed in
 a    wine glass    asmall piece of alkali moistened in the air, on
   a small plate    of  platina which communicates with the hy
   drogen pole, and which was entirely covered with rectified
   petroleum.      Finally, they placed on the alkali        thin plate
                                                              a
   of platina,  and   pressed     with
                                  it    a metallic rod communicating
   with the oxygen pole.           The effects being remarked, bub
    bles of   air   were   extricated    as in the first experiment       ;
    sometimes    there   were  trifling  detonations  ; and some time
    afterwards they found the whole of the inferior surface of
    the alkali strewed with small scales having           ametallic ap
    pearance like those which are seen floating in the petroleum.
    This preparation     isvery beautiful, particularly when placed
    in the microscope.        It   isnot combined easily with mer
    cury for globule adhering to the point of the brass wire,
       ;        a
    when plunged in mercury, was not detached, and after
    wards detonated      inwater as before.
       In the experiment last described, the place of the platina
    may be supplied      by   flat piece of charcoal.
                              a                           The diamond
                                                                     and

?4         Imperial Society of Natural History of MoscouH
and   sulphur are not conductors of the electric fluid, amds
produce 110 effect.     The experiment does not succeed
better in vacuo than in the open air.       What is this sub"
stance (M.Fischer asks) which resembles a metal?            Is
it the alkali reduced, or ooe of its constituent parts, which
being combined with oxygen represents            as Mr. Davy      it,
seems to think     or,?
                                  Is
                            hydrurct
                                  it  of potash   But whence       ?
this metallic appearance?"
   Miscellanies.—Their majesties the Emperor Alexander                       I.
and the King of Prussia have examined with great interest
the skeleton of the mammoth brought from the shores of
the Lena      M. Adams *.-
                 by
   M. Tilesius, associate of the academy, well known for
his talent at painting objects in natural history, has pre
pared 40 folio drawings of the mammoth.         His observa
tions do not seem to coincide entirely with those of
Cuvier.
  The meteorological      observations from Moscow prove
that the cold was greatest in the night between the        th                1
                                                                             1
and 12lh of January. Dr. Rehman froze mercury in                                 a'
saucer    exposed to the air.   Count Bontourline observed
that the mercury in three of his thermometers was frozen,
and sunk into the bowl.       But in      thermometer which
                                                      a
was not frozen, he found that from six in the morning to
six   inthe evening, on the 12th of January, the cold was at
35° of Reaumur.      M. Roger, of Troitsk, observed    at 34            it
degrees before the mercury was frozen.
   The botanist Frederick Fischer, and M. La ngsdorff asso
ciate of the academy, who accompanied Krus'enstern in his
voyage round the world, are occupied with        work on the       a
Ferns; They have prepared drawings of several new species.
   M. Fischer, the professor and director of the academy,                        is
collecting materials for      comparative eraniognosy.
                                        a                An
accurate knowledge of the cranium, as one of the chief
organs of animal organization, will fill tip an important
chasm in comparative anatomy.         The craniology of Dr.
Gall will only be made nse of in order to demonstrate the
influence of the brain on the form of the excavations of the
skull.       will appear in Latin and French, accompanied
            It
with engravings.
   M. Mohs has made         mineralogical excursion through
                                    a
Carinthia, Carniola, Sec. He has been particularly occu
pied with the situation of the lead mines at Villach.
   The Imperial Academy of Pctersburgh proposed        prize            a
                          « See   Phil. Mae. vol xxix. p.   HI.
                                                                                 *£

       tfottcei respecting     New Books, — Electric Column.        75
of   100 ducats for the best memoir on the following subject :
"    Give an easy method for ascertaining, independent of all
knowledge of botany, poisonous plants in an indubitable
manner."        Three memoirs were consequently given in;
but the prize has not been awarded to either.
     A similar prize has been offered for the best " chrono
logy of the Byzantine authors from the foundation of the
city of Constantinople to its conquest by the Turks." The
memoirs o.n the above subject must be transmitted to St.
Petersburgh on or before the 1st of July 1811.
                XI.   Notices respecting New Books.
rr\
 •*- HE Medical Society of London have in the press a vo
lume of memoirs, containing several valuable communica
tions, in medical and surgical science, from eminent resi
dent and corresponding members of the society.              The title
of the volume will be " Transactions of the Medical Society
of London, Vol. I. Part I." and it will be accompanied by
engravings.        Part II. will appear in a few months after
wards, the society having come to the determination of
giving publicity to their transactions more frequently than
                                                                   ""
heretofore.
          XII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    DE LUC'S ELECTRIC COLUMN.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
                                                   July 23d,
          ILJ                                                1810.
SIR, — .[NOTWITHSTANDING the changes which have hap
pened in the state of the atmosphere, the small bells, which
are in communication with De Luc's electric column, have
continued to ring without ceasing, as far as my observa
tions have gone, from the 25th ol March to this day.               Al
though     we  have   of  lale. had heavy  rain accompanied      with
ihunder and lightning, we have not had any very damp
weather, which I imagine is the most likely to stop the mo
tion of the small clapper, by depositing moisture on the
insulating parts of the apparatus. — If you, or any of your
readers, are acquainted with a method of preparing varnish
of a better insulating power than those varnishes mentioned
in Cavallo's Treatise on Electricity, I shall be glad to have
it communicated to me, and others who are interesting
themselves in making experiments with this new column.
                                                              I  wish.

    76          The Opulent   Blind.— Artificial Cold.
       I wish here to correct a mistake which I made in the ac-»
   count of the electric column printed in your Magazine for
   March last* I there have miscalled the ends of the co
   lumn : that which I have named the zinc end should have
   been named the silver end, and the contrary.        So that the
   effects on the electrometer of the coated jar were, respect
   ing the plus and minus states, just what might have been
   imagined they would be. The mistake arose owing to the
   silver and paper being connected together j for> had the
   two metals been united, and the paper separate, the instru
   ment would then have resembled more the usual Construc
   tion of a Galvanic trough ; and I should not, I imagine,
   have been led into any error respecting the names of the
   ends or poles of it.        I remain, &c.
                                              B. M. Forster.
                        THE OPULENT BLIND.
      The plan to which we alluded in our last has been since
  published in a prospectus. For the purpose of this humane
  institution a convenient house has been taken at No. 5,
  Prospect Place, Lambeth.        The prospectus states : That
  under the patronage of his royal higness the Duke of Sus
  sex, a seminary is to be opened for the tuition of blind sub
 jects of the higher classes of society, where they may be
  taught reading, writing, the means of corresponding with
  distant friends, music, geography, the belles lettres, lan
 guages, the rudiments of the sciences generally, and such
 a familiar acquaintance with prevailing accomplishments^
 as will enable the blind of both sexes to partake of the in
 nocent amusements of society, including draughts, back
 gammon, chess, cards, dancing, &c. Among other addi
 tions to the plan of M. Haiiy, who succeeded in a similar
 attempt at Paris before the revolution, and on whose mo
del the institution professes to be formed, it adopts the idea
of its pupils deriving, from a constant and consoling illus
 tration of the Gospels, those dispositions to habitual cheer
fulness and content which they are so eminently calculated
 to excite when contemplated properly.
                         ARTIFICIAL COLD.
      Professor  Leslie,  of Edinburgh, in following out        3
series of experiments on the relations of air and moisture,
has within these few weeks been led to a very singular and
important discovery.       Without any expenditure of mate
rials, he can, by means of a simple apparatus, in which the
action of certain chemical powers is combined, freeze a
                                                            mass

             Supposed  New Earth. — Craniology.                77
mass     of water, and keep it for an indefinite length of time
in the state of ice. In the space of an hour he has, on a
small scale, formed a cake of ice 6 inches in diameter, and
three quarters of an inch thick.        With very little trouble
he can produce a permanent cold of 90 degrees of Fahren
heit below the temperature of the air, and might easily push
it to 100 or even 110. The professor is now engaged in
prosecuting these fruitful researches, and will soon, we
 nope, favour the public with an account of his process, and
 of the chief results.
                     SUPPOSED     NEW EARTH.
      M. Vinterl, of Pest in Hungary, has lately sent to the
 French Institute several specimens of an earth which he
 conceived to be new, and to which he gave the name of
 Andronia. A committee of the Institute, consisting of
 Messrs. Fourcrov, Guyton Morveau, Berthollet, and Vau-
 quelin, have analysed this substance, and have determined
 that it is merely a compound of silex, lime, alumine, potash,
 and iron.
               ^           CRANIOLOGY.
      The following observations have been published in the
 foreign journals on the system of craniology by M. Gall.
      1. The Italian poet Dolce, who died in 1568, in his dia
 logue on the means of preserving and strengthening the
 memory, alludes to a head which is represented at page 8
 of the Venice editions of 1562 and 1586, the cranium of
 which is divided and figured according to M. Gall's sy
 stem j and under this wood-cut we read the following in
 scription :   "  In questa tu vedi ove 6 il senso commune,
 ove la fantasia, la cogitativa, la imaginativa, la stimulativa,
  Ja memorativa : ed anco l'odorato e il gusto."
      2. The grand chancellor of Denmark, Schumacher,
  count GrifTenfield, who died in 1699, must have practised
  cranioscopy with success, if we may credit M. Wedel
  Simonson, the author of a dissertation read before the me
  dical society of Copenhagen.       The same gentleman (M.
  Schumacher)      maintained   a  medical  disputation in 1650,
   De nervis ; Bartholin being then president of the above so
  ciety.
      3. Frenair (a French author) says in his biography of
   Laurence Sterne, who died in 1768, and which was pre
   fixed to the French translation of Sterne's works,   "  that an
   eminent surgeon had dissected the brain of Laurence
   Sterne, under the persuasion that he would find something
  extraordinary in its configuration."
      4. Swcdenborg, who died in 1774, taught that good or
                                                               bad

  78             List of Patents for  new Inventions.
 bad qualities had an influence on the form of the crat
 nium .
      5. The principal theorem of M. Gall, that the brain im
 presses on the cranium its different forms, is also to be
  found in the " Fragment Physiognomiques" of Lavater,
 Leipsic, 1775 — 1778.
     A German traveller   has recently discovered in the neighr
 bourhood of the Red      Sea the ruins of the ancient city of
 Dscherrasch, probably     the Gerusa of antiquity.     He found
 the remains of several    public edifices, two amphitheatres,
 several palaces,  a temple, 8cc.
                              DEATH.
     Geology and natural history have       lately sustained a se
 vere loss by the premature death of        Mr. William Martin
 of Macclesfield, Cheshire, a     member of the Geological So
 ciety of London, and author of a most useful work, " Out
 lines of an Attempt to establish a Knowledge of extraneous
 Fossils on scientific Principles," in octavo; and also of
 " Petrificata Derbiensia, or Figures and Descriptions of Pe
trifactions cpllected in Perbyshire," in 4to. with calqured
           of which 52 are contained in the 1st volume pub-
   ished less than a year before his death.
Iilates;                                       We are truly con
 cerned to learn that Mr. Martin has left a wife and young
 family without means of support ; the profession he fol
 lowed, that of a drawing-master, as commonly happens
in country places, not having proved very lucrative. We
should rejoice to hear that any considerable progress has
been niude by Mr. M. towards a second, volume of the
above highly interesting and useful work, and that some
means were devised by the friends of geological science to
alleviate the situation of his widow and prphan children,
          LIST OF PATENTS      FOR  NEW INVENTIONS,
     To the Rev. Henry Liston, of Ecclesmachcn, in Scot
land, and Charles Broughton, of Edinburgh, writer to
the signet, for improvements in the construction of or
gans. — July 3, 18i0.
     To Samuel Hill, of Serle-street, London, Esq., for a
method of joining stone pipes in a more effectual manner
than has been before discovered. — July 3.
     To James Hall, of Walthamstow, for a method of
manufacturing a material from the twigs or branches of
broom, mallows, and rushes, and other shrubs or plants of
the like species, to be used instead of flax or bernp ; and
for the same purposes for which flax and hemp are now
used. — July 3.                                                To

             List of Patents for  -new Inventions.          79
   To John Kent, of Southampton, architect, for certain
improvements in the method of making artificial; stone. —
July 3.
   To Robert Howden, of Providence-row,             Finsbury-
square, baker, for an improved method of extracting foul
air out of ships, whereby a constant succession of fresh
air will be introduced ; and at the same time moderating
the degree of heat according to the climate.       And also of
extracting the font air from mines and pits of every de
scription,   and of regulating the degree of heat, and of
giving heat and a constant succession of .fresh air to
nouses in general. — July 3.
   To William Shakespear, of Birmingham, and Thomas
Osier the younger, of the same place, for an improved
method, or methods, of manufacturing glass or paste
drops for chandeliers, lamps, and lustres. — July 5.
   To Richard Varley, of Cheadle Mosley, in the county of
Chester, for certain new additions to and improvements
upon the machinery now in use for the roving, spinning,
doubling, and twisting, of cotton, silk, flax, wool, mo
hair, and other materials used for the manufacture of twist,
thread, or other kind of yarn. — July 7-
   To George Hall, of the Strand, goldsmith, for certain
improvements in the art of working and making spoons,
forks, and such other articles of gold, silver, or other
metals, as usually are or may be stamped or struck by
means of seats and punches, or dies of any kind or de
scription j and likewise in the tools or instruments to be
used in carrying the said improvements into effect and prac
tice. — July 18.
   To Ralph Wedgwood, of Oxford-street, for his new
character for language, numbers, and music, and the me
thods of applying the same. — July 18.
   To George Stebbing, of Portsmouth, mathematical in
strument maker, for certain improvements on the action
and other parts of sea and land compasses. —July 18. '
   To Benjamin Agerday, of Handsworth, Staffordshire,
for improvements in the construction of a toast-stand, (for
the purpose of holding a plate before the fire,) a hearth
brush or dust brush, and toasting fork, and occasionally
in combining or uniting ihe said brush and toasting fork in
pne utensil or article.— July 18.
                                                      METEO

80                             (                          Meteorology.
                                              meteorological table,
                        By Mb. Cabey, of the Strand,
                                                    For       July   1810.
                            Thermometer.
                                                    o          Height of        DegreesofDry.
                                                                                                  Hygrometer.
 Days of                                            o *-»
                                                         ,
                        o'Clock,
                                   Morning.
                                               Qe                                                                   Weather.
 Month.                                             u         the Barom.
                                                                                nessby Leslie's
                                                         ¦&
                                              1     °g          Inches.
                        8
June        27          57                    64°   59°        29'96               30                           Fair
            28          59                    69    66            •99              50                           Fair
            29          66                    68    56           •99               10                           Showery
            30          60                    72    63         30-10               60                           Fair
     July    1          64                    74    66           •07               65                           Fair
                        60                    74    64         29-81               70                           Fair
            6 5 4 3 2
                        60                    66    55           •45                                            Rain
                        61                    56    54                                0 0
                                                                 •36                                            Showery
                        60                    67    64           '79              51                            Showery
                        64                    70    62           •98             62                             Fair
                        65                    74    64           •99             65                             Fair
            8 7                               60    55           •80             10                             Rain
                        67
            9           60                    70    58           •88             52                             Fair
        10              66                    69    64           •75             35                             Fair
            11          65                    75    62           •54             66                             Stormy
            12          60                    70    60           •60             49                             Showery
        13              63                    71    64           •56             68                             Showery
        14              66                    69    57           •75                0                           Showers with
        15              64                    69    56           ¦80             36                             Ditto [thunder
        16              66                    68    55           •93            48                              Fair
        17              56                    64    52           •55            33                              Cloudy
        18              52                    65    55           •70            44                              Fair
        19              56                    66    52           •80            62                              Fair
        20              56                    65    54           •80            60                              Fair
                        52                    63    52           •94            45                              Cloudy
        22              53                    64    57        30-11             46                              Fair
        23              57                    70    54           •16            70                              Fair
        24              58                    70    57          •14             53                              Fair
        26              59                    73    64        29-96             40                              Showers
        26              66                    63    60          •64               0                             Rain
             N. B. The Barometer's height                            is   taken at one o'clock.

                               C  81   ]
         XIV.   On Pendulums.     By Ez. Walker,     Esq.
  The     mechanism of pendulums is a subject which has of
   Jate years attracted much attention ; but whether any real
   improvements have been made since the days of Harrison,
  is a question on which there are various opinions.       Rods
. of zinc, pewter,      lead, and other soft metals have been
  substituted for those of brass, to reduce the gridiron pen
  dulum to a more simple form : but it has been found by
   experience that some of those soft metals, when under the
  pressure of the weight of the lens, do not long retain the
  same power of expansion and contraction.
      The late Mr. James Bullock, a very ingenious clock-
  maker, and a man of much experience, told me, that brass
   and steel were the only metals he could rely on, in the
  construction of compound pendulums.
      The gridiron pendulum is constructed on the supposition
  that it is kept invariably of the same length by rods of
  different metals, which have their lengths duly propor
  tioned to their expansions and contractions; but late
  writers have advanced several objections to this mode,
  of compensation. The principal of these objections are :
   1st, The length of the pendulum may be increased           by
  its weight.    Sclly, Where the rods pass through the con
  necting bars there is some friction, which causes them
  to move by starts, and not according to the increase and
  decrease of heat: and, 3dly, The difficulty of exactly ad
  justing the lengths of the rods.       But there is another
  source of error in this pendulum, which has not, I believe,
  been attended to hy writers on this subject.
      Suppose that the distance between the centre of the lens
  and the point of suspension were not to suffer any change
  by the vicissitudes of heat and cold, still the length of the
  pendulum might vary. For as the ends of the compensation
  jods are connected by cross pieces, and as all these, except
  one, are put in motion by every variation in the tempera
  ture of the air, some moving in a direction contrary to the
  others ; therefore it is evident, that the motions of these
   cross bars must alter the distance between the point of
  suspension and the centre of oscillation,        unless their
  heights be adjusted according to their motions to and from
  the point of suspension.
      Suppose the cross piece which connects the two extreme
   rods of the gridiron pendulum be fixed to the centre of
  the lens, and that the expansions of steel and brass be as
      Vol. 36. No. IAS. August 1810.            F          three

85                          07i Pendulitms.
three to five   : then, if the expansion of one of the extreme
steel rods raises the top bar three degrees nearer the point
of suspension, the brass rod, which is joined to the steel
rod at the top, will remove the cross bar fixed to its lower
end, only two degrees from the same point.
    To investigate the ratio of the weights of these cross
pieces, that the centre of gravity of the pendulum may re
main at the same distance from the point of suspension,
 in all degrees of heat ;— L<* CG represent an inflexible
lever, considered as without weight, kept in equilibrio upon
 the fulcrum F, by three weights, A, B, and W. And let
 CF=x, DF = y, and FG = z.
       C                                      D         F        &
                                                                 i
       6
       A
                                              O
                                              B                Ow
    Then per mechanics Axx + B xy=W xz, or Ax+Bff
 =Wx. And supposing x and y to flow in contrary di
rections, we have x + xx A + y—y xB=Wz = Ax + By.
Therefore,     Ax = By,      and consequently, A : B : : y : £.
    Hence, if    the weights of the cross pieces be inversely as
their motions, they will not alter the distance of the centre
of gravity from the point of suspension, and            " the distance
of the centre of suspension from the centre of percussion
or oscillation,     in the same body, will always remain the
same ;    if the distance of its centre of gravity from the
point of    suspension, and the plane of its motion (in regard
 to the body) remain the same*."
    This alteration might improve the gridiron pendulum ;
but it would be very difficult to exhibit a theorem com
 pletely accurate for a mode of compensation                 which is
 liable to so many irregularities.            A pendulum of a more
 simple construction, and that might be more easily ad
justed for heat and cold, is still an object that merits the
 attention of the astronomer.
     The mercurial pendulum is founded on principles more
 simple and correct than any other compound pendulum
 that has yet been invented ; but the manner of construct
 ing it with a glass rod has prevented its being more gene
  rally used in the best clocks.          This objection is now ob
  viated, by the application of a steel rod with a glass vessel
  attached to it containing quicksilver, so that when the
                      • Iimerstra'i Fluxions, page 318.
                                                                   -fteel

                                 On Pendulums.
steel rod expands downwards the quicksilver expands up
wards, and vice versa. The rate of the clock will show
whether the pendulum be over or under corrected ; conse
quently by taking a little quicksilver out of the bob, or
adding a little, the compensation may be adjusted to the
utmost degree of exactness, and with very little trouble.
   It may be supposed that a pendulum cannot be adjusted
for heat and cold by the going of the clock, but the rate of
my clock shows that this supposition is not well founded ;
for when a wooden pendulum was attached to            its rate                       it,
of going was affected merely        dryness and moisture;
                                                        by
but with a  mercurial pendulum its rate was affected only                                                 by
beat and cold, the pendulum being       small matter under     a
corrected; but this variation in its rate during twelve
months was very little more than one second per day,                                                     al
though the temperature of the outward air did not vary
less, oy Fahrenheit's scale, than 70 degrees.
   The following register of the going of this clock was
computed from the sun's transits over the meridian, ob
served with    3{ feet transit telescope.
               a
 Lynn, July   16, 1810.                                                  E. WALKER.
   P. S. For an account of the greatest annual variation in
the daily rate of the transit clock at the Royal Observatory
for six years, see Phil. Mag. vol. xxxiv.    4.                     p.
An Account      of                                  a     Clock with a mercurial
                                                by of
                     theGoing
                Pendulum made                           Mr. Barraud.
                      Daily      No. of                              Daily      No. of
        1809.         Rate of
                                 Days
                                                   1    809.         Rate of
                                                                                Day*.
                    the Clock.                                     the Clock.
      June     27     //                                               //
      July          + 014            4           Aug.        26    + 036
                                                                                 6 8 5 3 4 2 6 2 8 4 3
                1
                4      030           3                       30      0^35
               11      0-55                      Sept.               022
                                     2 7
                                                               7
               13      0-37                                   9      0-42
               14     038            1                       15      020
               16     018           2                        17      0-28
              19      016           3                        21      0-53
              26      030                                    84      0-54
                                  6 4 5 e 3 7
              31      029                                    29      0-48
     Aug.      8      0*44                      Oct.         I       043
              13      o-   0                                         040
                                                             8 7
              17      0-28                                           041        l
              231     0-20                                11         010         3
                                            f      e                                               Tabu

84                    On Bendulurhs.
                    Table (Continued).
                Daily   No. of              Daily   No. of
     1809.    Rate of            18IO.    Rate of
                                                    Days.
                        Days.
             the Clock.                  the Clock.
       -
                 //                          ii
              + 0-38      15   April 11  + 1-18       13
   Nov.    7    044       12         16     ri8        5
           9    042        2         18     1-08       2
         15     051        6         20     1-00       2
         16     0-37       1         22     0-75       2
         19     0-59       3         23     0-88       1
         21     0-45       S         25     0-44       2
         24     0-93       3         27     027        2
         27     079        3         28     Oig        1
   Dec.    2    0"82       5         29     0-23       1
           4    068        2   May-    1    0-29       2
         10     083        6           8    0-52       7
         13     091        3         11     0-56       3
         15     085        2         13     0-55       a
         21      114       6         14     0-55       i
         28     089        7         18     0-63       4
                                     SO     0-62       2
                                     21     0-39        ]
     1810.
                                     83     0-44       2
                                     25     0-29        2
   Jan.    1  + 085        4
                                     26     0-39        1
           5    0-75       4
                                     27     0 3)        1
         10     0-62       5
                                     30     0-23       3
         18     099        8
                               June    1    024        2
   Feb.    4     111      17
                                       8    008        7
           S    09O         1
                                     14     0-32       6
         10      1-17      5
                                     18     0-33       4
         14      1'22      4
                                     21     0-31       3
         19      1-04      5
                                     25     0'15       4
         21      1-09      2
                                     sg     013        4
         26      1*21      5
                               July    i    0M4        2
   Mar.  11      T24      13
                                       7    0*14       6
         18      105       7
                                       g    0*14       2
         22      1-16      4
                                     12     016        3
         23     0 96       1
         25     0-88       2
         29      1-08      4
                                                     XV.   The.

                                    [    83  ]
XV.       The Bakerian Lecture for 1 809.             On some new Elec
     trochemical Researches on various Objects, particularly
,    the metallic Bodies, from the Alkalies, and Earths,
     and on some Combinations of Hydrogen.                        By Hum
     phry Davy, Esq.           Sec.   R.S.  F.R.S.E. M.R.I.A.
                             [Concluded from p. 32.]
                      IV.   On the Metals      of Earths.
I    have tried
             the
                       a number of experiments with the hopes of
                   same distinct evidences of the decomposition
gaining
of the common, earths, as those afforded by the electro
chemical processes on the alkalies, and the alkaline earths,
      I find that when iron wire ignited            to whiteness, by the
power of         1000   double plates, is negatively electrified and
fused in contact with either silex,alumine or glucine, slightly
 moistened and placed in hydrogen gas; the iron becomes
brittle and whiter, and affords by solution in acids, an
 earth of the same kind as that which has been employed
in the experiment.
      I have passed potassium in vapour through each of these
 earths, heated to whiteness in a platina tube : the results
 were remarkable, and perhaps not unworthy of being fully
 detailed.
      When silex was employed, being in the proportion of
 about ten grains to four of potassium, no gas was evolved,
 except the common air of the tube mingled with a little
 inflammable gas, not more than might be referred to the
moisture in the crust of alkali, formed upon the potassium.
 The potassium* was entirely destroyed; and glass with
  excess of alkali was formed in the lower part of the tube;
 when this glass was powdered, it exhibited dark specks,
  having a dull metallic character not unlike that of the pror
 toxide of iron.         When the mixture was thrown into water,
 there was only a very slight effervescence; but on the ad
 dition of muriatic acid to the water, globules of gas were
 slowly liberated, and the effect continued for nearly an
      • The results of this experiment are opposed to the idea that potassium
  is a compound    of hydrogen aud potash or its basis ; for if so, it might be
  expected that the hydrogen would be disengaged by the attraction of the
  alkali for silex. In my first experiments on this combination, 1 operated
  in an apparatus connected with water, and I found that the potassium
  produced as much hydrogen as if it had been made to act upon water ; in
  this case the metal had rapidly decomposed the vappur of the water, which
  must have been constantly supplied.
                                       F  3                             hour  •

86            On some new Electrochemical Researches
hour;      so that tlu-re is great reason to believe, that the silex
had been either entirely or partially deoxygenated, and was
slowly reproduced by the action of the water, assisted by
the slight attraction of the acid for the earth.
     When the potassium was in the quantity of six grains,
and the silex of four grains, a part of the result inflamed
 spontaneously as it was taken out of the tube, though the
 tube was quite cool, and left, as the result of its combustion,
 alkali and silex. The part which did not inflame, was
 similar in character to the matter which has been just de
 scribed, it did not act upon water, but effervesced with
 muriatic acid.
      Potassium in acting upon alumine and glucine, produced
 more hydrogen than could be ascribed to the moisture pre
 sent in the crust of potash ; from which it seems probable
 that even alter ignition, water adheres to these earths.
      The results of the action of the potassium were pyro-
 phoric substances of a dark gray colour, which burnt,
 throwing off brilliant sparks *, and leaving behind alkali
  and earth, and which hissed violently when thrown upon
  water, decomposing it with great violence.             I examined the
  products in two experiments, one on alumine, and one on
  glucine, in which naphtha was introduced into the platina
  tube, to prevent combustion ; the masses were very friable,
  and presented small metallic particles, which were as soft
  as potassium, but so small that they could not be separated,
  so as to be more minutely examined ; they melted in boil
  ing naphtha. Either a part of the potassium must have
  been employed in decomposing the earths in these experi
  ments, or it had entered into combination with them ;
  which is unlikely, and contrary to analogy, and opposed
  by some experiments which will be immediately related.
       Supposing the metal? of the earths to be produced in
  experiments of this kind, there was great reason to expect
   that they might be alloyed with the common metals, as
   well as with potassium.         Mercury was the only substance
   which it was safe to try in the tube of platina.            In all cases
   in which the potassium was in excess, I obtained amal
   gams by introducing mercury, whilst the tube was hot ;
   but the alkaline metal gave the characters to the amalgam,
    and though in the case of glucine and alumine, a \\hite
    ruaUcr separated during the action of very weak muriatic
       * The pyrophorus from alum, which I have supposed in the last Bakerian
    lecture to be a compoumd of potassium, sulphur, an J charcoal, probably
    couuiaslhU substance likewise.
                                                                        acid

                      on various Objects.                    b ?
acid upon the amalgam, yet I rould not be entirely satis
fied that there was any of the metals oftluse earths in
triple combination.
     Mixtures of the earths with potassium, inten-ely ignited
in contact with iron filings, and covered with iron Tilings
in a clay crucible, gave much more distinct results. Whe
ther silex, alrmine, or glucine was used, there was always
a fused mass in the centre of the crucible; and this mass
had perfectly metallic characters. It was in all cases much
whiter and harder than iron.        In the instance in which
 silex was used it broke under the hammer, and exhibited
 a crystalline texture.   The alloys from alumine and glu
 cine were imperfectly malleable.      Each afforded, by solu
 tion in acids, evaporation, and treatment with re-agents,
 oxide of iron, alkali, and notable quantities of the earth
 employed in the experiment.
     Though I could not procure decided evidences of the
 production of an amalgam, from the metals of the com
 mon earths, yet I succeeded perfectly by the same method
 pf operating, in making amalgams of the alkaline earths.
     By passing potassium through lime and magnesia, and
 then introducing mercury, I obtained solid amalgams,
 which consisted of potassium, the metal of the earth em
 ployed, a id mercury.
     The amalgam from magnesia was easily deprived of its
 potassium by the action of water.         It then appeared as a
 solid white metallic mass, which by exposure to the air
 became covered with a dry white powder, and which when
 acted upon by weak muriatic acid, gave off hydrogen gas
  in considerable quantities, and produced a solution of
 magnesia.
     By operations performed in this manner, there is good
  reason to believe, it will be possible to procure quantities
  of the metals of the alkaline earths, sufficient for determin
  ing their nature and agencies, and the quantities of oxygen
  which they absorb ; and by the solution of the alloys con
  taining the metals of the common earths, it seems pro
  bable, that vhe proportions of metallic matter in these
  bodies may likewise be ascertained.
     On an hypothesis which I have before brougjit before
  the Society, namely, that the power of chemical attraction
  and elcctncal action may     b,e different exhibitions of the
  i-ame properly of matter, and that oxygen and inflamma
  ble bodies arc in   relations of attraction which correspond
  to the lunction of being negative and positive respectively,
it   would follow that the attractions of acids for saliriable
                               F     4                    bases

     88           On some new Electrochemical             Researches
    bases     would be inversely as the quantity of oxygen that
     they contain ; and supposing the power of attraction to be
     measured by the quantity of basis which an acid dissolves,
     it would be easy to infer the quantities of oxygen and me
     tallic matter from the quantities of acid and of basis in a
     neutral salt.        On this idea I had early in 1808 concluded
    that barytes must contain least oxygen of all the earths,
    and that the order as to the quantity of inflammable matter
    must be strontites, potash, soda, lime, and so on j and that
    silex must contain the largest quantity of oxygen of all.
          If the most accurate analyses be taken, barytes may be
    conceived to contain about 90'5* of metal per cent, stron-
    tites 86 f, lime 7 3 5*, magnesia 66 %.
  .      The same proportion would follow from an application
    of Mr. Dalton's ingenious supposition§, that the proportion
    of oxygen is the same in ail protoxides, and that the quan
    tity of acid is the same in all neutral salts, i. e. that every
    neutral salt is composed of one particle of metal, one of
    oxygen, and one of acid.
         We are in possession of no accurate experiments on the
    quantity of acids required to dissolve alumine, glucine,
   and silex ; but according to Richter's estimation of the
    composition || of phosphate of alumine, alumine would
   appear to contain about 56 per cent, of metallic matter.
        * Mr. James
                     Thompson, Nicholson's Journal, 1809, p. 175, and Berthier.
       +  Mr. Cla; field. Thomson's Chemistry, vol. ii. p. G26, 629.
       t Murray's Chemistry, vol. iii. p. GIG.
       § The principle that 1 have stated of the affinity of an acid for a salifia
   ble basis being inversely as the quantity of oxvgcn contained by the basts,
   though gained from the comparison of the electrical relations of the earths,
   with their chemical affinities, in its numerical applications, must be consi
   dered merely as a consequence of Mr. Dalton's law of general proportions.
   Mr. Dalton had indeed, in the spring of 1803, communicated to me a series
  of proportions for the alkalies and alkaline earths; which, in the case of the
  alkalies, were not very remote from what I had ascertained by direct ex
  periments.      M. Gay Lussac's principle, that the quantity of acid in metallic
  salts is directly as the quantity of oxygen, might (as far as it is correct) be
 inferred from Mr. (Dalton's law, though this ingenious chemist states that he
  was led to it by different considerations.     According to Mr. Dalton, there
  is a proportion     of oxygen, the same in all protoxides, and there is a pro
  portion of acid, the same in all neutral salts ; and new proportions of oxy
 gen and of acid are always multiples of these proportions.           So that if a
 protoxide in becoming a deutoxide takes up more acid, it will be at least
 double the quantity, and in these cases the oxygen will be strictly as the
 acid.      Mr. Dalton's law even provides for cases to which M. Gay Lussac's
 will not apply, a deutoxide may combine with a single quantity of acid, or
 a protoxide with a double quantity.       Thus in the insoluble oxysulphat of
iron perfectly formed, (as some experiments which I have lately made seem
to show,) there is probably only a single proportion of acid ; and in the •
6uper-ta.-trite of potash there is only a single quantity of oxygen, and a
double quantity of acid.       Whether Mr. Dalton's law will apply to all casts,
is a question which I shall not in this place .attempt to discuss,
      || Thomson's Chemistry, vol. ii. p. 581,                         M. Ber-

                             on mrious Objects.                          89
    M. Berzcluis *, in a letter which I received from him a
few months ago, states, that in making an analysis of cast
iron, he found that it contained the metal of silex, and that
this metal in being oxidated took up nearly half its weight
qf oxygen.
     If  the composition of ammonia be calculated upon, ac
cording to the principle above stated, it ought to consist of
53 of metallic matter, and about 47                 f  or oxygen, which
agrees very nearly with               the quantity of hydrogen and
ammonia produced from the amalgam.
     Though the early chemists considered the earths and the
metallic oxides as belonging to the same class of bodies,
and the earths as calces which they had not found the
means of combining, with phlogiston, and though Lavoisier
insisted upon this analogy with his usual sagacity, yet still
the alkalies, earths, and oxides have been generally con
sidered as separate natural orders.            The earths, it has been,
said, are not precipitated by the triple prussiates, or by the
                            J
 solutions of galls ; and the alkalies and alkaline earths
are both distinguished by their solubility in water ; but if
such characters be admitted as grounds of distinct classi
fication, the common metals must he arranged under many
different divisions ; and the more the subject is inquired
into, the more distinct will the general relations of all me
 tallic substances appear.           The alkalies and alkaline earths
combine with prussic acid, and form compounds of dif
ferent degrees of solubility ; and solutions of barytes (as
 has been shown by Dr. Henry and M. Guytorf) precipitate
the triple prussiate of potash ; the power of combination is
general, but the compounds formed are soluble in different
degrees in water.             The case is analogous with solutions of
 galls ;    these,     as  I  have mentioned in a paper published in
 the Philosophical Transactions for 1805, are precipitated by
almost all neutrosaline solutions; and they form com
 pounds more or less soluble in water, more or less coloured,
 and differently coloured with all salifiable bases.                   It is
 needless to dwell upon the combinations of the alkalies and
    * In the   same communication this able chemist informed me, that he had
 micceeded    in decomposing the earths, by igniting them strongly with iron
 and charcoal.
    t  I take the proportions of the volumes from the very curious paper of
 M. Gay Luisac, on the combinations of gaseous bodies, Mcm. d'Arcucil,
 torn. ii. page yt.'J, and the weights from my own estimation, according to
 which 100 cubic inches of muriatic acid gas weigh 39 grains, at the mean
 temperature and pressure, which is very nearly the same as the weight
given by MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard.
    t KtapTvth, Annaks de Chimie, tome x, p. 277.
                                                                    earths,

  90           On some new Electrochemical Researches
  earths, with oils, to form soaps 5 and of the earthy soaps,
  some are equally insoluble with the metallic soaps. The
  oxide of tin, and other oxides abounding in oxygen, ap
  proach very near in their general characters to zircon, silex,
  and alumine ; and in habits of amalgamation, and of alloy,
'
  how near do the metals of the alkalies approach to the
  lightest class of oxidable metals !
      It will be unnecessary, I trust, to pursue these analogies
  any further, and I shall conclude this section by a few re
  marks on the alloys of the metals of the common earths.
      It is probable that these alloys may be formed in many
  metallurgical operations, and that small quantities of them
  may influence materially the properties of the compound
  in which they exist.
      In the conversion of cast into malleable iron, by the
  process of blooming, a considerable quantity of glass se
  parates, which, as far as I have been able to determine,
  from a coarse examination, is principally silex, alumine,
  and lime, vitrified with oxide of iron.
      Cast iron from a particular spot will make only cold
  short iron ; whilst, from another spot, it will make hot-
  short ; but by a combination of the two in due propor
  tions, good iron is produced ; may not this be owing to
  the circumstance of their containing different metals of the
  earths, which in compound alloy may be more oxidable
  than in simple alloys, and may be more easily separated
  by combustion ?
      Copper, M. Berzelius informs me, is hardened by sili-
  cium.      In some experiments that I made on the action of
   potassium and iron on silex, the iron, as I have mentioned
  before, was rendered white, and very hard and brittle, but
   it did not seem to be more oxidable.          Researches  upon
  this subject do not appear unworthy of pursuit, and they
   may possibly tend to improve some of our most important
  manufactures, and give new instruments to the useful arts.
       V.  Some Considerations    of Theory illustrated  by neiv
                                 Facts.
       Hydrogen is the body which combines with the largest
    proportion of oxygen, and yet it forms with it a neutral
   compound.       This, on the hypothesis of electrical energy,
•
   would show that it must be much more highly positive
   than any other substance ; and therefore, if it be an oxide,
   it is not likely that it should be deprived of oxygen by any
    simple chemical attractions.      The fact of its forming a
   substance approaching to an acid in its nature, when com
                                                             bined

                             on various Objects.                            91
bined with a metallic substance, tellurium, is opposed to
the idea of its being a gaseous metal, and perhaps to the
idea that it is simple, or that it exists in its common form
in the amalgam of ammonium. The phenomena presented
by sulphuretted hydrogen are of the same kind, and lead to
 similar conclusions.
     Muriatic acid gas, as I have shown, and as is furrher
 proved by the researches of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard,
 is a compound of a body unknown in a separate state, and
 water.       The water, I believe, cannot be decompounded,
 unless a new combination is formed : thus it is not changed
 by charcoal ignited in the gas by Voltaic electricity ; but
 it is decompounded by all the metals ; and in these cases
 hydrogen is elicited, in a manner similar to that in which
 one metal is precipitated by another ; the oxygen being
 found in the new compound.                    This, at first view, might
 be supposed in favour of the idea that hydrogen is a simple
  substance ; but the same reasoning may be applied to a
  protoxide as to a metal ; and in the case of the nitromu-
  riatic acid, when the nitrous acid is decomposed to assist
  in the formation of a metallic muriate, the bodv disengaged
  (nitrous gas) is known to be in a high state of oxyge
  nation.
      That nitrogen is not a metal in the form of gas, is al
  most demonstrated by the nature of the fusible substance
  from ammonia, and (even supposing no reference to be
  made to the experiments detailed in this paper) the general
  analogy of chemistry would lead to the notion of its being
  compounded.
      Should it be established by future researches that hydro
  gen is a protoxide of ammonium,                   ammonia a deutoxide,
   and nitrogen a tritoxide of the same metal, the theory of
   chemistry would attain a happy simplicity, and the existing
   arrangements would harmonize with all the new facts.
   The class of pure inflammable bases would be metals ca
   pable of alloying with each other, and of combining with
   protoxides.         Some of the bases would be known only in
   combination, those of sulphur, phosphorus*, and of the
                                                                       boracic,
      * The electrization of sulphur and phosphorus goes far to prove that
   they contain combined hydrogen.       Fr.nn the phenomena of the action of
   potassium upon them in my iirst experiments, I conceived that they con
   tained oxygen, though, as I have stated in the appendix to the last Balcerian
   lecture, the effects may be explained on a different supposition   The vivid
   ness of the ignition in the process  appeared an evidence in favour of their
   containing oxygen, till 1 discovered that similar phxuomena were produced
   by the combination of arsenic and telluiium with potassium. In some late
   experiments on the action of potassium on sulphur and phosphorus, and on
                                                                    sulphuretted
                        •                            i

  92            On some new Electrochemical Researches
  boracic, fluoric, and muriatic acids ; but the relations of
  their compounds would lead to the suspicion of their being
  metallic.     The salifiable bases might be considered either
 as protoxides, deutoxides, or tritoxides : and the general
  relations of salifiable matter, to acid matter, might be sup
 posed capable of being ascertained                by their relations to
 oxygen,     or  by  the  peculiar   state of  their  electrical energy.
     The whole tenour of the antiphlogistic doctrines neces
 sarily points to such an order; but in considering the facts
 under other points of view, solutions may be found, which,
 if not so simple, account for the phacnomena with at least
 equal facility.
     If hydrogen, according to an hypothesis to which I have
 often referred, be considered as the principle which gives
 inflammability, and as the cause of metallization, then our
 list of simple substances will include oxygen, hydrogen,
 and unknown bases only ; metals and inflammable solids
 will be compounds of these bases, with hydrogen; the
 earths, the fixed alkalies, metallic oxides, and the common
 acids, will be compounds of the same bases, with water.
     The strongest arguments in favour of this notion, in
 addition to those I have before stated, which at present
 occur to me, are: First, The properties which seem to be
 inherent in certain bodies, and which are either developed
 or concealed, according to the nature of their combinations.
 Thus snlphur, when it is dissolved in water either in com
 bination with hydrogen or oxygen, uniformly manifests
 acid properties ; and the same quantity of sulphur, whe
 ther in combination with hydrogen, whether in its simple
.form, or in combination with one proportion of oxygen,
 or a double proportion, from my experiments seems to
 combine with the same quantity of alkali.                     Tellurium,
 whether in the state of oxide or of hydruret, seems to have
 the same tendency of combination with alkali; and the
 alkaline metals, and the acidifiable bases, act with the
 greatest energy on each other.
 sulphuretted hydrogen, and nn phosphurettcd hydrogen, I find that the
 phxnomcna differ very much according to the circumstances of the experi
 ment, and in some instances I have obtained a target4 volume of gas from
 potassium after it had been exposed to the action of certain of these bodies,
 than it would have given alone. These experiments are still in progress,
 and I bhall soon lay an account of them before the Society. The idea of the
 existence of oxygen in sulphur and phosphorus is however still supported
 by various analogies. Their being nonconductors of electricity is one ar
 gument in favour of this. Potassium and sodium I find when heated in
 hydrogen, mixed with a small quantity of atmospheric air, absorb both
 piygcn and hydrogen, and become nonconducting inflammable bodies ana
 logous to resinous and oily substances.
                                                                    Second,

                            on various    Oljecls.
    Second,       The facility with which metallic substances
are    revived, in cases in which hydrogen is present.                        I
placed two platina wires, positively and negatively electri
fied from 500 double plates of six inches, in fused litharge j
there was an effervescence at the positive side, and a black
matter separated at the negative side, but no lead was pro
duced ; though when litharge moistened with water was
employed, or a solution of lead, the inetal rapidly formed :
the difference of conducting power may be supposed to
produce some difference of effect, yet the experiment is
favourable to the idea, that the presence of hydrogen is
essential to the production of the metal.
    Third, Oxygen and hydrogen are bodies that in all cases
seem to neutralize each other, and therefore in the products
of combustion it might be expected that the natural ener
gies of the bases would be most distinctly displayed, which
is the case ; and in oxymuriatic acid, the acid energy seems
to be blunted by oxygen, and is restored by the addition of
hydrogen.
    In the action of potassium and sodium upon ammonia,
though the quantity of hydrogen evolved in my experi
ments is not exactly the same as that produced by their
action upon water ; yet it is probable that this is caused by
the imperfection of the process*; and supposing potassium
and sodium to produce the same quantity of hydrogen from
ammonia and water, the circumstance, at first view, may be
conceived favourable to the notion that they contain hy
drogen, which under common circumstances of combina
tion will be repellent to matter of the same kind : but
this is a superficial consideration of the subject, and the
conclusion cannot be admitted; for on the idea that in
compounds containing gaseous matter, and perhaps com
pounds in general, the elements are combined in uniform
proportions; then whenever bodies known to contain hy
drogen are decomposed by a metal, the quantities of
hydrogen ought to be the same, or multiples of each other.
Thus, in the decomposition of ammonia by potassium and
iodium, two of hydrogen and one of nitrogen remain in
   * There seems to be always the same proportion between the quantity of
ammonia which disappears, and the quantity of hydrogen evolved ; i. e.
whenever the metals of the alkalies act upon ammonia, supposing this body
to be composed of three hydrogen, and one of nitrogen, in volume, two of
hydrogen and ona of nitrogen remain in combination, and one of hydrogen
is set free. And it may be adduced as a strong argument in favour of the
theory of definite proporlions, that the quantity of the metals of the alkalies
and nitrogen, in the fusible results, are in the same proportions as those in
which they exist in the alkaline nitrates.
                                                             combination,

  ©4            On some new Electrochemical Rcsearclies
  combination, and one of hydrogen is given off ; and in
  the action of water on potassium to form potash, the same
  quantity of hydrogen ought to be expelled. From my
  analysis * of sulphuretted hydrogen, it would appear, that
 if potassium in forming a combination with this substance
 sets free hydrogen, it will be nearly the same quantity as it
 would cause to be evolved from water. And if the analysis
 of Mr. Proust and Mr. Hatchett, of the sulphuret of iron,
 be made a basis of calculation, iron, in attracting sulphur
 from sulphuretted hydrogen, will liberate the same propor
 tion of hydrogen as during its solution in diluted sulphuric
 acid ; and taking Mr. Dalton's law of proportion, the case
 will be similar with respect to other metals : and if such
 reasoning were to be adopted, as that metals are proved to
 be compounds of hydrogen, because, in acting upon dif
 ferent combinations containing hydrogen, they produce
 the evolution of equal proportions of this gas, then it might
 be proved that almost any kind of matter is contained in
 any other. The same quantity of potash, in acting upon
 either muriate, sulphate, or nitrate of magnesia, will pre
 cipitate equal quantities of magnesia; but it would be ab
 surd to infer from this, that potash contained magnesia, as
 one of its elements            the power of repelling one kind of
 matter, and of attracting another kind, must be equally de
 finite, and governed by the same circumstances.
     Potassium, sodium, iron, mercury, and all metals that                    I
    * The composition may be deduced from the experiments iu the last
 Bakerian lecture, which show that it contains a volume <f hydrogen equal
 to its own.   If its specific gravity be tiken as 35 grains, for 100 cubical
inches, then it will consist of 2-27 of hydrogen, and 32-73 of sulphur. When
sulphuretted hydrogen is decomposed by common electricity, in very refined
experiments, there is a slight diminution of volume, and the precipitated
sulphur has a whitish tint, and probably contains a minute quantity of hy
drogen. When it is decomposed by Voltaic sparks, the sulphur is precipi
tated in its common form, and there is no change of volume; in the last case
the sulphur is probably ignited at the moment of its production.       In some
 experiments lately made in the laboratory of the Royal Institution, on ar-
seniuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen, it was found that when these gases
were decomposed by electricity, there was no change in their volumes ; but
neither the arsenic nor the phosphorus seemed to be thrown down in their
common state i the phosphorus was dark-coloured, and the arsenic appeared
as a brown powder, both were probably hvdrurets : this is confirmed like
wise by the action of potassium upon asemuretted and phosphuretted hy
drogen j when the metal is in smaller quantity than is sufficient to decom
 pose the whole of the gases, there is always an expansion of volume; so that
arseniuretted and phosphuretted hydrogen contain in equal volumes, more
hydrogen than sulphuretted hydrogen, probably half as much more, or
 twice as much more. From some experiments made on the weights of phos
 phuretted and arseniuretted hydrogen, it would appear that 100 cubic inches
of the first weigh about 10 grains, at the mean temperature and pressure,
<and 100 of the second about 15 grains.
                                                                          have

                         on various Objects.                    95
have experimented upon, in acting upon muriatic acid gas,
evolve the same quantity of hydrogen, and all form dry
muriates; so that any theory of metallization, applicable
to potash and soda, must likewise apply to the common
metallic oxides.        If we assume the existence of water in
the potash, formed in muriatic acid gas, we must likewise
infer its existence in the oxides of iron and mercury, pro
duced in similar operations.
     The solution of the general question concerning the
presence of hydrogen in all inflammable bodies, will un
 doubtedly be influenced by the decision upon the nature of
 the amalgam from ammonia, and a matter of so much im
 portance ought not to be hastily decided upon.         The diffi
 culty of finding any multiple of the quantity of oxygen,
 which may be supposed to exist in hydrogen, that might
 be applied to explain the composition of nitrogen from the
 same basis, is undoubtedly against the simplest view of the
 subject.      But still the phlogistic explanation, that the me
 tal of ammonia is merely a compound of hydrogen and
 nitrogen ; or that a substance which is metallic can be
 composed from substances not in their own nature metallic,
 is equally opposed to the general tenour of our chemical
 reasonings.
      I shall not at present occupy the time of the Society by
 entering any further into these discussions; hypothesis can
  scarcely be considered as of any value, except as leading to
  new experiments; and the objects in the novel field of
  electrochemical research have not been sufficiently ex
  amined to enable to decide upon their nature, and their
  relations, or to form any general theory concerning them
  which is likely to be permanent.
                      Explanation of the Figures.
      Fig.  1.  The apparatus for electrizing potassium in    gases.
  A     the  glass  tube.    B the wire negatively electrified.   C
  and D the cup      and   wire positively electrified.
      Fig. 2. The apparatus for decomposing water, out of
  the contact of air> page 20. AA the cones containing the
  water. BBB the tubes for conveying the gas.            C and D
  the pneutnatic apparatus.
       Fig. 3. The apparatus for decomposing and recompos-
   ing water under oil. CC the wires for communicating the
  Voltaic electricity.      DD the wires for producing the ex
   plosion.     JJ the tube. A the vessel containing it. a, d, ct
   the level of the different fluids.
       Fig. 4. The apparatus for exposing water to the action
                                                                  of

  96                    Report    of the Dublin
  of ignited   potash and charcoal, out of the contact of air.
  A   the tube for water.       B the iron tube.       C the receiver
  for the ammonia.      D the pneumatic apparatus.
     Fig. 5. The apparatus for the decomposition of am
 monia.
     Fig. 6.  A Voltaic apparatus, being one of the 20O which
  compose the new Voltaic battery of the Royal Institution.
 For the construction of this battery, and of other instru
 ments applicable to new researches, a fund of upwards of
  .£1000 has been raised by subscription, from members of
  the Royal Institution.      As yet, the whole combination has
 not been put into action ; but reasoning from the effects
 of that part of it which has been used, some important
 phenomena may be expected from so great an accumula
 tion of electrical power.
 XVI.     Report of the Dublin Cow-Pock Institution, under
    the  Patronage of His Grace the Lord Lieutenant, for
     1809.
 AN Abstract      from the Register     of Inoculations and Distri
 bution   of Matter.
                                   Packets issued Packets to
                      Inoculated.  to Practioners   Army
                                     in general.  Surgeons.
              1804        578            776          236
              1805      1,033          1,124          178
              1806      1,356          1,340          220
              1807      2,156          1,790         320
              1808      3,002          2,285          333
              1809      3,941          2,540          244
             Totals.  12,065           9,855       1,531
    The directors of the institution have great pleasure in
observing the progressive increase of vaccine inoculation,
and the influence of experience in satisfying the public of
its efficacy. Most of the above 12,065 patients being con
fined to a city where small-pox has been in general preva
lent, must have been exposed in every possible way to its
infection, by living in the same house, or frequently sleep
ing in the same bed with the infected.              The anxiety of
parents, too, has often led them intentionally to expose their
                                                             children

                      Con' -Pock Institution,                   97
children to small-pox infection.        As far, however, as the
immediate observation of the Institution extends, cow-
pock has been found to resist all such trials, with three
exceptions only.
    It now appears by increasing experience, that in a very
few instances the vaccine infection will form fairly on the
arm, and go through its regular stages, without being ab
sorbed into the blood.         The same thing has repeatedly
happened     in inoculating  for  the small-pox, where no erup
tive fever or eruption succeeded the inoculation.          In the
three cases of small-pox which have succeeded vaccination,
the disease has been mild and of short duration.
    The efficacy of cow-pock, as far as Dublin is concerned,
does not rest upon the proofs adduced in its favour by this
 Institution, for it has been extensively practised during the
last five or six years.    There are grounds for believing that
the number vaccinated throughout the city, including the
above 12,(>65, does not fall short of 35,000.       The cases of
small pox following cow- pock which have been reported,
upon any reasonable authority, to the Institution, do not
exceed six.      No one who is acquainted with the careless
and inattentive manner in which many practitioners have
hitherto conducted vaccination, can be surprised to hear of
cases of failure.     Th? neglect of parents also to have their
children examined at the regular periods after inoculation,
tends to bring the practice into disrepute.      To obviate this
inconvenience, it has been the practice for some time at
this Institution, to oblige parents to deposit a small sum,
to be returned after the child has gone through the disease,
proyided they have attended agreeably to instruction ; other
wise the sum is forfeited.       This regulation has had the de
sired effect.
    It was reported    at an early period of the practice, that
vaccination afforded only a temporary security, which was
at first limited to three years.        Numerous experiments,
tried in different quarters, satisfactorily proved the falsehood
of this assertion. A similar opinion has been lately revived,
but the period .of security extended to five or six years.
Neither analogy nor experience justifies such an idea, and
the history of casual cow -pock fully refutes the allegation,
as numerous cases are on record of persons, after having
casual cow-pock, resisting during a long life the small
pox, under every circumstance of exposure, inoculation, &c.
Besides, had the preventive powers of cow-pock not been
permanent, it is but reasonable to suppose that many of
    Vol. 36. No. 1-13. August 1810.               G           the

Q8                    Report   of the Dublin
 the above 12,065 must, under the existing circumstances
 of exposure, have taken the small-pox.             Above twenty
 children who were vaccinated live or six years ago, have
 lately, by order of the directors, been submitted to vario
 lous inoculation, but without the effect of producing small
 pox.    Similar experiments have been instituted, under the
 direction of other practitioners, with the like result. Nine
 teen children who had the cow-pock eight and nine years
 ago, have been lately inoculated with small-pox matter, at
 the Foundling Hospital, under the inspection of Mr. Stewart,
 surgeon -general, and Mr. Creighton, surgeon of the hos-
        but with no other effect than local inflammation. —
 Jital,
   n a letter just received from Mr. Bryce, of Edinburgh, he
 observes: — " I have lately finished an experiment of ino
 culating about twenty children with the small-pox, who
 were vaccinated from eight years to five months. — The re
 sult is most satisfactory, and shows clearly that a pustule
 with surrounding inflammation is as readily produced five
months after vaccination, as at the end of eight years, con
sequently that the security is as complete at the latter pe
 riod as the former."
    The following extract from the Report of the Small-Pox
Hospital, London, should be recorded : — " Eleven thou
 sand eight hundred patients, and upwards, have been vac-           -
 cinated, of which number twenty-five hundred were after
wards proved to be secured from the natural small-pox, by
receiving a further inoculation with sinall-pox             matter,
which took no effect. A number amply sufficient to sa
tisfy the public mind, of the security and success of the
new practice of vaccination." — December, 1802. — So great
a number submitted to the test of variolous inoculation,
and exposed in a hospital full of small-pox infection with
out effect, should of itself convince every reasonable mind
of the efficacy of vaccination.        FideMr. Charles Murray's
Answer to Mr. Highmore, p. 37.
    A report having been latelv circulated, that Dr. Jenner
himself was beginning to entertain some douht of the
efficacy of his discovery, the directors thought it expedient
to direct their secretary to write to him, and to lay his an
swer upon the subject before the public.
    'c Dear sir, — Your
                          obliging letter of the 3d instant, in
closing the Annual Report of the Cow-Pock Institution, in
Dublin, has just reached me. The former letter you allude
to, has not yet been delivered.       It is with the greatest plea
sure I perceive the rapid increase of vaccination in your
                                                       metropolis,

                           Cow-Pock  Institution.               gg
  metropolis, and the uninterrupted success that has attended
  the practice, at once a proof of the zeal, industry and at
  tention of the me'iieal officers ; for which 1 beg leave to
  make my most grateful acknowledgements.
     " And now, sir, a few remarks oti the very extraordinary
  communication you have make to me respecting Lady
  C      -. It has been one of the usual devices of the ene
 mies of vaccination, almost' from the time of my first mak
 ing it known, to represent me as having lost my confidence
 of its prophylactic powers, or, at least, that f was wavering
 on the subject.        Can I, who, with the aid of my nephews,
  have vaccinated a number of persons little short of 30,000,
 without one single instance of accident or of failure, that
 ever reached my ears, for a moment entertain such an ab
 surd idea ? Or could I have ever thought of inoculating
 for the small-pox, while I hold that practice in abhorrence,
,and condemn it both publicly and privately ? Believe me,
  the whole story you relate to me is an entire fiction, with
 out the faintest shadow of foundation.           Never from the
 commencement 61' my experiments to the present hour,
 have I used a particle of variolous matter, except for the
 purpose of putting some of those to a test on whom I
 made my first trials.       For some years past, I have relied
 wholly on the vaccine lymph, for testing those on whom
 any material irregularity appeared in the progress of the
 pustule.
                              " Believe me, &c.
    Berkeley, F«b. 19, 1809.             « EDWARD Jr.NNER."
     While the directors, with such weight of evidence in its
 favour, fetl thc.nselve.s warranted in continuing to recom
 mend vaccination as a preventive of small-pox, they cannot
 but regret that in a few cases it has been difficult to deter
 mine whether a patient has had the disease constitutionally
 or locally.      They however confidently hope that by pur
 suing Mr. Bryce's test, and by increased attention to the
 progress of the disease, practitioners will be enabled to sur
 mount the only objection to a practice which tends to pre
 serve more lhan 30,000 lives annually, in the British Isles.
     Mr. Hryce proposes that a second inoculation be per
 formed about the sixth day after the first : the vesicle pro
 duced by this second inoculation is accelerated in its pro
 gress, so as to arrive at maturity, and again fade, at nearly
 the same time as the affection arising from the first inocu
 lation.     Mr. B. considers the acceleration of the second
                                 G 2                  inoculation

100                     Report  of t lie Dublin
 inoculation to be the effect of the constitutional affection
 produced by the first; and therefore, if it shall be found that
 110 such acceleration takes place, but that the second ino
 culation proceeds by a slow progress through all the stages,
 it is to be concluded, that no constitutional action has taken
 place from the first insertion of the virus; and when this is
the case, the second inoculation must be regarded as a pri
mary affection, and a third puncture made according to the
plan laid down for conducting the second inoculation; and
 thus (he says) we may go on until the proper test be ob
tained; or until we be satisfied that the constitution com
pletely resists the action of cow-pock.
     Although small-pox is by no means exterminated from
Dublin, among the poor, yet the general substitution of
vaccine for variolous inoculation            has    considerably di
minished the number of patients brought to the hospitals
and dispensaries for advice.      In ths upper ranks of society
death from small-pox is unheard-of, and the most exten
sive practitioners acknowledge that a case of small-pox in
private practice is a very rare occurrence.           And although
the reintroduclion      of small-pox into society would add
greatly to the emoluments both of physic and surgery,
there is no liberal man in either profession who would not
sincerely deplore such a calamity.
                           Signed by order,
   January 10,1810.                     S. B. L.ABATT, Secretary.
                              Fouudiing   Hospital, Dublin, Jan. 4, 18IO.
The following Report having been laid before the Governors
    of the Foundling Hospital, and appearing to be highly
    satisfactory : — Ordered, That three thousand copies there
    of be printed, for the purpose of their being circulated as
    generally throughout the United Kingdom            as   possible.
                                  By order,
                                           A. BAILIE, Register.
    AS some persons have lately attempted to prejudice the
minds of the public by representing vaccine inoculation as
a doubtful security against small-pox, limiting its influence
to a certain period, and wishing us to believe that its pre
ventive powers diminish in proportion to the distance of
time from inoculation ; — I have, therefore, at the request
of the right honourable and honourable the governors of
the Foundling Hospital, instituted such experiments as
enable me (a second time) to congratulate the public on
their successful event.                                            From

                          Cow-Pock   Institution.                101
    From my     9'ituation, as surgeon to the Foundling Hospi
 tal,  I have had it fully in my power to select such cases as
 had been faithfully recorded by me to have undergone vac
 cination at the earliest period of cow-pock inoculation in
 this city, and such have been approved of by those gentle
men who have honoured me with their presence, to wit
ness and subscribe their names to the progress and event
of the following experiment on nineteen children chosen
for the purpose, who were divided into two classes.             The
 first nine comprehend those^vho in a state of infancy were
 vaccinated by me between the 30th of December 1800
 and 3d of July 1801, now more than eight years.              These
were again inoculated with small-pox infection by George
Stewart, esq. surgeon-general, on the 24th of July, 1804,
 (and witnessed bv several gentlemen of the first respecta
bility in their profession.) in like manner to disprove the
assertions of Mr. Goldson, as may be seen in the twelfth
volume of the Medical and Physical Journal, and with the
most complete success — all having resisted the small-pox,
although exposed to it in every way possible.            These nine
children, with ten others, who were also vaccinated by me
in a state of infancy, from 15th of July 1801 to 30th of
August 1802, upwards of seven years, were again submitted
to small -pox inoculation, on Friday, 22d of December last;
the infection taken from a child of Mr. Stafford's, No. 7,
Hanbury-lane, in confluent small-pox, and the matter in
serted in two places in the arm of each child, in a fluid
state, and in the greatest quantity.         In every instance, the
punctures in the arm of each child from the third day in
flamed, and continued until the seventh, when the inflam
mation gradually subsided, as certified by Mr. Stewart, and
marked in a table, which, in another publication, will be
more fully expressed , — which circumstance has proved the
activity of the small-pox matter inserted, and which must
have affected the constitution, were it in the least suscepti
ble of the disease.        Fourteen days have now elapsed, the
inflammation of        the  punctures is entirely gone, and never
was attended with the slightest fever, sickness, or eruption.
    In corroboration of the above facts, conducted with
every decree of accuracy, and which cannot admit of the
smallest doubt on the minds of those gentlemen who have
witnessed     them, and hereunto subscribed their names; I
can safely assert, that I have submitted upwards of five
hundred infants and children, vaccinated by me at this In
stitution, and at the Dispensary for Infant Poor and Cow-
                                  G3                  . .      pock

102                    Mr.   Smeaton's Works,      &c.
pock Inoculation, as established in the year 1 SOO, to a like
experiment, and with the same result in everv instance.
  Dublin, Merrion-square, West,                         J.   CltEIGHTON.
          January 4, 1810.
         George Stewart,                A. Colles,
         Guslavns Hume,                 William Hartigan,
         S. Wilmot,                     Philip Crampton,
     Ralph S. Obre,
  Members of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.
         Edmund Conntll,      William Dillon,
         Samuel Bell,        James M'Creight,
                      Apolhtcaries.
XVIT. Information, that a further Publication of the late
 Mr. Smeaton's Engineery Designs a/id Papers is in
   hand. — Copy of a List of the principal British Strata,
   by the late Rev. John Michel, (of whose posthumous
   Papers on Geological Subjects, fur tiler Information is
   requested ;) — with some Experiments of Mr. Smeaton's
   on Limestones, — and Queries respecting Mr. Tofield.
   Communicated by Mr. John Fa bey.
                              To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sin,   As    my eldest son was a few days ago employed, in
examining the miscellaneous bundles of papers, which be
longed to the late ingenious Mr. John Smeaton, the civil
engineer, now in Sir Joseph Banks's possession, with a
view to the further publication by Messrs. Longman, Hurst,
Rees,andCo.of hisDrawings and Reports on civil engineery,
which so long and impatiently have been expected by those
interested in this branch of the useful arts, he found a small
scrap of paper (only four inches by three) in the hand
writing of Mr. Smeaton, part of the cover of a letter, as
appears by part of a seal and the London post-mark of
November 21, 17S8, on the back of            which, having ob
                                                  it,
tained Sir Joseph's permission,         think of sufficient im
                                          I
portance, in       geological point of view, to request the
                   a
favour of you to lay before your readers.
  It  relates to the order and thicknesses of the strata ill
England, as appears          Mr. Smeaton's title or endorse
                               by
ment on      it,
               viz.      "
                       Mr. Michel's account of the south of
England strata," which        as follows, viz.
                                   is
                                                              Yards
 « Chalk                                                       120
      Golt                                 ,                    50
                                                                      Sand,

                  Mr. Smealon's Works, &c.                 103>
                                                 Yards
     Sand, of Bedfordshire                   10 or 20
     Northampton lime and Portland     limes   \
         lying in several strata             .J
     Lyas  strata                          70 or 100
     Sand, of Newark                      about 30
     Red clay, of Tuxford and several             100
     Sherewood Forest, pebbles and gravel    ...   50 unequal
     Very fine white sand                            uncertain
     Roch Abbey and Brotherton limes              100
     Coal strata, of Yorkshire
                                                      "
   The Mr. Michel alluded tOj was, it appears, the late Rev.
John Michel, rector of Thornhill, near Wakefield, York
shire, who was an intimate friend of Mr. Smeaton, the late
Mr. Cavendish, he. he, and whose name must be very
familiar to most of your readers, from his many valuable
papers in the Transactions of the Royal Society of London,
of which he was a member.
    This account of the strata, imperfect as it is, appears to
me important, as showing, that Mr. Michel was acquainted
with the principal features of the south of England strata,
at an earlier period than any thing was published on the
 subject, especially if we suppose, as is most reasonable,
that this communication was made verbally by Mr. Michel
 to his friend Mr. Smeaton, very soon after November 1788,
•who took it down on the cover of a recent letter, as being
 the only piuce of paper (hen at hand; for Mr. Snieaton's
 decease in September 1792, shows that it must have beeii
 prioT to that time.
    It appears to me probable, that this account was princi
 pally made from the result of Mr. Michel's observations,
 in his journeyingsby the great North road between the place
 of hi3 residence and London; The "chalk" being that
 which appears from near Hatfield to Baldock ; the " golt"
 being the chalk- marie (and perhaps some alluvial clays
 also) ihence to near Sandy in Bedfordshire; where, doubt
 less, the "sand" is situate, to which he alludes.    In cross
 ing Northamptonshire      from Wansford to Stamford, the
 "Times" are first noticed, which he rightly associates with,
 and considers the same as, those of Portland-Island,   though
 distant 170 miles therefrom in a straight line I The next
 are the " lyas" strata, which appear between Grantham and
 Balderton; and here, the use of a term for these strata of
 limestone, which was not then known or in use, I believe,
 nearer than Gloucestershire or Somersetshire, shows again
                                           *
                                 G4                         that

                   Mr.      Smeaton's Works, &c.
that Mr. Michel had contemplated the identity of the Bri
tish strata over wide spaces*.     The "sand" of Newark
is seen od its S.E. side near Balderton • the " red clay" of
Tuxford is noticed as the produce' of "several" othe/
places, and is the gypseous earth, or red marie, which
forms so conspicuous a figure across a large portion of the
middle and western parts of England.        Sherwood Forest
'* pebbles and gravel," over the northern skirt of which,
this road passes between Tuxford and Doncaster, is noticed
by Mr. Michel, as being
                            " unequal " in thickness; and if
his observations had been further extended, it would doubt
less have appeared clear to him, that the same ought not
to have been taken into his list of strata, any more than
the numerous other patches of alluvium on the surface
which he must have passed in this road, and has not
noticed; and particularly so, if I am right in conjecturing,
that the  " very fine white sand," which he mentions, as of
"uncertain" thickness, is enveloped, as an accidental bed
in the " red clay," (which he had before mentioned) si
milar to what we find at Normanton on the S. of Derby,
and some few other places, for the occurrence is rather rare,
I believe, and should therefore wish much to learn, the
precise spot or pits to which Mr. Michel here alludes; it
being a part of the country which I have never visited.
   The " lime" of Brolhtrton being associated with that of
Roche-Abbey, 25 miles S. S C. of             it,
                                          shows again, that
Mr. Michel     had discovered some at least of those geolo
gical  principles,   which the labours of Mr. William Smith
very  soon  after .tended  to confirm, and to render them of
the utmost practical use and importance.
    Mr. Michel was also aware, that the coal-strata known
in Yorkshire, are under-nicasures to the yellow lime, above
mentioned     :    must however be observed, that the thick
                  it
nesses   inthe above list are most of them (except perhaps
the chalk, the gult, and the Balderlon sand) greatly under
rated;   while many very thick or important strata (of which
I  intend to give      short account
                       a                in
                                        my Derbyshire Report)
are omitted altogether; as the Bagshot- heath sand, the
  * The lyasor blue lias limcstcne having been much the object of Mr.
Smeaton's notice, on account of its important quality of makinga  durable
mortar which sets suddenly and very hard, even under sea-water, as he
proved in the building of the Kddystone light-house, and others of his
great works; and with whose appearance at Aberthaw and Watchet on
the opposite shores of the Bristol Channel, and numerous other places, he
was so well acquainted, was probably the reason, why so very laconic a
mention of these strata   here made by Mr. Smeaton.
                           is
                                                               London

                      Mr.     Smeaton's Works,            &c.                    103
London clay, the Woolwich or Black-heath sand, the
Aylesbury limestone, the Clunch clay*, the Bedford lime
stone and clays beneath                 it,
                            the Barnack rag, and Colley-
weston lime and slate, the Foston blue clay, and the Maid-
well lime, all of which occur above the lias-clay; while
the coal series above the yellow lime (under the Sherwood
gravel as    suspect) and the important blue beds in the
             I
yellow limestone  series, are unnoticed enough however    :                         is
contained in the above list, to show, that the late Rev.
John Michel ought        to be ranked among those, to whom
geological   science       indebted and
                              is              ;take this method of
                                                          I
addressing myself    to  those,  who   may   be  now            in
                                                         possession
of his papers, to search for and communicate whatever de
tails they may contain on the British strata, that will either
further explain the above communication to Mr. Smeaton,
or show the source, whence Mr. M. may have derived the
above particulars of the South British strata                which   f:
would be conferring        greata obligation   on
                              Your obedient humble servant,
12, Upper Crown Street, Westminster,          JOHN FAREY, Sen.
             August    4,   1810.
                                                                 XVIIT. An
 *   Between the Bedfordshire or Wobutn sand, and the Northamptonshire
limes or Bath freestone, which clay extends under almost all the Lincolnshire
fens, and most of those in Cambridgeshire and in Yorkshire.
 t     P.
        S.   Since writing the above have been informed, that Mr. Michel,
                                          1
 whose death happened April 21, 1793, was at an early part of his life keeper
 of the Woodwardian collection of fossils at Cambridge, which           thought
                                                                          is
 by some to be the very best general geological collection in existence,
 though made near     a century ago, owing to the great care and minuteness
with which the localities and attendant circumstances of the fossils therein,
are described: essential particulars, which yet have appeared beneath the
 attention of too many of our modern mineralogists and geologists, as               it
should seem.    It    isnot improbable, that     comparison of the fossils and
                                                      a
their localities, in this celebrated colle tion, first suggested the ideas of       a
determinate order in the British strata to Mr. Michel, and the examination
of his papers therefore a matter of the greater importance, from the pro
              is
bability, that some such arrangement of the facts in the Woodwardian cata
logue, may be found among them. Perhaps also, the present keeper of
 the Woodwardian      collection and papers will have the goodness to inform
us, whether any such arrangement of the British strata in       aseries   to be
                                                                           is
found, or minutes of any such attempts, among the Woodwardian papers.'
    Another scrap of paper, found among Mr. Smeaton's loose memoran
dums, contains his experiments on twelve sorts of limestone, by dissolving
40 grains of each in aquafortis, and drying the clayey undissolved residuums
in the sun, the weights of which are as follow, viz.                    Grains.
  " Yeilow lyas, of Axminster               . .          ..        . .     SJ
    Ditto         with shining spangles (mica probably)           ..       S§
    Yellow snake-stone, of Glastonbury       .    .     . .      .   .          5
    Blue lyas, of Watchet        ..          ..        ..          ..      4£
    Ditto      of Aberthaw      . .           ..      ••           •.      4J
   Ditto       of Bath              .
                                    .         .
                                              .       . .          . .     4|
   Ditto       of Axminster     ..         ..         ••         .•        3$
   Yellow clump-stone, cf Sherborne
              r
                                              ¦
                                              .       ..         .  .           S
                                                                                White

                                      [    106        ]
XVIII. An     Analysis of several Varieties of British end
  Foreign Salt, (Muriate of Soda,) with a view to ex
  plain iheir Fitness for different (Economical Purpose?. By
  WILLIAM HENRY, M.D. F.R.S. Vice-Pres. of Ike                                    Li
  terary and Philosophical Society, and Physician to the
   Infirmary      at   Manchester*.
                  SECT.      I.       General Observations.
IN   undertaking the series of experiments described ID the
following  pages, I had not so much in view the discovery
of novelties in science, as the determination, by the careful
employment of known processes, and by the improvement
of methods of analysis, of a number of facts, the establish
ment of which       appeared to me probable) might have ant
                       (it
influence on an important branch of national revenue and
industry.
   An opinion has for some time past existed, and believe                   I
has been pretty general both in this and other countries, to
the disadvantage of British salt as       preserver of animaf
                                                          a
food and
      ;       decided preference has been given to the salt
              a
procured from France, Spain, Portugal, and other warm
climates, where              is
                       prepared
                       it                        by
                                    the spontaneous evapora
tion of sea water.    In conformity with this opinion, large
sums of money are annually paid to foreign nations, for
the supply of an article, which Great Britain possesses, be
yond almost any other country in Europe, the means of
drawing from her own internal resources.              becomes,         It
therefore, of much consequence to ascertain, whether this
preference of foreign salt be founded on accurate ex
perience, or be merely     matter of prejudice
                                      a            and, in1 the    ;
                                                                                 Grains,
  White lyas, with shining spangles, of Wells
  Brown limestone, of Plymouth          .    .
                                                              ..
                                                              ..
                                                                        ..
                                                                        ..
                                                                                   JJ
                                                                                  i
  .                of Chidley (Chidgley           ?)          .
                                                              .        . . Of
  Forty grains of burnt lime in flower, dissolved in aquafortis, left of clayey
matter when dried in the sun, as follows, viz.
    Blue lyas, of Watchet'      .         . .              .        . .
    ——    —                                                                  4£
                                  .                           .
               of Briddistow      .
                                  .        . .           .    .     ..       3^
    The Watchet (residuum) made into         aball just stuck together, the Brid
 distow scarcely."
    When  I  was at the house of Mr. Jessop the engineer (who was formerly a
 pupil and assistant of Mr.Smeaton) at Butterley in Derbyshire, be mentioned
 thata  Mr. Tofttld, civil engineer of the southern part of Yorkshire, formed
                   a
.a design 3O years ago, of investigating the British strata.      shall b« thank
                                                                   I
 ful to any of your readers who can communicate any particulars of thi»
 undertaking, and of its author,    they will do so.
                                      if
  * From Philosophical Transactions for .18 10, Paril*
                                                                                former

            Analysis    of British   and Foreign Salt.            107
former case, whether any chemical difference can be dis
covered, that may explain the superiority of the one to the
other.
   The comparative fitness of these varieties of salt for the
curing of provisions, which has been a subject of much
controversy among the parties who are interested, can b<*
decided, it is obvious, in no other way, than by a careful
examination of the evidence on both sides.              Where evi
dence, however,       is doubtful,    and  where there  exists, as in
this case, much contrariety of testimony, it cannot be un
fair to yield our belief to that which best accords with the
chemical and physical qualiiies of the substances in ques
tion.     Again, if salt of British production should be
proved   to  be really inferior in chemical purity to foreign
salt, it would be important to ascertain, as the basis of all
attempts towards its improvement, in what, precisely, this
inferiority consists. It seemed desirable, also, to examine
whether any differences of chemical composition                 exist
among    the  several  varieties   of  home-made    salt, which   can
explain their variable fitness for ceconomical purposes.
   Such were the considerations that induced me to under
take an inquiry, which has occupied, for several months
past, a large share of my leisure and attention.            I began
the investigation,       wholly    uninfluenced   by any precon
ceived   opinions on the subject ; and I had no motive
to see the facts in any other than their true light, since I
have no personal interest, either directly or remotely, in
the decision of the question.
   The principal sources of the salt, which is manufactured
in this country, arc rock salt, brine springs, and sea water.
The first material is confined entirely, and the second
chiefly, though not wholly, to a particular district of Che
shire.    Of the extent and boundaries of this district, the
process of manufacture, and other circumstances interest
ing to the mineralogist as well as to the chemist, an ample
and excellent history has been given by Mr. Henry Hol
land, in the agricultural report of the county of Chester*.
From his account, I shall extract, in order to render some
parts of this memoir more intelligible, a very brief state
ment of the characteristic differences of the several varieties
of salt, which are prepared in Northwich and its neigh
bourhood.
   In making the staved or lump salt, the brine is brought
to a boiling heat, which, in brine fully saturated, is 2263
                          * Published in 1808.
                                                                   Of

 108              Analyis    of several   Varieties   of
 of Fahrenheit.         This temperature is continued during the
  whole process ; and as the evaporation proceeds, small
  flaky crystals continue to form themselves, and to fall lo
  the bottom of the boiler.            At the end of from eight to
  twelve hours, the greatest part of the water of solution is
  found to be evaporated ; so much only being left, as barely
  to cover the salt ard the bottom of the pan. The salt is
  then removed into conical wicker baskets, termed barrows ;
 and, after being well drained, is dried in stoves, where it
  sustains a loss of about one-seventh of its weight.
     On the first application of heat to the brine, a quantity
 of carbonate of lime, and sometimes a little oxide of iron,
 both of which had been held in solution by an excess of
 carbonic acid, are separated ; and are either removed by
 skimming, or are allowed to subside to the bottom of the
 pan, along with the salt first formed, and with some sul
 phate of time ; and are afterwards raked out.               These two
 operations are called clearing the pan. Some brines scarcely
 require them at all, and others only occasionally.                  The
 whole of the impurities, however, are not thus removed ; for
 a part, subsiding to the bottom, forms a solid incrustation,
 termed by the workmen pan-scale.               The portion of this,
 which is lowest, acquires so much induration and adhesion
 to the pan, that it is necessary to remove            it,  once every
 three or four weeks,            byheavy blows with          a pick-axe.
These sediments are formed, also, in making the other va
rieties of salt.
     In preparing common salt, the brine         is    first raised to
                                                                     a
boiling heat, with the double view of bringing             itas quickly
as possible to the point of saturation, and of clearing             it
from its earthy contents.            The fires are then slackened,
and the evaporation         is  carried   on for 24 hours, with the
brine    heated   to 160°   or   170
                                      '
                                       Fahrenheit.     The salt, thus
formed,   is   in quadrangular pyramids or hoppers, which are
close and hard in their texture.              The remainder of the
process  is   similar  to  that of  making stoved salt, except that
after being     drainedit   is   carried   immediately to the store
house, and not afterwards exposed to heat, an operation
confined to the sloved salt.
    The large-grained flaky salt          is  made with an evapora
tion    conducted     at  the  heat   of  130  or 14O degrees.      The
salt   thus  formed  is    somewhat      harder   than common salt,
and approaches more nearly to the cubic shape of the cry
stals ot muriate of soda.
     Lnrge-grained or fishery salt         is   prepared from brine
heated only to 100° or 110° Fahrenheit.               No perceptibla
                                                              agitation,

                        British and Foreign Salt.                     901
   agitation, therefore, is produced in the brine, and the slow
  ness    of the process, which lasts from seven or eight to ten
   days, allows the muriate of soda to form in large, and
   nearly cubical crystals, seldom however quite perfect in
  their shape *.
        For ordinary domestic uses, stoved salt is perfectly
   sufficient.     Common salt is adapted to the striking and
   salting of provisions, which are not intended for sea voy
   ages or warm climates.          For the latter purposes, the large-
  drained     or fishery  salt is peculiarly   fitted.
      On the eastern and western coasts of Scotland, and espe
   cially on the shores of the Firth of Forth, large quantities
   of salt are made by the evaporation of sea water. In con
   sequence of the cheapness of fuel, the process is carried on,
   from first to last, by artificial heat, at a temperature, I be
   lieve, equal or nearly so to the boiling point, and varying,
   therefore, according to the concentration of the brine.
   The kind of salt, chiefly formed in Scotland, approaches
   most nearly to the character of stoved salt.           In some places
   a salt is prepared, termed Sunday salt ; so called, in con
   sequence of the fires being slackened between Saturday
•  and Monday, which increases considerably the size of the
   crystals.
      I  am indebted to Dr. Thomson          of Edinburgh, (who      gave
   me his assistance with great zeal           and alacrity)  for an op
   portunity of examining upwards'of twenty specimens of
   Scotch salt, prepared by different manufacturers.                That
   distinguished chemist, it appears from a letter which he ad
   dressed to me on the subject, was some time ago engaged
   in experiments on Cheshire salt. The particulars he has
   lost ; and he retains only a general recollection of the facts,
   which confirms, I am happy to state, the accuracy of the
   results obtained by my own experiments.
      At Lymington in Hampshire, advantage is taken of the
   greater heat of the climate, to concentrate the sea water by
   spontaneous evaporation to about one-sixth its bulk, before
   admitting it into the boilers.          One kind of salt is chiefly
   prepared there, which most nearly resembles in grain the
   stoved salt of Cheshire. The process varies a little, in some
   respects, from that which has been already described. The
   salt is not fished (as it is termed) out of the boiler, and
   drained in baskets; but the water is entirely evaporated,
   and the whole mass of salt taken out at once, every eight
   hours, and removed into troughs with holes in the bottom.
                        • Cheshire Reports, p. 53, &c.
                                                                Through

   110               Analysis of \everal Varieties of
  Through     these it drains into pits made under ground, which
  receive   the liquor called littern or hitter liquor.                  Under
 the troughs, and in a line-with the holes, are fixed upright
 stakes, on which a portion of salt that would otherwise
 have    escaped,    crystallizes    and forms, in the course of ten
 or twelve days, on          each stake, a mass of sixty or eighty
 pounds.       These lumps are called salt cats.               They bear the
 proportion     to  the  common       salt, made    from     the bame brine,
 of one ton to 100.
     From the mother brine or bitter liquor, which has drained
 into   the pits, the sulphate of magnesia is made during the
 •winter season,     when the manufacture of salt is suspended,
 in consequence- of the want of the                 temperature       required
 for the spontaneous evaporation of the sea water. The pro
 cess is a very simple one *.            The bitter liquor from the pits
 is boiled for some hours in the pans, which are used in sum -
 mer to prepare common salt ; and the. impurities, which
 rise to the surface, are removed by skimming.                         During
 the evaporation, a portion of common salt separates ; and
 this, as it is too impure for use, is reserved for the purpose
 of, concentrating the brine in summer.                     The evaporated
 bitter liquor is then removed into wooden coolers eight feet
 long, five feet wide, and one foot deep.                      In these it re
 mains twenty-four hours, during which time, if the wea
ther prove clear and cold, the sulphate of magnesia, or
 Epsom salt, crystallizes at the bottom of the coolers, in
quantity equal to about one-eighth of the boiled liquor.
The uncrystallizable fluid is then let off through plug-holes
 at the bottom of the coolers; and the Epsom salt, after
being drained in baskets, is deposited hi the store-house.
This is termed single Epsom salts, and after solution and a
 second crystallization, it acquires the name of double Ep
som salts.       Four or five tons of sulphate of magnesia are
produced from a quantity of brine, which has yielded 10O
tons of common, and one ton of cat salt.
     On the banks of the Mersey, near its junction with the
    * I am indebted for an account of this process, as well at of the method
of making common salt at Lymington, to the liberal communication of
Charles Sr. Barbe, esq. of that place. Though not strictly connected with
the subject, I give his description of the mode of making Epsom salt, be
cause uo correct statement    of the process has, I believe, been hitherto pub
lished.   The analysis of sea water, indeed, by a justly distinguished chemist
(Bergman), excludes, erroneously, the sulphate of magnesia from its com
position , and his results have led to the opinion, that to manufacture this
•alt on the large scale, requires the addition either of sulphuric acid, or of
some sulphate to the liittrr liquor.   -(See Aikiu's Chemical Dictionary,
                                                                              •••
996.)
                                                                          Irish

                           British and Foreign Salt.                            1 11
Irish Channel,           the water of that river before evaporation
is brought to the state of a saturated brine, by the addition
of rock salt. The advantage of this method of proceeding
will be obvious when it is stated, that 100 tons of this brine
 yield at least 23 tons of common salt, whereas from the
 same quantity of sea water, with an equal expenditure of
 fuel, only two tons 17 cwt. of salt can be produced*.
      Within the few past years, an attempt has been made to
 apply rock salt itself to the packing of provisions.                            For
 this purpose it is crushed to the proper size between iron
 rollers.      The trials which have been made, I am informed,
 are but few, and the results hitherto are not perfectly
 known.
     Thebay salt imported from foreign countries                   is well known
  to be prepared by the spontaneous evaporation of sea wa
  ter, which, for this purpose, is confined in shallow pits,
  and exposed to the full influence of the sun and air.                              I
  have no addition to make to the accounts of its manufac
  ture, which have already been given by various writers f.
       As the results of the investigation, which forms the sub
  ject of this memoir, may be acceptable to many persons
  who can scarcely be expected to take an interest in a long
  detail of analytical processes, I shall present, in the follow
  ing section, a general view of the experiments, and of the
  conclusions that may be deduced from them.                           In the last
   place, in order that other chemists may be enabled to re
   peat the analyses under similar circumstances, 1 shall de
   scribe minutely the methods that were adopted, some of
   which are new, and others reduced to greater precision.
   If, however, in the future progress of science, it should
   appear that any of these processes are imperfect, it may
   still be admitted that, for all useful purposes, they afford a
   fair comparison of the composition of the several varieties
   of culinary salt ; since the sources of fallacy, that mav
   hereafter be discovered, must have been the same in every
   case, and have produced in each an error of nearly the
   same amount.
   Sect. II.        General Statement           of the Results of the Experi
        ments, and Conclusions that may be deduced                  from tliem.
        A  comparison          of  the   component      parts of British          and
       * Sec the Earl of Dundonald's      "
                                            Thoughts on the Manufacture     and Trade
    of Salt."  London,     1 785.
       f  Encyclop.  Method, art. Salins. (Des Marais Salans) Aikin'a Dictionary
   of Chemistry,     ii. 224.     Watson's Chemistry, vol. ii. p. 52.  It is necessary
    to remark, that a great proportion of what is sqld in Loudon as bay-salt is
   Cheshire large-grained fishery salt.                                      foreign

    1 12                 Analysis of several Varieties of
    foreign salts, and of different varieties of British salt with
    each other, will best be made by an examination of the
    following table, which comprehends the results of the
    analysis of equal weights of each variety.
                                                             1000 parts by weight consist
                                                                                                  |
                                                                                                ofj
                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                                   Pure
                                                             !-
                                                             2         -2                                   s.2
                                                                                                                               sulphate*.   Total im
                                                  Muriate                            eartliy
                                                                                                                                                       purities.
                                   Insol.                                                                                                                          muri
                                                                                                                       Total
                                                                                                Sulph.
                                                                            Total
        Kind of Salt.                                                  B
                                  matter.                                           muriates.
                                                                                                           Jr= ot                                                  ate   of
                                                  of lime.   2I                                   lime.           S                                                soda.
          St.Ube's                            a trace.         3              •                  23*                     28                     40 960
        f                           9                                               3
                                                                                                                  4*
¦H      < St. Martin's             12              do.            Si          •3J                19~          6          25                     404 959|
 o «                                               do.                        •                                          23j                    35j 964i
         LOleron                   10                          2                    2            19J              4J
jo!
 6
 £
   La tt
    J
         /"Scotch (common)
           Scotch (Sunday)
                                    1 4
                                                   —
                                                   —
                                                             28    or*
                                                                  U*
                                                                            28      or«
                                                                                    Hi
                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                 12
                                                                                                             17j
                                                                                                                  44
                                                                                                                         32J
                                                                                                                         IS;
                                                                                                                                                64J 935
                                                                                                                                                29
                                                                                                                                                                    i
                                                                                                                                                                   971
U «*• >
                                          ' 1 |
        A  Lymington(com.     )                    —              11        U or*                15          35"         50'                    63                 937
  J   rt                                           —
 3       (_Do. (cat)
                                    1                              5            5                1            5            G                    32                 988
                                                                                                             —
 £
         (Crushed   rock           10                             Oil               Oi            H                                               i«£ 983{
         ^Fishery                    1 1 1         °i             04                             lit         —            ni                     I3i  9S6}
                                                                                1 1 1
                                                   o-i            0*                             14*         —            14*                    164 9834
J   8    ^Common                    ! |  1                                                                   —
a        (Stoved                                   o-i            o-i                            15*!                      151                   174 982+
        I.The total amount                        of
                                        impurities, and the quantity                                                                                        of
  real   muriate         of
                         soda,   contained    in each variety of common
   salt, may    be    learned             by
                                    inspecting    the two last columns of
  the   table.    From      these      appears, that the foreign bay salt
                                              it
     purer, generally speaking, than salt which                                                                                                             by
                                                                                                          it is
  is                                                            prepared
  the rapid evaporation of sea water; but thai                     contami                                        is
  nated     with    about     three   times    the  amount    of  impurities
  discoverable            an equal weight of the Cheshire large-
                         in
  grained      salt,   and   with more than twice that of those that
  are found          the sloved and common salt of the same district.
                    in
      II. The insoluble mailer in the foreign salt, after the
  action of boiling water, appears to be chiefly argillaceous
  earth coloured          byoxide of iron, and          probably derived in         is
  part   from   the    pits  in  which    the   sea  water     submitted to                           is
  evaporation.          We   may,    perhaps,    assign  the same   origin to
  the very minute portion of muriate of lime, which                       not                                                      is
  found in the salt prepared                            by
                                          evaporating sea water in me
  tallic vessels, nor even in the mother liquor, or uncrystal-
  lizable residue.         In sea salt prepared          rapid evaporation,             by
  the insoluble portion                  mixture of carbonate of lime
                                             is        a
  with carbonate of magnesia, and fine siliceous sand                  a  and                                                      ;
  in the salt prepared from Cheshire brine,                      almost en                       it       is
  tirely carbonate of lime.             The insoluble part of the less
  pure pieces     of    rock  salt     chiefly     marly earth, with some
                                                  is                    a
  sulphate     of  lime.      The   quantity    of  this impurity, as                                                                         it           is
  staled in the table,          considerably below the average, which
                                  is
  in my experiments has varied from 10 to 45 parts in 1000.
                                                                       Some

                     British and Foreign Salt.                  1 13
Some estimate of its general proportion, when ascertained
on a larger scale, may l>c formed from the tact that Go
vernment, in levying the duties, allows C5lb. to the. bushel
of rock salt, instead of 56lb., the usual weight of a bushel
of salt.
    HI. The earthy muriates, and especially that with base
of magnesia, abound most in salt which is prepared by the
rapid evaporation of sea water.        Now since common salt,
in all its forms, contains, as will afterwards appear, very
little water of crystallization, it is probable that the muriate
of magnesia, discovered by the analysis of sea salt, is de
rived entirely from that portion 'of the mother liquor
which adheres to the salt after being drained, and which
amounts to about one-seventh of its weight.            The larger
the size of the grain, the less is the quantity of this solu
tion which the salt holds suspended ; and hence the salt
prepared at a lower degree of heat, being in larger crystals,
 is less debased by the magncsian muriate, than the salt
 formed at a boiling temperature.        It is probable, also, that
 when the salt is drawn at intervals from the boiler, the pro
 portion of the earthy muriate will vary with the period of
 the evaporation at which it is removed.        For ii may readily
 be conceived, that as the proportion of the earthy muriates
 m any brine is increased by the separation of muriate of
 soda, the greater will be the quantity of the muriates which
 the crystafs of common salt, formed in the midst of the
 brine, will retain ; thence it follows, that, so far as the
 earthy muriates only are concerned, salt must diminish in
 purity as the process of evaporation advances.
     hi the several varieties of Cheshire salt, the earthy mu
 riates do not exceed one thousandth part of this weight,
 and they are precisely (or so nearly so that the difference
 is not nscertainable) the same in all. This will cease to be
 matter of surprise, when it is considered that the salt ob
 tained by evaporating to dryness the whole of a portion of
 Cheshire brine, does not give more than five parts of earthy
 muriates in loot).      In the entire salt of sea water, accord'-
 it>g to  Bergman,   the  eariliy muriates form no less than 213
 parts in the same quantity.
     According to the proportion in. which the earthy mu
 riates an: present in any kind of salt, will be its power of
 deliquescence, or of attracting moisture from the atmo
  sphere.    It is no't entirely, however, from the salts with
 earthy   base  that common salt derives this quality ; for the
 most transparent specimens of rock Fait, which I find to
     Vol. 36. No. 148. August 1810.           ,   H         consist

 114             sbialysis   of several   Varieties   of
  consist of absolutely pure muriate of soda, attract murh
  moisture from a humid atmosphere.
     IV. The sulphate of magnesia and the sulphate of lime
  both enter into the composition of all the varieties of salt
  prepared from sea water; but the sulphate of lime alone is
  found in Cheshire salt. The proportion of sulphate of
  magnesia is greatest in that variety of sea salt which has
  been formed by rapid evaporation.         In foreign bay salt its
  quantity is very insignificant.
     From the table it may be seen, that the proportion of
  sulphate of lime is greater in foreign hay salt than in any
  variety of British salt, even than in those which are pre
  pared from sea water with a boiling heat.           The only ex
  planation  of  this fact, that  occurs to  me,   is, that during
 the rapid evaporation of sea water a considerable part of
 the calcareous sulphate is precipitated at an early stage of
 the process, and is partly removed in clearing the boiler, a
 process which can scarcely be performed during the for
 mation of bay salt, in pi;s whose sides are composed of
 moist clay.    The remainder of (he selenite, thus precipi
 tated by the rapid evaporation of sea water, enters into the
 composition of the pan-scale.
    In the course of this inquiry I was induced to repeat the
same experiments several times, on various specimens of
salt bearing the same designation ; and was surprised to
find that the results by no means corresponded.            In one
instance, for example, fishery salt was found in 1000 parts
to contain no IcsS then 16 parts of sulphate of lime; while
another specimen, nominally the same, contained only 1 \\
parts of selenite in the same quan-tity ; and a third only 51.
At length it occurred to me that these differences were,
probably owing to the circumstance of the salt having been
taken from the boiler at different periods of the evaporation.
I requested, therefore, to be furnished with specimens of
salt, drawn at different stages of the process from a given
portion of brine, evaporated       in the same boiler.      These
were submitted to analysis^ and the results arc shown in
the following table.                             .
                                                    •
Common salt drawn from the boiler two T-=                  „
   hours after the first application of heat . . 1 1       jj[
Salt drawn four hours after do                        2    g
Salt drawn six hours after do                    L j   2   ~,
  Hence   it appears that there was      gradually increasing
                                          a
purity in the salt from sulphate of lime, as the process
                                                                 .
                                                                 -t
                                                  evaporation

                        British and Foreign Salt.                               115
 evaporation advanced, the greatest part of this earthy com-
           being deputed at an early stage of the process.
   >ifferent specimens of the same kind of salt may, there
 Eound
 fore, differ in chemical purity as much from each other as
 from other varieties.          But when the impurities contained
 in a solution of muriate of soda are of a different species
 from those of Cheshire brine, and consist chiefly of the
 earthy muriates, the order will be reversed, and the purest
 salt, as 1 have already suggested, will be that which is first
 deposited, the contamination with the muriate of lime or
 of magnesia continuing to increase as the process advances
 to a conclusion *.
    At an early period of the inquiry, it appeared to me pro
 bable thai the differences between the sevcril varieties of
 culinarv salt might depend, in some degree, on their con
 taining variable proportions of water of crystallization.                       It
 was found, however, by experiment, that the proportion of
 water in any variety of common salt, after being dried at
 £ 1 2° Fahrenheit, is not much greater or less than that which
 is contained in any.olher variety.              Pure transparent rock-
 salt, calcined for half an hour in a low red heat, (=4° or
 5° of Wedgwood's           pyrometer,) lost absolutely nothing of
its weight. It is remarkable, also, that the pure native salt,
if free from adventitious moisture, may be suddenly and
 strongly heated, with scarcely any of that sound called de-
crepitalionf, which is produced by the similar treatment of
all the varieties of artificial salt.         Even these varieties, how
 ever, exposed during equal times to a low red heat, do not
lose more than from half a grain to three grains in one hun
dred. This comparison cannot be extended to the salt
 prepared at a boiling temperature             from sea water ; because
the muriate of magnesia which these varieties contain, is
decomposed at a reiLhcat, and deprived of its aeid.                         ..."
   f I cannot on any other principle explain the considerable differences, a;
to the proportion of muriate of magnesia, that were discovered in the se
veral varieties of Scotch salt tent to me by Dr. Thomson.         For thil reason,
in s.ating the analys-s of Scotch salt, 1 have given, in the table, that result
which was most frequently obtained; and have wirhhc d the names of the
manufacturers, because the diUcrenccs were probably in a great measure
accidental, and not the result of greater or less skill in the preparation.    One
specimen of l.ymingtou salt which i examined, contained fully as n.u.-h
muriate of magnesia as any of the Scotch samples.             1 he cut >alt of that
place, however, contrary to my expectation, proved to possess a very ex
traordinary degree of purity: a fact of which 1 satisfied mysxlf by repeated
experiments
   t Decrepitation is occasioned by the sudden conversion into vapour of
the water contained in salts, when its quantity is insufficient to effect the
watery fusion.    It is a property peculiar to salts which hold only a very
small proportion of water in combination)        as muriate of soda, I. urate of
lead, and sulphate of potash.            H2                                   The

1 16                 Analysis     of several Varieties of
    The following table shows the quantity of water con
tained in several kinds of salt, inferred from the loss which
they sustain by ignition during equal times, after being
first dried at 212°.
     loo   parts   of large-grained        fishery salt    contain     of
       water                                                                3
     IOO                  foreign bay salt (St. Martin's)           ....    3
     100                  ditto                  (Oleron)                   «i
     1OO                  ditto, Cheshire common salt                        l£
     100                  ditto            stoved salt                      o£
    The loudness       and violence of the decrepitation was, as
nearly    as  could   be  judged, in the same order, and was must
remarkable in the large-grained varieties.
    To determine the proportions of real muriate of soda in
those varieties of artificial' salt which are nearly free from
earthy muriates, I employed also the process of decompo
sition by nitrate of silver.            The following are the quantities
Of fased luna cornea obtained from I OO grains of each of
three varieties dried, previously to solution, at the tem
perature of 212° Fahrenheit.
     IOO  gr. pure transparent rock salt gave               of luna
        cornea                        ,              ,                   S4 2
     IOO . . . .stoved salt, remarkably pure                              339
     10O . . . ,fishery salt.           do           *....,              237*
    The proportion of ingredients in the several                    kinds of
muriate of soda (setting apart the impurities) appears,
therefore, to be nearly the same in all. And as the very
 minute quantity -of water discovered by analysis is not
 constant in the several varieties, it may be inferred to be
 rather art accidental than a necessary ingredient; for in the
 latter case an invariable proportion might be expected,
conformably to the important law, establishing an uni
formity in the proportions of chemical compounds, which
 has been explained by Mr. Dal urn, and confirmed by Dr.- .
 Thomson and Woll.iston.
     What then, it may be inquired, is the cause of those
    • From IOO rrams of-pure artificial muriate of soda, previously heaied
 to redness, Dr. Marcet hat since informed me that he obtained 34-16 grains
 of fated luna cornea. The weights of the precipitates thrown down in mv
 experiments by nitrate of silver are not, I am aware, exactly those which-
 might have been eipected from the table of the comparative proportion*
 Of Water given in the text. Each experiment, however, was twice repeated
 with every precaution I could adopt, and with the same results. That dif
 ferent kind* of salt give different proportions of luna cornea, is proved also
 by comparing the experiment of Dr. Marcet with the results of Dr. Blxclc
 and Klaproth, both tif whom found the fused muriate of silver from IOO
 parts of common salt to weigh 235 grains,
                                                                  diffcrencea

                   British and Foreign Salt,                 11 7
differences which arc acknowledged, on all hands, to exist
among the several species of muriate of soda, so far as re-
bpects their fitness for oeconomical purposes }    IfI were to
hazard an opinion, on a subject about which there must
still be some uncertainly, it would Be that the differences
of chemical composition, discovered by the preceding train
of experiments, in the several varieties of culinary salt, are
scarcely sufficient to account for those properties which
are imputed to them on the ground of experience. The
stoved and fishery salt, lor example, though differing in a
very trivial degree as to the kind or proportion of their
ingredients, are adapted to widely different uses.       Thus
the large-grained salt is peculiarly fitted for the packing of
fish and other provisions, a purpose to which the small-
grained salts are much less suitable. Their different powers,
then, of preserving food must depend on some mechanical
property; and the only obvious one is the magnitude of
the crystals, and their degree of compactness and hardness.
Quickness of solution, it is well known, is pretty nearly
proportional, all other circumstances being equal to the
quantity of surface exposed.      And since the surfaces of
cubes are as the squares of their sides, it should follow that
a salt whose crystals are of a given magnitude will dissolve
four times more slowly than one whose cubes have only
half the size.
   That kind of salt, then, which possesses most eminently
the combined properties of hardness, compactness, and
perfection of crystals, -will be best adapted to the purpose
of packing fish and other provisions, because it will remain
permanently between the different layers, or will be very
gradually dissolved by the fluids that exude from the pro
visions; thus furnishing a slow but constant supply of
saturated brine.     On the other hand, for the purpose of
            the pickle, or of striking the meat, which is done
Ereparing
  y immersion in a saturated solution of salt, the smaller-
grained varieties answer equally well ; or, on account of
their greater solubility, even better.
   With the hardness or strong aggregation of the several
varieties of salt, it seemed to me not improbable that their
specific gravity might in some degree be connected.        The
exact determination of this property in saline substances     is,
however,  a   problem of considerable difficulty, as will suffi
ciently appear from the various results which have been
given, with respect to the same salts,    by  different experi
mentalists.     Thus Muschenhroek makes the specific gra
vity of artificial muriate of soda to vary from 91 to
                                               1    8   2J  48,
                              H3                            the

1 18                 Analysis of several Varieties of Sail.
the mean of which is 2033.       Sir Isaac Newton states rt at
2143, and Hassenfratz at 2200*.         All that was necessary
for my purpose was an approximation to the truth ; and
the introduction of a small error could be of no importance,
provided it were thelsme in every case, since the com, part-
ion would still hold good.
    The specific gravity or rock salt, there can be little difH-
culiy in determining with precision. A piece of this salt tj
of such perfect transparency that I had reserved it as a
cabinet specimen, weighed in the air 513 grains, and lost,
when weighed in aleohol, 194 grains.        The alcohol, at the
temperature of 56° Fahrenheit, had the specific gravity of
820, at.d hence that of the salt may be estimated at 2170.
Another specimen considerably less pure, and more ap
proaching to a fibrous fracture, had the specific gravity o|
 2125 only.
    For ascertaining the specific weights of artificial varieties
of salts, I used a very simple contrivance.      It consisted of
a glass globe about 3-s diameter, having a stem or neck 10
inches long.     Sixteen cubic inches of water (each 252J-
grains  at 60° Fahrenheit,) filled the whole of the globe, and
about half an inch of the lower part of the neck ; and from
the line where the water stood in the instrument, it was
accurately graduated upwards into hundredth parts of a
cubical inch. Into this vessel I poured exactly sixteen
cubic inches of a perfectly saturated solution of common
salt ; and then added 400 grains of the salt under examina
tion, washing down the particles that adhered to the neck
by a portion of the liquid, which had been previously taken
out of the globe for the purpose. ,As much as possible of
 the air which adhered to the salt was dislodged by agita-
tion, and the increase of bulk was then observed.
, . Care was taken that the salts were all of rqualtempcrature
 and dryness, and that no change of temperature happened
 during the experiment.
    '400 grains of  the less pure kind of rock Hundredth
                                                         ^H^"'
       salt, broken down into small frag- of cub,'n-grav .w*a*
                                                 a
  ]    menls, filled the space of                  75     2112'
     400 grains of stoved salt                     75     SI IS
   I 100 do.   Ifanother  sample)                  76     2084
 .1.400 do.    common salt                         76     2084
J
- /"400 large grained     fishery salt
     400 do. (another sample)
  (_*00        St. Ube's
                                                   83
                                                   83
                                                   82
                                                          190<)|
                                                          190Q
                                                          1Q32,
    *   Annates  de Chimie, vol. Kviii. p. 13.
    •f Foliated   rock salt of Jameson. See his Mineralogy, vol.   ii.
                                                                   p.    10.
4   Distilled   water at 1000 being taken as the standard.                     Tf

           Description      of a Metallic Thermometer.                           119
    Tf the above mode of determination at all approach to
 correctness, it would appear that the specific gravity of
 rock salt is diminished, by being broken into small frag
 ments, from 212 5 to 2112, probably in consequence of the
 quantity of air which the fragments envelop, and which
 cannot be entirely separated by agitation.     From the num
 bers given in the last column, it is evident that the smaller-
 grained salts are specifically heavier than those which are
 composed of larger and more perfect crystals.       A difference
 of only one or two hundredth parts of a cubic inch is
 perhaps entitled, in a process of this kind, to little reliance;
 and I do not therefore regard it as indicating any material
 difference in the specific gravity of the first four or last
.three salts submitted to experiment.'       But when the dif
ference amounts to eight hundredths, as between the srnall-
 and large-grained salt, it may safely be imputed to an in
ferior specific gravity in that species, which occupies so
 much greater a proporlional bulk*.
    The last series of cxperirncnts proves decisively, that in
 an important quality, (viz. that of specific gravity,) which
 is probably connected with the mechanical property of
 hardness and compactness of crystals, little or no difference
 is discoverable between the large-grained salt of British,
 and that of foreign manufacture.       If no superiority, then,
 be claimed for 15ritish salt as applicable to ceconomical
 purposes, on account of the greater degree of chemical pu
 rity which unquestionably belongs to                      it,
                                                   may safely,   it              I
 believe, be asserted that the larger-grained varieties are, as
 to their mechanical properties, ful)y .equal to the foreign
jbay salt.   And the period,      may be hoped,
                                     it               not far         is         di
 stant, when     aprejudice (for such, from the result of this
 investigation,     appears lo be,) will be done away, which
                   it
 has long proved injurious to the interests and prosperity of
 an important branch of British manufacture.
                              [To   be continued.]
¦XIX. Description of Metallic Thermometer for indicating
                            a
           the higher Degrees  Temperature.of
                              To    Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,
   I       beg  leave, through the medium of your Magazine,
briefly to     mention the principle of   new thermometer,
                                                     a
   * M. Hassenfratz secn.s to have suspected that difference        the specific
                                                                           in
                                                     a a
gravity 01 the same salt may be occasioned by          variation in its state of
crystallization. l)t la PisaiUtur speci/iyue dciStls, Ann.de Chim. xxviii.p. 17.
                                       H  4                                     con

120           Description    of a Metallic Tliermometer.
 contrived by me, for the purpose of exhibiting; the dif
ference   in temperature, or degrees of heat, which takes place
 between the mercurial thermometer, the scale of which
 terminates upwards, at 600°, and that of baked clay, or
.Wedgwood's thermometer, the scale of which commences
 at 1077° of Fahrenheit, or red-heat, thus forming an inter
 mediate or connecting thermometer between the two above
 mentioned.
    A metallic composition is formed, not liable to alteration
 in its quality or quantity by repealed exposure to heat, the
 melting point of which is at a little below 600' of Fahren
 heit, and its boiling point at 1200°.      A case resembling
 in form the glass case for the ordinary thermometer, but
 somewhat larger, contains the metallic composition, and
 the scale consists in a slender graduated rod, equal in
 height at the commencement of the scale, that is when
 the metallic composition is just liquid to the top of the
 tube; the graduated rod terminating at the bottom in a
\hin, circular, flat plate, which rests or floats as it were
 upon the liquid metal; and in proportion as the latter ex
 pands and rises in the tube by heat, the graduated rod is
 buoyed up, or raised above the top of the tube, passing
 through a perforated cover IP the maximum, or boiling
point*.
   The same principle, I might observe, admits of being
extended, for the purpose ot ascertaining the variation in
temperature up to the most intense heat, perhaps, that can
be required.
   It is unnecessary to state here, that the influence of thp
incumbent atmosphere upon the surface of the liquid me
tal within the open tube is too inconsiderable, even at the
commencement of the scale, to deserve notice, and at a
higher temperature diminishes to nothing; especially if
the whole of the liquid contained in the thermometer, as
ought to be the case in the use of every thermometer, be
completely immersed or subjected to the temperature, the
degree of which it is intended to indicate.
   A method similar to the above, I should think, might
be applicable to the purpose of showing in a ready way the
degree of expansion in metals by heat ; but the elongation
of. a cylinder of any metal, by increase of temperature,                it>
    • JHie thermometer case and graduated rod arc at present formed of
 pipe makers' clay previously prepared by having been exposed to   a suffi
 cient degree of heat.
    The scale of this new thermometeri> an exact continuation of the scale
in the mercurial thermometer; the towr dtgrtts of the former correspond
ing with, or indicating like temperatures with, the upptr dcgria of the
mercurial therjnometen                                             touch

                            On Crystallography.                            121
   much too small to admit           of its being a    convenient   measure
   of temperature.
        I should not despair, however, (availing myself of every
   advantage, viz. increasing the Itngth of a metallic wire,
   by giving it a spiral form, in order to comprise a consi
   derable length in small compass ; with the application of
   the lever-index, and a good magnifier,) of constructing a
   thermometer upon this principle, so as to render the scale
   apparent even to single degrees; using silyer for the lower
   temperatures, and platina for the higher, or employing
   iron wire, only up to its ultimate point of expansion in a
   solid stale *.
                                I am, sir,
                                        Your obedient servant.
  Queen-street, Oxford,                          RlCHARD WALKER,
        Aug. 6, 181(3.
  XX.        On Crystallography.           By M, Hauy.           Translate^
    from     the last  Paris Edition of his Trait6       de Mineralogie.
                            [Continued   from p. 69.]
     THEORY OF THE LAWS TO WHICH THE STRUCTURE OF
          CRYSTALS IS SUBJECTED.              GEOMETRICAL PART.
                           Preliminary Notions.                                ^
  }•    The      theory which I here propose to submit to calcu
  lation has for its object, to determine all the different forms
  which may arise from a superposition of decreasing lam ins
 following known directions and laws, on the various faces
 of a solid, the figure of which is also given f.
       2. The solid which 1 call nucleus or primitive form is
 always one of the six following : 1st, the parallelopipedon;
  fid, the regular hexahedrai prism; 3d, the rhomboklal
 dodecahedron; 4th, the octahedron ; 5ih, the tetrahedron,
 which in this case is always regular; 6th, the hipyramidal
 dodecahedron.
       3. By subdividing each of these solids parallel to its dif
 ferent faces, and sometimes also in other directions, we
 obtain the integrant molecules, which are always either
 parallejopipedons, triangular prisms, or tetrahedrons.
     *  For the means of rendering exceedingly minute divisions distinct, <««
a method described in the Monthly Magazine for May 1810.
     -f 1 presume that my readers are acquainted with that part of my treatise
in which the same theory is detailed by simple reasoning. I shall there
fore now confine myself to resuming in a succinct manner the most general
principles of this theory.
                                                                  4. When

  1 28                    On Crystallography.
     4. When tbe nucleus being 4 parallelopipedon is divisi
ble only by planes parallel to us six faces, il is evident that
the integrant molecule is iuelf a parallelopipedon similar
 to this nucleus'.
     5. But even when ihc integrant molecules differ from
the parallelopipedorij they are always situated in the interior
of the nucleus in such a manner that bc-ing taken by smalj
groups they compose paralltlopipedons ; and the decre
ments which give the secondary forms are always made by
rows of these parallelopipedons as in the case first men
 tioned.
     1 <;ive the name of sultractlve        molecules to the small
parailelopipedons, divisible or not divisible, the subtraction
of which determines the decrements of the laminae of su
 perposition.
     It follows from what has been said, that the subtractive
molecule is a kind of unity, to which we may refer the
structure of all crystals in general, so that we are at liberty
to adhere to the data which it furnishes in the application
of calculation to every possible crystalline form. To know
afterwards if this unity be indivisible, or if it has fractional
parts, is a matter of observation which may be interesting in
natural history i but independent of which'the theory would
notarlmit of our proceeding towards the object 'hi view.
     6. In the case where the nucleus itself differs from the
parallelopipedon, we may always substitute for it a solid
of, that form, either by abstracting from gome of its face*,
if there are more than six, or by multiplying the subdivi
sions, alwavs in the direction of the natural joints, if it be
a tetrahedron.        But we frequently obtain more simple re
sults,    bv giving  the  preference to the true nucleus.
     7.    The  decrements     undergone by the laminae of super
position may      be  effected  in all imaginable directions.     Tbe
limits of these directions are the edges and the diagonals of
the faces of the nucleus.         Between these two limits there
is an infinity of intermediate onts, according as the small
solids, the rows of which determine the quantity of the de
crements, are considered as double, treble, quadruple, &c.
of the subtractive molecule. I call decrements nn the edges
those which take place parallel to the edsres of the faces
of the nucleus ; decrements on the angles, those which take
 place parallel to the diagonals ; and intermediary decre
ments, those which are made parallel to lines comprehended
 between the edges and the diagonals.
     1 shall now successively treat      of the different primitive
 forms    above  mentioned,    and  give, relatively to each of them,
                                                                   the

                               On Crystallography.                         123
the method of calculating the results of all the laws of de
crements of which it is susceptible.     I shall begin with
the parallelopipcdon, which is as it were the term of com
parison to which the other forms refer.
                     1.    Theory   of   the Parallelopipcdon.
  8. Let AG (fig. 1, PI. IX) be a parallelopipedon, the faces
of which may have whatever respective dimensions and
measurements of angles we please.        Let us conceive this
solidsubdivided, by plans secting parallel to its different faces,
into a multitude of elementary parallelopipedons which
will be the integrant molecules.         Each of the same faces
will be separattd in its turn into a certain number of small
parallelograms, which will be the exterior faces of as many
molecules.
   If we choose any two of the six faces in question, pro
vided they are opposite, we may consider the solid as an
assemblage of laminae distinguished by the secting plans
parallel to these very faces.
       Let us now imagine new lamince formed of small
     j9.
parallelopipedons similar and equal to the foregoing, which
are placed as     in steps above various faces of the generator
                     if
parallelopipedon, in such       manner that the facets
                                         a                    con     in
tact coincide exactly, like what takes place                    in
                                                      the interior
of this solid. Here there are three cases to be distinguished.
The first     that in which the laminae extend
                is                                               by
                                                       their edges
so as to envelop completely the generator parallelopipcdon,
which will grow without changing its form. The second
is that in which the laminae would remain on level by.their  a
edges with the faces adjacent to the generator parallelopipe
don,      which case *if
           in                 easy to see that they would iorm
                                    is
re-entering angles at the places of the ridges DC, BC, CG,
&c. In the third case, the laminae will go on decreasing,
following certain directions, in such          manner that each
                                                       a
will be exceeded       the foregoing in
                               by              quantity equal to
                                                       a
one or more rows, either in breadth or height.
   Of these three cases, the first     relative to the primitive
                                                 is
                                                   and admits of
                                         is by
forms given immediately        crystallization,
no difficulty.  The second      foreign to our views, because
nature presents us with no example of         in simple crystals.
                                                      it
We shall dwell at some length upon the third, which                         is
properly the object of the theory.
   10. Let us conceive in the first place that the decrements
are produced      breadth on ail the ridges
                          in                               by
                                                   subtraction of
an equal number of rows, and let us confine ourselves for
                                                                           the

124                   On Crystallography.
the moment     to the consideration of the effect of the de
crement which        takes place parallel to the ridge BC,
ascending above    the parallelogram A BCD.
    If we suppose   that the form of the integrant molecule
which is similar    to the generator parallelopipedon is deter
mined, and that    the law of decrement is known, it will bo
easy to rind the angle formed vviih ABCD by the face pro
duced in virtue of this decrement.
    Let a a (fig. 2j be one of the molecules, of which the
faces analogous to those of the parallelopipedon, fig. 1, are
marked with the same letters.          From the point c I draw
cs and cr perpendicular on       I c.   Now, by the hypothesis,
the relation between these two lines is given, as well as the
angle res which measures the incidence of alcd upon
be s h.
   Now let oj> (fig. 1) be the distance between the ridge
EC and the first lamina of superposition, which distance
is regarded as being measured on the plane A BCD.            It is
clear that np is equal to c r (fig. 2) multiplied by the num
ber n of rows subtracted.       Therefore op — n xcr. From
the point p (fig. 1)   raise  pu lying upon that of the lateral
faces of the first lamina, which is turned from the same
side, and equal to the height of this face. We shall have
pu=cs (lig. 2) and opu = scr, Complete the triangle
vpo (fig. I), ft is visible that the line ou will coincide
wiih the face of the secondary crystal, which rises on the
ridge BC, and that the an^le p o n will measure the inci
dence of this face on the parallelogram ABCD.              Thus,
since in the triangle up o we know the two sides op, p u,
and the comprehended angle opu, it will be easy to get
the anj;le pott which gives the incidence wanted.
    11. The triangle pou is called mensurator triangle} and
I sliall subsequently give this name (o all tjip triangles,
which perform the same function.
    12. Let us now consider the effect of the decrement
which takes place parallel to the same ridge BC, by de
scending on the face BCGII.           Let oih be the mensurator
triangle, in   which    o j is the distance between the ridge
BC and the first lamina of superposition, ik coincides
with that of the lateral faces of this lamina, which looks to
wards the ridge 15C, and besides it is equal to the height
of the face in question; finally, o A is laid on the face
*hich results from the decrement.
    Let n' be the number of rows subtracted. We shall
have ol (fig. 1,) = n'xcs (fig. 2).        Also ih (fig. l) = cr

                       On Crystallography.                    125
(fig. 2), and oih — res. Thus it will he easy to determine
the angle which the Face produced by the decrement forms
with BCGH (fig. I }
     13. It may happen that the two decrements which act
on both sides of the ridge BC have such a connexion
with each other that the two faces which will result from
them will coincide upon one ami the same plane, so that
the side oft of the triangle oih is upon the direction of
the side ou which belongs to the triangle upo, as we >rc
in fig. 3. To prove this, we may remark, that in this
case the triangles upo, oih are similar, as well on ac
count of the equality of the angles opu, hio, ami the pa
 rallelism of the sides op, ill, as on account of the coinci
 dence of the sides ou, ho upon one and the same direction.
     Therefore p u : op : : o i : ih.
     Or rather cs (fig. 2) : n x cr : : n' x cs : cr.
     Which   gives  «'=—    .
     That is to say, the case in question will happen every
 time that the decrements which take place on proceeding
 from BC towards GH are in the inverse ratio to those
 which take place in going from BC towards AD, or, what
 comes to the same thing, at all times when there is on one
 side a decrement in height equal to that which shall be ou
 the opposite side.     We may easily conceive that the two
 faces will be still on one and the same plane in the peculiar
 case of a decrement by one row on both sides.
      14. Hence we may conclude, that in all circumstances
 similar to those which have been cited, we may m;ike abs
 traction of one of the two decrements, by considering the
  face which results from it as the continuation of that which
 arises from the other decrement.
      We see what would have been necessary for determining
  in a similar way the incidences of the faces produced by
  the other decrements upon the analogous faces of the
  generator parallelopipedon.
      15. The greatest number of faces which the secondary
  solid can have, is twenty -four, since the generator parallelo
  pipedon has twelve ridges, each ot \\hich is the line of
  departure of two decrements which act in an opposite direc
   tion. These faces will all be triangles, or some triangles and
  others trapeziums, according as the generator parallelopipe
  don will be found more elongated in one direction than in
  the other, or as the decrements which will take place pa
  rallel to certain edges will follow a more rapid course than
  those which would act parallel to other edges.
                                                              The

126           ,           On Crystallography.
    The smallest number of         faces which the secondary cry
stal    can  have    is twelve.    Then all the decrements consi
dered two by two, setting out from one and the same ridge,
will be inverse to each other.
    The simplest case is that in which the generator parallelo-
pipedon being a cube, we have n=.\ and n'=\.                On this
hypothesis, the secondary solid is a dodecahedron with
rhombic planes all equal and similar, as we have explained
in the reasoning part of the work.
    16. We now proceed to the method of determining the
decrements       upon the angles.        But we may previous!)' re
mark, that      in  this  case the  decreasing parts of the laminse
of superposition form angles alternately re-entering and
salient, in such a way, however, that all the riJrres of mo
lecule situated at the places of the salient angles are OH
one and the same plan: we shall consequently designate
the series of these ridges by the name of lateral face.
    This being done, let us conceive that decrements in
breadth are produced by equal numbers of rows on all the
angles of the parallelopipedon, fig. 1 ; and let us take for
instance that which takes place upon the angle BCD.
Let Ckl be the mensurator triangle, in which Ck measures
the distance between the point C and the first lamina of
superposition, kl is regarded as being applied on the cor
responding lateral face, the height of which it measures,
and C I coincides with the face of the secondary crystal,
produced by the decrement in question.
    Having traced the diagonals db,fh (fig. 2) on the
bases of the molecules, I draw ct perpendicular upon dit
and xx perpendicular as well upon dl as uponfli.
    Let N be the number of rows subtracted.               We shall
have Ck (fig. 1) = NXcf (fig. 2), and kl (fig. 1) =xz
 (fig. 2); besides the angle CH(fig. I) will be equal to
that formed by the plane lidfk (tig. 5) with         J  g k. Now
these three quantities are regarded as bcinjj. known, since
the form of the molecule is determined.            Thus it will be
easy     to find   the   angle AC   /(fig. 1)  which measures the
inclination of the lace produced by the decrement upon
the parallelogram ABCD.              We shall conduct ourselves in
the same manner in order to calculate the effects of the de
crements on the other angles.
     17. Let us now consider the hypothesis in which the
decrements Which take place on the two angles DCG,
BCG would have such a connexion with that which acts
on the angle BCD, that the faces produced by these three
decrements would coincide on one and the same plane.
      '                                                         Let

                              On Crystallography.                           1 ?7
     Let AG (fig. 4) always be the generator parallelopipedon.
Suppose that the decrement which takes place in breadth
upon the angle BCD has such a measurement, that the
lower edge of the first lamina of superposition p:tsses by
mr, in which case such ot the lines Cm, Crwill contain
as many ridges of molecule equal to cd, or cb (fig. 2), as
there will be rows subtracted by the decrement.                 Having
taken upon GG (fig. A) a part Cc equal to eg (fig. 2),
 make a plane pass by the points m,c,r.                I say that tin*
 plane i s parallel to the face which results from the decrement,
 in order to prove             having drawn indefinitely the lines
                              it,
 ms and ru parallel to CG, prolong them each upwards,
                                         I
 bo as to have Mm, or Rr equal to Cc.                Now these pro
 longations M m and           K represent two of the ridges situated
                                r
 on the lateral lace of the first lamina.         Therefore the face
 produced bvthe       decrement    passes     the points M,R. But
                                                   by
 besides      it
               passes    bythe  point        C,
                                          which      the term of de
                                                        is
 parture    of  the  decrement;    therefore the  plane MCR coin
 cides with it. Now the small lines Cc, Mm, Rr, being
 three longitudinal ridges of molecule, situated parallel to
  each other between the two planes mcr, MCR,                     visible
                                                                  it   is
  that these two planes are themselves parallel, i.e. that mcr
 is'  parallel to the face which arises from the decrement.
      The same reasoning applies to 'the hypothesis               whichin
  the decrement should take place            height.
                                                  in     In this  case         it
  would be necessary, in order to make the plane mcr be
  parallel to the face produced, that we should have cm = cd
-(fig.    2)  crz=cb; and that the line Cc (fig.
              ;                                                   should
                                                                      4)
   contain as many limes eg (fig.          as there would be ranges
                                             2)
   subtracted       the direction of the height.
                    in
       18. Let us suppose that the plane MCR                  prolonged
                                                                 is
   above the faces CDFG, BCGH, and consider the pro
   longations as two faces which would be the effect of two
   decrements, the one upon the angle DCG, the other upon
   BCG. These decrements being equal, we shjdl confine
   ourselves to that which ads upon the anule DCG.                 Since
   the plan cmr           parallel to the face which results from
                         is
   this decrement,       it    clear that cm coincides with the
                               is
   rower edge of the first lamina of superposition applied
   upon CDFG, and that Cr contains as many ridges of
   molecule as there are ranges subtracted              in
                                                      height.
    .  19- If the decrement relative to the angle BCD takes
    place      one row,
               by             it evident that the two other decre
                                    is
    ments relative the one to the angle DCG, the other to the
    angle BCG, will also take place          one row since then the
                                                  by         :
    three lines Cjwj Cr, Cc, are equal each to one ridge of
 ¦     »•¦"
                                                                      molecules,

  128                    On Crystallography.
  molecules, the three decrements must necessarily have the
  same measurement.
     20. But if the decrement relative to the angle BCD is
 produced by more than one row, then the two others will
  necessarily be intermediate, and it will be sufficient to have
  the law of the first decrement for determining the two
 others.    Let us suppose, for example, that the decrement in
 the angle BCD is made by three ranges in breadth.                In
  this case Cm and Cr will each of them be equal to three
 ridges of molecules, andCc will he equal to one ridge.
 Therefore the dtcrement on the angle DCG is produced in
 such a manner that there are three ridges of molecules sub
 tracted in the direction of CD, upon one alone in the direction
 of CG; and besides this decrement is made by three rows
 in height, since Cr answers to three ridges of molecules.
 It is the same with the decrement which takes place on the
 angle BCG.
     !il. In all cases of this description, the theory only con
 siders the effect of the decrement which takes place accord
 ing to the ordinary laws, because there results from it a
 much more simple solution ; and the two other decrements,
 of which abstraction has been made, are considered as in
 tervening in a subsidiary manner to second the effect of
 the (list, and prolong towards the parts adjacent the face to
 which it has given birth.
    22. The greatest number of faces which the secondary
crystal can Tiave, in the hypothesis of a decrement on all
 the angles, is twenty-four, since there are eight solid angles
each composed of three plane angles, which are the terms
of departure of as many decrements. The minimum of
the number of faces in the same hypothesis is eight; and
although strictly speakiue there arfe always twenty-four de
crements, we only consider eight, which gives us the fa
cility or employing ordinary laws only, for determining the
form of the secondary crystal.
    23. The simplest case is that in which the generator pa-
rallelopipedon being a cube, all the decrements are done by
one row.      The secondary solid islhen a regular octahedron.
    But it may happen that the three decrements which take
place around one and the same solid angle are all inter
mediary.      In this case it is sufficient that one of them be
determined, in order to render it easy to conclude from
thence the two others, by the help of a construction similar
to that which we have previously employed.
    24. Let us suppose that fig. 5 represents        the generator
parallelopipedon,     marked    with   the  letters relative  to the
                                                             method

                            On Crystallography.                       129
method of indicative signs.             Let us conceive lliat there is
made upon the angle O, ascendinc, a decrement which pro
duces a face parallel to the plane n r st and the expression
of which is (OD:F*), whence it follows that on = 3cJ
(fig. 2), O r = 4 c b, and O * = 2 eg.
    This being done, the expression of the decrement on the
                                      i
left of the angle O will be (TOD! H:)> and that                of the de
crement       >to  the right of the same angle (CP"F» H').
    25.    In order     to determine the angles formed by the faces
produced by the intermediary decrements with the corre
sponding faces of the nucleus, what presents itself as the
simplest is to consider every little group of molecules,
which results from the decrement, as forming one single
molecule ; which brings back the calculation to that which
is employed for tht ordinary decrements on the angles.
    Let us take for example the decrement on the angle O
ascending, represented (OD'FJ).                  It is easy to judge that
in this case, the group which represents two subtractive
molecules placed the one above the other, is that which we
see fig. 6, and in which the side mn is composed of three
ridges of molecule, the side np of four ridges, and the
side n k of two ridges, on account of the decrement by
two ranges in height.
    Having traced on the bases the diagonals nip, to, I
draw rt perpendicular upon ?»p, then a i perpendicular as
well npon mp as upon io.
    Letw/y (fig. 7) be the mensurator triangle, in which
n t being regarded as lying on the plane                    AEOI (fig. 5)
will be equal to the same line (fig. 6). Besides, we shall
have ty (fig. 7) = M.S (fig. 6), and the angle nty (fig. 7)
will be equal to that formed by the plane mpoi (fig. 6)
with the triangle i k o. Thus it will he easy to find the
angle yn t (fig. 7) which measures the inclination wanted.
    2fi. The solutions of problems of this kind are often sim
plified in practice, by a series of the regular form of mole
cules. Let us suppose, for example, that the latter are
cubes. Let us designate each of their ridccs by unity.
We shall have (fig. 6) m n = 3, np = 4, n% = 2, m p =
  .                                        wiixnp        12         .
V (mil)-                =  v  25 = 5. nl =           =  —,-.Mi=n«=2.
    \     ' +• (lit))'
                  \ i f                      7)1p         O
   Thus      also    nt (fig. 7) =  -J-,  ty =     2.
Vol.    3(5.  fJo. US. August       1810.                I          Thus

13O                          On Crystallography.
   Thus n      t  :   ty : :  — : 2 : : 6 : 5. Besides,     in this same
case,   the angle        nty is straight ; from which        we see how
easy  it   is to    find the  angle   ynt.
   27- The mensurator triangles relative to the decrements
on the angles may be substituted for those which we have
considered in the decrements on the edges, and serve
equally well for determining the secondary forms.                  Let us
suppose,      for     example,   that  .AG (fig. 8) represents  a cubical
nucleus, which undergoet decrements by two ranges on
the four edges of the base ABCD, and that we wish to
know the angles of the pyramid SADCB produced by this
decrement.            Having tract-d the diagonals BD, AC, I draw
from their point o of intersection the line op perpendicular
Upon CD, then sp.               If I take upon po the part pr equal
to two ridges of molecule, and from the point r I raise r u
perpendicular upon ABCD, and which by the hypothesis
will be found equal to one ridge of molecule, the triangle
up r will perform the function of the ordinary mensurator
triangle, and by means of the right angle urp, and of the
relation 2: 1 between the sides prand ur, we shall easily
find the incidence of DSC upon the base ABCD, as well
as the values of the other angles.             For, on account of the
similar triangles npr, spo, everything is reduced to the
calculation of the angles of a straight pyramid in which
the side BC of the base, which is double of po, is to the
axis 05 in the relation of 4 to I.
   On the other hand, — If I take upon Co the part Cn
equal to two diagonals of molecule ; and if from the point'
n I raise nz perpendicular upon A15CD, Cn will represent
the distance from the point C to -the first lamina of super
position, taken in the direction of Co, and nz will be
equal to one ridge of molecule; from which it follows that
the triangle -z Cn may also perform the function of men
surator triangle.
    We shall        therefore have Cn : nx : i34/8 i 1, and he-
cause    the     triangle zCn is similar to the triangle sCo, the
question considered under this new point of view will be
reduced to seek the angles of a straight pyramid, in which
the demi-diagonal Co of the base is to the axis os, as
2^2      :  1, which is sufficient for having all the rest.          We
shall have occasion more than once thus to substitute one
mensurator triangle for the other, when there will result
from it more facility in resolving the problems.
   All the details upon which we have acted ought to be
                                                                regarded

                                On Cupping.                                   131
   regarded as preliminary notions intended particularly to
  enable students clearly to understand the use of the men-
   suratpr triangles which will incessantly recur in the ap
   plications which we shall make of the calculus to the
  laws of decrements.          We shall now proceed more particu
  larly to the methods relative to this object; and as the
  rhomboid, which likewise comprehends the cube, is of all
  the kinds of parallelopipedon the most fertile in diversified
 results, and at the same time that which is the most easily
 adapted to the employment of general formula-, we shall
  first give the theory of this solid ; after which we shall re
 sume that of the parallelopipedons of a different form.
     *,• Understanding that an English Translation of the whole ofMr.HAor's
 valuable work on Crystallography      is now preparing for the press, we
                                                                              in
 tend, for the present, to suspend our labours upon it, as a full
                                                                     translation
 cannot fail to answer the object we had in view, better than those disjoined
 portions which can alone be admissible into the pages of a periodical work.
 —Should the proposed translation not appear in »ome reasonable time, we
 may hereafter resume our labours.
                  XXI. Dr. HEAIY            on Cupping.
                             To  Mr. Tillocfi.
         I                                  No. l, Clarendon-street, Dublin.
             REdUEST you will permit me to contradict an ob
 servation which has been made, in the Retrospect of Dis
 coveries, stating that the mode which I propose for cup
 ping without the assistance of the syringe, is so far from
 new, that it occurred 'nearly 200O years ago, to Hero of
 Alexandria, and that the figure is exhibited in the Mathe-
 matici Veteres. — I consulted the Parisian edition, and find
his contrivance (as described page 207) entirely different
from mine.         Suffice it to say, a partial exhaustion is pro
duced by the mouth from a secondary cavity, and two stop
cocks are made use of. The syringe, which is an improve
ment, and answers for the secondary cavity of Hero, is the
usual mode at present of producing the vacuum, and not, as
the observer stales, the spirit lamp or tow.               The apparatus
which I propose will still, I imagine, be found new, more
(economical, and less complicated, than any that has been
hitherto adopted.
                            Your much obliged,
   July 19, isio.                            ROBERT HEALY, M.B.
                                 I 2                      XXII.       Olser.

                                       [    139     ]
XXII.     Observations on the Purity of Standard Gold.  By
   M.    FABBRONI, of Florence, corresponding Member of the
   French     Institute.               To   which       o,re   subjoined      Notes   by
   M. D'AucnT, Assay Master of the French Mint*.
ALMOST all naturalists (following perhaps implicitly the
assertion of Pliny t) maintain that native gold is never
found pure 5 i.e. entirely free from alloy, chiefly of silver,
and that the finest is scarcely from 0-675 to 0-Q17, or 21 or
22 carats. The gold in dust, in spangles, or in sand, which
is brought from Africa, is most frequently wilhin these li
mits.    I have seen some gold from the country of Barn-
buck in Africa, which was 0'927, or 22 carats and one-
fourth ; in the mint of Florence it has also been seen at
O-958, or 23 carats : this gold had been brought from
Morocco. The carat in Tuscany is divided into eighths.
   It is probable that in the early ages money was coined
with native gold, in the state in which it wa> found, there
being no grounds for supposing that they took pains to
refine it.
   It has been thought that the oldest gold coin known is
that of Battus IV, which was melted or struck at Cyrene
in Africa in the time of Pisislratus : it does not appear that
the standard of this gold was known. Of all the Grecian
coins whiph are in the hands of the collectors of medals,
the most ancient are the beautiful pieces of Philip the fa
ther of Alexander.     That enterprising man, who from his
infancy conceived the Idea of ascending the throne of
Macedon, and becoming master of Greece, was fortunate
enough to find several rich mines of gold, which he knew
how to prize.    Mount Pangea annually furnished him with
       to the amount of 5,229,000 francs, and from thence
 efold
    derived the most ppwerful resources for the success of
his political designs and military talents.        not known        It   is
whether this metal of Philip's underwent any particular
pperatipns before passing to the mint. There ai[e
    * jliviain de Cliimie. tntre hxii. p. 25.
  +   Pliny says, lib. S3, that there         no k'nd of poid more perfect than
                                             is
spangle gold r   that fold obtained by searching the beds of rivers does not
require melting, and that         it  native and perfect gold. But Pliny says
                                       is                                             in
tlie same book that lead          more malleable and heavier than gold; which
                                 is
proves that the gold which he regarded as pure was in reality an alloy.
He says likewise   a  little further on, that all gold     mixed with silver, and
                                                               is
that the gold which         the least alloyed with silver came from Albicratum
                            is
in <jaul, and that     It contained only fo.  From alt this       evident tfiat
                                                                     it
                                                                     is
Pliny's opinion   is   not to be followed, and recourse must be bad to experi
ments.
                                                                              grounds,

              Olservations on the       Purity of Standard Gold.              1 id
    grounds, however, for thinking that it was used in the state
     in which it was found.
        Patin assayed'a staterd of gold of this king (the deno
    mination of his coiti among the Persians and Macedonians),
    and found it to he 23 carats and a half, or 0970.                        We
    cannot allow ourselves to believe that the metallurgists of
    that monarch thought to purify gold by adding to it onlv
    a4Sth pah of alloy, but we can easily suppose that the gold
    was found in this slate of fineness.
        If alloys were'added to gold from a bad design, or with
    the mistaken idea of covering the expense of manufacturing
    it; this has degenerated into fraud, and has no limits: if
    the alloy was added with the view of making the money
    harder, it was a futile attempt.              Neither of these motives
    could sway with Philip, because he enjoyed abundant mines
    of goldj and because, as he wished to appear generous, he
    would have made his coin of pure gold, if he thought it
    necessary to refine it : or he would have added more alloy,
    if policy suggested that he should not employ it as it came
    from the bowejs of the earth *.              It should seem, therefore,
    that his mines furnished him with gold at 23 carats and a
    half (0*979), as it is fotind to be in his coins, if there be no
    error in Patin's aualysis : but it might perhaps be interest
    ing to confirm this fact by a new experiment.
        Chevalier Fossombrohi, an eminent mathematician, in
   digging the foundation of a house near Arezzo, found a
   Statera of Philip in good preservation, which he was kind
   enough immediately to give us to be examined by analysis.
        On one side of this piece, as in most of Philip's coins,
   there is a head of Apollo, and on the reverse a car with two
   horses : the name is on the exergue : — on similar coins we
   see under the legs of the horse a monogram or type indi
   cating the mint where the coin was struck.                    On the piece
   in question there was a trident, which means Trcezene.
       Fourteen of these coins are preserved in the cabinet of
   the Florence gallery : the face and the reverse of eleven of
   them are similar to that of Arezzo ; but they have various
   distinguishing marks, one only bearing the same mint-mark
      * I transmitted to M.
                                Monies! the analysis of an ancient coin with the
i  effigy of Philip : its examination also proved, that under the reign of that
  prince alloys were used in the making of money, the composition of which
  was natural, or at least unknown ; for it contained silver 3G8, gold 184,
                    *
  Copper 448.
      It is not likely that so complex an alloy would have been used at a pe
  riod when the modes of analysis were so little known, as to fall far short of
  the degree of exactness which may be attained even by employing the
  totfthstonc and prepared acid now in use.
                                          I  3                             frith

1 34     Olservations on the Purity  of Standard Gold.
with that found    at Arezzo.    The weight of two of these,
completely similar in external appearance, was precisely 176
grains of Florence each. The same weight was found in
another distinguished by a monogram formed by a large K,
and a little o ; the same weight in another which had a
 thunderbolt; the same in another with a vase; and lastly,
 in another with a gram of wheat, the mark of the Leontini.
These six weights of the largest statciae which remain, and
 which are equal, gave grounds for concluding that the
 above was the weight prescribed for the Greek money.
This being granted, we may infer that the drachma weighed .
 88 grains.    (Rome de Plsle assigns three grains more to
 the great Altic drachma.)        The proof of the accuracy
 of this calculation is to be found in the Athenian dcnii-
 drachma, or Asiatic drachma, or the fourth part of the
 statera of Philip, which is preserved in the same gallery :
 this fragment weighs precisely 44 grains. The face of this
 small piece of gold presents the head of Hercules covered
with a lion's skin, and on the reverse we see the bow, the
vase, and club.       M. Millin has communicated to me the
weight of five staterse preserved in the Imperial library,
which are as follow : No. 1 . 16O-5 grains ; No. 2. 16J grains
precisely; No. 3. l6l grains ; No. 4. 162 grains precisely ;
No. 5. 162 grains. The two heaviest seem to be so from
having been less worn. The largest would answer to 1 75-16
grains of Florence, and would be lighter by gr. 0-84 than
ours, which ought therefore to be regarded as less worn
and more precise.
    Mr. Greaves, in England, weighed two staterae of Alexan
der, one of which was 133 English grains, and the other
 133 and a half.     He thought that the half-grain had been
wasted by friction, and he concluded that the drachma
 ought to be reputed as being precisely at 67 grains.      The
second weight as given by Mr. Greaves would Be equivalent
to 8" grains and six-tenths of Florence. Snellius found the
 statera of Philip and of Alexander to weigh 179 Dutch
grains, which makes 124 and a half English ; and this, ac
cording to the foregoing comparison, would give to the
drachma in Florence weight 87 grains 0'9 ; all of them be
ing a little lighter, but closely approaching that which we-
had fixed at 88 grains.                                        ;•
    Barthelemy, in France, found after various weighings
that the drachma was precisely 81 French grains and an
eighth : now, by the foregoing comparison, we ought to
have for the drachma in Florence weight 87 grains and
three-fourths.     But this last author wishes to suppose a
                                                      friction

         Observations on the Purity   of Standard Gold.       1 35
friction of seen -eighths of a grain for 2,200 years wearing,
and    he gratuitously makes the drachma to he 82 whole
French grains, which would make 88 ar.d a half of Florence
weight.     It is best to banish entirely from our calculations
all suppositions of friction, because, by admitting this to
have been the case, we might draw a variety of vague con
clusions.     The weight of 88 grains which we have assigned
to the gold drachma is confirmed by a silver one of this
very Philip, also preserved in the Florence cabinet: this
piece has on its face the head of Hercules without a beard,
covered with a lion's skin; and on the reverse a Jupiter
sitting, holding the eagle in his right hand and a spear in
his left.   It is distinguished from the others by a lyre, and
the letter A under the seat. This drachma is also a proof
of the exactness of its weight in its half, also in silver^
of the same king, which weighs precisely 44 grains : on
its face is the head of Jupiter with the diadem ; on the re
verse is a figure on horseback, with the name on the exergue
and a mark which is unintelligible.      Besides, there are four
pieces of four drachmas of Alexander of the same metal,
the face and reverse of which are similar: all of these weigh
14 pennyweights and 16 grains, and prove completely that
the weight of the drachma is 88 grains.            These tetra-
drachmas are distinguished in the type by the addition of
various signs, as we have said with respect to the staterae :
one has in front a lamp, and undtr the seat a moon and a
star : another has in front the letter T with a circumflex
accent, and under the seat the letter E : another has in
front a buckler, and under the seat a serpent : the fourth
has in front a cjown, and under the seat a monogram com
posed of M.       Finally, we have also a real drachma of this
king of the precise weight of 88 grains, and which is di
stinguished by a monogram formed by an II, the cross bar
of which has a kind of circumflex accent.
   Among the tetrad rachmas of Thrace there is one in the
Florence collection, and the twelfth of the list, heavier
than the rest; it weighs precisely 14 pennyweights and 16
grains: here we have a proof of the identity of the weights
of the Thracians and Macedonians, as long ago supposed
by the learned.
   After the weighing of the Arezzo coin wa9 finished, it
was submitted to the cupel and to quartation.        The stand
ard was found to be the same with Patin's examination, i.e*
0*979, or 23 carat3 and a half: it contained only half a
carat, or 0.021, of silver.
   The art of assaying was known in the earliest times, as
                                1 4                     attested

136        Observations on the Purity                 of Standard Gold.
attested       by the Holy Scripture             :   we find it at such adegfee
of perfection even in the time of Pliny*, that by means
of it the standard of gold was fifced at 21 carats, or 0-875,
at    21   carats          and  (0-888) up to 23 carats and
                                 7-24ths
ll-32ds (0'973).                  In   they must have assayed
                                        tho5e day*
in the dry way, first by separating from the gold the viler
metals by means of lead, and afterwards even the silver,
with sulphur or with the snlphuretsf-
    They were also acquainted with the method of refining
and purifying      gold in large quantities, by cementing or
burning         it,
              as Strabo informs us, u-itli an aluminous earth,
which by desiroyinc the silver left the gold in          state of    a
 purity.   Pliny says thai for this purpose they put the gold
on the fire       an earflien vessel, with treble its weight of
                  it in
 salt; that     was afterwards again exposed to the fire with
 two parts of salt and one of argillaceous schiitus: this would
 surely effect the decomposition of the salt, and the volatili
 zation of the muriatic acid in       state of ignition and dry,
                                                 a
 which would penetrate the substance of the gold, and would
 separate the silver in the form of volatile muriate: this                         is
 the object of the process of cementation among the mo
 derns      But Agatharchides has transmitted to us peculiar
           J.                                                        a
 method practised in the mines situated between the Nile and
 the shores of the Red Sea, in which we recognise the well-
 known property of the muriatic acid in the separation of
 silver.
    This writer says       we may trust to the text being ac
                                  (if
 curate) that  in  these places gold    inclosed in marble that
                                                     is                   ;
 the miners bum or calcine the ore; that they break          with         it
                                                                •
  * The art of assaying was certainly Yery imperfect at these periods un       :
der the emperors the standard of gold and silver was still judged of by the
colour assumed by the coin in the fire, and by the tint given to the touch
stone on which the metal was rubbed.
   These methods, although practised by expert workmen, could yield but
very inaccurate results, which a variety of circumstances might influence          ;
such as complexily in the alloy, or
           a                            different alloy, &c.
                                             a
   Archimedes would not have applied the laws of specific gravity to the
determination of tlie standard value of king Hiero's crown,          he had
                                                                         if
known     better method.
           a
   We know also that under the triumvirate of Mark Antony every street of
Rome erected      massive
                      a   statue to Marcus Gratianus, who had discovered
and put in practice one of the processes of assaying mentioned above: this-
denotes the infancy of an useful art, the first steps of which were strongly
encouraged as being intimately connected with public happiness..
      By employing the alkaline sulphurets, the solution of gold might have
     •f-
been effected    :  the metallic sulphurets, however, which ought to be used
                      it   is
in this process.
 J    M. de Robilant, in his detail of the processes of the mint at Turin,
•ays that cementation     the raude of refining generally adopted at Venice,
                                 is
 Genoa, and at Florence, where they make gold sequins almost entirely pare.
                                                                     hammers,

      Observations on the Purity             of Standard Gold.                    137
hammers, afterwards pound              it,
                                        bruise      and wash it; and
                                                        it,
finally, that the gold, when put into            close crucible, with
                                                       a
a   little lead, salt, a little tin, and barley meal, was exposed
over the fire for five days.
     The money-coiners of Darius certainly employed this
method, or similar one, when this enlightened king wished
                  a
to give his subjects the noble and useful example of              mint        a
 made with the purest gold* similar to that of fine silver,
 which his satrap Ariander afterwards did.
     To conclude: —
                                                                v
                       It     not easy to form an intelligible idea
                             is
 of the docimastic method, which Agatharchides has trans
 mitted to us.       But    ifin the operation which he describes
 there is   no mention made of cementation, but of true and              a
 prolonged fusion,      it  remains to explain how we can re
 concile with the object in view, the employment of close                     a
 crucible held over the fire, as he describes          far less can we
                                                                :
 comprehend the use of the barley meal.
     When we reflect, however, on the ingenious method de^
 scribed     by Hellot as being practised at Lyons,            order to  in
 refine, purifv, and separate cupelled silver from the small
 quantity of lead which adheres to            after the first refining,
                                                  it
 we may perhaps comprehend what                meant *.
                                                  is
      In Lyons they use crucibles thirteen inches high, and
  five broad at their orifice.        About three inches deep of
 pounded charcoal       is then put into the crucible and kept
                lid, or rather     triangular piece of the crucible,
          is by
 down         a                   a
  which        kept in its place. On this lid or false bottom
  they put 60 or 65 pounds of long and thin ingots, in order
  to be melted and purified.           The wind furnace employed
  for this purpose     is14 inches high, s-fcven in diameter at the
  grate, and nine at the top.         The metal in melting was ob
  served to fall three inches from the edges of the crucible                           :
  then, wlien     ithad acquired a sufficient degree        heat,   was
                                                                    of        it
  seen to boil with the force and the agitation               water ex   of
  posed to the heat of a strong fire         and in this state
                                             ;                      was       it
    The elastic fluid, which in this case    extricated from  is
 the charcoal at the bottom of the crucible, produces the
 agitation above alluded to and    ;forms, asit  were,   kind       it        a
    *It  would be necessary, before deciding finally on the process detailed by
 Agatharchides and that which     ispractised at Lyons, to repeat them, taking
 the greatest care to apply the modern methods of chemical analysis, and
 above :ill the pnet:mato-chemical apparatus:        would be necessary to de
                                                       it
 termine the nature of the gas, which passes through the melted silver, and
 ascertain why the gas  is formed under      certain pressure, and why
                                             a                             does   it
 not pass out through the pot es of the crucible.   The experiment of M. Fab-*
 broni docs not seem to mc to be conclusive.                r
                                                                                       Of

138                       Purity of Standard Gold.
               Observations   on the
of bellows ingeniously placed at the bottom of the cru
cible.
   We know that charcoal, when put into close vessels of
metal or glass, is not altered, although it becomes red.
Theory dictates this, and several experiments confirm it.
But the observation of the fact related by the judiciou»
Hellot also proves, that in this case the charcoal below the
melted silver is decomposed, and continually furnishes
elastic fluid ; since this excellent chemist found that silver
kept over a similar fire, without charcoal being placed be
low       undulated at the surface, going from the centre to,
         it,
the edges, and vice versa; but that in fact                docs not bub
                                                          it
ble with so much noise from whence then does the elastic
                               :
fluid originate in this case?
   Priestley, the founder of the modern pneumatic che
mistry, demonstrates in the plainest manner, what has
been since confirmed               by
                                    several other experiments, that
earthen vessels heated              until they admit light to pass
through them, are filters,       or  rather sieves, which allow even
the external air     to  enter     that
                                   ;      caloric and light penetrate
by   the bottom       of  the   crucible, and with them air, at
tracted chemically by          the    charcoal which           inside
                                                               is        it*  :
oxygen coming in contact with the charcoal, which                      in  a
                                                                          is
state of incandescence, inflames            portion of
                                                              it,
                                        a                     iscombined
with itself and with the caloric, forming carbonic acid, an
elastic fluid, which,         by
                               the uninterrupted action of the fire,
augments and acquires              asufficient elasticity to overcome
the pressure of        column
                         a         of  seven inches of' liquid silver,
which       above, and passes through              agitating     violently.
                                                                    it
                                                 is it
           is
The small residue of lead, which                    united with and dif
fused over the mass, being put              by   acontinual agitation in
contact with the carbonic             acid   gas, and with the atmo
sphere (the latter and perhaps           the  former are decomposed
by   a greater affinity     under    certain    circumstances),       oxi is
dated,    and       by
                    the   diminution      of   specific gravity       conis
strained to occupy the upper surface.
   In fact, Hellot saw         akind of yellowish oil rise from the
inside of the   silver   which    floated on the top of the crucible               :
this oil was      pure
                   a     oxide   of  lead melted and formed               by
                                                                        the^
contact of    the   atmospheric        air,  which        continually re
                                                         is
newed. The       refiners   collect   this  melted    oxide     by
                                                                 absorbing
it with glass or with sour earth            ;   this earth being most
easily removed from off the silver which                 covers, and the
                                                         it
metal then remains limpid           and   pure.
   On comparing this method with the process of Agathar-
chides, reported here so imperfectly, we may suppose thai
                                                                                  th*

      Observations       on the   Purity of Standard Gold.                   \3Q
the b.arlcy,or the barley meal, was used instead of charcoal,
in order  to form what the Lyonnese call the soul of the
crucible, which was placed ,at the bottom of              it,
                                                        where     was   it
retained     by  covering (from which probably comes the
                  a
expression of closed crucible), on which ihe gold in fusion
was placed       means of
                  by            little lead (in order to vitrify the
                                  a
base metals which        might contain,) and some common
                         it
salt, sulphuret of antimony or of lead,                   order that
                                                           in
they may lay hold of the fine silver and volatilize              with   it
the lead, or reduce        to scorije.
                             it            The elastic fluids, extri
cated from the vegetable matter             the action of the fire,
                                            by
form the office of bellows for incessantly agitating the
metal during several days, which makes all the impurities
swim above, and which ought to be skimmed oif as the
Lyonnese do.
    Properly speaking,       fire which lasts five days gives ra
                              a
ther an idea of the cementation of the moderns, and ana
logous to that which Pliny has communicated to us, than
a  real fusion in close crucibles, —           circumstance which
                                                 a
would be directly contrary to the object            view.
                                                     in     Thus, in
Hungary, in order the better to open all the interior parts
of the gold to the muriatic acid reduced into vapour in the
cementation, they are accustomed to add lead to the mass,
which   is afterwards reduced into small hollow drops, or, in
other words, into grains.             may be that the lead indi
                                      It
cated by'Agatharchides has the same object: the tin may
have been taken         an, equivoque for crude antimony, for
                        by
galenum, or for the native sulphuret of lead              :   possible
                                                              it   is
likewise that the barley meal. was merely intended to serve
for the equal distribution of the little salt,            stratum of
                                                              a
which must be placed on the gold, and perhaps assisted to
decompose         it,
                 as argil or sulphate of iron now does.
    In order to obtain some light upon this curious subject,
there were put into        crucible covered
                             a                       by
                                                    another crucible
turned upside.down, thirty pennyweights of barley-meal,
and an ounce of common salt:               was then made red-hot,
                                           it
and kept 36 hours         this state.
                             in            There was put in, more                  .
for the sake of curiosity than any thing else,          thin piece of
                                                          a
gold weighing 24 grains, and           apiece of silver weighing 40
grains.    The lower crucible was half full, and an opening
 was left at the joining of the two crucibles to let out the
elastic vapour.
    After this space of time, the apparatus being cooled was
 opened, and there was found           small earthy residue slightly
                                       a
 saline and whitish, weighing eleven grains and            half. The
                                                                a
 gold was above;       was increased one-eighth of
                        it                                   grain in
                                                                   a
                                                              weight,

14O       Observations on the Purity         of Standard Gold.
weight, because it was evidently whitened by the fusion of
very minute particles of silver detached from the small
fragment of silver, which was then found adhering imme
diately over the gold, in the form of agglutinated dust ;
this fragment of silver weighed six grains and one-eighth.
We afterwards boiled this gold (which was silvered only
on its surface) for some time in pure nitric acid; when it
lost completely its silver colour} and when assayed it was
found to be 24 carats.
   We proceeded afterwards to exa'mine the small earthy
residue, in which we found, in saline particles, only *
few atoms of muriate of soda, and scarce a trace of muriate
of copper. The mufiale of silver, which, on account of the
loss suffered by the piece of silver, ought to have formed a
weight of 45 grains and a half, was certainly evaporated with
the other elastic vapours.     Eleven grains and a half only
of muriatic acid concurred in the formation of this muri
ate: the thirteen pennyweights and a half of the same acid,
which besides contained the corhmo'n salts employed in
this experiment, have therefore been dissipated (by not pay
ing attention to the little copper) by a decomposition ef
fected by means of the vegetable matter which was joined
with it : but what is difficult to account for, and which i»
foreign to our object, is the evaporation of ten whole pen
nyweights of soda, container! in the common salt, and
which ought to have remained fixed at the bottom of thfc
vessel : it had therefore become volatile, either by decom
position, or by a new composition; and it had escaped by
the aperture in the apparatus.
   It is not probable, therefore, that Philip made use of simi
lar methods of refining, either by flux or by cementation,
because, we repeat, he would have reduced the gold to a state
of perfect purity, as Darius wished to do subsequently; or
he would not have limited himself to so small a portion of
alloy, or perhaps this alloy would not have been silver. And
if he employed gold in the state in which he found           we'      it,
must be forced to admit that nature furnished      at 23 carats
                                                         it
and   a half fine; or of the standard of (0-979*).
    * Reaumur says                  Academic des Sciences 1718, p. 87,) thit
                      (Me'moires de
                                  I'
the gold brought from the bed of the river Ccze     isat the standard of i»
t.ira's eight giaiiu.
  Gold of the Rhone         .
                            .           ..         .
                                                   .          20 carats.
       of the Rhine          ..         ..          ..        21$
       of the Arriege       ..         ..          ..      22$
  Reaumur atso observe*, that the standard tarie« in the same piece of **-'

           Observations on the Purity           of Standard Gold.            141
     Many persons will probably doubt that gold is found in
nature so near a state of perfect purity , although Strabo
intimates that perfectly pure gold was found in the Alps,
and Pliny is ciled as asserting that no silver was ever found
in it.       But without remaining in suspense with respect ti>
the -assertions and opinions of others, I' am enabled from
my own experiments to remove all uncertainty, having
ascertained that native gold is 24 carats (1000).
      I had for some time the charge of the fine collection of
 natural history belonging to our sovereign, who was fond of
that science.           His majesty possessed many specimens of
mineralized gold and native go!(j, among which I remarked
two well formed crystals of gold, viz- one cubical, the other
prismatic with four faces, surmounted hy a pyramid with
four faces also. It would be interesting to know what
 substances united to the gold have determined these various
 figures formed naturally in the bowels of the earth, and
 which are totally different from those which are produced
in the laboratories of the chemist after melted gold is
/cooled.        The cube is very pale, the prism is higher co
 loured; but these two crystals, which I ibund by chance,
 (when choosing among several natural grains,) are unique
 in this depot ; so that it would be improper to subject
 them to an examinatjoi) which would alter their form.
 An unshapen specimen, but at the same time a remark
 able one, from the Brazils, enriches this collection.                       The
 weight of this piece is about fourteen pounds ; and I ex
 amined a bit of it by the cupel and by quartation, without
 omitting also to examine its solution in the nitre-muriatic
 acid, with the sulphate of iron, and with neutral salts with
 a base of potash.            I have beep convinced by all these ope
 rations, that this was pure gold of 24 carats without any
 alloy of inferior metal.
      From all that I can learn, therefore, it appears that gold
 is found in a native state in various degrees of purity, and
  to prove this has been the object of the present dissertation.
 tive gold.      M.Deluc informs us that the gold found at Wicklow in Ireland
  was alloyed with a ninth part uf its weight in silver.
     M. Faubroni is the first who has demonstrated that native gold is found
 in a slate of purity: this is a most important observation ; but it don not
  seem to destroy the idea that native gold is a natural alloy of gold and silver:
  a principle established by a great number of facts, and to which we a* yet
  know but one exception.
     I; would be interesting to ascertain whether lead is present in ancient coins
  or medals: this would be the surest method of determining whether the
  jujcieiits refilled their gold, or employed it at nature presented it.
                                                                   XXIII.      An

                                          C    1*2          ]
XX.III. An         Estimation of the Lass of Weight which takes
                    place in cooking Animal Food.
 AT is well known that, in whatever way the flesh of ani
mals is prepared for food, a considerable diminution fakes
place in its weight.   We do not recollect, however, to have
seen any where a statement of the loss which meat sustains
in the various culinary processes, although it is pretty ob
vious that a series of experiments on this subject would not
be without their use in domestic oeconomy.
   We shall here give the result of a series of experiment*
'which were actually made on this subject in a public esta
blishment, premising that, as they were not undertaken
from mere curiosity, but, on the contrary, to serve a pur-
nose of practical utility, absolute accuracy was not attended
to. Considering, however, the large quantities of provisions
which were actually examined, it is presumed that the re
sults may be safely depended upon for any practical pur
pose.   It would no doubt have been desirable to have
known not only the whole diminution of weight, but also
the parts which were separated from the meat in the form
of aqueous vapour, jelly, fat, &c., but the determination of
these did not fall within the scope of the inquiry.
                                                                                   Its.     ozs.
  28 pieces     of beef weighing                                                   280          O
         Lost in boiling                                                            73      14
  Hence the weight lost by beef in boiling was in this case
about Sfiglbs. in lOOlbs.
                                                                                   Its.     ots,
  1*9    pieces    of beef weighing                                                1 90         0
     Lost in roasting                                                               61          9
  The weight lost by heef in roasting                               appears to be 32 per
cent.
                                                                                    Itf.    mi,
  9 pieces        of beef weighing                 . . .   .7.                      90          O
        Lost in baking        . .   ,•>
                                                                                    27          O
  Weight lost           by   beef in baking, 30 per cent.
                                                                                   /ft?,    on,
  27 legs of mutton weighing                  260                                               O
     Lost in boiling, and   having the shank- by
                                               .„                             ~)
                                               RG                                           *
        bone taken off                                                   /
  The shank-bones were estimated at fourl
ounces each       ;   therefore the loss                   by   boiling was
                                                                          j
  The     loss   of weight in legs of mutton, in boiling,                                  is   21-J
per cent,
                                                                              35 shoulders

                           On the Arbor Diance.                 ,                        143
                                                                                        oz».
   35 shouldersof mutton weighing                ..........                     350      0
     Lost in roasting                ................
                                          . . .                           . .   1O9     10
  The loss of weight in shoulders of mutton,                               by roasting,
is about ::i   '.   per cent.
                                                                                ll't.   ms.
   16 loins   of mutton weighing                  .............                 1410
        Lost in roasting             .... .................                    49 14
  Hence loins of mutton lose, by roasting,                                about 35| per
cent.
                                                                                Itl.    OKI.
   10 necks         of mutton weighing            .............
                                                      0                         10O
      Lost in roasting         .-    ........ ...........
                                                 32   6
   The loss of necks of mutton, by roasting, is about 32^
per cent.
   We shall only draw two practical inferences from the
foregoing statement: — 1st. In respect of ceconomy, it is
more profitable to boil meat than to roast it. 2dly, Whe
ther we roast or boil meat, it loses, by being cooked, from
one- fifth to one-third of its whole weight.
XXIV.   Letterfrom M. VITALIS, Professor of Chemistry                                          at
   Rouen, toM. BOUILLON LAGRANGE, on the Amalgam                                               of
   Mercury and Silver, called Arbor Diana; *.
 1 HE   process described by Baume, and which is generally
adopted for obtaining the amalgam of mercury and silver,
known in chemistry by the name of arbor Diance, is not
the only one which is capable of exhibiting the beautiful
crystalline forms which characterize this curious produc
tion. I attained the same object, by modifying the com
mon method ; and this modification admits of our extract
ing with facility the metallic vegetation from the liquor, and
preserving
                it,
                  without any alteration,- out of the vessel in
which   it  has been formed.
   The operation       very simple.
                          is          In the nitric solutions of
mercury and silver, both being well saturated and diluted
with the quantity of water prescribed        Baumd,       by
                                                        suspend                 I
a small knot of fine linen rag doubled up, and containing
five or six drachms of very pure mercury.
   The metallic solutions soon penetrate to the mercury,
which    is inclosed in the rag, and we soon see some beauti
ful spiculae formed and grouped around the rag, adhering
to the nucleus of mercury, which serves as         kind of sup        a
port  to  them.
                      •   AnitaU-s   df Cliimit, tome Ixxii.   p.   93.
                                                                                        These

   H4          -
                 Analysis of the Atropa Belladonna.
     These spiculae progressively increase in size, and in a
  short time exceed an inch in length.
     When we perceive that the metallic vegetation makes
  no more progress, the piece of rag with the spiculae may
 be withdrawn from the liquor, and by means of a silt
 thread fastened to the cork of the bottle, the whole may
 be suspended under a bell glass.           The crystals, which are
  tetrahedrons, may ihus be kept as long as wanted.
     I have in my own laboratory a crystallization of this
 description, which has preserved all its original beauty for
  these two years past.
     It may be easily seen that, in the above process, the play
 of attractions is a little different from the common method
 as developed by M. Fourcroy in Systerne des Connoissances
 chimiques.
     The solidity of the metallic crystals obtained by my me
 thod, compared with the softness of the threads, the assem
 blage of which forms the common arbor Diance, led me to
 think that the proportions of mercury and silver are not
 the same in both cases ; and I would have endeavoured to
 have ascertained the difference, if M. Vauquelin, to whom I
 communicated the circumstance, bad not intimated his in
 tention of taking up the subject at full length, and publish
 ing his experiments in some future number of the Annates
 de Chimie.
    The configuration of the above crystals also suggests
 some interesting inquiries, which I may probably be able
 to accomplish at a future time.
XXV. Analyih of          the  Atropa Belladonna.           By M. Vau-
                               at ELlN *.
  .The experiments which         I am about to detail were made
with    a view to ascertain whether this plant, which is of
the same family with the tobacco plants, contained the
acrid principle which has been found in the latter, but
which, as will be shown in the sequel, it does not.
    1. The expressed and filtered juice of the belladonna has
a dark brown colour, with a bitter and nauseous taste.              It
is freely coagulable by beat, and by the aqueous infusion of
gall nuts.
    2. The substance coagulated by fire in the juice of bella
 donna is of a yellowish gray, becomes black on desiccation,
                  * Annates  de Chimie, tome Ixxii. p. 53.
                                                                  and
             ¦

                       Analysis of      the   Atropa Belladonna.                      I4f
and presents             a smooth        and    polished fracture like that               of
the resins.         It burns with decrepitaiion, becomes soft, and
gives         out vapours of the smell produced by horn when
Subjected to the same operation.
   3. The juice of belladonna, distilled until reduced to
the consistence of liquid extract, only furnished a water
which had a fetid, herbaceous taste, and by no means the
acerbity of that of tobacco. The only re-agent among all
those resorted to, which slightly disturbed    was acetate         it,
of    lead.
    4. The juice concentrated to the consistence of extract
 having been treated                by
                                  alcohol,      part was dissolved
                                                     a                 the        :
 solution deposited upon cooling, crystals of nitrate of potash
 and     little muriate of potash.
          a
    The alcohol separated from these crystals of nitrate of
 potash, and evaporated, left as             residue
                                                 a       brownish yellow
                                                              a
matter of an extremely bitter and nauseous taste, which, on
being taken up again                by
                                   alcohol well dephlegmated, left                        a
new quantity of insoluble matter, and also deposited some
crystals of the same salt.
    The matter cleansed as much as possible                            by
                                                                the above
process, from the greatest part of the saltpetre and from
the substance insoluble in alcohol,              evaporated the latter,
                                                     I
and submitted the residue to the following experiments                                :
     1
     *    It    dissolved abundantly and speedily in water, and
                  is
it   iseven deliquescent in the air.
    2. The solution           of
                               is     yellowish brown
                                         a                      has
                                                                  j
                                                                  it  very       a
bitter and disagreeable taste.
    3.      reddens in      very intense manner turnsole paper.
          It It
                               a
   4.           precipitated in abundance by the alcoholic so
                  is
lution of gall nuts, and               not so
                                         is          the acetate of lead
                                                         by
when the latter          sufficiently
                          is             diluted  in  water because, as
                                                                   ;
this matter contains             little
                                    a    muriate    of  potash,     would   it
precipitate      the  acetate of lead    without    this precaution.
   5. This solution mixed with sulphuric acid diffused                                    a
very sensible smell of acetic acid.
   6. The same solution                 precipitated
                                          is               the nitrate of
                                                              by
silver in      true muriate of silver.
                  a
    7- Caustic potash develops in the solution of this sub
stance       fetid smell, very like that of an old ley which has
              a
passed     over    linen and begins to turn putrid            ammoniacal
                                                                   :
vapours     also   rise, which may       be  made    perceptible     weak,   by
nitric acid, presented at some distance from the mixture.
   8. The addition of some drops of sulphate of iron gives
a much deeper colour to the solution.
   9. The extract itself exposed to burning coals, bubbles
Vol. 36. No. 148. August 1S10.                                K        up,

\Ad             Analysis of the Alropa Belladonrta.
 up, and exhales pungent acrid vapours, in which ammonia
 cannot be distinguished.
    We may conclude from the effects produced in the so
lution of the extract of belladonna by the various re-agents,
 above employed ; 1st, that it contains a free acid ; 2d, an al
 kaline muriate; 3d, a small quantity of an ammoniacal salt.
    The nature of the acid which exists in this substance
 can be nothing but acetic, acid, since the sulphuric acid
 develops the smell of     it,  and the acetate of lead does not
 form any precipitate in    it, which would take place       if   were
                                                                 it
 malic, tartarous, or oxalic acid.        A part of this acid ought
 to be combined with the potash,, and           it    without doubt
                                                     is
 this combination which communicates to the extractive
mass the property of attracting humidity from the air.
    But it
        is    neither these salts nor these acids which give
 poisonous   qualities to the matter       these certainly reside in-
                                           ;
 the vegetable substance itself: what then               the order of
                                                        is
 composition,   which    thus  forms    out  of the same    principles
 both our food and our poison          ? This  is   difficulty which
                                                    a
 chemistry has not yet overcome, and unfortunately                    it   is
behind this barrier that secrets the most important to hu
 manity are retained.
    For want of the means of ascertaining accurately the dif
ferences which exist between vegetable compounds whose
properties are diametrically opposite, we shall have recourse
to their effects.
    One of the means resorted to as the most proper for
guiding us as to the nature of the substance of belladonna*
soluble in alcohol, was its decomposition       by means of heat.      I
introduced therefore two grammes and seven-tenths into                     a
glass retort, and administered the heat        by degrees, until the
water of solution was distilled: there passed over yellow    a
ammoniacal liquid, afterwards          athick oil which had       very
                                                                  a
singular  disagreeable   smell.
   The examination of the liquid product enabled me to
recognise   a  good deal of ammonia, partly free and partly
combined for the addition of some drops of caustic potash
           ;
rendered the ammoniacal smell much stronger, and the oil
was thick, black, and very acrid.
   The charcoal remaining         in the retort weighed one gram
me, and had an alkaline and pntssialed taste when washed:
in boiling water,   it  yielded   a ley which when mixed with
sulphate of iron furnished        aquantity of prussian blue very
considerable with respect to the small quantity of matter
employed.      This charcoal after having beeu lixiviated and
dried still weighed        of a gramme.

               Analysis of the Airopa belladonna.                           147
    "The above quantity of charcoal, independently of lhat
\vhich was incrusted in the retort by the violence of the
fire, and which I could not detach, is more considerable
than any furnished by most of the other vegetable matters
which I have hitherto had occasion to distill ; for the 2'7
grammes of extract, in the state in which I took            it,
                                                              certainly
contained more than 0-7 of            gramme of water and of ni
                                        a
trate and acetate of potash.
    It  seems that       also contains
                         it                great quantity of azole
                                             a
and of hydrogen, since             it
                                  gave  on  distillation    agreat deal
of ammonia, prussic acid, and oil. But as this matter may
have contained        little nitrate,
                         a               supposed
                                            I          that     apart at
least of the azote, forming the ammonia and the prussic
acid, had been produced           the nitric acid.
                                   by
     In order to clear up this doubt. mixed six grammes of
                                             I
gum arabic, believed not to contain any azote, with                          a
tenth part of saltpetre, and after submitting               to distilla
                                                           it
tion examined the products.
     I                                The liquid which passed was
in part ammoniacal, and its smell became still stronger by
the addition of potash which proves that an acid was
                              ;
formed at the same time with the alkali.
    The charcoal remaining in the retort, weighing two
grammes, and which was extremely phosphoric, contained
 prussiate of potash, like that of my matter. But although.
I  employed in this experiment three limes more gum, and
 probably more saltpetfe, this mixture did not furnish such
a   great quantity of ammonia or prussic acid as the nauseous
principle of the belladonna did.
     Taking     for granted, therefore, that the saltpetre con
               it
tained   in the two grammes of this principle had given rise
 to prussic acid and to ammonia, we ought not to infer that
 the vegetable matter          question has not furnished some
                              in
 itself. This      the more probable, as its solution
                    is                                           preci
                                                                  is
pitated   by the infusion or gall nuts.         However this may
be, the experiment proves that               difficult to judge by
                                            it   is
distillation, whether the organic matters which contain salt
petre are of    avegetable or animal nature.
    The results of this analysis, although still very imperfect,
are nevertheless sufficient to show that the article in ques
tion contains     considerable quantity of charcoal, hydrogen,
                    a
and azote, and but little oxygen,            if
                                            we may judge               by
                                                                     the
small quantity of carbouic acid which              formed during its
                                                      is
decomposition in the fire.
    From what has beeu said, may we be permitted to infer
that the narcotic effects of belladonna on the animal cecono-
ffiy are owing to the superabundance of the radical com-
                                   K    8                       buttibles,

148              Analysis of the Alropa Belladonna.
bustibles, and particularly to that of the charcoal over that
of the oxygen in the principle of this plant soluble in alco
hol ? — Without goinu: the length of positively affirming                              it,
it    nevertheless
      is             certain that all the vegetable substances
which produce analogous effects are rich         charcoal, hy       in
drogen, and azote, whereas suhstances that are highly oxy
genized produce contrary effects.
      must also be admitted, that many vegetable products
     It
equally abundant in these two principles do not possess the
same virtues; but the azote, which         alwavs found asso
                                                       in is
ciated with hydrogen and carbon           the narcotic plants,
does not exist, at least   the same quantity, in those as in the
                                    in
others.
Examination           that Pari
                     of                  of the Belladonna which              is   insoht'
                                    ble in Alcohol.
    1. This substance dissolved in water communicates to
it the property of frothing when agitated.
    2. Its solution       is
                        abundantly precipitated        the aqueous       by
infusion of galls.
    3. By the nitrate of barytes into matter which     a     partly           is
soluble in the nitric acid.
   4. By the muriate of lime into         precipitate entirely so
                                                   a
luble in the nitric acid.
   .'5. This solution reddens turnsole paper.
    6. The nitrate of silver produces no effect on it.
    7. When burnt in       crucible,
                                a        leaves an alkaline and
                                                  it
hepatic    charcoal.
   We may conclude from these effects, that this part of the
belladonna       composed of an animal matter, of sulphate of
                is
potash,    of acidulated oxalate with the same base, probably
some nitrate, and that contains no muriate. We may also
                                it
conclude from these effects, that there are no earthy salts in
it,  since the muriate of lime forms in             precipitate, as
                                                               it   a
well as the nitrate of barytes.
 I     have ascertained         by
                            some experiments on       larger scale,      a
that the precipitates produced in the solution of the sub
stance     inquestion     the nitrate of barytes, were in the
                               by
first instance oxalate of lime, and in the second sulphate
of barytes.
    The oxalate of lime had taken up with           great quantity
                                                               it   a
of animal matter, which gave          brown colour; which in
                                             it
                                              a
dicates that this salt has     slrong affinity with animal mat
                                         a
ters, and explains the reason of mural calculi, which, as we
all know, are composed of oxalate of lime, and are of a
much deeper colour than the other species of calculi.

                Analysis of  the Atropa Belladonna.              149
        After having successively precipitated, as I have already
    said, the sulphate of potash and the acidulated oxalate of
    potash, I evaporated the liquor, which was always co
    loured, and which contained nitrate of potash and muriate
    of lime, and I treated it with the nitric acid in order to
    ascertain if it contained gum ; but not having obtained an
    atom of saccho-lactic acid, I concluded that this substance
   does not contain gum.       It is merely formed of oxalic acid
   and a yellow matter.      This substance seems therefore to
   be entirely of an animal nature.
       From what has been said above, we find that the juice
   of belladonna contains the following substances :
        1. An animal substance, which is partly coagulated by
   heat, and partly remains in solution in the juice, in conse
   quence of the free acetic acid which exists in it.
       2. A substance soluble in alcohol, which has a bitter
   and nauseous taste, which on being combined with tannin
   becomes insoluble, and furnishes ammonia by its decom
   position in the fire.
       3. Several salts with a base of potash, viz. a good deal
  of nitrate, muriate, sulphate, acidulated oxalate, and acetate.
      The refuse oi husks of the belladonna, from which the
 juice had been extracted, having been washed in warm
  water, dried, and afterwards burnt, furnished ashes com
  posed of a considerable quantity of lime, phosphate of lime,
 iron, and silex.
      This lime announces that the plant contained oxalate of
  lime, which had been decomposed by the fire.        It is by no
  means doubtful, that that part of the belladonna which is
  soluble in alcohol is not the only substance which in
  this plant products a deleterious effect on the animal oeco-
  nomy ; for it is the only one which has any taste; and the
 well known effects of all the other substances which accom
 pany it have nothing in them resembling those of the plant
 in question.
      To put this assertion beyond all doubt, I administered
 to a dog a certain quantity of this principle mixed up with
 crumbs of bread.
      First Experiment.     About mid-day, I gave the animal a
 gramme of extract inveloped in ten grammes of paste.
      Symptoms.      In about three quarters of an hour the
animal seemed inclined to sleep ; he held down his head,
and seemed unable to keep it up : he laid his head on the
            several times, and slight convulsions agitated his
!;round
 egs : his jaws also moved as in the act of chewing.       These
                                   K 3                     effects

 150           Analysis of the  Alropa Belladonna.
effects lasted about three quarters of an hour, and the dog
then resumed his former appearance.
    Second Experiment.     At two o'clock     I gave him two
grammes of extract with twelve of paste: the above sym
ptoms re- appeared, but they were feebler and -of shorter
duration.
    Third Experiment . At three o'clock, I made him swal
low four grammes of the same extract, with about 30
grammes of paste.
   A few minutes afterwards he was seized with a continual
but uncertain and difficult motion, chieflv in the abdominal
region : he uttered some plaintive moans.
   At half past three he experienced great difficulty in mov
ing, and frequently fell on his hind feet : his respiration
was much obstructed.       He endeavoured several times tq
force his way through the wall, which indicated a kind of
delirium : he was now seized with trembling in all his
muscles.
   At aquarterpast four the animal lav down, and appeared
to be plunged in a profound sleep ; Ins pulsations were re
peated faster than could be counted.
   At half past four he vomited the paste which he had
taken, some time after which he rose up; but he still walked
with difficulty, sometimes falling on one side, and some
times on his crupper.      He held his head very low, his
eyelids fell, and he did not distinguish objects ; at least he
continually ran against the walls, and the furniture of the
laboratory: his nose was no longer affected by the smell
of ammonia, and his car3 seemed also to have lost their
functions, for the loudest noise made no impression on,
him.
   He had not lost his memory, however; for, upon placing
him in the same posture in which he was made to swallow
the paste, in order to give him some vinegar and water, he
became furious, as if all his powers were suddenly renewed.
From this moment, the symptoms which he had exhibited
insensibly diminished, and about eight o'clock in the even
ing he recovered all his senses; but he was still much far
tigucd.    Next day he ate as usual,
   Every one must recognise in the above symptoms the
effects of narcotics, and drunkenness carried to the highest
pitch, from which resulted a kind of delirium.       It is pro
bable that if the animal had not vomited the greater part of
the matter before it produced its effects, it would have died.
                                                  XXVI.    Case

                                  [   IM ]
    XXVI.     Ca<e  of Hydrocele, improperly treated     as Rupture.
       By John Taunton,             Esq., Surgeon  to  the City and
       Finsbury Dispensaries, and to the City Truss Society for
       ike Relief of the Ruptured Poor.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
   Sir,    It is not the   least of the evils which accompany a
   state   of disease among the poorer classes of this large me
   tropolis, that their complaints are frequently misunderstood,
   and consequently treated in a manner which tends to in
   crease rather than to alleviate their sufferings.      The super
   ficial and hasty view which is but too often taken, even by
   regular medical practitioners, of the diseased victim of po
   verty on the one hand, and the allurements held out by
   mercenary and ignorant pretenders to medical skill on the
   other, are the causes of this additional affliction to the poor.
      Those who officiate as medical officers to the numerous
   public charities which do honour to this great city, have
   daily opportunities of witnessing the melancholy effects of
   the errors thus committed.           The following case of this
   kind, which occurred       lately uuder my own inspection, and
   which     had nearly terminated fatally to the patient, is one
   of   the many illustrations      of this observation which may
   be adduced.
      Thomas Erskine,     aet.  53, servant to Mr. Thomas Butcher,
   of Charing Cross,      a  few years ago received a kick in the
   scrotum, which occasioned a swelling, and which has con
   tinued ever since. At first it was attended with extreme
   pain ; but this soon ceased, and the tumour assumed an in-
v  durated appearance.       The poor man applied to two regular
   surgeons in his immediate neighbourhood, who informed
   him that his complaint was a rupture, and recommended a
  truss.     Attracted by an alluring advertisement from some
  truss-makers in Soho, the patient applied to them : these
   gentlemen, after examining the patient, and affecting a
   great deal of medical and anatomical knowledge, confirmed
  the opinion of the surgeons, and applied a truss to the tu
  mour, for which they charged the exorbitant price of a
  guinea. This happened three years ago, and the patient
  has ever since worn the instrument thus applied, with more
  or less inconvenience.         A few weeks ago he was admitted
  a patient at the City Dispensary, when on examining him
  I found the case to be a decided hydrocele. The operation
  of tapping was immediately performed, and the patient in
                                     Kl                       a few

152                             Royal Society.
a few      days was restored to his former state of health,
Pilulae rhei cum terebinth, formed the only prescription
which I found necessary to administer.
                                            I am, &c.
   Greville   Street, Hatton-Gardcn,                JOHN TAUNTON.
            August 24, 1810.
           XXVII.        Proceedings      of Learned   Societies.
                               ROYAL     SOCIETY.
The       experiments detahed in Mr. Davy's paper respecting
the muriatic acid, of which we gave a brief report in our
last Number, are so highly interesting, that ho apology can
be necessary          for again bringing the subject before our
readers, and endeavouring to present the results in a con
cise yet perspicuous form.               But before proceeding to this,
we must beg our readers to correct two typographical errors
in our last report. In page 71, line 20, for " nine modes,"
read nice modes; and in Tine 22, for " nine deductions,"
read some deductions.
    The conclusions drawn by Mr. Davy from the series of
facts with which this valuable paper is enriched, will serve
to extend and enlighten the theory of chemistry to even a
greater extent than any of the brilliant discoveries formerly
made by this indefatigable philosopher.                  The following
are the conclusions to which we allude : —
    1st. The oxymuriatic             acid is (as far as our knowledge
extends)       a  simple   substance,     which may be classed in the
same    order     of  natural    bodies   as oxygen gas ; being deter
mined like oxygen to the positive surface in Voltaic com
binations, and like oxygen, combining with inflammable
substances, producing heat and light.
     2dly. That its combinations with inflammable bodies
are analogous to oxides and acids in their properties, and
powers of combination, but they differ from them in being
for the most part decomposable by water.
    3dly. That hydrogen is the basis of the muriatic acid,
and oxymuriatic acid its acidifying principle.
    4thly. That the compounds of phosphorus, arsenic, tin,
&c , with oxymuriatic acid, approach in their nature to
acids, and neutralize ammonia and other salifiable bases.
    Sthly. That the combination of ammonia with phos
phorus acidified by oxymuriatic acid is a peculiar com
pound, having propertits like those of an earth, and is not
desom'posable at an intense red heat.
                                                                  6thly.

                   French National Institute.                143
    dthly. That oxymuriatic acid has a stronger attraction
for most inflammable bodies than oxvgen ; and that on
the hypothesis of the connexion of electrical powers with
chemical attractions, it must be highest in the scale of ne
gative power ; and that the oxygen which has been sup
posed to exist in oxymuriatic acid has always been expelled
by it from water or oxides.
                 FRENCH NATIONAL      INSTITUTE.
    The readers of the Philosophical Magazine must have
seen from the accounts which have lately appeared in our
pages, of the labours of the French chemists, that those
gentlemen had questioned the accuracy of the inferences
drawn bv Mr. Davy from the numerous experiments he
had made, in the course of his electro-chemical researches,
 respecting the nature of the alkalies and the earths j main
 taining that the metallic bodies obtained from these sub
 stances, in place of being simple, as asserted by Mr. Davy,
 were compounds of the respective alkalies and earths with
 hydrogen; or, in other words, that the new bodies were
 hydrurets.    Of this opinion wereGay Lussac, Thenard, and
 most of the French chemists.        Berthollet among the rest
 warmly contested the correctness of Mr. Davy's inferences,
 and maintained the accuracy of the French conclusions.
 They have now, however, changed their opinion, and done
justice to our countryman.
     At a meeting of the French National Institute in the
  end of June, Messrs. Gay Lussac and Thenard read a notice
 containing the results of a great variety of experiments on
 the new metals ; from all of which they conclude, after a
 most rigorous investigation, that professor Davy was per
  fectly correct in his inferences, and, with a degree of frank
 ness honourable       to themselves, renounce     their former
  opinion that these new metals are hydrurets.
     We cannot but take notice here of an assertion made in
  the Report of the Labours of the Institute, (published in a
  former volume of the Philosophical Magazine,) which sa
  vours of a blundering, but probably not intended, pla
  giarism.    The Report states, that Messrs. Gay Lussac and
  Thenard discovered the mode of metallizing ammonia by
  potassium ; whereas these gentlemen themselves, who have
  more than once uncundidly assumed Mr. Davy's facts,
  acknowledge this to have been that gentleman's discovery,
  in their paper on ammonia.
     The result of the present contest, we cannot but hope,
  will serve as an admonition to the editors of some of our
                                                       periodical

   1 54     New Method of constructing      wooden Bridges.
  periodical works, not to be hasty to commit themselves in
  questions of science, on the authority of reports drawn up
  by jealous rivals for national fame.        We could name a
  most respectable journal which has fallen into this blunder.
  As to some more obscure writers, who have ventured to talk
  about " the pretended discovery of the decomposition of
  the alkalies," they will probably show a little more modesty
  in their remarks in future.
        XXVIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 ^S/L.  Wiebkking,        director of roads and bridges to the
  king of Bavaria,    has discovered a method of constructing
 wooden bridges, which in point of strength and solidity
 promise a duration of several centuries.       They are also re
 markable for the elegance of their form and the width of
 the arches. A bridge has been constructed on the above
 plan over the river Roth, five leagues from Passau, consist
 ing of a single arch         two hundred feet wide: another
 has been made for a large city, two hundred and eighty-six
 feet wide.    These arches may be so constructed as to ad
 mit of ships of war or merchant vessels passing through
 them, an aperture being made in the centre, which can be
 opened and shut at pleasure.        Another advantage possessed
 by these bridges is that of being speedily taken to pieces :
 if it be necessary to stop the progress of an enemy, the
 arch may be removed in one day, and the abutments in
another, without cutting the smallest piece of timber.
     With respect to the advantages in point of ceconomy
resulting from the adoption of M. Wiebeking's plan ; U,has
been estimated that a stone bridge of similar dimensions to
a wooden one of a given size would cost two millions of
florins, whereas the latter would cost only 50,000 florins ;
and on the supposition that a wooden bridge will only last
 100 years, it follows that, taking the interest on the prin
cipal sum into the computation, there will result a sav
ing of eleven millions six hundred and eighty thousand
florins.
     The Pharmaceutical Society of Paris has      announced,  the
following as prize questions for the present     year :
     1. Ascertain   as far as possible, whether there exists in
vegetables    an  identical  principle which chemists have de
signated by    the  name    of extractive? — Ought we to retain
                                                             the

                     New Optical Instrument.                155
the ancient classification     adopted for pharmaceutical ex
tracts, divided, according to Rouelle, into gummy, resi
nous, gummo- resinous, resino-gummy, and saponaceous
extracts ? — Can a more methodical and more exact classifi
cation be established by means of chemical experiments
made on the principal substances in pharmacy furnished by
extracts ? — Indicate, according to the nature of their dif
ferent constituent principles, the mode of preparation best
adapted for each, and the nature of the menstrua which
ought to be employed."
     2. " What is the present 6tate of pharmacy in France ?
 what rank does it hold in the healing art ? and what are the
ameliorations of which it is susceptible?"
     The prize offered for the best memoir on the first question
is a gold medal of the value of 200 francs. That offered for
 the best paper on the second question is of the value of 100
francs.      The memoirs to be transmitted to Paris on or be
 fore the 1st of October 1810.
     The following account of       a new optical instrument is
 extracted    from a recent French journal : " It is well known
 that the art of perspective consists in representing on a plane
 surface objects in the position in which the eye perceives
 them.      Descriptive geometry furnishes the means of doing
 this; but the method which it teaches presupposes science,
 and demands time.        The painter, without having recourse
  to geometry, draws on a simple purview from habit and
 practice in his art. However excellent his eye, and how
 ever skilful an artist may be, he cannot flatter himself
 with obtaining geometrical precision. A new instrument
 has therefore been invented, by means of which every
  draftsman, without knowing the rules of perspective, may
 design with ease and correctness all kinds of subjects on
 every scale not exceeding 5 decimetres square. This inven
  tion belongs to M. Roggero, of the Conservatory of Arts
 and Manufactures.
     "  Some very ingenious instruments have ,been already
  contrived with this view, and among others that of Mr,
  George Adams, who has been peculiarly distinguished.
  But from the great number of joints of which the me
 chanism is composed, all of these instruments were more
  or less liable to disadvantages, which M. Roggero's instru
 ment has overcome.        He has also united solidity to preci
 sion in the transmission of the movements, besides having
 furnished his instrument with an achromatic glass, by
 means of which we may trace the perspective of objects
 placed at a distance."                                       On

 156                         Ichthyology,
    On digging lately at Frescati in Italy, not far from the
ancient Tusculum, a quantity of arms, vases, human bones,
and a broken statue were found.           The latter seemed to be
that of a Roman consul ; and a few days afterwards another
statue was found resembling that of a Roman matron.
    M. Vincenzio has lately published at Rome two scien
tific works: one entitled Letter e scientifiche, and the other,
Spiegazione di due fascetii di gemme antiche. The same
author has also written a dissertation, to prove that the
colossal' horses of the Quirinal have been changed in
their places, and that they have been in fact badly placed
originally.
                          ICHTHYOLOGY.
    Mr. Joseph Foster, fishmonger in Carlisle,          has at pre
sent   in his possession   a  pilot fish, the only one we believe
that  has  appeared  on  these    coasts. — The fish is of the order
of thoracici, which comprehends seventeen genera and up
wards of two hundred and twenty species.             It is found in
the Mediterranean and Atlantic, chiefly towards the equator.
The body is shaped somewhat like that of a mackarel ; the
head is long and smooth, and the snout advances some di
stance beyond the mouth.           It has two small fins near the
heid; another running along the back from the head to the
tail ; and one under the belly, of similar length.          The co
lour in general is brownish, changing into gold; and there
are several transverse black belts.         Mariners observe, that
this fish frequently accompanies their vessels: and as they
see it generally towards the fore part of the ship, they ima*
gine it is employed in guiding and tracing out the course j
whence it has received its name. Probably it is eii'ier
amusing itself, or pursuing its prey. It sometimes attends
the dog-fish and the shark ; and swims at the height of a
foot and a half from the snout of the latter; imitates all
its movements, and seizes with address any part of the
spoil which the shark allows to escape.          Though so small
as not to exceed six inches, it will keep pace with ships in
their swiftest course. — The one in Mr. Foster's possession
was caught a few days ago in the Solway Frith.
    A  species of hemp, manufactured from the leaves of a
particular   kind   of palm, which abounds in Sierra Leone
and its neighbourhood,           has recently been sent to this
country; and being made into cord, subjected to experi
ments calculated to ascertain its strength, as compared
                                                                with

                           Lectures.                         157
with the same length and weight of common hempen cord,
the result was very satisfactory— it being found lhat hempen
cord broke with a weight of 43lbs. three-fifths, while the
African cord did not give way to less weight than 53lbs.
two-fifths, making a difference in favour of the latter of
lOlbs. in 43lbs.
                           LECTUKES.
Theatre   of Anatomy Blenheim- Street, Great Marlborough*
                              Street.
   The Autumnal Course of Lectures on Anatomy, Physio
logy, and Surgery, will be commenced on Monday the 1st
of October, at Two o'clock, by Mr. Brookes.
   In these Lectures the Structure of the Human Body will
be demonstrated on recent subjects, and further illustrated
by Preparations, and the functions of the different organs
will be explained.
   The Surgical operations     are performed and every part of
Surgery    so elucidated  as  may   best tend to complete the
operating Surgeon.      The art of Injecting, and of making
Anatomical Preparations, will be taught practically.
   Gentlemen zealous in the pursuit of Zoology will meet
with uncommon opportunities of prosecuting their              re
searches in Comparative Anatomy.
   Surgeons in the Army and Navy may be assisted in           re
newing their Anatomical Knowledge, and every possible
attention will be paid to their accommodation as well as
instruction.
   Anatomical Converzationes will be held weekly, when
 the different Subjects treated of will be discussed familiarly,
and the Students' views forwarded. — To these none but
 Pupils can be admitted.
   Spacious Apartments, thoroughly ventilated, and replete
with every convenience, are opened all the Morning, for
the purposes of Dissecting and Injecting, where Mr. Brookes
attends to direct the Students, and demonstrate the various*
parts as they appear on Dissection.
   An extensive Museum, containing Preparations illustra
tive of every part of the Human Body, and its Diseases,
 appertains to this Theatre, to which Students will have oc
 casional admittance. — Gentlemen inclined to support this
 School by contributing preternatural or morbid parts, sub
jects in Natural History, &c. (individually of little value to
 the possessors) may have the pleasure of seeing them pre
 served, arranged, and registered, with the names of the
 Donors.
                                                        Terms.

                            Lectures.
                              Terms.                         fa
For a Course of Lectures, including the Dissections, 5 *
For a Perpetual Pupil to the Lectures and Dissections, 10 10
   The Inconveniences usually attending Anatomical In
vestigations are counteracted by an antiseptic Process, the
result of Experiments made by Mr. Brookes on Human
Subjects, at Paris, in the year 1782, the account of which
was delivered to the Royal Society, and read on the 17th
of June 1784. This method has since been so far im
proved, that the florid colour of the muscles is preserved,
and even heightened. Pupils may be accommodated in the
House.     Gentlemen established irt Practice, desirous of re-
newirig  their Anatomical Knowledge, may be accommodated
with an Apartment to Dissect in privately.
   Theatre  of Anatomy, Greville- Street, Hat ton- Gar deft.
   Mr. Taunton will commence his Autumnal Course of
Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology and Surgery,
on Saturday, October 6th, at Eight o'clock in the Evening
precisely, to be continued every Tuesday, Thursday, and
Saturday, at the same hour.      In this Course of Lectures it
is proposed to take a comprehensive view of the Structure
and CEconomy of the Living Body, and to consider the
causes, symptoms and treatment of surgical diseases, with
the mode of performing the different surgical operations.
An ample opportunity for professional improvement will
also be afforded by the attendance of the Pupils, if they are
so inclined, at the Finsbury and City Dispensaries, to which
Mr. Taunton is Surgeon. Further particulars may be had
                               —
on application to Mr. Taunton, at his house in Greville-
street.
               St. Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals.
   The Autumnal Courses of Lectures at these adjoining
Hospitals will begin the first of October, viz.
   At St. Thomas's. Anatomy, and the Operations of Sur-
        by Mr. Cline and Mr. Cooper. — Principles and
fery,
  factice of Surgery, by Mr. Cooper.
   At Guy's. Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Babington and
Dr. Curry. — Chemistry, by Dr. Babington, Dr. Marcet,
and Mr. Allen. — Experimental Philosophy, by Mr. Allen.
—Theory of MeJicine, and Materia Medica, by Dr. Curry
and Dr. Cholmeley.— Midwifery, and Diseases of Women
and Children, by Dr. Haighton. — Physiology, or Laws of
the Animal CEconomy,        by Dr. Haighton.— Structure and
Diseases of the Teeth, by Mr. Fox.
   N. B. These several Lectures are so arranged, that no
                                                          two

               List of Patents for new Inventions.            159
  two of them interfere in the hours of attendance ; and the
  whole is calculated to form a complete Course of Medical
  and Chirurgical Instruction.      Terms and other Particulars
  may be learnt at the respective Hospitals.
 Dr. Clarke's   and Mr. Clarke's Lectures on Midwifery, and.
             the Diseases of Women and Children.
     The Winter Course of these Lectures will rommence on
  Friday the 5th of October, at the house of Mr. Clarke,
 No. 10, Upper John-Street, Golden-Square.
     The Lectures are read every day from a Quarter past Ten
  o'clock in the Morning till a Quarter past Eleven, for the
 convenience of Students attending the Hospitals.            The
 Students will have Labours when properly qualified.         For
 particulars apply to Dr. Clarke, No. 1, New Burlington-
 Street; or, to Mr. Clarke, No. 10, Upper John-Street,
Golden-Square.
     Mr. Stevenson, of Great Russel-Street, Bloomsbury, who
as Pupil is intimately acquainted with the Practice of the
 late Mr. Saunders, is preparing a practical Work on a fre
quent Disease of the Eye, which we understand is nearly
 ready for publication.
         LIST OF PATENTS         FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Joseph Charles Dyer, of Boston, North America, now
residing in Westminster,        a patent   (in consequence of a
communication made to him by a certain foreigner residing
abroad) for certain machinery for cutting ana heading of
<U+25A1>ails and beads of all kinds and sizes, from strips or plates
made of iron, copper, or any other metal capable of being
rolled into plates. — July 26, 1810.
    To Thomas Wade, of Nelson Place, Kent Road, in the
county of Surry, gent., for his method, or process, of imitat
ing lapis lazuli, porphyry, jasper, the various sorts or kinds
of marble, and all other stones usually wrought, carved,
sculptured, or polished ; also inlaid or Mosaic work to be
used for or in the formation or manufacture of chimney
pieces, slabs, funeral monuments,           and for every other
purpose   to  which   such stones  and   marbles are, or may be,
applied.  — July  26-
    To Edgar Dobbs, of the Borough of Southwark, gentle
man, for a variety of compositions for making a water
proof cement mortar and stucco, the same being also
applicable as durable colouring washes for buildings. —
August 2.                     '
                                                         METEO*

 160                                                            Meteorology               <
                                            meteorological table;
                     By Mr. Carey, of the
                                          Strand>
                                                     For August                    1810<
                      !
                     1Thermometer.
                                                                         Height of            DegreesofDry.
                                                                                                                Hygrometer.
  Days of
                                                     o'clock,
                      o'Clock,
                                 Morning.
                                                                         the Barom.                                                  WeattW.
                                             Noon-              Night.
                                                                                              nessby Leslie's
  Month.
                                                                          Inches.
                                                     1
                     8                               1
   July    27         60                    62°       57°                 29-50                    10                         Stormy-
           28          60                   57        55                     •63                     0                        Stormy
           89          61                   64        56                     •80                 38                           Cloudy
           90         60                    65        55                     •68                 36                           Cloudy
           3J         60                    65        54                     •80                 28                           Showery
August                59                    66        56                     •82                  20'                         Showery
           4 3 S l
                      57                    68        58                     •95                 42                           Fair
                      59                    66        57                     •70                 26                           Showery
                      59                    67        58                     •54                 33                           Showery
            5         60                    70        56                     •64                 45                           Showers with
           e          55                    69        55                     •64                 46                           Ditto [thunde*
            7         56                    68        56                    •62                  30                           Showery
                      58                    66        57                    •70                  29                           Showery
            9 8       60                    64        56                                         32
                                                                            •95                                               Showery
           10         61                    67       57                     •72                  39                           Fair
           ti        62                     68       55                     •57                 41                            Showery
           13        60                     69       58                     •8J                 36                            Showery
                                                                                   '
          13         60                     68       59                     •71                 44                            Fair
          14         60                     69       55                     •69                 33                            Showery-
          15         59                     63       54                     •50                 36                            Fair
          10         50                     50       49                     •60                    0                          Rain
          M          51                     61       49                     •92                 65                            Fair
          18         49                     66       51                  30-20                  63                            Fair
          19         50                     61       52                     •21                    0                          Small rain
          20         51                     69       54                     •28                 60                            Fair
          21         56                     69       58                     ¦26                 53                            Fair
          22         56                     70       59                     •03                 50                            Fair
          23         58                     74       64                     •02                 50                            Fair
          24         60                     74       65                     •01                 61                            Fair
          25         61                     76       64                  29-99                  59                            Fair
          26         60                     71       68                  30-01                  48                            Fair
             N.B. The                       Barometer's height                    is   taken atone o'clock.
                                                                ERRATUM.
   Our readers are requested to correct the following typographical
                                                                    error m
the name of the author of the valuable paper on tunnels,
of the present volume. For Lennox read Lbnnon.            fiver « page 34,                                                           ,
                                                                                                                                         "Iff**

                                     t   lei    j
  XXIX. A          Sketch     of a History of Pus. By George
      Pearson, M.D. F.R.S. Senior Physician of St. George's
      Hospital, &c. &c.
  I   was induced to write this historical sketch for three
 purposes: namely; 1st, To inform myself of the facts already
  published on the subject. 2d, To, perhaps, assist some others
  with information. 3d, To manifest whether or not my own
  investigation had produced any accession of knowledge.
      The word pits, so very commonly used in our language,
  is plainly the Greek word no; or vvov abbreviated by the
  Latins, with the change of writing in Roman characters.
  It appears from the original writers that this term denoted
  any thick, white, opake, clammy, animal fluid, such as
  the matter of abscesses, and of ulcers or sores ; also the
  thick milk called colostrum secreted immediately after par
  turition. T am of opinion that philological investigations
  are unsuitable in a writing of the same kind as this now
  offered ; yet I think it may be useful or even necessary to
  remark, that the etymological import of the word pus, is
  that of putridity or corruption ; which denotes a state of
  broken down texture, not only of animal and vegetable
  matters, but of any mineral substances whatever, such as
  stones and metals*.           Accordingly the word pus appears to
 have signified, among the Greeks and Romans, an animal
  fluid from matter in a state of broken down aggregation,
  or of corruption; and such were the fluids above named.
  Hippocrates distinctly describes the pus of abscesses and
 ulcers from its simple, obvious properties; viz. it is a thick,
  white, inodorous, uniform, smooth fluid — when it is of a
 good or
             " laudable" kind. But according to its variations
 from these properties, it was asserted to be of a ,bad kind.
 It is especially s-aid that good pus has not t he least offen
 sive smell.       It was considered among the ancients to be
 of great moment to know the properties of this fluid, par
 ticularly for the purpose of determining whether or not the
 sputum in pulmonary disorders was produced by an ulcer
    * The acceptation of the term putiid'ty, and of its derivatives according
 to their confined meaning since the cultivation of chemistry as a distinct
 science, and not according to the original extensive sense, is one of the
 causes of the erroneous doctrines of fevers called putrid, which disgrace the
 pages of some of our most eminent writers.     The modern meaning of putre
faction being that of the process of new compositions and decompositions in
animal or vegetable substances effected by chemical attractions, and cha
racterized by foetor, it is apparently incompatible for matter in a livingstate
to exist during such chemical agencies.
  i Vol. 36. No.       149. Sept. 1810.                    L                  or

 ] 62              A   Sketch   of a History of Put.
or abscess.       On that account mention is made of the trials
with water and fire. Pus sinks, it is observed, in not only
mere water, but in salt water ; while the secreted slimy sub
stance of the bronchial membrane called mucus is frothy,
and floats on water :— the former substance is readily dif
fusible through wa;er, but the latter is not so.                 If pus be'
contained in sputum, it emits a most offensive smell while
burning on an ignited coal. From the earliest writers it
appears that the judgement was regulated by observation-
of the circumstances of the discharge of purulent matter,
as well as of its properties : that from suppurated tubercles
was distinguished from the abscesses called vomica, and em
pyema by acute inflammation, such as of peripneumony
a"nd pleurisy;      but a third source from the lungs, now well
ascertained, viz. by secretion fron the bronchial membrane
without any breach in its continuity or loss of its substance,
was made known in consequence of the observations pub
lished about the same time by the learned De Haen of
Vienna, and by our most ingenious countrymen Mr. John
Hunter and Mr. Hewson. Previously to these pathologists,
Mr. Sharp in his Critical Essays, p. 142; and Mr. Gataker
in bh Essays, p. 97, as well as, I believe, other authors, had
 asserted that puriform matter is producible without ulcer
or loss of substance or breach, by inflammation, or merely
by irritation occasioned by extraneous bodies in gonorrhoea,
 ophthalmia, &c. It was, however, generally considered as
 doubtful, whether or not ibis matter was the same as that
 of ulcers and abscesses. This indecision was founded, pro
 bably, on prejudice rather than on any actual observation
 of differences of properties. The proof by dissection that
 membranous surfaces, in their entire state, produce matter
 of the same sort as that of sores and abscesses, was hitherto
 the most important pathological fact brought to light sub
 sequently to the Greek writers.
     About 40 years ago, Simpson of St. Andrews, De Haen,
 Gaber, Pringle, Cuilen, Fordyce, Hunter, Hewson with
 his pupil Hendy *, were the prominent parties in the dis
 cussion of the point — the matter from which pus was im
 mediately derived. The first person who considered pus to be
 the product of vessels becoming, or at least performing the
  office of, glands, a3 far as I know, was Simpson. DeHaen's
  observations confirmed this opinion; but the deposition of
  an opake white matter from serum of blood on standing,
 induced Gaber, Pringle and Cullen to account for the pro-
        * Tentamt n Inaugurate de Secretionr glandulari. Edinburgh, 1774.
                                                                    duction

                    A   Sketch   of a tihtory of Pus.                          163
 Auction of pus on the supposition of a similar depositioa
 from effused serum in abscesses and ulcers.                       Fordyce ap
 plied his chemical science, of which he was a master, on
 this occasion :— he interpreted all the phaenomena of sup
 puration by means of the principle of purulent fermentation,
 which compounds pus from the supposed constituent or
 elementary ingredients of any kind of animal matter,—
 miucles, nerves, membranes, blood*, &c. This compo
 sition, however, was effected solely by the agency of vital
 powers acting on such animal matters.                           Hewson sup
 ported by new arguments the doctrine of the production
 of pus by secretion f. Hunter seems to have convinced
 the medical public, by his ingenious observations and rea
 soning, that pus is a secreted fluid ; and, with the excep
 tion that inflammation is essential to its production, his
 doctrine has been for the last 20 or 30 years generally ad
 mitted to be well established %.                   But the minds of the
 thinking part of the medical faculty seem to have been still
 left in an unsatisfied state with regard to the notion they
 ought to entertain of the substance to be called pus. On
 account of the few properties of it known, they probably,
 and very reasonably, apprehended                     that different things
 might be denoted by this term ; or that things in reality
 the same might be denoted by different terms, being sup
 posed to be different from one another.                       Accordingly, in
 the course of the last 40 years, inquiries into the nature and
 properties of this fluid have been instituted, and been espe-
    * Van Swieten seems to have entertained a somewhat like opinion:—
"  Pus non fit in vasis sed eitra vasa, in vulnere generaturab effusis humori-
bus, calore corporis fotis et mutatis       Si enini pus omne in vulnere hxrens
linteis carptis mollissimis abstersum fuerit tenui liquido non pure post ho-
 ram vulneris superficies undique madida apparcbit ; sed si per viginti
 quatuor boras emplastro tectum fuerit vulnus, illo ablato pus apparcbit.
 Unde pus fit extra vasa; sed materies, unde fit, per vasa adfertur." — Cum-
nuntaria, torn. i. p. 230.
    f Pus is found in cavities sometimes without ulceration; — globules are
perceived in it like those of milk — the quantity, the time of production, and
properties of pus are varied by the state of the constitution, particularly by
the passions — purulent matter is only the coagulable lymph altered, chiefly
by inflammation, in flowing through secretory vessels.            See Eaperimtntal
Jissays, by William Hewson, F.R.S. 1772.
    } lam unable to state precisely the date of Mr. Hunter's doctrine on this
subject ; but I learn irom the Dissertation on Pus, by E. Home, esq. F.R.S.
 1788, that he had delivered it, for many years preceding this publication,
in his lectures. Mr. Home stales Mr. Hunter's conclusions i " that the ves
sels of the part take on the nature of a gland, and secrete a fluid which be
comes pus." — " Pus is a secreted     fluid, at least it is formed from a similar
structure of vessels as other secretory organs from the blood." — " Changes in
the constitution affect the state of the pus, which could not be the case if it
were made up of the solids and fluids of the part."         For further proofs I re
fer to the ingeniou. Dissertation of the author.
                                         L2                                 cialfy

 164              A  Sketch  of a History of Pus*
cially promoted by the honorary rewards offered by several
associated bodies.      Hence some improvements have been
made. But physicians were still continually complaining
of the disadvantage in practice, from the distinguishing
properties of pus not being satisfactorily determined; above
 all, for the purpose of judging in pulmonary diseases whe
ther or not the sputum was purulent.          In the year 1778,
 the late Mr. Charles Darwin received the gold medal
from the iEsculapian Society at Edinburgh, for his sup
posed discoveries of the criteria by which pus and mucus
 are distinguishable.     It was asserted that, water being ad
 ded to a dissolution of pus in sulphuric acid, a precipitation
takes place, but such a dissolution of mucus affords on the
 addition of water merely suspended flakes j — that pus is
 diffusible through diluted sulphuric acid, but mucus is
 not; —that these effects are also observed with water, or salt
 water.     In 1787, Dr. Brugman, in his Inaugural Disserta
tion on Pus, among a number of other experiments, which
 I  do not think necessary to be noticed, relates that dry
 volatile alkali (carbonate of ammonia) with an equal quan
tity of pus becomes viscid, semi-transparent and white ;
 that caustic ammonia partially dissolves it, and the rest
 yields a very viscid fluid, but on adding water the whole is
 deposited in a viscid slate; — that all neutral salts thicken
 pus, and still more so the earthy salts, and most of all the
 metallic salts ; — that alcohol condenses it by uniting to its
 aqueous parts, but neither coagulates nor dissolves it. But
previously to these experiments, Mr. Hunter lud observed,
that pus is "coagulated by sal ammoniac" (muriate of
 ammonia), which he, and subsequently Mr. Home, depend
upon, as affording a criterion between pus and other animal
fluids.    Grassmayer is quoted by several authors for the
fact that pus is precipitable in a gelatinous state by caustic
alkaline lixivium, but if mucus be present it is suspended.
 The mistake in the fact that pus was highly putrescible,
•was perhaps first exposed by my fellow-student Dr. Hcndy,
which was subsequently confirmed by Mr. Home. Several
foreign authors, as Plenciz, Murray, Schroeder, Sahmith,
 Quesnay, either adopted subsequently, or coincided in, the
 opinion that pus is a secreted fluid.        Mr. Home's inge
nious Dissertation on Pus was published in 1788, and I
jmd no accession of facts from that date up to the present
 time.    His work is valuable, not onlv for his own obser
vations, but for a just exposition of those of Mr, Hunter.
 It is hrre attempted to be shown that " pus is composed
 of globules swimming in a transparent aqueous fluid, yet

    On different Systems          of Tuning Musical Instruments.               i<JS
  tliat the globules are formed in the fluid after its secretion,
  while lying upon the sore or other inflamed surface, in
 different times, according to the state of the constitution
 and secreting part, the pus being secreted in a transparent
 condition * ; — that inflammation is the absolute cause of
 the formation of this fluid ; that the globules in pus are not
 soluble in cold water like those of blood, but are decom
 posed by boiling water, and the fluid in which they swim
  is not coagulable by heat, but is by sal ammoniac, which
 serum or the blood itself is not: the globules also are
 smaller than those of chyle, but much larger than those of
 pancreatic juice ; and they are of the same size, but less
 numerous than those of milk; — that the distance from the
 heart influences much the condition of the pus ; — that the
 depravation of this fluid is in proportion to the flaky or
 curdy particles seen floating in the fluid with the globules ;
 and that the flaky parts are in the greatest proportion where
 the inflammation has been least, or the process on other
 accounts most defective.
     In this historical account of the fluid under inquiry, if I
 have omitted to state the observations of any other authors,
 that must be imputed to my unacquaintance with them.
 I also purposely do not notice various pathological facts ;
 such as the effects of pus of variolous eruptions, siphylitic,
 and other contagious diseases.                  As it appears from the
 confession of physicians that the nature and distinguish
 ing properties of pus have not been satisfactorily ascer
 tained, I engaged in an inquiry into the properties of this
 substance ; some of the results of which I shall offer to the
 public.
 XXX.      Remarks on the Rev. C.J.Smyth's Letter on Systems
       of Tuning Musical Instruments. Vol. xxxv. p. 448.
 After bestowing              due praise on Mr. A. F. C. Kollmann's
 improvement            of the theory of musical composition,
 Mr. S. makes objections to Kirnberger's temperament,
 which Mr. K. had recommended on page 9 of his                          "   New
Theory;" and concludes with                    several   assertions    of   little
    • In a former paper on Expectorated Matter,
                                                       (see Phil. May. vol. hit.
 p. 12 — 20,) I erroneously assigned the discovery of the globularity of pus to
 Mr. Home.        It is hut justice in me to declare that this Gentleman no
where claims the discovery: on the contrary, I have since found that he re
fers it to Mr. Hunter.      I take for granted Hewson's observation of this fact
already quoted was subsequently to Mr. Hunter's, but 1 find no authority
for the exact period of the discovery by either party.
                                       L  3                            weight,

 166               Remarks on Systems        of Tuning.
weight, because (and I consider his
                                                " palatable dishes ")
they are mere matters of taste.            And it is curious that he
should presume ''• organ-tuners will continue to tune in the
same way as their ancestors did before them, till arguments
are produced to prove the superiority of Kirnberger's tem
perament" to theirs; for a person but slightly acquainted
with the subject might from this suppose there are no bet
ter unequal temperaments.            However, there are others
which, for my own part, { do decidedly prefer. Un
doubtedly Kirnberger's system is one of the worst ; and in
the ancient system (as M. de Bethizy observes, Exposition,
p. 130, 1764), the sounds in some of the scales are so
altered that they are insupportable to a delicate ear.                The
equal temperament has been preferred by Couperin, Mar-
purg, Rameau, Cavallo, professor Chladni, and many other
eminent philosophers and musicians: it is certainly the
best for piano fortes j but for the organ perhaps a good
unequal temperament is better, on account of the loudness
of  the beats.
   As one of your musical readers, I am obliged to Mr. S,
for undergoing "the drudgery of calculation" on our ac
count : he would still further merit our thanks by sending
to your valuable Magazine tables of the numbers of vibra
tions, the monochord-lengths,          and the beats in fifteen se
conds, belonging to the other unequal temperaments that
have been proposed ; and I think he ought to send a table
for the common system, as the chief end of his communi
cation seems to be, to compare it with Kirnberger's, and to
show its superiority*.
    As to the generality of tuners (and many of them are
very conceited men), I believe they know but little or no
thing of harmonics.        They learn one method by ear only,
and remember it as they would a tune, without knowing a,
rule on which either is founded.              That the ear and the
memory alone are sufficient, after proper exeroise, I am
well convinced j for I can tune my barp with the same ac
curacy diatonically and without sounding two strings at a
time, as it can be tuned in the usual way by consonances j
and I have a pupil, ojily twelve years old, whose eaf and
remembrance of sounds are so accurate, that she can, whik
in a different room from the instrument, name any num-
   * It would be an
                    impnrvement of the first column of these tables, to fpl-
low the German tablaturt, described in art. 34 of Dr. Callcott's Musical
Grammar, 2d edit. 1809.   Mr. S. in some future communication,       would
much oblige me by stating precisely what he means by the term      HVfin
tuning.
                                      -                                b«r

                 ¦Crt    Tuning an Equal Temperament.                    167
her of notes that can be struck with one hand in any part
 of the piano forte which she ha* been a little while accus
tomed to play on.
     I know one tuner who, after studying ratios a little,
thinks with Exinieno           Qual sciocchezza non e questa,
supporre la musica fondata in certe ragioni, che bisogna
guastare per ridurre la musica ad csecuzione ? Ahneno
insegnasse la matematica a far quettio guastamento ; ma
xlopo un grand* apparato di ragioni matematiche, ciascun
 le guasta per la pratica a modo suo. I Francesi hanno
fatto per il temperamento del cembalo difusissimi calcoli j
ma tutti egualmente capricciosi che inutili, poiche in fine
I' is t into senza riguardo a' nameri c' inscgna ad accordar
gli strumeoti, come c'insegna a metier insieme le lettere
per formar le parole, &c." p. 7 1 .
   August     11,1810.                                            M.*
 XXXI. An           Examination of       the Instructionsgiven in an
   anonymous Pamphlet              published in 1809, for Tuning an
   Equal Temperament            of   the Musical Scale.  By a Goa-
   XBSPONPENT.
                              To   Mr. T'dlock.
Sir, Thk table            by your correspondent the Rev. Mr. Smyth,
 at page 452      of your    last volume, has enabled me to make a
comparison of the method of tuning laid down in a recent
pamphlet, sold by Becket and Co. ; and perhaps you will
oblige me in laying the same before your readers, with the
necessary plate apd extracts from the pamphlet alluded to ;
which, after some well directed sarcasms, explains the nature
nf the musical scale and the necessity of temperament, by
a professed extract from Earl Stanhope's pamphlet, that
was reprinted in your 25th volume.      It then proceeds to
extract Mr. Emerson's opinion, in favour of the Equal! em-
perament; founded solely, on there being no fif th in                    it,
which     tempered more than
         is                        part of  note while the
                                                   a        ;
more important circumstances are overlooked, that there
are in     12 major thirds, each of which     more than -J,,
                                                     is
 art of  a it
           note too sharp, and 12 minor sixths as much too
 at; also 12 major sixths almost -fa part of        note tooa
eharp, and 12 niinoT thirds as much too flat.
   In page 21 of the pamphlet,      find an expression, di-
                                         I
  • Can
         any of your readers favour me with any particulars respecting the
manufacture of tuning-forki, and the standard by which they are tuned?
                                   L 4                             rectly

168              On Tuning an Equal Temperament.
rectly   contrary to what your correspondent Mr. Smyth
says, at  page 450, as to the temperament now in use upon
the organ, viz. Organs are              "
                                universally tuned according to
the equal temperament :" and the author continues,         the                  "
trials which I have myself made of the equal and unequal
temperaments, amongst the latter of which was that re
commended by Earl Stanhope, have induced me to adopt
the equal temperament as the best for practice."
   " The method of tuning a piano-forte, &c. according; to
the equal temperament, is explained by the following in
structions, and further elucidated by the annexed tuning
table*, to which the reader is desired, as he proceeds, to
refer."
   " Observe,  that the capital letters in the tuning table, in
dicate the notes when tuned ; the small letters, the notes
to be tuned from them ; and the crosses the notes already
tuned, with which the tuning notes are to be tried in
chords, as will be shown in the instructions ; and that these
crosses staud for the natural notes, except when otherwise
marked."
   1,    " By means of a tuning-fork, tune the C next above
the middle C, and from the former, tune the middle c a
perfect octave,
   2. "From middle C tune g, next above                          it,
                                                          a little natter
than    a perfect fifth   and in order to ascertain whether
                           :                                                    it   is
too flat or not flat enough, try            in
                                            it    chord with the two
                                                      a
C's already tuned. If          makeit     tolerably good fifth, with
                                            a
the C    below, and at the same time           tolerably good fourth,
                                                 a
with the     C  above,     itwell timed.''
                                is
          Here, sir, have to remark, that ihe little which the
                       I
      fifth Cg    is to be flattened, supposing the tenor-cliff                      c
      of the usual concert pitch, or to make 240 complete                           vi
     brations     in one second of time,         just such, according
                                                     is
     to Mr. Smyth's table, that               may beat 12 times in
                                                it
     one quarter of         minute, or 13 seconds,
                               a                                 space of
                                                                       a
     time always to be understood when                number of beats
                                                           a
     are mentioned,            what follows
                                in                 and that the pre
                                                      :
     tended trial      inthe latter part of this precept,           inap   is
     plicable and ridiculous, since every complement of                              a
     tempered concord, to the octave,                  alike tempered
                                                           is
     with itself, whatever that degree                    of
                                                    temperament may
     le, and consequently whether well or                tuned, for the
                                                                ill
     purpose of an equal temperament,                almost as remote
                                                          is
     from this test, as would be the hour or minute of the
     day, on which such fifth was tuned.
                               * See Plate V. ¦
                                                             3. " Fror*

                     On Tuning an Equal Temperament.                                                169
     3.    f<          G
                  tune g below
                From                               it,
                                      perfect octave, and try
                                                         a
it   in
     a          diord with
                     the  between them."
                                   C
   4.      "
        From the last tuned G tune         little flatter than d
                                                               a                                        a
perfect fifth, and try      a chord, with the
                                   it
                                   in               above                          G             it   al
ready tuned, until you have Gd      good fifth and dGa      good                                a
fourth."
       This fifth          Gmust beat
                               d        times, and the fourth
                                                     9        G                                     d
           18 times*,   and the pretended trial     nugatory and              is
          absurd, for its professed purpose.
     5.    " From
               D, tune a, little flatter than perfect fifth,
                                           a                                      a
and try    in   chord, with
                it     a      above      until you have D
                                               C                   it,                                  a
a g6od fifth, and aC    good third."
                                   a
             The fifth D must beat 13 times and the first trial
                             a                                           :
          or check of any use which occurs,       the minor third            is
          aC, beating 326 times, but which no organist in Eng
          land would,   think, call " a good third."
                           I
     6.    "
           From A, tune below      a                 it,
                                      perfect octave, and try
                                                          a
it   in   chord with D between them."
          a
     7. " From the last tuned A, tune      flat fifth, and try  e      a
it   with    and G, until you have three good tkirds, AC,
                C
Ce, eG.
             Now since the minor third AC beats 163, and the
          thirds Ce and eG, 142 and 244 respectively, such
          must be tried a long lime, so that all idea of perfect
          chords   forgot, before any musician would pronounce
                     is
          them " good thirds."
  8. " From E, tune      flat fifth, and try
                                   b   "a                                      it   with G, until
you have two good thirds EG and Gb."
          This fifth Eb must beat 15 times, and the thirds
          abovementioned will beat 244, and 214, and conse
        quently are not " good thirds."
     9. " From B, tune     below   b    perfect octave, and try
                                                    it   a
it   with D and G."
           Here bD beats 83, and GB beats 214; on which
                                       1
     I    forbear to comment.
      10. (( From the last tuned    tune    flat fifth, and try
                                                 B                 f*    a
it   with D and      until you have Df*
                       b                 good third, and f*B   a
»    good fourth."
                Now Bf*      beats 11 times, and 160 and                                22 are the
          other beatings.
   11. "From F*, tune                       f*   below        it   a   perfect        octave, and
try   with A and D."
      it
    • Because the minor
                         consonance (the 4th)            is   the uppermost        :   see   Dr. Smith's
Harmonic*,    2d edit. p. 93,                                                                     Here

170                     On Tuning an Equal Temperament.
                Here     beats 1*37, and DF* beats 160 times.
                        f*A
      12.    " From   the last F* tune c* a fiat fifth, and try it
with        A   and F* until you have Ac* a good third, and c* F*
a good          fourth."
          The fifth F*c# beats 8^, and the major third Ac*
        120; of course the fourth C* F* beats 17, the same
        with its complemental fifth above it.
   13.      " From
               C* tune g* aflat fifth, and try it with E
and B  until you have Eg* a good third, and g*B another
good third."
      The fifth C*g* beats 12 times; also Eg* beats 180,
    and g*B beats 308.
  14. " From G* tune g* below                           it,
                                       perfect octave, and    a
try   it    with   E    and   B."
          g*B beats 154, the half of the above, and EG* 160
        as above, and the repetition, and the whole of this
        step      is   unnecessary.
  "  As you now proceed by tuning the fifths downwards,
the lower note     to be sharpened, which
                         is               the same thing            is
in effect as flattening the upper note, when tuning up
wards."
      15.    "From       C  above middle C, tune    rather sharper f
than        a   perfect fifth, and try   with A and C, until you
                                               it
have   f    A     a good third, and Cf    good fourth."
                                                   a
           Here the fifth      beats 16 times, and so does the
                                   f  C
        fourth       and the trial of
                      C
                      f,                    useless and fallacious^
                                                   it   is
        for proving whether
                                       f
                                      sharpened the proper quan
                                       C      is
        tity for an equal temperament of the scale. But                                f A
        beats igo, and this furnishes      check of some use.
                                                        a
      16.    " From      F    tune a*     a   sharp fifth, and try           it   with   D,
until you have a*D    good third, without sensibly injuring
                                  a
the fifth."
        The fifth a*F beats \o\ times, and the third a*D
        beats 127 times.
      17.
             " From        A* tune a*     above        it,   a    perfect octave, and
try   it    with D      and  F."
           Here A*D beats 127 times as above, and a*F 10$
        times, the same as the last, which shows this to be                                a
        useless step.
      18.       From    the last tuned A* tune d«                   a    sharp fifth, and
try   with G and
      it                      A* (below) until you                 have     A*d* good
                                                                                   a
fourth, and d*G               a   good third."
                                                                                       Here

              Analysis of several Varieties of Salt.                       171
           Here the fifth      d*A* beats 14 times, and the fourth
        A*d* the      same, and the third d*G beats 169 times.
    From the above comparisons of Mr. Smyth's table, with
the rules in this pamphlet, it will I think appear plain, that
the writer of them had no proper conception of the nature
of an equal temperament, and that it is extremely unlikely
that he had ever heard or calculated such a temperament,
decidedly as he speaks of his trials of it: and I fear, sir,
that this is no uncommon case, in the present rage for
writing principles of music, principles of tuning, theories
of harmonics, instructions for tuning, &c. &c. by persons
who ought first to employ themselves, in studying the very
elements of the science of harmonics.
     Among the recommendatory criticisms for different Re
views, of the pamphlet before me, one for the Phil. Mag.
 has been forgotten, which I suggest should have run thus ;
          A careful examination of the instructions contained in this pamphlet,
       for tuning an equal temperament, convinces us, that the assumed name
       Masicus Jgnoramits of its author, is no misnomer ; and that the wit dis
       played therein, vastly exceeds its science, or its usefulness.
     I   beg   pardon for obtruding so long a letter on your at
 tention, and am, sir,
    August 6, 1810.       -                        Yours, &c. &c.       &c<-
 XXXU. An            Analysis of several Varieties of British and
     Foreign      Salt,   (Muriate of Soda,) with a view to ex
     plain their Fitness for different oeconomical Purposes. By
     William Henry, M.D. F.R.S. Vice-Pres. of the Li
     terary and Philosophical Society, and Physician to the
     infirmary, at Manchester,
                             [Concluded from p. 110.]
 Sect.      III.   Account of the Methods of analysing                 (lie se
                   veral Varieties of Muriate of Soda.
 The        method of analysis which I adopted, in examining
  the several varieties of muriate of soda, was as follows.
      When the salt was in a state of solution, a measured
  quantity was evaporated to dryness in a sand heat, which
  was carefully regulated, to avoid the decomposition of the
  Biuriate of magnesia, if any of that salt were present in the
  solution *.
     * Muriate of magnesia, according to Dr. Marcet, begins to part with its
  acid at a temperature a few degree, above that of boiling water. This fact
  explains the observation of Mr. Kirwan, that too great a heat, employed in
  the desiccation of muriate of magnesia, decreases considerably its solubility
  in alcohol.    (Kirwan on Mineral Waters, p. 875.)
                                                                          Each

   1  72                Analysis of several Varieties of
       Each specimen of salt was reduced to a fine powder, and
   was dried, in the temperature of 180° of Fahrenheit, during
   the space of two hours.               This was done in order that the
   different experiments might               be made     on precisely equal
  quantities of salt,
                   I. To     separate the earthy     Muriates.
       (A.) On      1000 grains of the dried and pulverized salt,
   (except     in the case of the foreign salts, when only 500
  grains were used,) four ounce measures of alcohol were
  poured, of a specific gravity, varying from 815 to 820, and
  at nearly a boiling temperature.                To insure the access of
  the fluid to every part of the salt, they were ground toge
  ther for some time in a mortar, and then transferred into a
  glass matrass, where they were digested for some hours,
  and frequently agitated.             The alcohol was next separated
  by filtration; and the undissolved part was washed, as it
  lay on the filter, with four ounce measures of fresh alcohol.
       (B.) The united washings were evaporated to dryness*,
  and to the dry mass a small portion of fresh alcohol was
 added, to separate the earthy muriates from a little common
 salt, which had been dissolved along with them.                      This so
 lution might, however, still contain a minute portion of
 muriate of soda.            It was therefore again evaporated, redis-
 solved in hot water, and mixed with a solution of carbonate
 of soda. By boiling for some minutes, the whole of the
 earths were precipitated, and, after being well washed, were
 re-dissolved in muriatic acid. This solution, being eva
 porated to dryness, gave the weight of the earthy muriates,
 which had been extracted by alcohol f.
      (B. a.) The dry mass thus obtained might consist either
 of muriate of magnesia, of muriate of lime, or of both.
 An aliquot part, therefore, was dissolved, separately, for
 the purpose of assaying it by the usual tests.                  Sometimes,
 as in the case of the earthy muriates procured from sea salt,
muriate of magnesia alone was indicated, and any further
process was rendered unnecessary.                    Muriate of lime was
     * In this and all similar cases, the heat was very cautiously regulated to
wards the close of the process.
    f   By the analysis of artificial mixtures of pure muriate of soda with the
•arthy muriates in known quantities, 1 afterwards found that the full
amount of the earthy muriates was not ascertained in this way of proceeding.
The deficiency of the latter salts was about one sixth; but as the error must
necessarily have been the same in all, it does not affect the comparison of
different varieties of salt, as to their proportion of this ingredient.    If the
numbers in the 5th column of the table (indicating the total earthy mu
riates) be increased in the proportion of six to five, we shall then obtain the
true quantities in each variety of salt.

                             British and Foreign Salt.                     J 78
iti no instance found uncombined           but    ;the majority of
                                                            in
cases (as in the earthy      muriates   obtained   from Cheshire}
salt was mixed with     muriate   of magnesia.
    (B.b.) To the solution of two earthy muriates was
added fully saturated carbonate of ammonia, which has the
            of throwing down lime in combination with car-
Eroperty
   onic acid, but has no effect on the muriate of magnesia at
ordinary temperatures.     The solution of the latter salt, along
with that of the excess of carbonate of ammonia, was
therefore separated            by
                         filtration   and to the filtered liquor
                                              ;                              a
solution of phosphate of soda was added, according to the
formula of Dr. Wollaston *.
    (B. c.) By direct experiments          had learned that 100
                                                  I
grains   of  muriate of  magnesia,    when   thus decomposed by
carbonate of ammonia, conjoined with phosphate of soda,
cive 151 grains of an insoluble animoniaco-magnesiatx
phosphate dried at about 90° of Fahrenheit.           Hence     was   it
easy, from the weight of the precipitate, to calculate how
much of the former salt was contained in the mixture
of muriate of lime and muriate of magnesia. Thus,                2U    if
grains of       mixture of the two muriates yielded 1.5*1 of
                 a
 ammoniaco-magnesian         phosphate,          obvious that the
                                                      it   is
mixture must have consisted of equal weights of muriate
of lime and muriate of magnesia.
     (B. d.) The estimation of the proportion of muriate of
 lime, in      mixture of this salt with muriate of magnesia,
                a
 was sometimes performed              different way.
                                         in   a         To     cold  a
 solution of      known weight of the two salts, super-oxalate
                     a
 of potash was added and the precipitate was collected,
                                    ;
 washed, and dried at about l60J Fahrenheit.           Of this pre
 cipitate    Ihad previously found that 116 grains are formed
 by the decomposition of 100 grains of dry muriate of lime.
 From the quantity of oxalate of lime          was easy, therefore,
                                                      it
 to infer that of the muriate, from whose decomposition                      it
 resulted    and this subtracted from the weight of the two
             ;
 salts, gave the weight of the muriate of magnesia.
       H. To         separate and estimate the earthy Sulphates.
      (C.) The portion of               salt which had
                                         resisted the action
of alcohol,                              by
                             long boiling in sixteen ounce
                     was dissolved
measures of distilled water, and the solution was filtered.
On the filter   small quantity of undissolved matter ge
                         a
nerally remained, which was washed with hot water, till                      it
  *    See   Dr. Marcet's analysis of the Brighton Chalybeate, published in the
 last edition   of Saunders on Mineral Waters.
                                                                        ceased

  1 74              Analysis of several Varieties of
 ceased    to have any action.         The weight of the insoluble
 portion    was   then  ascertained.
     (C. a.) By this operation were dissolved, not only the
 muriate of soda, but all the other salts, insoluble in alco
 hol, which might be mingled with it. To the solution,
 carbonate of soda was added; and the liquid, which in
 most cases gave, on this addition, an abundant precipitate,
 was boiled briskly for several minutes, in order that none
 of   the earthy carbonates, which were separated, might re
 main dissolved by an excess of carbonic acid.
     (C. b.) The precipitated earths were allowed to subside,
 and were well edulcorated with boiling water, the washing
being added to the liquor first decanted from the precipitate.
To these united liquids (after the addition of more mu
riatic acid than was required for saturation) muriate of
barytes was added, till it ceased to occasion any further
precipitate.       The sulphate of barytes was then washed suf
ficiently; dried; ignited; and its amount ascertained.
    To the earthy carbonates, an excess of sulphuric acid waa
added in a platma dish, and the mixture was triturated, till
all effervescence ceased. It was then evaporated to dryness,
calcined in a low red heat, and the weight of the earthy
sulphates was ascertained.
     (D.a.) The dry sulphates were washed with a small
quantity of lukewarm water.              In several instances, the loss
of weight, thus sustained, was extremely trifling, nothing
being dissolved but a very minute portiou of sulphate of
lime, of which earthy salt, solely, the residue was presumed
to be composed.
    (D. b.) But in other cases, a considerable loss of weight
ensued ; and in these, to the watery solution was added a
mixture of equal parts of saturated solutions of carbonate
of ammonia, and phosphate of soda. A precipitate more
or less copious was produced, which was collected, dried at
90° Fahrenheit, and weighed.
    (D. c.) By direct experiments I had determined, that Q&
grains of this precipitate result from the decomposition of
 100 grains of sulphate of magnesia, of such a degree of
dryness, as to lose 44 grains out of 100, by exposure to a
low red heat.        Hence 100 grains of ammoniaco-magnesian
phosphate indicate 1 1 1 graius of crystallized, on 62*2 of
desiccated, sulphate of magnesia*.                From the weight of
                                                                         the
   • The assumption that crystallized sulphate of
                                                   magnesia contains only 44
per cent, of water, though it was correctly true with the specimen on which
I operated, is below the average, which, I Sod from several experiments, is
                                                                      about

                         British and Foreign Salt.                            175
i the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, it is easy, therefore,
  to infer the proportion of sulphate of magnesia in any mix
  ture of the two earthy sulphates.
      (D. d.) It was possible, however, that in addition to the
  sulphates of lime and of magnesia, the quantity of which
  had been determined by the foregoing process, the speci
  men of salt under examination might contain also an alka
  line sulphate.        To decide this point, it was necessary to
  compare the amount of the acid, deducible from the weight
  of the sulphate of barytes (C. b.)5 with that which ought
  to exist in the sulphate of lime and sulphate of magnesia
  actually found by experiment.                 But to make this com
  parison, some collateral experiments were previously ne
  cessary.
      (D. e.) By these experiments, I found that sulphate of
  lime prepared by double decomposition, then calcined in a
  low red heat, and afterwards dissolved in a large quantity
  of boiling distilled water, yields, when precipitated by a
  barytic salt, in the proportion of 175'9 grains of sulphate
  of barytes from 100 of the calcareous sulphate*.                            The
  same quantity of ignited sulphate of lime (=128 grains
  dried at 160° Fahrenheit), precipitated by super-oxalate of
  potash, gives 102*5 of oxalate of lime; or, precipitated by
  iub-carbonate of potash at a boiling heat, 74*3 grains of
  carbonate of limef. One hundred grains of crystallized
  sulphate of magnesia ( = 5fJ desiccated) afford, when preci
  pitated by muriate of barytes, 111 or 112 of the barytic
  sulphate.
      (E.) By a comparison of the above proportions with
  those obtained in the analysis of any specimen of com
  mon salt, we may learn whether it contain other sulphates
  beside those with earthy bases.              For example, if the pre
  cipitate (D.)      consist   of  carbonate    of lime only, and bear to
  about one half the weight of the salt. Mr. Kirwan stares the water of cry
  stallization to be 53-6 in 100 grains; but this, I believe, a little exceeds the
  truth.
     * This result corresponds, within a fraction of a
                                                       grain, with one obtained
  in a somewhat different way by Dr. Marcet, and very nearly with an ex -
  periment of my friend Mr. James Thomson, who found the barytic sul
  phate, precipitated from 100 grains of sulphate of lime by nitrate of barytes,
  to weigh 173 grains.
     f   On reversing this experiment, I found that 100 grains of carbonate ot
  lime, saturated with sulphuric acid, and calcined in a low red reat, afford
   135 of sulphate of lime.   A similar experiment of Mr. Thomson gave IS+6
  grains.    Or. Marcet also informs me, that from 93-55 grains of pure marble*
  he obtained 125-95 grains of sulphate of lime, proportions which exactly
  coiacide with those of Mr, Thomson.
                                                                               the

                   Analysis of     several     Varieties    of
the sulphate of barytes (C. b.) the proportion of 74 to 175*
or very nearly so, we may infer, that no other sulphate is
present but that of lime.             The same conclusion will fol
low,    if,   after having decomposed one half of the watery
solution (C.)      by  muriate of barytes, and another half by
oxalate of potash, we find that the sulphate of barytes bears
to the oxalate of lime, the proportion of 175'9 to 102*5.
Now these proportions were, as nearly as could be ex
pected, obtained in tbe analysis of Northwich salt; from
whence we may conclude, that the only sulphate which                       it
contains      is gypsum, or the sulphate of lime.
  It    must be remembered, however, that the calcareous-
sulphate, contained in any variety of common salt, cannot
be in   a    state of complete desiccation, but would lose 2-2
parts out of 100, by exposure to           a  red heat*.      becomes
                                                                 It
necessary, therefore, either to increase, in the proportion
of to
   5       4,  our estimate of the sulphate of lime obtained
 by  the foregoing rule, or, more simply, to assume that 100
grains of sulphate of barytes indicate 73 grains of sulphate
of lime, dried at 1603 Fahrenheit, =57 ignited.
    (F.) When sulphate of lime and sulphate of magnesia
were both ascertained, and other sulphates also might pos
sibly be present, as in the varieties of salt from sea water,
the calculation became         a  little more complicated.      In this
case, after determining        the  quantity of both sulphates, (by
the processes D. &c.)        I   estimated how much sulphate of
barytes they ought respectively to afford             and then com
                                                        ;
pared    the  estimated    quantity,    with  that which   was actually
obtained.        The  earthy  carbonates,    for example, precipitated
from 1000 grains of Lymington salt, which had previously
been digested with alcohol, were converted into                  grains
                                                                  3   1
of calcined sulphates, consisting of            1  grains of dry sul-
                                                    9
 ihate of magnesia, and                      of dry sulphate of lime.
Now     from    the  magnesian sulphate 38 grains of sulphate of
barytes    should   result, and from the sulphate of lime,      grains,
                                                                  2   1
the sum of which        is  59. But the quantity actually obtained
was 59'8. There         isonly, therefore, an excess of 0*8 grain of
the   actual   above   the  estimated quantity,       difference much
                                                        a
too trivial to be admitted as an indication of any sulphate
with an alkaline base; and arising, probably, from un
avoidable errors in the experiment.
   * This find to be the loss sustained by 100 grains of artificial selenite,
         I
dried at 160°, and then ignited.  The same quantity of crystallized native
selenite,
       I  learn from Dr. Marcet, loses 20  7grains, by being calcined in   a
strong red heat.

                    British and Foreign Salt.                  177
   (F. a.) If in any mixture of salts, free from the earthy
muriates, we are certain that no other sulphates exist be
side those of lime and magnesia, their estimation becomes
extremely simple.      Decompose two equal quantities of the
salt in question, the one by muriate of harytes, the other
by oxalate of potash.       From the weight of the latter pre
cipitate, we may calculate the quantity of sulphate of lime.
Suppose, for example, the oxalate of lime (as was actually
the case wilh the precipitate from 1000 grains of Lyming-
ton salt) to weigh twelve grains; these denote 15 of sul
phate of lime, dried at 160 Fahrenheit, which quantity, if
decomposed, would give 20£ of sulphate of barytes.            The
latter number (2Oi), subtracted from the weight of sulphate
of barytes actually obtained (say 60), gives 3 9-J- grains for
the sulphate of barytes resulting from the decomposition
of sulphate of magnesia. The quantity of the latter salt,
it will be found therefore by applying the rule already given
(D. e.), must be 35 grains.
    (F. b.) The same object may be accomplished by decom
posing two equal quantities, the one by oxalate of potash,
the other by the compound solution (1). c.).             From the
weights    of the precipitates, it is easy  to calculate from how
much of the calcareous and magnesian sulphates they have
resulted.
    (G.) When the salt left by alcohol was known to con
tain muriate of soda and sulphate of magnesia, but no sul
phate of lime, the presence of alkaline sulphates was in
vestigated in the following manner.         The salt was dissolved
in water, and the solution was divided into two equal por
tions.    To the one muriate of harytes was added, and to
the other, the compound precipitant of carbonate of am
monia, and phosphate of soda.          If the sulphate of barytes,
thus produced, bore to the ammoniaco- magnesian phos
phate the proportion of 112 to 90, it was concluded that
no other sulphate had been decomposed, but that with base
of magnesia.
    (H.) At one time I expected to have ascertained the
quantity of sulphate of soda, in an artificial mixture of that
salt wilh sulphate of magnesia and muriate of soda, by the
following formula.       To a solution of the three salts, heated
to a boiling temperature, I added sub- carbonate of am
monia, which decomposes the sulphate of magnesia only.
I had then a solution containing muriate and sulphate of
soda, with sulphate of ammonia, and some carbonate of
ammonia.        This solution was evaporated to dryness, and
    Vol. 36. No. 149. Sept. 18IO.                 M             the

1 78                   Analysis of several Varieties of
the mass was sufficiently heated to expel the ammoniacal
salts.       I Found, however, that at this temperature the sul
phate      of  ammonia acted upon the muriate of soda, and
produced an additional and not inconsiderable quantity of
sulphate of soda.
     Having determined, by the foregoing processes,                         the
quantity and kind of the earthy muriates the amount of
the insoluble matter, and the proportion of sulphates, the
weights of all these different impurities were added together ;
and the sum being deducted from the weight of the salt
submitted to experiment, the remainder was assumed as
the amount of the pure muriate of soda in the specimen
under examination *.
    Though I purposely refrain from giving the details of the
several analyses, which were made according to the fore
going plan, from the conviction that they would be both
tedious and unnecessary, yet there are a few circumstances
which it may be proper to mention more fully than can
be done in the form of a table.
     1. The Irine which I examined was from Northwich,
and was sent to me in the state in which it was taken from
the springf.           At the temperature of 5C° Fahrenheit, it had
the specific gravity of 1205.               It was perfectly limpid, but
lost a little of its transparency when raised to a boiling
heat, in consequence of the deposition of a very minute
quantity of carbonate of lime and oxide of iron. It was
immediately precipitated by muriate of barytes, oxalate of
ammonia, and alkaline solutions, both mild and caustic.
Eight ounce measures, evaporated to dryness in a sand heat,
gave 1230 grains of salt, which, for the sake of distinction,
 1 term entire salt.           It proved, on analysis, to contain in
one thousand parts           J  ;
    * I have deemed it unnecessary to state, in the table, the quantities of
acid and base in the several varieties of muriate of soda.     Thev may rcadrlv
be estimated from the proportion, deduced by Dr Marcet, of 4b" acid, and
54 soda, in 100 of t lie pure muriate. In this determination he assumes, that
 100 parts of luna cornea, after being melted and heated to redness, consist
 of 19'05 parts of acid, to 80-95 oxide of silver.    This statement agrees very
 nearly with the recent one of Gay I.ussac, who makes 100 parts of silver
 to combine with 7 60 oxygen, and this oxide to neutralize 25-71 parts of
 real muriatic acid.
     + I have lately been informed that this brine had been pumped out of a
 rock-salt mine, into which, from the impossibility of obtaining the salt in a
 solid form, it was allowed to flow. Hence it was fully saturated with muriate
 of  soda.
     J The  specific gravity and proportion of earthy sulphates in Cheshire brine
  appears to differ considerably in the brine of different springs. See Hol
  land's Cheshire Report, p. 45, Ike.
                                                                    Carbonate

                     British and Foreign Salt.                 179
       Carbonate of lime and oxide of iron                  2
       Muriate of lime, and muriate of magnesia,     in*)
         nearly equal proportions                        /
       Sulphate of lime                           •. . .   19
       Muriate of soda                                    974
                                                       1000.
    2.  The  mother liquor, or brine that remains after sepa
rating all the common salt, which it is thought worth while
to extract, had the specific gravity of 120S. The dry salt
contained,
            Muriate of   magnesia                   35
                         lime                       32
            Sulphate of lime                          6
            Muriate of   soda                     927
                                                JOOO.
    3. The clearings of the brine, which are raked out of the
pan when the salt first begins to granulate, contained in
 1000 parts,
            Muriate of   soda                     80O
            Carbonate of lime                       41
            Sulphate of lime                      159
                                                1000.
   4. Of the substance called by the workmen pun-scale,
two specimens were analysed, the one containing a large
proportion of muriate of soda, the other very little.         The
first variety consisted of
            Muriate of soda                       950
            Carbonate of lime                       10
            Sulphate  of  lime                      40
                                                10OO.
   The   second  variety was composed of
            Muriate of   soda                     10O
            Carbonate of lime                     1 10
            Sulphate of lime                      79O
                                                1000.
    Circumstances, however, are constantly occurring to
vary the proportion of ingredients, both in the clearings
and in the pan- scale.      If, for example, the brine be short
of the point of saturation with common salt, it acts, when
admitted into the pan, upon the muriate of soda which the
pan-scale contains, aud we obtain the second variety. Bui
                                 M  2                           if

ISO              Analysis of several Varieties of Salt.
if the brine be fully charged          with salt, it effects no solution
of the muriate of soda, carried down along with the gyp
sum; and then the first species of pan-scale results.
    5. The salt oil, or mother liquor from sea water, a spe
cimen of which I received from Dr. Thomson, had the
specific gravity of 1277.             It was abundantly precipitated
by muriate of barytes ; by pure ammonia, but not by the
carbonate ; and was not changed by oxalate of potash,
either immediately or after an interval of some hours.                     One
thousand parts of the dry salt consisted of
             Muriate of magnesia                              874
             Sulphate of magnesia                               70
             Muriate of soda                                    56
                                                           1000.
    6. The salt     brine, or liquor which drains from the Scotch
salt, had the specific gravity of only 1 188.                It was affected
by   the same    tests  as  the  salt  oil, but    less remarkably.        The
dry residue contained
             Muriate of magnesia                              205
             Sulphate of magnesia                              135
             Muriate of       soda                            66o
                                                            1000.
    7. The mother liquor, or bittern pan Lymington,                        pre
sented, on analysis, an unaccountable variation from the
similar fluid sent from Scotland, and gave a much larger
proportion of sulphate of magnesia.                  A considerable quan
tity of this salt had, moreover, crvstallized in the bottle
 which contained the liquid.             Its specific gravity was 1280.
One thousand parts of the dry salt contained of
             Muriate of magnesia                               640
             Sulphate of magnesia                              260
             Muriate of soda                                   100
                                                             1000
    8.  The   pan scale from        Lymington contained
         Muriate of magnesia                                       29
         Desiccated sulphate of magnesia                            18
          Carbonates of lime and magnesia*                ...     127
         Sulphate of lime                                         21G
         Muriate of soda                                          610
                                                                1000.
   * The               of these carbonates   I
          proportion                           was   by an accident    prevented
from determining.
                                                                          From

  Analysis of the             from Aleppo and Smyrna. 1 8 1
                         Scammonies
     From the very near approximation of the proportions be
  tween the sulphate of barytes and ammoniaco-magnesian
  phosphate, obtained in the analysis of all these products of
  sea water, to those which result from the decomposition of
  two equal quantities of sulphate of magnesia, it may be
  inferred that they contain no sulphate of soda*. For ex
  ample, to decide whether the Scotch salt contains an alka
  line sulphate, or not, I dissolved 1500 grains in a pint of
  boiling water, and evaporated till fourteen drachm measures
  only remained, the common salt being removed as soon as
  it was formed. The residuary liquid was divided into two
  equal portions, one of which gave 18; grains of sulphate
  of barytes, and the other, 14 grains of ammoniaco-mag
  nesian phosphate. The proportion between these numbers
  is so nearly that which has been already assigned, (viz. 1 12
  to 90,) that we may safely infer the total absence of sul
  phate of soda.    This salt, indeed, is considered as incom
  patible with muriate of magnesia; but after digesting, for
  two or three days, 100 grains of the former, with 20 of the
_ latter, evaporating to dryness, and washing the residuum
  with repeated affusions of alcohol, I found that two grains
  of the muriate of magnesia had escaped decomposition.
    Manchester,   June   19, 1809.                                   \
 XXXIII.    Analysis of the Scammonies from Alrppo and
    Smyrna; to which are subjoined some Observations on the
    red Colour given to Turnsole by the Resins. By Messrs.
    Bouillon Lagrange                and   VoGELf.
 The       two species of scammony in question are procured
  from the root of a plant which grows in Syria.         It seems
  that it is by an incision made in the root that the juice is
 extracted ; each root yields about two drachms only.         The
 juice   thus  extracted  is dried in the sun, and  then  exposed
 for sale: at least it is in this way that the finest and purest
 scammony is obtained. Frequently, however, the inhabitants
 of Syria and Natolia, in order to procure a greater quantity
 of the sap, extract it by expression, not only from the
 root, but from the stalks and leaves: occasionally also they
 adulterate the scammony by mixing the juice procured from
    * I employed more attention in investigating tht presence of sulphate of
 soda in the products of sea water ; because this salt is stated to be one of its
 ingredients by the Bishop of Llandaff, (Chemistry, vol.      ii.p. 62,) and by
 other chemical writers.
 f    Annates de Chimit, tome lxxii. p. 69.
                                        M   3                                 it

1 82                Analysis of the Scammonies from
it with    that of some other milky and acrid plants, and
 sometimes they increase its weight by the addition of char
 coal or other foreign substances.              In order to ascertain
 that scatnmony does not contain any of these heterogeneous
matters, we ought to break the pieces of the juice, and pick
 such as are brilliant within, rejecting those which appear
 too black, burnt, or sandy.
    The scammony of Aleppo is light, of an ash gray, bril
liant and transparent in its fracture.              That of Smyrna is
very compact, heavv, and of a deeper colour : it is also more
difficult to reduce into powder than that of Aleppo.
    Examination         of'
                        the Scammony             Aleppo. — When the
                                                of
scammony       ispure,       melts entirely on
                              it                        plate of heated
                                                           a
iron, and gives out nauseous vapours                 when pounded in
                                                      :
water,   the liquor      of milky whiteness.
                        is         a
    Boiling water makes          run into
                                    it         mass.
                                                a        The liquor be
comes yellow, has         bitter taste, and
                          a                        neither alkaline nor
                                                     is
acid,   which   proves that this substance               not adulterated
                                                              is
with ashes, as some authors assert.
    Alcohol at 40 degrees forms             aslight precipitate in this
aqueous liquor,    and   w  ith  the  acetate  of lead we obtain yel
lowish flakes soluble          the nitric acid.
                               in
    The alcoholic tincture of scammony               of brownish yel
                                                      is           a
low colour.     Thi3 liquor reddens turnsole tincture               there       :
remains, after the evaporation,            resin of yellowish white
                                            a                 a
and transparent.
    This resin    entirely dissolved in the nitric acid, which
                   is
is  coloured yellow.        The addition of water slightly dis
turbs the liquor.
    This substance        equally soluble in
                         is                           solution of pure
                                                          a
potash,   even  cold,  and    the  liquor acquires       yellow colour:
                                                               a
if  this solution be made with the help of heat, the colour
is  brown.     Water even in great quantity does nnt precipi
tate resin.    Even when saturated              by
                                                 the muriatic acid,                 it
does not separate the resin.              This triple compound of
resin, acid, and potash, ought to excite the attention of prac
titioners :   itwould perhaps be possible in this way to find
a  solvent for resins which water does not affect.
    That part of scammony which                 isinsoluble     alcohol,
                                                                       in
when dried, acquired          gray
                               a     colour.
    When treated with boiling water,                coloured
                                                     it          yellow,   it
and alcohol precipitated            in white flakes.
                                       it
    In order to determine the proportion of the constituent
principles of the scammony of Aleppo, we took 100 parts
 of this substance, which we dissolved in alcohol the liquor           :
was coloured yellow.          There remained^ after the treatment

                     Aleppo and Smyrna.                      183
 by alcohol, a matter of a gray colour, which, when dried,
 weighed 0*26.
    The alcoholic solution was evaporated to a syrupy con
 sistence. Cold water precipitated from it a resin forming
 a homogeneous mass : the supernatant liquor was trans
 parent and colourless. Evaporated to dryness, we obtained
 a brown matter soluble in water and in alcohol, forming a
 precipitate by the acetate of lead.      This substance seems
 to be what is called the extractive matter : its weight was
 found to be 0'2 after having been dried.
    The resinous mass separated and dried had a yellow co
 lour, and weighed 0 60.
     We afterwards treated the 0-2G of matter which was in
 soluble in alcohol, with boiling water. There remained
after the evaporation a gluey matter, weighing 0*3, having
 all the characters of gum.      The rest was merely the refuse
 of vegetable matter and a little silex.
    The distillation of the scammony of Aleppo presented
 nothing remarkable.       It gave as products, a very acid
 brown liquor and a light blackish oil. The charcoal re
sulting from the operation was black, brilliant, and compact;
it contained carbonate of potash, carbonate of lime, alu-
 mine, silex, and a little iron.
     Examination of ike Scammony of Smyrna. — The fusion
 of the Smyrna scammony is less complete than that of
Aleppo : instead of going into a mass with boiling water,
it became knottv, and the water was dyed yellow.           Tt is
neither acid nor alkaline: the acetate of lead precipitates
yellowish flakes from it.
     100 parts of this scammony taken up by boiling alcohol,
although less charged with resin, gave a deeper-coloured
tincture than that which was made with Aleppo scammonv.
We obtained from the evaporation of the alcohol a brownish
transparent resin, the weight of which was 0-2S.            We
found 0 66 of insoluble matter in the alcohol.         This re
sidue treated with boiling water coloured it vellow : it had a
putrid sweetish taste, and alcohol precipitated from it flakes
soluble in w ater.     The liquor evaporated left a thick gluey
matter like mucilage, soluble in weak nitric acid when
warm ; precipitating, on cooling, a white pulverulent matter
which presented all the characters of mucous acid.
    In this experiment, the water had only laken up 0*8 of
the matter which was insoluble in the alcohol.         The rest
was submitted, with the help of heat, to ihe action of the
nitric acid, which dissolves it with effervescence.        Am-
                               M4                        mouia

 ] 84             Analysis of the Scammonies    from
monia added to this nitric solution formed a precipitate so
luble in potash. The potash and the oxalate of ammonia
also occasioned a precipitation.      This residue is*composed
therefore of alumine and carbonate of lime, besides the re
fuse of vegttable matter, and that substance which is inso
 luble in water and in alcohol, a substance which seems to
 be oxygenated extract.
     This substance incinerated left a whitish powder, solu
ble in a great measure, and with effervescence, in the mu
 riatic acid. This solution contains alumine, lime, and a
 little iron.   The portion not soluble in the muriatic acid,
 when treated by potash, gave a siliceous precipitate on the
 addition of an acid.
     The water which had served to precipitate the resin, left,
•after the evaporation, a brown substance, weighing 0*5, of
 a bitter taste, attracting humidity from the atmosphere,
  soluble in alcohol, and abundantly precipitated from the
  aqueous solution by the acetate of lead.         This substance
  presented all the properties of the extractive principle.
      It results therefore from this analysis: 1st. That 10O
  parts of Aleppo scammony are thus constituted :
           Resin".            .'                        60
           Gum                                            3
           Extractive principle                           2
           Vegetable and earthy matter,   Soc            35
                                                       100.
       2. That Smyrna scammony contains       :
     s     Resin                                         29
            Gum                                           8
           Extractive principle                           5
           Vegetable and earthy matter                   58
                                                       100.
       As the resin obtained from both kinds of scammony is
   much the same, excepting that the Aleppo resin is yellow,
   transparent and friable, whereas that of Smyrna is more
   highly coloured and more difficult to pulverise, we thought it
   would be useful to ascertain if there was anv difference in
   their medicinal properties.    Several physicians have since
   made experiments with both kinds on individuals of similar
   habits, and have observed no difference in point of purga
   tive properties.
       We may conclude therefore, from what precedes, that
    scammony is a true gum resin mixed with a little extractive
                                                            matter.

                     Aleppo and Smyrna.                        1S5
matter.      It contains indeed much less gum than the other
gum resins, but enough, however, to form a milky liquid
with water.
     The action of the alcoholic tincture of scammony on
turnsole, naturally led us to ascertain whether the property
of reddening this blue colour was owing to an acid. Our
experiments not having enabled us to acquire a direct
proof, we tried some resins in a comparative manner, which
we submitted to the following experiments.
     1. Sandarach.    This resin is converted into a knotty or
             mass on being boiled with water.         The filtered
f;rumous
   iquor  remains clear:  when   properly evaporated, it slightly
reddens turnsole tincture:      the taste is bitter : it does not
change the infusion of violets, is not precipitated by alco
hol or by the acetate of lead ; which proves that it contains
neither gum nor extractive principle.       It is therefore a pure
 resin.
  '
     The resin which had been treated with boiling water,
 was dissolved in alcohol.        This liquor reddens turnsole
 tincture strongly, and has no action upon syrup of violets.
     We also digested sandarach reduced into powder in al
 cohol, adding to the liquor, when warmed and filtered,
 boiling water, which precipitated the resin from it. The
 filtered liquor was turbid upon cooling.       It had the strong
 smell of sandarach resin : its taste was bitter; and its action
 on turnsole tincture was so weak, that we could not pre
 sume the existence of a free acid.
      2. Mastich.    This substance presents nearly the same
 phenomena with the above : the resin however runs into a
 mass in boiling water like turpentine.          The water has a
 bitter taste, and has no action either upon turnsole or upon
 violet syrup. The resin, on the contrary, Teddens turnsole
  tincture strongly.
      3. Olibanum forms in hot water a thick magma, which
  is separated with difficulty from the liquor, even by filtra
  tion. This water has a blackish brown colour, is not pre
  cipitated by the acetate of lead, and does not change the
  colour of turnsole, but alcohol precipitates it in abundance ;
  which proves that this substance is composed of gum and
  resin.
      The alcoholic tincture reddens turnsole tincture strongly.
      If we carefully heat in a sand bath the resins which have
  most action on the colour of turnsole, no acid is sublimed.
      When treated with lime according to Scheele's process,
   no calcareous benzoates are formed.
      4. Ammoniacal      gum resin, myrrh, gum elemi, gal-
               »                                          banum,

  186              On prime and ultimate Ratios.
  barium, tacamahaca, resin of common jalap, Venice tur
 pentine, oil of turpentine, and several other resinous and
  gummo-resinous       substances, gave the same results with
 those obtained . from the scammonies, sandarach, and oli-
  banum.      From these facts we may infer that it i9 still dif
 ficult to resolve this question : Is it to the presence of an
 acid in the resins, that we ought to ascribe the reddening of
.turnsole ?
     If the acids alone had the property of reddening the blue
 vegetable colours, we should not hesitate in recognising the
 existence of this property in the resins, although experiments
 have not yet proved it.      As to the infusion of violets, over
 which the resins have no action, this property is found in
 the sublimated benzoic acid, which strongly reddens turn
 sole tincture, and which does not change the colour of vio
 lets. Has this acid, notwithstanding its solubility in water,
 any analogy to the resins ?
 on this subject, although we are induced to believe that this
substance is a compound of a vegetable acid, and a small
 quantity of resin, which perhaps gives it the concrete state:
 lastly, as all the vegetable acids are soluble in water, it is
still difficult to ascribe to the presence of an acid, the pro
 perty which resins have of reddening turnsole.         It seems
probable therefore, until some new experiments prove the
contrary, that we may regard it as being one of the cha
 racters of the resins to redden the blue colour of turnsole.
XXXIV.         On prime and ultimate Ratios ; with their appli
    cation to the first Principles of the jluxionary Calculus.
    By Mr. Marrat.
Ratio       denotes   the relation which two quantities bear to
each other.
    The two quantities must be of the same kind, otherwise
no comparison can be made between them.
    The measure of a ratio is obtained by considering what
part, or parts, one term of the ratio is of the othei.    Thus,
let a and     b denote the terms of   a ratio, or let — express
any ratio ; then, its measure is had by considering what
part, or parts, a is of b.
    Let us denote a by 6, and b by 2, then, $=4-, or 3 is the
measure of the ratio 4.
            i
    If a = and b=6, then, $-=-J ; or y is the measure of
the ratio of £ j and so on for other quantities.
                                                             The

                            On prime and ultimate Ratios.                             187
   The part b of the ratio ,is called the antecedent, and a is
its consequent.
   The antecedent may be equal to the consequent, and
then the ratio is called a ratio of equality; i hough it would
be more proper to say, the terms of the ratio are equal : —
when the terms of a ratio are equal, its measure is always
equal to unity.
  If  the terms of a ratio vary, the measure of the ratio
may have any magnitude whatever; and if one term re
main constant while the other varies, the measure of the
ratio will vary with the varying term.
  Let         y    represent      any ratio, and let a remain constant,
while      is variable ; it is obvious that if
              b                                  decrease, the      I
measure           of
              the ratio will increase ; and, when b is become
indefinitely small, the measure of the ratio is then indefi
nitely near to a ; and when b entirely vanishes, the mea
sure of the ratio is exactly equal to a.
   On the contrary, when b increases, the measure of the
ratio decreases.   Again, let b remain constant while a is
variable : then, as a increases the measure of the ratio in
creases, but it decreases as a decreases, and when a entirely
vanishes the measure of the ratio is equal to                           y.
  As another example,                      suppose      we have the ratio — —            >
where x is variable and « constant ; the measure of this
ratio may vary through all possible degrees of magnitude, as
in the preceding example.
   1. Let x continually increase ; then, the measure of the
ratio x-^- will decrease;                and when       x    is indefinitely great,     it
will become    nearly a constant ratio, or a ratio of equality ;
that       the terms of the ratio will be nearly equal
          is,                                                be                   :
cause the addition of       to    quantity x which is indefi
                                       a       a
nitely great, will alter the measure of the ratio oniy        an                  in
indefinitely small degree     hence     continually verges to
                                         :           it                                 a
ratio of equality            as   a   limit.
  2.   Let x decrease; then, the measure of the ratio f^l.
will increase and when x
                       ;       indefinitely small, the measure
                                             is
of the ratio   indefinitely near to a: when x vanishes, the
                       is
ratio   equal to a, exactly.
         is
   From the above illustrations         exceedingly obvious,
                                                   it   is
that   ratio   which the terms continually vary, or where
                       in
one    is a
      variable and the other constant, or where part of one
term    constant, as in this latter example, —
        is                                          obvious,            it   is
                  '*
                                                         say,                     I

 188             On prime and ultimate Ratios.
 I say, that the measures of such ratios never can attain (he
limits which we have assigneJ to them : they may, how
ever, continually approximate towards them ; and when the
 measures of the ratios differ from those limits by less than
any assignable difference, they may be said to be equal.
    This being allowed, it is evident that in making use of
those ratios, after having' supposed that they have attained
to such ultimate states, or limits, we continually approxi
mate towards true results ; and when the results thus ob
tained, differ from the true results by a quantity indefinitely
small, they may be said to be indefinitely near the truth,
and in practice the indefinitely small error may be neg
lected, as being of no sensible magnitude.
   This is all that Newton meant in his first lemma in the
Principia, where he says that " quantities, and the ratios
of quantities, which in any finite time converge continually
to equality, and before the end of that time approach nearer
the one to the other than by any given difference, become
ultimately equal."
    It was the calling those results true which are only 'ap
proximations indefinitely near the truth, that gave the au
thor of the Analyst so much advantage in exposing the
errors in the metaphysics of the fluxional calculus ; and it
was very inconsiderate in Philalethes (supposed to be Dr.
Jurin) to argue that the error occasioned by neglecting a
certain very small quantity did not affect the result of any
operation : — that did net in the least tend to overthrow the
arguments adduced by the author of the Analyst, since it
was the error in principle that he struck at, and not the
quantity of error that the making use of a false principle
might produce.
   The conclusions obtained by the method of fluxions are
not absolutely true, nor did Newton ever consider them as
such ; they are approximations, which produce no sensible
errors ; and had his host of defenders proceeded no further
than this, all the arguments that could have been brought
forward against this method must have vanished.
    But instead of giving"' up what was evidently untenable,
all the varied arguments which imagination aided by science
could suggest, were brought forward in order to get rid of
the difficulties which Berkley had pointed out, but without
effect; for truth is at all times consistent with itself, and
whit is once wrong can never be proved to be right.
   Newton was desirous of determining the areas of curvi
linear figures ; this was at all times a great desideratum,
and had exercised the talents of philosophers in all ages.

                 On prime and ultimate Ratios.               1 89
The first method which the ancients made use of for this
purpose was the method of exhaustions : an example of the
use of this method is given by Euclid in the second proposi
tion of his twelfth book, where he compares the circle and
square, and proves that any two circles are to each other
as   the squares on their diameters : the same method was
also made use of by Archimedes in determining the quadra
ture of the parabola.      The argument here made use of is
called reductio ail alisitrdum, winch, though strictly logical,
is often tedious, because every proposition must be divided
into two cases, in one of which it must be shown that ihe
former of the two quantities to be compared is not greater
than the latter ; in the other, that it is not less,     it was
with a view of shortening this mode of reasoning, that Ca-
valerius invented the met hod nf indivisibles : in this method,
every line is supposed to be made up of a number of other
lines whose lengths are indefinitely short, and every curvi
linear figure is considered as a polygon of an indefinite
number of sides : — these principles were in many cases
extremely easy and convenient, and produced true results;
they, however, often led their followers into perplexities,
and sometimes into error.
     It was to avoid the tediousness of the method of ex
 haustions, and the errors in the method of indivisibles, that
Newton invented his method of prime and ultimate ratios ;
 the principles of which he laid down in the first lemma of
 thg Principia, as observed above. Several eminent mathema
 ticians have endeavoured to demonstrate Newton's lemma:
 it however certainly admits of no direct proof; it is itself a
 definition, and requires only to be illustrated, or explained.
     By introducing the doctrine of motion into geometry,
 much has been effected.       Newton employed his method
 of prime and ultimate ratios to the quadrature of all kinds
 of spaces, by supposing one or more of the sides of the
 figure to be in motion, and to generate those figures by the
  motion of their extreme points.     The application to right-
 lined figures was natural and easy ; and to apply it to a
 square, we will suppose that the square is generated by the
 motion of two right lines perpendicular to each other, and
  that move parallel to two other right lines placed at right
  angles.
     Let x denote the length of each side at any given posi
  tion of those lines, and let .1 be the increase, in the length
 of each side, caused hy the motion of the two moveaole
  sides; then, x+x will be the length of each side so in
                                                         creased,

    190               On prime and ultimate Ratios.
   creased, and the fluxion of the area is (x+i)1— x*\ that
   is = ixx \ -i1.        Now in order that we may neglect *'
  without affecting the result of the operation, we must sup
  pose that x is a quantity less than any assignable, or that
  it is only in a nascent state : according to this supposition,
  the error, by neglecting xl, will be extremely small, and
  will no way affect the fluxionary increase of the square ;
  but, except x vanishes, and that would annihilate the
  fluxional increase altogether, we are obliged to acknowledge
  that the result is not strictly and logically true.
      Again, let x and y denote the sides of a rectangle, and,
  by the motion of those sides, let them become x+*and
 V+y; then, the fluxion of the area of this rectangle will
 be   (x+i)    X (y +y) — xy, or = ry+xy+xy. Here, also, that
 the rectangle      iy may be neglected, x and y must be inde
 finitely   small,    or in a nascent state ; but even then an error
 is committed, and, however trifling it may be, the result
 will riot be strictly and geometrically true. Fluxions, then,
 do not produce results which are exactly true; but, as was
 observed above, they give us approximations differing from
 the truth by less than any assignable quantity, however
 small , and, therefore, may be esteemed as true with respect
 to their practical conclusion.          To proceed further would
be of no use : the application of those principles to curvi
linear spaces is given in cverv book of fluxions.         What has
been given above may probably be of some use to students,
as it may possibly serve to elucidate the principles of a
science, which has been the instrument by which almost all
the improvements in philosophy have been brought to
light. The principle of such a science ought to be esta
blished upon a sure foundation; and should what has been
said be of any use in removing the cavils that have been
made against the fluxionary calculus, a service will be done
to philosophy, and the writer of this essay may at least
hope to be excused for endeavouring to contribute some
thing towards elucidating the elements of those very use
ful but too much neglected studies.
                                I remain, sir,
                                     Your very humble servant,
    Bostou, Sept. 10, 1810.                        W. MARRAT.
                                                    XXXV.     Com-

                                C    191       ]
    XXXV.   Comparative Examination of the Mucous Acid
     formed by the Action of the Nitric Acid: 1st, on the
      Gums; idly, on the Sugar of Milk. ByM. Laugier*.
i
           Vauouelin ascertained by his experiments on gum
    arabic and gum tragacanth the existence of a very consi
    derable quantity of lime in these substances.
       The perusal of his experiments suggested the following
    reflections : —
        1. What becomes of the lime contained in these gums
    when we treat them by the nitric acid, with the view of
    procuring mucous acid ?
        2. Is it not combined with the oxalic acid which is
    formed almost at the same time with the mucous acid ?
                                                                       '
        3. The oxalate of lime being more insoluble in water
    than the mucous acid, is it not precipitated with this acid,
    when we wash the residue after the operation ? and does it
    not alter in a sensible manner its properties?
        4. What ought to be the means of" ascertaining the pre
    sence of the oxalate of lime in the mucous acid obtained
    from the gums, and of separating this calcareous salt from
    the acid whose purity it injures ?
        With a view to resolve these questions, I undertook the
    following experiments :
        I digested with eight parts (480 grammes) of pure nitric
     acid at 360° one part (60 grammes) of gum tragacanth ;
     I heated the mixture until it was reduced into a honey-like
    substance, and I added a sufficient quantity of water.
        The latter would not dissolve a white pulverulent matter,
     which I gathered on a filter, and which when dried in the
     air weighed 9 grammes and a half, and this was mucous
    acid.    The liquor containing the soluble portion of the
    mixture was of a yellow colour.       I evaporated       and did it,
     not take it  from the fire until  Isaw    covered with
                                                   it           slight     a
     pellicle which was formed at its surface                  by
                                                        and by, upon
                                                        :
     cooling, the liquor deposited        great quantitv of crystals,
                                           a
     some in lamina, others in needles very well defined as
     oxalic acid. With the view of separating this last acid
     from the mucous acid,     I poured upon the mixture alcohol
     at 40°, which dissolved the oxalic acid without touching the
     mucous acid which      I  collected on      filter. The second
                                                    a
     portion of mucous acid weighed two grammes 0"10.             The
     alcoholic solution furnished, on      gentle evaporation,
                                           a                       co-         a
                    •   Annales dt Chimit, tome    lixii.   p. 81.
                                                                               loured

  1 92     Comparative Examination    of the Mucous Acid
 loured mass, which I redissolved in water in order to ob
 tain whiter and purer crystals.
     The mother waters of this second portion of mucous
 acid and of oxalic acid, contained a mixture of oxalic and
 malic acids, which I separated from each other, by means
which I shall not detail, because they would lead me away
 from the principal object of my experiments.
     The first portion of mucous acid which I obtained
 weighed nine grammes and a half, it was very white; when
dried it had the grumous appearance cf starch. This was
 the substance which I employed in my experiments. I re
jected the second portion, because it did not seem to be of
 the same purity.
     With the view of ascertaining the presence of the oxalate
 of lime in this mucous acid, I mixed one part of the nitric
 acid as above, w ith ten parts of distilled water, and poured
 this mixture upon the nine grammes and a half of mucous
 acid.    I exposed the whole to a heat of 40 or 50 degrees
 during twice 21 hours, taking care to stir it from time to
 time, to facilitate the action of the solvent. I decanted the
 supernatant liquor, in which ammonia immediately pro
 duced the precipitation of a white earthy salt, in silky fila
 ments, which had all the physical properties of the cal
 careous oxalate.
     A second portion of weak nitric acid, added to the sedi
 ment of the foregoing liquor, and left to itself during the
 same time, furnished with ammonia a new quantity of
 oxalate of lime.
     It required eight portions of weak nitric acid, successively
 added, to clear entirely from oxalate of lime the mucous
 acid submitted to the experiment.         Every time the am
 monia, when mixed with the decanted and filtered liquor,
 separated from it a quantity of calcareous oxalate, the pro
 portion of which diminished at each digestion in a striking
 manner.      The ninth portion exhibited but very minute
 traces of it.
     The eight precipitates united together gave a total weight
 of two grammes three decigrammes.
     It was important to ascertain, if this substance, which
 was foreign to the mucous acid, and whose appearance and
 physical characters appeared to me to be similar to those
 of the oxalate of lime, was really this calcareous salt.
     With this view I boiled this substance, with a saturated
 solution of carbonate of potash ; and when the reciprocal
 decomposition of the two salts seemed to me to be com
 pleted, 1 collected on a filter the portion which was de
                                                         posited.

           formed   ly the Action of  the Nitric Acid.        193
posited. This^ediment, not so white as the first calcareous
salt, and in coarser powder, was dissolved with great effer
vescence in the nitric acid.      Its solution, which was or' a
sharp pungent taste, was not precipitated by ammonia itself,
but very abundantly bv the oxalate of ammonia.
    The liquor which floated above this carbonate of lime,
and which contained an excess of carbonate of potash, was
supersaturated   by the acetic acid and evaporated to dryness ;
the residue was treated by alcohol, in order to separate the
acetate of potash from the oxalate of the same base which
is not soluble in this liquid: The mixture when heated for
a few moments was thrown on a filter, where the oxalate of
lime remained, whereas the alkaline acetate passed through
with the alcohol.
   The portion insoluble in this liquid was dissolved in di
stilled water : a drop of this solution mixed with half a
spoonful of lime water, formed in it a pulverulent precipitate,
evidently oxalate of lime; and the same solution furnished
by evaporation crystals of oxalate of potash.
   The experiments which I have described, cannot leave
any doubt as to the nature of the calcareous salt, the pre
sence of which alters the purity of the mucous acid ob
tained from gum tragacanth.
   The same experiments repeated on gum arabic, and on
that which is known in commerce by the name of gum of
Bassorah, which is insoluble in water, furnished me with
nearly the same results.
    I observed, that in proportion as the mucous acid lost by
the nitric acid the oxalate of lime which rendered it impure,
it assumed a more flaky appearance.
    Scheele, to whom we owe the discovery, at first called it
saccho-lactic acid, because he obtained it by treating the
sugar of milk with nitric acid. This denomination ceased
to be convenient, the moment it was proved that it might
be procured from the gums by a similar process ; and this
induced M. Fourcroy to substitute the appellation of mu
cous acid for that of saccho-lactic acid.
    But is the mucous acid furnished by the sugar of milk,
perfectly similar to that which we obtain from the gumsf
Is it altered like the • latter by containing a remarkable
quantity of oxalate of lime ; or rather does it contain but
the smallest quantity of this calcareous salt; or, finally, is it
totally deprived of it ?   It appeared to me to be interesting
to find out a solution for these questions, and I set about
 applying the process just described to the mucous acid fur
nished by the sugar of milk.
    Vol. 36. No. 149. Sept. 18J0.            N            I took

1 g4        Comparative Examination          of the Mucous Acid
     I took, in consequence, one part of sugar of milk, which
I boiled with eight parts of nitric acid of the same strength
with the foregoing.             I separated by decantalion the first
portions of mucous acid which were formed, and I added
to the residue a new quantity of nitric acid.                 A second
portion of mucous acid            was deposited,   which   when   united
with the first gave a total weight         of twelve   grammes, or the
fifth part    of the  sugar     of milk submitted    to the experiment.
     I remarked      that,    after  washing,   this  mucous   acid, di
luted    in  water,  had    an  appearance equally flaky    with  that of
the gum       when    it   was  deprived  of  its  oxalate  of  lime  by
 rhe weak acid.           This remark inclined me to think that
 this acid was much purer than that of the gum, and this
 opinion was confirmed by the nitric acid having had no
 action on it.      It did not take up from it the smallest quan
 tity   of oxalate  of   lime, after a long continued digestion, for
 the ammonia did not take the slightest effect on the super
 natant liquor.
      In addition to this, what leaves no doubt as to the per
 fect purity of the mucous acid of the sugar of milk, is, the
 circumstance of its easily and entirely dissolving in boiling
 water. This entire solubility in boiling water proves that
 it enjoys' a greater purity than the mucous acid of gum,
 even when the latter has been purified by the means above
 mentioned : in fact, the latter, well freed from oxalate of
 lime, still leaves, when it is boiled with distilled water, an
 insoluble flaky matter forming the 0*06 of its weight,
 which dries into a gray horny semitransparent body, similar
 in appearance to the mucous substance which connects the
 molecules of animal concretions, although on burning
 coal s it does not furnish the ammoniacal and fetid smell
 of animal compounds, and which furnishes on calcination
 carbonate of lime.            The too small quantity which I ob
 tained of it did not admit of my making experiments which
 would have thrown more light on the nature of this body.
      From the facts detailed in this memoir, we may draw
 the following consequences :
      1. There exists a very remarkable difference between the
  mucous acid procured from gums, and that which we ob
 tain from the sugar of milk by the action of the nitric acid.
      2. This difference consists in the first being constantly
  altered by the mixture of a quantity of oxalate of lime in
 proportion to that of the earth which the gums contain,
  whereas the mucous acid of the sugar of milk does not
 offer the slightest trace of this calcareous salt, and seems
 perfectly pure.
                                                                  3. We

           formed    by the   Action of the Nitric Acid.                          IQd
    3. We may procure the mucous acid from the gum in
 the same state of purity, by a very simple process, which
consists: 1st, in taking from            it,   by
                                          successive digestions in
very weak nitric acid, the whole of the oxalate of lime
which       contains    2d, in boiling       in water, which dis
       it it
                        :                       it
solves      without dissolving the flaky matter which the ni
tric acid does not take up.
    4. When thus deprived of substances foreign to its na
ture, the mucous acid of gum            entirely similar to that of
                                          is
the sugar of milk, enjoys all the properties which charac
terize this acid, and maybe employed with [the same advan
tage in the most delicate experiments which require that
 this acid should be of perfect purity.
                             a
 I    am convinced that there,           circumstance in which
                                          is
                                          a
the mucous acid obtained from gum               mixed with mucite
                                                         is
 of lime, instead of the oxalate which            have mentioned.
                                                         I
This happens when we substitute in the preparation of the
mucous acid, the nitric acid diluted in water, instead of the
 concentrated nitric acid, and consequently when we con
 duct the operation slowly instead of hastily.                     It
                                                               easy to  is
 ascertain the difference of the results which we obtain.
    If we employ the weak acid, the mucous acid at first                is
 produced alone, and          precipitated, carrying with
                             it
                             is                                    the       it
 lime, with which        forms
                        it         salt nearly insoluble, and we
                                     a
 may separate   it from the mixture before the formation of
 the oxalic acid, which requires the concentration of the
 acid.   If, on the contrary, we make use of concentrated
 nitric acid, the formation of the two acids, although always
successive,    isvery thick and we may easily conceive that
                                 ;
 in this case the oxalic acid, as soon as           formed, seizes
                                                         it   is
 the lime, in virtue of the more powerful affinity which                           it
 exercises on this earth.
 I    shall add another fact which led me to recognise                             a
singular property in mucous acid, which               intend to ex
                                                               I
amine more in detail than am able to do at present.
                                 I
    When we gently evaporate to dryness the solution of
pure mucous acid made in boiling water, without separat
ing the crystalline sediment which            formed during eva
                                                    is
poration,    we  observe   that the   moment     there     no more is
liquid,   the  crystals  become   yellow,    then  brown,     and are
converted into      aviscous tenacious-like matter, which un
dergoes   a  kind of fusion, and beeomes very hard on cooling.
The mucous acid which has undergone this change, has                               a
much more acid taste than usual                 ;   infinitely more
                                                     it       is
soluble in water, — has become entirely soluble in alcohol,
and has therefore changed its properties in part,            thought
                                                                   I
                                     N3                                            at

 196                  On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.
at first that I had thus produced the conversion of the
mucous acid either into malic acid or tartarous acid; but
the experiments which I made to verily this opinion, do
not yet appear sufficient to permit me to venture an opinion
on the nature of the change which takes place in the ex
periment which I have described.
XXXVI.           On the Prussia and Prussous Acids.                    By    Mr.
                  R.   Porrett,       Junior, of the Tower.*
Considerable differences of opinion exist among the
most celebrated chemists respecting the composition of the
prussic acid ; some agreeing with Fourcroy and Vauqutlin,
that oxygen is one of its component parts, and others with
Berthollet and Proust, who dispute its presence. Mr. Proust,
iu his history of the prussiates, asserts, " That there is no
fact that indicates oxygen to make a part of this acid, and
that from the well-known affinities of its three elements,
added to the circumstances under which it is formed, it
can scarcely be thought that it does."                     This difference of
opinion implies a want of some decisive experiments, which
may set the question .for ever at rest ; and those which I
am going to relate I am induced to think are. of that de
scription.
     Some time back, I proposed to myself the discovery of
a method of preparing a triple prussiate                      of potash, in a
pure state, which should be free from the objections to
which the processes in general use are subject.                      In reflect
ing on the means most likely to attain this end, it occurred
to ine, that I should succeed if 1 decomposed                      prussiate of
 iron by double elective attraction rather than by single,
 employing, instead of a pure potash, that alkali, in com
bination with a substance uniting the properties of solu
 bility when combined with potash, strong attraction for
 oxide of iron, and insolubility when united to that oxide.
 The only substances I could think of possessing all these
 requisite properties were the succinic acid and sulphur ; as
 the high price of the former precluded its use for this pur
  pose, I determined to employ the latter.                     I therefore took
  one ounce of dry sulphuret of potash, and one ounce and a
  half of the best prussiau blue, previously well washed and
  powdered, and put them into a Florence flask, two thirds
     • From
               Transactions  of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manu
  factures,  ami Commerce,    vol. ixvii.-    The Society voted their silver medal
  to  Mr.   Porrett  for this communication.
                                                                             filled

             On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.                    197
filled with distilled water; a disengagement of sulphuretted
hydrogen, of ammonia, and of caloric immediately took
place. The materials were boiled slowly together for ihree
hours, occasionally replacing the water which evaporated.
The whole was 'then thrown on a filter; what remained on
the filter was black, and consisted of sulphuret of iron and
undecomposed prussiate pf iron.             The liquid that passed
through,    I  found  on  trial  to consist    of triple prussiate of
potash,   and   hydroguretted sulphuret     of potash.     In order to
complete    the   decomposition   of the  latter,  I boiled  the liquid
again,  for   the  same time  as  before,  with   another   half ounce
of prussian blue, and when cold filtered it. The filtered
liquid (A) was now nearly colourless, and free from h)dro-
gurctted sulphuret.       On pouring a little of it into a solu
tion of oxy-sulphate of iron, I was very much surprised to
find that solution changed to a deep blood- red colour,
without any precipitate ensuing, instead of forming with
it a precipitate of blue prussiate of iron.                 So unex
pected a phenomenon determined me to undertake an ex
amination of this liquid ; with this view I subjected it to
the action of the chemical agents mentioned in the follow
ing table.
                       TABLE I. with Liquid A.
    Chemical Agents.                        Eflecu.
Paper stained with"!
                                 No change of colour.
  turmeric         j
Paper stained with 1
                                 Do.       Do.
  litmus                 J
                             f   No disengagement of ammonia,
Potash
                             \     noc any apparent change.
                                 Do.       Do.
                                expulsion of sulphurous acid;
                                 {An
Diluted sulphuric acic        the    liquid  becomes     slightly
                              opalescent.
                                 acid assumes    red colour, but
Nitric acid (pure) . . .
                                                      a
                              this
                          {Trre    effect   not
                                             is permanent.
Oxy-muriatic acid      .
                       .
                       .   This acid loses its smell.
Muriatic acid (pure) . No change.
Muriate barvtes            A white precipitate.
Tincture of galls . . . .  No change.
Nitro-mnriate platina
                             fAheavy brilliant ochre, yellow
                             £precipitate.
                                  N    3                    Muriate

198              On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.
                       Table I. — (Continued           )
     Chemical Agents.                            Effects.
Muriate gold                      Dark olive brown precipitate.
                                  A    precipitate at first while, but
Nitrate silver                       quickly passing to yellow, red,
                              {      and lastly to brown.
                     ....         A dull white or stone-coloured
Sulphate silver
                                     precipitate.
Oxy-nitrate mercury        .      A white precipitate.
 Oxy-nitrate lead . .             A white precipitate.
Supcrsulphate copper^             A dull while precipitate.
Muriate bismuth . .               No precipitate.
Sulphate iron                     No change.
                                  The solution assumes a deep blood-
Oxy-su'phate       iron  .
                                     red colour.      No precipitate.
   The effects of the sulphuric acid and of the muriate
barytes clearly proved the existence of sulphite of potash
in the liquid, while that of the oxy-sulphate of iron indi
cated the presence of some other principle to which the
liquid was indebted for its peculiar characters ; ihe separa
tion of this principle in a pure state became therefore a
necessary preliminary operation to its examination : after
a few trials I succeeded           in effecting this separation.      The
following is the process I employed.
   The liquid was evaporated by a gentle heat to dryness ;
upon the saline residuum alcohol was poured till it ceased
to extract any thing: by this means the whole of the sul-
phi'e and sulphate of potash was left behind, and the alco
hol when filtf-red held in solution that part only which had
the red tingeing property with solutions of iron. The alco
hol was now got rid of by distillation, and the salt it left
in the retort was redissolved in water. This solution (B)
  ave the   following results with the different metallic so-
futions.
                      Table II. wit* Liquid B.
     Metallic Solutions.                         Effects.
                             1 C A precipitate similar to that in
Nitro-muriale platina -J             Table I. but in a smaller quan-
                             : (_    tity, and longer in forming.
                                          oM*                 sorae   £M
Muriate gold                 \i   UZhl           PreciPitate>
           S
                             |t      reduced.
                                                                  Nitrale

                                                                 \
                 On ike Prussic and Prussous Acids.                  199
                           Table II. — (Continued.)
        Metallic Solutions.                        Effects.
  Nitrate silver
                                    A grayish white precipitate, not
                                  {   changing colour.
  Sulphate silver                   A clear white precipitate.
  Nitrate mercury         ....      A copious white precipitate.
  Oxy-nitrate mercury               A white precip. in small quantity.
  Nitrate lead                      No precipitate.
  Oxy-nitrate      lead . . .       No precipitate.
  Superacetate lead . . .           No precipitate.
  Hyperoxvmuriate lead              A slight white precipitate.
 Supersulphate copper               A dull white precipitate.
 Muriate tin                        No precipitate.
 Muriate bismuth                    No precipitate.
 Sulphate iron                      No change.
 Oxy-sulphate iron                  Same as Table I.
 Oxy-sulphate man                   The crimson colour disappears;
     gunesc                   }       no precipitate.
 Sulphate zinc.        . . .        No change.
 Nitro-muriatc cobalt           .   No precipitate.
 Nitrate nickel                     No change.
     It  is necessary      to remark, that in the preceding tabic, as
 well    as in Table      I, several of the nitrates and muriates were
 slightly reddened, though not in a degree to be compared
 with the oxy-sulphate of iron.              I have not noticed this in
 the table, because I am not certain whether this effect was
not owing to a minute portion of oxide of iron which might
 have been introduced into those solutions by the acids em
 ployed to make them, as both the nitric and muriatic acids
 of commerce generally contain some; an excess of nitric
acid, even if pure, might also cause this effect, as Table I.
may convince us. The solutions with which this effect
occurred to me were those of bismuth, silver, mercury,
lead, cobalt, gold, and platina.
    The liquid B is not altered by exposure to the air.
    Its effect on oxy-sulphate of iron is the same, whether
this sulphate is neutral, or contains an excess of acid, or is
supersaturated with carbonate of ammonia.
    Sulphuric acid destroys the colour produced on oxv-sul-
phate of iron, provided the three liquids are in a concen
trated state.        If there is much water present, no change
ensues.
   Having obtained           the tingeing   principle B, separate from
                                     N4                             the

200            On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.
the other salts with which it was contaminated, I asked
myself to what were its formation and the simultaneous dis
appearance of the prussic acid, during the second ebullition,
owing? I could imagine but five causes for this that were
likely to have been efficient, concerning each of which               I
made a question to be resolved by experiment, viz.
    Question I. Was it owing to the complete separation of
the oxide of iron from the triple of prussiate by the sul
phur, and the subsequent decomposition of the simple prus
siate by the heat of ebullition long continued ?
    Question II. Was it owing to the action of the sul
 phurous acid produced ?
    Question Til. Was it owing to the action of the sulphu
retted hydrogen ?
    Question IV. Was it owing to a combination of the
 prussiate of potash and sulphur ?
    Question V. Was it owing to the de-oxidation of the
 prussic acid, by the hydroguretted sulphuret?
    To answer the first question, it is only necessary to at
 tend to the results afforded by long-continued boiling of
 the simple prussiate of potash.         I shall state these results
 as I find them recorded by professor Proust.
    They are carbonate of ammonia, carbonate of potash,
 and some simple prussiate that escapes decomposition, even
 after four or five successive distillations : there        is,
                                                          therefore,
 no analogy between the products of this experiment and
 the liquid A  ;   for, had the latter contained carbonate of
 potash,  it  must   have changed turmeric paper brown           had
                                                                  ;
 it contained carbonate of ammonia,           must have done the
                                               it
 same, and likewise have given out ammoniacal gas when
 potash and lime were added      ;   itmust also have turned blue
 the solution of copper; and had          itcontained prussiate of
 potash, it  must have produced prussiate of iron when added
 to the green sulphate of that metal      :    will be seen bv re
                                               it
 ferring to Table   I. that none of these effects were produced.
 Were further evidence necessary of the dissimilarity of the
 two liquids,  it   might be mentioned that professor Proust
 poured alcohol on the saline residuum of his distillation of
 the prussiate, which took up        a part that he found to be
 prussiate of potash     : had any of the tingeing salt         been
                                                                  B
 present, the alcohol must have dissolved that likewise, and
 it could not have escaped his observation. We have, there
 fore, ample grounds for negativing the first question.
     In order to answer the second question,            passed sul
                                                        I
 phurous acid gas for       long time through
                             a                      solution of tri
                                                    a
 ple prussiate of potash     jthe prussic acid was expelled, and
                                                            sulphite

                                                                1
              On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.                201
sulphite of potash formed ; but this sulphite was not mixed
with any tingeing salt. On the supposition that the disap
pearance of the prussic acid, in the liquid A, might have
been owing; to its having been expelled entirely by the sul
phurous acid, and that the tingeing liquid resulted from the
mutual action of the other principles, namely, the oxide of
iron and hydroguretted sulphuret of potash ; I subjected a
mixture of these materials to long boiling, but could not by
this means produce a liquid that tinted oxy-sulphateof iron
red.    Sulphurous acid gas, passed through water in which
prussian blue was diffused, did not in the least affect that
compound.        These experiments completely refute the opi
nion on which the second question was grounded.
    To enable me to reply to the third question, I passed sul
phuretted hydrogen gas for several hours through a solu
 tion of triple prussiatc of potash, on which it was found to
have no effect.
    We shall be little disposed to allow that there is any
foundation for the fourth question, when we consider the
 circumstances of the last mentioned experiment, in which
 sulphur in the state of the most minute division was of
 fered to the triple prussiate,    without any combination en
 suing; and also when we compare the effects of the me
 tallic solutions in Table II. with those which would ensue
 with liquids containing sulphur.        But, if any doubt should
 still be entertained on this subject, the following experi
 ment will perhaps remove it : Into a solution of prussiate
 of mercury throw some pieces of phosphuret of lime, the
 oxide of mercury of this prussiate will thus be reduced and
 separated from the liquid which is to be filtered ; some of
 this liquid poured into carbonate of iron turns it red, the
 red colour soon disappears, and a white precipitate begins
 to form ; this white precipitate soon changes to green,
 and if a little nitric or oxy-muriatic acid be now poured
                           perfect blue prussiate of iron.
       it,
 upon  it      becomes  a                                       This
 experiment, in which     a  liquid turning   a   solution -of iron
  red was produced without the employment of            a particle of
  sulphur, goes very far to negative our fourth question            ;
  and when considered in conjunction with the preceding
  ones, we can hardly do otherwise than dissent from the
  supposition which gave rise to that question.
     Butif    the experiment last adduced tends to refute the
  fourth question, it  very strongly supports the fifth     ; for the
  changes of colour observable        were undoubtedly owing to
  successive stages of oxidation     by  the contact of the ai mo-
  sphere. In confirmation of this question,        it may likewise
                                                                    be

 S02                 On ike Prussic and Prussous Adds.
 be asserted, that the long boiling with the hydroguretted
 sulphuret is a powerful de-oxidating process. But it will be
 said to me,    If
                it is really true that the prussic acid has been
 de-oxidated by this process, you ought to be able to recom-
 pose that acid from the solution B by oxidation.           This
 struck me very forcibly; and being anxious to give this
    Jast proof of the truth of my deductions, I attempted the
    recom position of this acid by several oxidating processes
    for some time without success: I had at last, however, the
    particular satisfaction of succeeding completely by the
    agency of nascent hyper-oxymuriatic        acid. The method
    I employed was the following :
,      A little hyper-oxy muriate of potash was put into the bot
    tom of a glass tube. Over this some of the liquid B mixed
    with a few drops of diluted sulphuric acid was poured. The
   heat of a candle was then applied to the bottom of the tube ;
   and as soon as a violent action commenced, the heat was
   withdrawn : by this process the prussic acid was repro
   duced, and was proved beyond the possibility of a doubt
   by the formation of blue prussiate of iron, when poured in
   to a mixture of green and red sulphate of that metal. Blue
   prussiate may also be produced at once, by substituting for
   the diluted sulphuric acid, a solution of green sulphate of
   iron, with excess of acid.
      Having thus succeeded in proving that the tingeing prin
  ciple of the liquid B was sub-oxidized prussic acid, my next        J
  object was to obtain that principle in a free state : for we
  must recollect that we have hitherto considered it only in
  combination with potash, with which it formed a neutral
  salt ; this circumstance gave me reason for supposing it an
  acid, and I therefore determined to attempt its separation
  by abstracting its base by a stronger acid.       The following
  was the process I employed for the purpose.
      The liquid B was evaporated nearly to dryness, and put
  into a retort with diluted sulphuric acid ; a receiver was then
  adapted to   it,   and about two- thirds of the liquid distilled
  over bv gentle heat
           a             ;  what remained in the retort was sul
  phate of potash.     The  receiver contained
                                             a   colourless liquid,
 with faint,
       a           sour, disagreeable   smell, anda   decided acid
 taste.     This liquor  I have named, in conformity with the
  principles of the new nomenclature, prussous acid, and its
  s^lts prussites, of which the liquid   B   contained one in so
  lution, namely the prussite of potash.
      The effects of the prussous acid on the earthy and me
 tallic solutions, as far as have tried them, are noted in the
                              1
  following table.
                                                          Tabi^-'

               On the Prussic and Prussous Acids.                  403
                Table HI. with           Prussous Acid.
      Chemical Agents.                          Effect*.
Muriate lime                      No change.
Muriate barytes                   No change.
Muriate gold                      The gold precipitated metallic.
Sulphate silver    . . . ."1
                                  Copious white precipitates.
Nitrate silver    . .
Prussiate mercury . .
                       . .
                            J ,   No change.
Nitrate mercury                   Copious grayish white precipitate.
Oxy-nitrate mercury           .   Very slight precipitate white.
                                  Solution turns blood-red.         No
Oxy-sulphate iron . . .
                                E   precipitate.
Nitro- muriate platina            No precipitate.
Nitrate lead                      No change.
                                             becomes red, but hardly
                                '^Solution
                                     any precipitate formed, unless
                                     heated, in which case a copious
                                     white precipitate ensues.     The
Oxy-nitrate lead                     red colour disappears, a rapid
                                     action takes place between the
                                     two liquids, and some of the
                                     nitric acid of the solution is de
                                     composed.
                                J A slight precipitate, probably of
Hyper-oxyniuiiate lead
                                \    muriate of lead.
                                  Solution   becomes slightly turbid.
Super-sulphate copper
Muriate bismuth .
Nitrate nickel . . .
Muriate tin
Nitrate cobalt                \   No precipitates.
Sulphate iron
 Sulphate manganese
 Sulphate zinc
    I  cannot conclude this part of my memoir without giv
 ing   a more simple and expeditious process for preparing
 prussite of potash, than that which 1 at first discovered.
 It is the  following      :
    Pour   a solution      of prussiate of mercury into hydrogu-
 retted sulphuret of potash, till the mutual decomposition
 of the two liquids is completed ; prussite of potash is in
 stantly formed, and may be separated by filtration from the
 solid combination of the sulphur and mercury.
                                                                 I wish

                             On the Frussic and Prussous Adds.
     I wish also to observe, that the proportion of prussian
 blue I have mentioned for boiling with the sulphuret is
  much larger than is necessary, as 1 have since succeeded in
 obtaining prussite of potash when the proportion of prussian
 blue was only equal to that of the sulphuret, but long boiled
 with the latter in two distinct and equal portions.           The
 prussite of potash thus obtained                       is,
                                          however, mixed with                              a
 much larger quantity of hydroguretted sulphuret than when
a  greater portion of prussian blue       employed.     is
    Whether the prussous acid can be applied to any use,
 time and future experiments must decide.           appears to me       It
 to be    verv delicate test of silver and of iron in solution.
          a
    The preceding experiments,                      by
                                         proving the presence of
 oxygen in prussic acid, give          stronger claim than
                                               it   a          be                    it
 fore possessed for being placed among the acids.
    The prussous acid possessing stronger acid properties
than the prussic         curious, though not solitary, instance
                              is    a                              a
of the effect of oxygen in diminishing acidity, when its
quantity exceeds       certain fixed proportion    in this respect
                             is a
                                                                       ;
the prussic acid       analogous to the oxy-muriatic.
    To recur to the attempt which gave rise to the researches
that are the subject of this memoir,           beg leave to state,
                                                               I
that   1 have succeeded       producing pure triple prussiate of
                                         in
potash,         by
              stopping the process before the change which
produced the prussite ensued, and                             by
                                             subsequent purifica
tion of the lixivium from sulphates and sulphites,         acetate             by
of barytes      from sulphur
                   ;               acetate of lead
                                              by      and, lastly,         ;
from the acetate of potash thus formed            crystallization; by
but on account of the complication of this process,          hesi               I
tate to recommend        for general use.
                                    it
    Tower, London, April 21, 1809.                      ROBERT PoRRETT,             Jun.
   P. S. —     essential to the success of the experiment, in
                 It     is
which the prussic acid    regenerated from the liquid
                                         is               the                   B    by
nascenthy per-oxygenized muriatic acid, that the excess of
acid remaining               in
                   the liquid, after the oxygenizing process,
should be neutralized                    by
                          an alkali previous to pouring  into                       it
the solution of iron, which should likewise be perfectly
neutral.
    May    8,   1809.                               ROBERT          PORRETT, Jun.
                                                                   XXXVII.      Memoir
                                                                       i

                            [   205   ]
XXXVII.       Memoir    on the Muriate of Tin.       By M, Be-
       RARD,  Ex- Professor of Chemistry in Montpellier.
The      preparation on a large scale of muriate of tin has fur
nished me with the opportunity of observing some interest
ing facts. They will serve as appendages to those which
have been described by various writers, and perhaps may
tend to accelerate the discovery of an uniform and certain
method of preparing and using the composition for dyeing
scarlet, which is a kind of salt of tin.
     The solution of tin by the muriatic acid, as described by
various authors, and as practised by Baume, is operated
by pouring on one part of the metal in a state of very mi-
hute division, four parts of common muriatic acid, and as
 sisting the chemical action by the heat of a sand-bath. The
water, which serves as a vehicle to the acid, is decomposed,
 the oxygen oxidizes the metal, which is then combined with
 the acid, while the hydrogen is liberated in the gaseous state,
 carrying off with it some particles of the metal employed,
 which render it very fetid.     But the action is slow, and the
 solution is effected in an imperfect manner.         I observed
 that a very great part of the acid employed was evaporated
 and lost ; and that if we wished to operate the entire solu
 tion of the metal, we must not or.ly add acid in the place of
 that which was evaporated, but also keep up the action by
 heat for several days.    I tried to perform this operation in
 the cold way, and two months were insufficient.       Bayer and
 Charlard, in their inquiries upon tin, employed six months
 in the operation.
     M. Chaptal assists the chemical action between the mu
 riatic acid and the tin, by placing, when he has prepared this
 acid, the metal in the vessels of Wool f '3 apparatus, in which
 was the water which ought to receive the vapours.            The
 heat which is extricated produces the best effect, and the
 action becomes verv brisk towards the end of the operation.
 But this ingenious contrivance still leaves something to be
 desired, in so far as the acid only dissolves the fourth of its
  weight of tin, and we must terminate the solution by other
 means.
      We may operate the solution of tin still better by receiv
  ing into a large receiver, in which we have introduced a suf
  ficient quantity of the metal jn minute division, the vapours
  of muriatic acid, which are liberated from a mixture of mu
  riate of toda in powder and of sulphuric acid weakened to
  the 4(Jth degree of Baumd's areometer.         On operating a
                                                           simple

    206                  On the   Mwiale of Tin.
    simple distillation   in this manner,    the vapours  of muriatic
    acid are very easily condensed and combined.
       If we direct vapours of oxygenized muriatic acid into a
    vessel containing tin and common muriatic acid, the so
   lution takes place perfectly, and in a short time. The acid
   at 20° then takes up one third of its weight in tin.
       I tried various mixtures of muriatic acid and nitric acid,
   from one-sixth part of the latter up to one-tenth ; all of
   them acted on the tin with extreme heat and violence, the
   substances being forcibly ejected from the vessel. One part
   of nitric acid, or the aqua fortis of commerce, at 35° of
   Baume's areometer, and twelve parts of common muriatic
  acid, at 20°, form a mixture very Well adapted for the so
   lution of tin, which is thereby operated in a very short
  time. This acid when mixed takes up about one-third of its
  weight of tin, and the solution extends to the 45th degree.
      I tried to make the action of the muriatic acid, and that
  of the atmospheric air, alternately concur on tin divided into
  small pieces, in operating its solution, and I succeeded com
  pletely.     For this purpose I filled a large glass saucer with
  the tin, and covered it with muriatic acid at 20° for a few
  hours ; I then poured the acid into another vessel, and it had
 already ascended to the 25th degree. The tin becomes black
  the moment it comes in contact with the air.           There is an
  absorption of atmospheric oxygen gas, an extrication of ca
 loric, which renders the metal very hot, and a lighted candle
 when plunged into the saucer is speedily extinguished.            As
 soon as the vessel began to cool, I replaced the acid, which
 acted with new vigour, and in a short time was as high as
 35°. I withdrew it again, in order to give the action of the
 air to the tin, and I replaced it in the same manner, that it
 might once more act.          I repeated this operation from time
 to time until the action ceased.        In two days the solution
 was at 45°, which it would attain even in one dav if we em
 ployed a series of saucers filled with tin: while the acid acts
 upon some of the vessels, the air acts on the rest, and thus-
the operation is never interrupted.
     The muriatic solution of tin, when recent, combines
 speedily with oxygen gas from the atmosphere, as Messrs.
 Pelletier, Guy ton Morveau, and other celebrated chemists
have observed.        It is sufficient to turn upside down a bell-
glass, full of atmospheric air, on a capsule or saucer filled
with this liquor, in order to see the latter ascend into the
bell-glass until ail the oxygen be absorbed.        The absorption
is still more rapid, aud becomes almost total in a short time,
                                                              \v hen

                       On the Muriate      of Tin.
when the bell-glass is filled with pure oxygen gas. In order
to facilitate the combination of the oxygen gas with this re
cent solution, I made to pass through it a great quantity of
atmospheric air, by means of a pair of bellows, the pipe of
which goes to the bottom of the liquor.            When it is not,
sufficiently saturated with tin, it takes a new portion of it
in proportion as it absorbs the oxygen from the atmosphere.
    The oxygenated muriatic acid gas is absorbed by this so
lution withgreat energy, asPelletier has very aptly observed.
He had even proposed the solution thus saturated with ox-
ygeuized muriatic acid gas for dyeing scarlet. I requested se
veral artists to try it, but none of them adopted it. It should
seem that the combination of atmospheric oxygen gives it
nearly the same properties with those of oxygenized muri
atic acid gas.     When it has absorbed much of the oxyge
nized muriatic acid gas, it becomes proper for dissolving a
new quantity of tin ; and as soon as it has dissolved      it, again
its stale becomes changed, having become capable of ab
sorbing more oxygen.
    The muriatic solution of tin at 45° of density gives upon
evaporation crystals of muriate of tin.        The crystallization
takes place the more easily the less recent the solution is,
or the greater the quantity of oxygen which the solution
has absorbed.       The mother water, which swims above the
 crystals,    of
             is   a very great density, particularly after several
crystallizations.     The density      still more considerable,
                                      is                              if
 we set it  to evaporate before exposing         to the air.
                                                it               It   is
 even sometimes slightly smoking, and may then furnish
crystals     by
              diluting     with pure water.
                            it                   Aflask containing
 14 parts of distilled water, contained 28 parts of mother wa
 ter coming from the first crystals.         The same flask con
 tained 31 parts, when this same liquor had given           by  con
 centration several layers of crystals.      These mother water*
 are capable of being combined with the oxygen of the at
mosphere, when the solution has not been previously satu
 rated with it.       It sufficient to expose them to the air, or
                           is
 to act with a pair of bellows, as already pointed out with re
 gard to the simple solution.         This combination produces
more crystals     ; and    the exposure of the mother waters to
                            if
 the air takes place over very great surface, we obtain
                                 a                                    a
 muriate of tin crystallized in very thin and slight scales
Ban me had observed this last method of crystallizing.           The
 oxygenized muriatic gas         combined with the mother wa
                                 is
 ters with   a good deal of energy,      considerable quantity of
                                           a
 caloricis  extricated, and after cooling, the liquor goes into
                                                             a. silky

                     On the Muriate     of Tin.
 a silky mass  of crystals of muriate of tin.       If  we purify
the crystals of muriate of tin by solutions in pure' water
and by crystallization,     they assume more consistence and
more density.
    The crystallized muriate of tin is very soluble in cold
water; the solution takes place very speedily, and produces
a considerable decrease of temperature.        The mean decrease
of temperature in the experiments which I made was 90 of
Reaumur, the temperature of the atmosphere and that of the
substances employed being 5°.         The mixture of the mother
 waters and of pure water produces no change of temperature.
    As I had observed that these mother waters became a
little fuming on being concentrated, I tried to distil both
the highly concentrated mother waters and crystallized
muriate, to see if I could not obtain a muriate of tin similar
to that which was known by the denomination of fuming
 liquor of Libavius : I obtained at first a weak muriatic acid,
and afterwards the muriate passed into the receiver, where
it was sublimed into the neck of the retort in a white mass
 formerly known by the name of hitter of tin.          With the
same view I passed muriatic acid gas as dry as possible
 through the concentrated mother water of muriate of tin :
it became fuming, and gave crystals on its mixture with,
pure water. But I ought to observe that the fuming li
quor of Libavius exhales vapours much thicker and more
abundant, the whiter and the denser it is.
    The combinations of muriatic acid and tin in the state
of solution, of crystals and of mother water, are always
effected with an excess of acid ; and we see from what has
been said, that all of them are susceptible of infinite varia
tions in their state. We must not be astonished, therefore,
if the results which they produce in dyeing arc so uncertain
and so different from each other.         The least variable state
of muriate of tin seems to be that of very white and well-
formed crystals.     It is in this state that this mordant ought
always to be employed in dyeing, by associating it with a
greater or less quantity of pure nitric acid, according to
the shade which we wish to obtain : such a composition
can alone be always uniform and give constant results.
    By taking advantage of the facts contained in this me
moir, it would be easy to describe a simple and advantageous
process for preparing on a large scale the muriate of tin in
crystals': I have nevertheless met with some very embarrass
ing difficulties in the execution, which I have succeeded in
removing; and the full description of my labours will be
given in a subsequent memoir.
                                                 XXXVIII. The

                                    [     209     ]
 XXXVIII.      The Case of a Man who died in consequence of
    the  Bile of a Rattle-snake : with an Account of the Ef
    fects produced by the Poison.      By Everard Home,
  Esq.F.R.S*
 Opportunities              of tracing the symptoms produced by>
  the bite of poisonous snakes*, and ascertaining the local-
  effects on the human body when the bite proves fatal, are
  of such rare occurrence, that no well described case of this
  kind is to be met with in any of the records that I hava
  examined.        I am therefore induced to lay before this So
  ciety the following account, with the view of elucidating
  this subject, in which the interests of humanity are so
 deeply concerned.
     Thomas Soper, 26 years of a^e, of a spare habit, on the
  1 7lh of October 1809,            went into the room in which two
  healthy raitle-snakes, brought from America in the pre
 ceding summer, were exhibited.                 He teased one of them
 with the end of a foot rule, but could not induce the snake
  to bite it,   and on the rule dropping out of his hand, he
 opened the door of the cage to take                   out the snake im
                                                       it it
                                                               :
 mediately darted at the hand, and bit                 twice       in
                                                                 succession,
  making two wounds on              the  back   part   of  the first phalanx
  of the thumb, and two on the side of the second joint of
  the fore finger.       The snake         isbetween four and five feet
 long, and when        much     irritated  bites  the object twice, which
J   believe    snakes   do  not   usually   do.
     The bite took place at half past two o'clock. He went
 immediately to Mr. Hanbury,                a chemist in the neighbour
 hood.      There    was   at   that   time   no swelling on the hand,
 and the man         was    so   incoherent       inhis language and be
 haviour,     that  Mr.   Hanbury       considered    him to be          in
                                                                        state a
 of   intoxication,     and   gave    him     adose    of jalap to take off
 the effects of the liquor, and made some slight application
 to the bites.        It  appeared on inquiry, that the man had
been drinking,        but  that before he was bitten there was no
thing     unusual    in   his   behaviour.      After leaving Mr. Han
bury,     the  hand   began    to  swell  ;which     alarmed him, and he
went to St. George's hospital.              He arrived there at three
o'clock. The wristband of his shirt had been unloosed,
and the swelling had extended half way up the forearm be
fore his admission.          The skin on the back of his hand was
very    tense,   and  the  part very panful.           At four o'clock the
          *   From thePhilo*     piicjl   ranwetious for 1810, Part     I.
Vol. 36. No. 149.          Sep t     UO,               O                 swelling

20                     The Case   of  a Man who died
swelling extended to tlie elbow, and at half past four it had
reached half way up the arm, and the pain had extended
to the axilla.      At this time Mr. Brodie, who visited him in
my absence, first saw him : he found the skin cold ; lhe
 man's answers were incoherent: his pulse beat 100 strokes
 in a minute, and lie complained of sickness.             Forty drops
 of aqua ammonite purs, and thirty drops of spiritus aetheris
vitriolici in an ounce of mistilra camphorata, were given to
him, but did not remain on his stomach. The wounds
 were bathed with the aqua ammonia? purse, and the arm and
 forearm had compresses wetted with camphorated spirits
 applied to them.         At five o'clock he took two drachms of
 spiritus  ammonia:      compositns, and 30 drops of aether, in
 an  ounce     and   a   half  of mistura camphorata, which re
 mained     on   his   stomach.      At six o'clock his pulse was
 stronger ;   at  half  past  seven   his pulse was very feeble, and
 30 drops    of aether,   and the  same   quantity of aqua ammonia:
 purse  were   given    in  water.   At   half past eight it was re
 peated.     At  nine   o'clock  he   had   the feeling of great de-j
 pression,    his  skin    was  cold,   his  pulse weak, beating 80
 strokes in a minute.          The dose was increased to 50 drops
 of both medicines, and repeated. At a quarter past ten
 o'clock the pain had become very violent in the arm : his
 pulse was stronger, but fits of faintness attacked him every
  15 minutes, in which the pulse was not perceptible, but in
 the interval his spirits were less depressed.         In the course
 of the evening he had two stools. At half past eleven
 o'clock I first saw him. The hand, wrist, forearm, and
 arm were much swelled up to the top of the shoulder, and
 into the axilla.      The arm was quite cold, and no pulse
 could be felt in any part, not even in the axilla, the swell
 ing preventing me from feeling the axillary artery with any
 degree of accuracy.        The wounds made on the thumb were
just perceptible ; those on the finger were verv distinct.
His skin generally was unusually cold. I took some pains
 to diminish his alarm of danger, and found his mind per
fectly collected: he said he hoped he should recover.              At
one o'clock in the morning of the 18th, he talked indi
stinctly: his pulse beat 100 in a minute; the attacks of
faintness came on occasionally.               The medicine was re
peated    every  hour.
    At eight o'clock in the morning of the l&th, his pulse
beat 132 strokes in a minute, and was very feeble.               The
swelling had not extended beyond the shoulder to the
neck, but there was a fulness down the side, and blood
was extravasated under the skin as low as the loins, giving
                                                                  the

        in consequence  of the Bile of a Rattlesnake.        911
the   back on the right side a mottled appearance.          The
whole arm and hand was cold, but painful when pressed;
the skin was very. tense ; on the inside of the arm belovy
the axilla, -and near the elbow, vesications had formed;
and under each of the vesications there w as a red spot in
the cutis, of the size of a crown piece.    The skin generally
over the body hud become warm.           lie was low and de
pressed ; there was a tremulous motion of his lips, and the
faintings recurred ai nearly the fame intervals as in the
preceding evening.      The last dose of medicine was re
acted by vomiting, but some warm wine remained on his
stomach.     The arm was fomented.        At twelve o'clock, in
addition to the above symptoms, there was a starting of his
limbs.    He had attempted to take some broth, but his
stomach did not retain it. The skin of the whole arm had
a livid appearance,   similar to what is met with in a dead
body, when putrefaction has begun to take place, unlike
any thing which 1 had ever seen in so large a portion of the
living body. An obscure fluctuation was felt under the
skin of the outside of the wrist and forearm, which induced
me to make a puncture with a lancet, but only a small
portion of a serous fluid was discharged.         My collcaeue,
Dr. Nevinson, was present at this visit, and we agreed to
continue the internal use of the volatile alkali, wiih the
view of rousing the stomach to action, not considering it as
having any specific power over the poison.            At eleven
o'clock in the evening, finding thai his stomach did not
always retain the medicines, nor even small quantities of
brandy, which were given him, I directed the volatile alkali
to be left off, and two grains of opium to be given, and
repeated every four hours.       At this time his pulse was
scarcely perceptible   at the  wrist, the fainting fits were not
less frequent. The vesications and red spots were increased
in size.
    October 19. At nine o'clock in the morning his pulse
was scarcely perceptible: his extremities were cord; the
vesications were larger, and the size of the arm was dimi
nished.    He was drowsy, probably from the effect of the
 opium.    He   had taken nothing but brandy during the
night.    At  three  o'clock in the afternoon he was more
depressed: spoke only in whispers: ihe vesications were
increased : the fainting fiis less frequent.      The arm was
diminished in size, and he had sensation in it down to the
fingers. At eleven o'clock at night his pulse beat 130 in a
minute, and was low.        The opium was left off. A stool
was procured by clyster.       He was ordered to have a glas9
                              0 2                             of
      \

  212                The Case   of a Man who died      i
   of camphorated mixture occasionally,      and wine and brandy
   as  often as he could be induced to take them.
       October 20. He had dozed at intervals during the night ;
  his spirits were better, and his extremities warmer.           At
   nine o'clock he took coffee for breakfast.        He afterwards
   took some fish for dinner, but it did not remain on his
   stomach ; he therefore took brandy and coffee at intervals,
   half an ounce at a time, as larger quantities did not remain
  on his stomach.
       October 21. He had slept at intervals during the night,
  but was occasionally delirious: his pulse 120 in a minute.
   Brandy and jelly were the only things that stayed on his
  stomach.       The size of the arm was reduced, but the skin
  was extremely tender.
      October 22.      He had slept during the greatest part of
  the night: his pulse beat 9S in a minute: he took some
  veal for dinner, and brandy at intervals.        In the evening
  his pulse became     full and  strong : he was  ordered  wine in
  stead of brandy.       The right side of the back down to the
  loins was inflamed and painful ; and had a very mottled
 appearance, from the extravasated blood under the skin.
      October 23. His pulse continued full, and the arm was
 very painful, though reduced in size.        The vesications had
 burst, and the exposed cutis was dressed with white "oint
 ment. Stools were procured by an opening medicine. He
 took some veal and porter for dinner; the wine was left
 off.     In the evening he had a saline draught with anti-
 monial wine.
      October 24. There was no material change.
      October 25. His pulse had increased in frequency, but
 in other respects he was nearly the same.        His bowels were
opened by       medicine.
      October 26. The arm was more swelled and inflamed.
      October 27-      The mrlammation of the arm had in
 creased : his tongue was furred, and his pulse was very fre
quent.        He attempted to sit up, but the weight of the arm
and the pain prevented         him. The arm was bathed with
spirits    of  wine  and  aqua  aminoniae acetatas in equal quan
tities.
      October 28.     A slough had begun to separate from the
inside of the arm below the axilla, and a purging had come
on, for which he was ordered chalk mixture and laudanum.
In the night he had a rigor.
     October 29. The purging had abated ; his pulse beat
 100 in a minute, and was feeble.            A large abscess had
formed on the outside of the elbow, which was opened,
                                                               and

           in consequence of the Bite of a Rattle-snake.       £13
   and half a pint of reddish brown matter was discharged
   with sloughs of cellular membrane floating in it. The
  lower part of the arm became much smaller, but the upper
  part continued tense.        A poultice was applied to the
  wound.      The lower portion of the arm and the forearm
  were covered with circular stripes of soap cetate.     He was
  ordered to take the bark, and allowed wine and porter.
      October 30.    The redness and swelling of the upper part
  of the arm had subsided : the pulse was 100 in a minute.
  The purging had returned. The bark was left off : the
  chalk mixture and laudanum were given, and an opiate
  clyster administered.
      October 3 1 . The pulse beat 1 20 in a minute.         The
  discharge from the abscess had diminished, the purging
  continued, and at night he had a rigor.
     November 1. The pulse was J 20. His voice was feeble;
  he had no appetite; was delirious at intervals.     Ulceration
                                                                   '
  had taken place on the opening of the abscess, so that it
  was much increased in size. He drank two pints of porter
 in the course of the day.
     November 2. His pulse was very weak ; his countenance
 was depressed ; his tongue brown ; the ulceration had spread
 to the extent of two or three inches.        Mortification had
 taken place in the skin nearer the axilla.     His stomach re
jected every thing but porter:       in the  night he was de
 lirious.
     November 3. The mortification had spread consider
 ably : the purging continued: the forefinger, which had
 mortified, was removed at the second joint.
     November 4\ He died at half past four o'clock in the
 afternoon.
     Sixteen hours after death, the body was examined by
 Mr. Brodie and myself, in the presence of Mr. Maynard,
 the house surgeon, and several of the pupils of the hospital.
     With the exception of the right arm which had been
 bitten, the, body had the natural appearance.     The skin was
clear and white; and the muscles contracted.
     The wounds made by the fangs at the base of the thumb
were healed, but the puncture made by the lancet at the
back of the wrist, was still open.      That part of the back
of the hand, which immediately surrounded the wounds
made by the fangs, for the extent of an inch and a half in
every direction, as also the whole of the palm, was in a
natural state, except that there was a small quantity of ex-
travasated blood in the cellular membrane.        The orifice of
the abscess was enlarged, so as to form a sore on the outside
                              O 3                              Qf

                                                       I
2 14            The Case of a Man who died
of the arm, elbow, and forearm, near six inches in length.
 Arouiu! this, the skin w as in a state of mortification, more
 than half way up the outside of the arm, and as far down
 wards, on the outside of the forearm.        The skin still ad
 hered to the biceps flexor muscle in the arm, and flexor
 muscles in the forearm, by a dark coloured cellular mem
 brane. Every where else in the arm and forearm, from the
 axilla downwards, the skin was separated from the muscles,
 and between these parts there was a dark-coloured fluid,
 with an offensive smell, and sloughs of cellular membrane
 resembling wet tow, floating in it.      The muscles had their
 natural appearance every where, except on the surface,
 which was next the abscess.        Beyond the limits of the
 abscess, blood was extiavasated    in the cellular membrane,
 and this appearance was observable on the right side of the
 back as' far as the loins, and on the right side of the chest
 over the serrauis major amicus muscle.
     In the thorax the Jungs had their natural appearance.
 The exterior part of the loose fold of the pericardium, where
 it is exposed, on elevating the sternum was dry, resembling
 a dried bladder.   The cavity of the pericardium contained
 half an ounce of serous fluid, which had a frothy appear
 ance, from an admixture of bubbles of air.         On cutting
 into the aorta, a small quantity of blood escaped, w hich
 had a similar appearance.     The cavities of the heart con
 tained coagulated blood.
     In the abdomen, the cardiac portion of the stomach was
 moderately distended with fluid : the pyloric portion was
 much contracted; lhe internal membrane had its vessels
 very turbid with blood.      The intestines and liver had a
 healthy appearance.     The gall bladder was moderately full
 of healthy bile. The lactcals and the thoracic duct were
 empty; they had a natural appearance.
     In the cranium the vessels of the pia mater and brain
 were turgid with blood; the ventricles contained rather
 more water than is usual, and water was effused into the
 cells connecting the pia mater and tunica arachnoides.         It
 is to be observed, that these appearances in the brain and
 its membranes are very frequently found in cases of acute
diseases, which terminate fatally.      ;
    The follow ing cases were sent from India, to mv late
 friend Dr. Patrick Russell : thev arrived alter his death,
 and Mr. Claude Russell very kindly gave thein to me,
 knowing the subject of them to be one in which I had
 taken an interest.    As they correspond in many of the
circumstances with that which has been detailed, 1 have
                                                         inserted

                                             I
           in consequence   of llie Bile of a Rattle-snake.          215
   inserted them in this place, as well as an experiment which
   I had an opportunity of making in the West Indies, on the
   effects of the snake's poison on animals.
      A boy, a slave of a gentlemen in India, was bitten by a
   snake called Kaninlee by the natives, in the lower part of
   the arm, at eight o'clock in the evening. The blood flowed
   very freely for some time.          He died next day at noon in
  great pain.
      A sepoy, 60 years of age,      was admitted into the hospital
   of his regiment, under the        care of Mr. Perrin, assistant
   surgeon,    at four o'clock     in the afternoon of .the 15th of
   October,     1802, in consequence of his being bitten by a
  cobra di     capello on the back part of the hand.            At the
  time of     his admission he complained of pain running up
  the arm.       He immediately took a drachm of eaH de luce,
  and this    dose was repeated every half hour, and the same
  remedy was applied externally as a lotion to the arm and
  forearm.      At four o'clock in the morning of the 16th of
  October, the pain began to increase, and the arm to swell
  with great hardness and stiffness, and tumour in the axilla,
  with    much inclination     to vomit.       He took twelve grains
  of Dr. James's powder, which brought up a great quantity
  of bilious matter. He drank copiously of warm water, but
  no perspiration Was induced.           He appeared relieved for a
  short lime.      At eight o'clock in the morning the arm was
  distended, painful, and discoloured.            He took four ounces
 of brandy, and repeated it every hour until twelve o'clock,
  with a drachm of eau de luce occasionally.              At this time
  he was a little revived.     The brandy        was  reduced  to two
 ounces,     which    were  carefully    and    regularly given every
 hour, until twelve at noon on the 17th of October, when
 the arm was more free from pain, but much swelled, hard,
 and black : his spirits and pulse also were considerably re
 lieved. The eau de luce was now omitted, but the brandy
 was continued every hour, until twelve o'clock at noon on
 the 18th of October, w hen the stiffness and tumor in the
 axilla had disappeared ; the arm was still swelled, but was
 softer, and less painful.          The brandy was omitted: at
 night   he  took  six grains of   Dr.  James's powder.       On the
 loth of October the arm was less, softer, with little or no
 pain ; a blister was formed and bnrst on the back of the
 hand, which discharged three ounces of black foetid pus.
 On the 20th, an abscess burst on the hand, in the same
situation as the blister, which discharged a large quantity
of a fluid having an offensive smell. He was directed to
                                 04                               take

216                        The Case       of a Man wlio died
take a drachm of Peruvian bark in port wine, every two
hours.     On the 22d the swelling was gone, but the dis
charge   was considerable, from this time the man gradually
but slowly recovered, with the loss of ihe use of his fore
finger, which remained permanently extended, and some of
the other fingers were affected in a less degree.
    In this case, the swelling of the arm was slower in
coming on, and less extensive ; the pain running up to the
axilla, which preceded          was mistaken for the effect of
                                    it,
absorption.
    In the year 1782, while in the island of St. Lucia, made            I
the following experiment             :
    A spotted dark coloured snake, about two feet            length,   in
having the poison fangs on each side double, with the cor
responding surfaces grooved, so, as to form           canal for the
                                                              a
poison, was put into        square tin box, open at the top, in
                                a
which   a  half-grown rat was confined.         The rat expressed
great terror, and remained crouching            one corner of the
                                                     in
box, with its eyes fixed on the snake, who lay coiled up at
some distance, they were allowed to remain             few minutes
                                                              a
in this situation      :then raised one end of the box, which
                           I
caused the snake to slide along the smooth surface, till                         it
came    in  contact with the rat, which           immediately bit.
                                                        it
The rat died      in minute after the bite.
                       a                            removed
                                                          I      im         it
mediately from the box               by
                                means of      pair of long forceps.
                                                    a
The wounds made                by
                          the fangs were marked                   by
                                                         two specks
of blood immediately below the shoulder blade. On di
viding the skin with       scalpel, the cellular membrane under
                               a
it  was found entirely destroyed       the muscles were detached
                                               :
from the ribs, and from          small portion of the scapula.
                                      a
The parts immediately surrounding the bite were exceed
ingly inflamed as far as could trust to memory, the ap
                      ;              I
pearances very much resembled             those produced on the
muscles of       a dog's thigh,         the application of white
                                               by
arsenic, in consequence of which, death ensued in about
 sixteen hours.
    Fifteen hours after the death of the first,           second rat
                                                                  a
 was bitten      the same snake. This rat was much irritated,
                 by
 and bit the snake in the neck, so violently, that the latter
 died in about ten minutes.         The rat continued very lively
 for about six hours, and then died.         On examination after
 death, the bite was found to have been inflicted on the left
 side of the navel, and the abdominal muscles at that pa,rt
 were in the same state as        the other rat, but in
                                          in                 less de   a
gree.        .

         in consequence  of the Bite of a Rattlesnake.       21 7
    It appears from the facts which have been stated, that
the effects of the bite of a snake vary according to the in
tensity of the poison.
    When the poison is very active, the local irritation is so
sudden and so violent, and its effects on the general system
tire so great, that death soon takes place.     When the body
is afterwards inspected, the only alteration of structure met
with, is in the parts close to the bite, where the cellular
membrane is completely destroyed, and the neighbouring
muscles very considerably inflamed.
    When the poison is less intense, the shock to the general
system does not prove fatal.        It brings on a slight degree
of delirium, and the pain in the part bitten is very severe:
jn about half an hour, swelling takes place from an effu
 sion of serum in the cellular membrane, which continues
 to increase with greater or less rapidity for about twelve
 hours, extending during that period into the neighbourhood
 of the bite; the blood ceases to flow in the smaller vessels
 pf the swoln parts ; the skin over them becomes quite cold,
 the action of the heart is so weak, that the pulse is scarcely
 perceptible, and the stomach is so irritable, that nothing
 is retained in it. In about 60 hours these symptoms go
 off, inflammation and suppuration take place in the injured
 parts, and when the abscess formed is very great, it proves
 fatal.    When the bite has been in the finger, that part has
 immediately mortified.      When death has taken place under
  such circumstances, the absorbent vessels and their glands
 have undergone no change similar to the effect of morbid
  poisons, nor has any part lost its natural appearance, ex
  cept, those immediately connected with the abscess.
     In those patients who recover with difficulty from the
 bite, the symptoms produced by it go off more readily, and
  move completely, than those produced by a morbid poison
  which has been received into the system.
     The violent effects which the poison produces on the part
  bitten, and on the general system, and the shortness of their
  duration, where they do not terminate fatally, has frequently
  induced the belief, that the recovery depended on the me
  dicines employed ; and in the East Indies eau de luce is
  considered as a specific for the cure of the bite of the cobra
  di capello.
     There does not appear to be any foundation for such art
  opinion ; for, when the poison is so intense as to give a
  sufficient shock to the constitution, death immediately takes
  place, and where the poison produces a local injury of suf
                                                           ficient

 818               On extracting liquid Sugar
 ficient extent, the patient also dies, while all slighter case*
 recover.
     The effect of the poison on the constitution is so imme
 diate, and the irritability of the stomach is so great, that
 there is no opportunity of exhibiting medicines till it has
 fairly taken place, and then there is little chance of beneficial
 effects being produced.
     The only rational local treatment to prevent the secon
 dary mischief, is making ligatures above the tumefied part,
 to compress the cellular membrane, and set bounds to the
 swelling, which only spreads in the loose parts! under the
 skin ; and scarifying freely the parts already swoln, that the
effused serum may escape, and the matter be discharged as
 soon as it is formed.    Ligatures are employed in America,
but with a different view, namely, to prevent the poison
 being absorbed into the system.
XXXIX.        On extracting   liquid Sugar Jrom Apples and
                             Pears,
The      high price of sugar in France, occasioned by circum
 stances   connected with the war, has induced the French
 chemists to endeavour to discover processes by which sac
 charine substitutes may be extracted from vegetable sub
 stances produced in the Old World. On this subject M. Du-
buc has lately published in the jlnnales de Chimie various
 experiments on extracting sugar from apples and pears. As
 these were chiefly for the purpose of ascertaining the quan
tity produred by different varieties of apples and pears pro
duced in France, it will be quite sufficient for the English
reader to state the process and the general result.
     Boil eight quarts of the juice of ripe apples in a brass
 paii for about a quarter of an hour, and then, for the pur
 pose of neutralizing the acid of the fruit, add, in four sepa
 rate portions, about two minutes after each other, ten
 drachms of finely pounded chalk. The chalk occasions an
 effervescence in the juice, by the escape of the carbonic acid
 from the chalk in the form of gas. The boiling is to be con
 tinued for eight or ten minutes longer, and the mixture to
 be kept stirred, to multiply the points of contact between the
juice and the chalk.
     The whites of three eggs beat up in three glasses of cold
 water are then to be added at once to the mixture, and well
 stirred into it for the purpose of clarifying the syrup.     Let
                                                                it

                     from Apples and Pears.                    2 19
 it still boil for a quarter of an hour. The white of the ecsrs,
 coagulating by the boiling, entangles the impurities of the
juice, which is then to be strained through a flannel strainer
 supported at the tour comers.
     When about half-cooled strain it again, that it may be
 ¦well clarified.
     By these operations the juice loses about one-third of its
 weight.      What remains is to be reduced to about one-half
 of its bulk by boiling ; after which the heal must be lower
 ed ; but the evaporation must be continued below the boil
 ing point, until the syrup be so concentrated, that on cool
 ing it may be of the consistence of common treacle.
     Those who are acquainted with chemical processes will
 know when.it is sufficiently concentrated, by observing the
 pellicle formed on its surface. A vessel capable of contain
 ing a quart, or two pounds of water, will contain 2lb. 10 oz.
  of syrup or liquid sugar.
     This liquid sugar is represented as savoury, fresh, and
  capable of sweetening water very well, or even milk without
  curdling it.
     In one of M. Dubuc's experiments the juice had a milky
  look, even after the white of eggs was added.        To remedy
  this, he employed twelve drachms of powdered charcoal,
  and stirred and boiled the mixture for about ten minutes ;
  alter which he strained it once through a conical bag, and
  when nearly cold passed it through the filter a second time,
  the sediment of the first filtration being left to make the filter
  the closer.
     The success of this experiment induced him to try to ob
  tain the clarified liquid sugar by using chalk and charcoal
  only, without employing white of eggs. To *ix quarts of
  apple-juice boiled for a quarter of an hour, he added, at four
  separate times, two minutes from each other, a mixture of
  seven drac hms of chalk, and one drachm of small coal in,
  fine powdei.      The boiling was continued till the liquid was
  reduced one half: when naif cooled it was passed through
  flannel, as directed above, and when nearly cold was strained
  a second time, and lastly it was evaporated with the above-
  mentioned precautions.
      The process for extracting the saccharine matter from
   pears differs not at all from the above ; but more chalk seems
   to be required to saturate and separate the acid.
      If the fruit be suffered to lie bruised for about 24 hours
   before expressing the juice, the produce of sugar will be
   greater, — thi3 process contributinir in some way or other
   to the development of the saccharine principle.
                                                             When

                        On Musical Time.
   When      the boiling heat is too long continued, the colour
of  the  syrup becomes darker. Does not this serve to sug
gest  that  the process might be improved by employing a wa
ter bath, instead of applying the heat directly to the boiler
or kettle  ?
                     XL.   On Musical Time.
                         To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,   It    has long been a matter of just complaint among
musicians, that no method has yet been invented to regulate
musical time. The terms Largo, Adagio, Andante, Presto,
&c. seem to be mere terms of expression, and not the de
finite characters of time ; for it is absurd to suppose that
these terms mean any portion of time whatever, so that the
performer is left entirely to use his own taste and judgement.
To remove this imperfection, Loulie, a French musician, in
vented an instrument called The Musical Chronometer, for
the purpose of measuring time by means of a pendulum.
   But this instrument, though it appears perfect in theory,
could never be brought into practice, either from the trouble
of adjusting it at the beginning of every movement, or the
difficulty which the performer experienced in conforming to
mechanical rules.
   Another chronometer of a more simple construction has
since been invented, consisting of a tape graduated into feet
and inches, with a plummet affixed to it. The way of using
this instrument is to prefix one of the notes to each move
ment, and also the length otthe pendulum, which vibrates
once during its performance.        But surely this method must
be attended with as much uncertainty as to find the time
that a person would be in walking a mile, by finding what
time it would take him to walk a yard.
   Although these modes of introducing chronometers have
hitherto failed, yet I am inclined to believe, that, by a proper
use of time-keepers, it will be very easy for the present and
future composers to fix the time to their music, so as not to
be misunderstood even by a young performer. This may be
done very correctly without any other instrument than a
pocket-watch which shows minutes and seconds : Thus,
   Let the composer take notice of the number of minutes
and seconds that elapse during the performance of any
movement, according to' the time in which he intends it
should he played or sung, and let these numbers be written
at the beginning of it. The words Largo, Adagio, An
                                                          dante,

               Analysis of Socotrine and Hepatic Aloes.               221
 dante,     Presto, &c. should still be used as terms of ex
 pression, — not as the definite characters of time.
     Suppose, for example, that a piece consists of three move
 ments : — the first is performed in 10', 40" ; the second in
 &, 30"; and the third in 8', 10". These figures being
 written at the beginning of each respectively, will convey an
 exact idea of the author's lime to all future performers. And
 thus a check may be put upon the licentiousness of the
 fiddle-stick ; for some performers are so rapid in their move
 ments, as to neglect both taste and expression.              This rapid
 mode of playing seems to be a growing evil ; for it has been
 said by good judges of the subject, that Handel's music
 was performed much slower a century ago, than it is in our
 best concerts at this time.
    St. Austin Street,
     Sept. 23, 1810.                                                W.
 XLI.      Comparative Analysis       of Socotrine and Hepatic Aloes.
       By M. Tkomsdorff.             Extracted      by   M. Vogel*.
Besides          the two kind of aloes known by the name of
 socotrine and hepatic, there are two others, one of which,
lucid aloes, is extremely rare, and the other, calaUine aloes,
is so inferior, and so variable in its qualities, that M. Troms-
dorflf did not think it worth alluding to in his inquiries.
    After having spoken of the natural history and of the^ex-
traction of the juice of the plant, an analysis of the twfl
kinds is given, and it is this part of his work that we pro
ceed to notice.
                '
                   Experiments on Socotrine Aloes.
    Action of water, a.) Four ounces of socotrine aloes
pounded, were boiled with three pounds of distilled water
in a silver vessel.        The aloes, being entirely dissolved, pre
sented a transparent liquid of a deep yellow ; but, when al
lowed to cool, a yellow powder was precipitated.                 When
the liquor was quite cold it was decanted and filtered, and
a brown transparent mass remained at the bottom of the
vessel.
    After desiccation, this substance weighed one ounce^ and
exhibited the following character:-^
    1. It was transparent, of a brownish yellow, very brittle,
and of a bitter taste.
    2. It melted at a gentle heat.
                     * Annmlu it Chimie, tome Ixviii. p. 1 L
                                                                   3.  It

222                             Comparative Analysis          of
     .3.     It      was insoluble in water, but very soluble in alcohol
and in liquid potash.
                                                                        it,
   4. When a lighted candle was applied to                    burned    it
with     brisk flame.
           a
   From the above           evident that this substance was the
                                it   is
resinous part oi' the aloes.             also very remarkable, that
                                               It   is
this great quantity or resin, joined to the other parts of the
aloes,     easily soluble in warm water; but
             it is
                                                                   it
                                                           separated    is
from      on cooling.
     b.  The aqueous solution, which contained three ounces
         )
of dissolved parts, acted        the following manner:-—
                                          in
     .
     1    was perfectly transparent, of golden yellow colour
             It                                          a                             :
when placed in contact with the air,             became of
                                                         it   brown          a
colour, but    without  being   turbid.
   2.     reddened turnsole paper.
             It
   3. The alkalis and the alkaline carbonates deprived                                it
of the propertv of reddening the blue colours, but the&e
solutions produced no other changes              it.     in
   4. Some drops       of muriate   of  iron  at the maximum pro
duced      black
              a   colour.
   5. The nitrates of silver and of lead disturbed         slightly     it             ;
nitric acid restored its transparency to the liquor.
   6'. The sulphuric, nitric, and muriatic acids precipitated
from        small quantity of
             it   a                 yellow powder, which acted
                                               a
like    resin,
         a     and  which   did   not exceed 002.
     7 A solution of animal gelatine experienced no change
in it.
   c. The aqueous solution was evaporated to dryness in
         )
the sand-bath       there remained
                            :        mass similar to aloes, and
                                                    a
of bitter
     a       taste.       was  completely
                                It         dissolved in Mot or
cold  alcohol.
   Ether which was digested with part of this powder was
not coloured with         and did not dissolve
                                 it,              single atom of
                                                               a
k.
   These properties induced the author to lake that part of
the aloes for the principle which M. Hermstadt designated
by  the name of safionaceous principle, or soap of plants           the          ;
essential   character   of  which         solubility
                                                   is  in water and  in
alcohoi, but insolubility in ether.
   This saponaceous principle          found in several vegetables,
                                               it
                                                  is
as in  saffron,  rhubarb,   &c.          nevertheless probable that
                                           :   is
there  are  different species   of   more    or less bitter taste.
                                               a
   Action        Alcohol,
                       of   a.)  Four    ounces     of aloes were                    di
gested   with   16 ounces   of  alcohol.    The    solution  was com
        and  there  only  remained   on   the filter 12 grains of                    lig
plete,
neous matter which was contained in the aloes.
                                                                             b.) The

                   Socotrine and Hepatic Aloes.               223
   b.) The alcoholic liquor was of a deep yellowish red.
When mixed with its weight of water, it was introduced
into   a retort, and the alcohol was distilled from it.
   After cooling,    the liquor was not turbid : it was then eva
porated to dryness, and the dry mass being redissolved in
boiling water, precipitated, after cooling;, resin, which when
dry weighed an ounce.         This experiment in other respects
only confirmed the proportion of resin found after the treat
ment with water.
                  Experiments on Hepatic Aloes.
    Action nf Water. — Sixteen ounces of hepatic       aloes were
subjected to the same experiments with socotrine aloes.
The aqueous solution left, upon cooling, three ounces of
resin, the water having dissolved 13 ounces of matter.
   The solution was also acid, and blackened the muriate of
iron at the maximum ; it was slightly disturbed by the
nitrates of silver and of lead.
    When evaporated to dryness, there remained a mass very
 soluble in hot and cold water, without affording any resinous
 sediment.
    Alcohol dissolves it also, but ether has no action on it.
    b. ) The three ounces of resinous precipitate being dis
 solved in alcohol, there remained a residue weighing two-
 ounces insoluble in this menstruum.          We shall speak of
 this presently.
    c. ) The alcoholic liquor, when evaporated to drvness, left
 a resinous mass, which had the following properties :
     1. Insolubility in warm or cold water.
    2. Great solubility in alcohol, in ether, and in a solution
 of caustic potash.
    3. Jt melted easily at a gentle heat, and was soon car
 bonized.
    4. Great inflammability, burning with a brisk flame.
    d. ) The two ounces of residue (b), insoluble in alcohol
 and in ether, were divided into three parts, and treated as
 follows :
     1. Distilled in a retort, there passed into the receiver a
 fetid oil, with an ammoniacal liquor, and a great quantity
 of charcoal remained.
     2. The concentrated or the diluted acetic acid had no
 action on it.
     3. A boiling solution of caustic potash dissolved the
 substance entirely. The liquor was not disturbed by an ad-,
 dition of water, but the acids precipitated from it a brown'
 spongy mass, which was somewhat elastic.
                                                             This

   £24                      Analysis of Aloet.
      This precipitate when collected and distilled in a retort
   yielded an ammoniacal liquor, from which it should seem
   that the substance in question is nothing more than a coa
   gulated vegetable albumen.
      Action of Alcohol. — Four ounces of hepatic aloes were dis
   solved in alcohol : there remained an insoluble mass, weigh
  ing 4-y drachms, which was albumen.
      The alcoholic solution was evaporated to dryness, and the
  residue was boiled with water.             It was entirely dissolved ;
  but upon cooling the resin separated from it.                   By this
  means we obtained three ounces of saponaceous principle,
  and 24; drachms of resin.
      From all the above experiments the author has drawn the
  following consequences :
      1. Socotrine aloes are completely dissolved in boiling wa
  ter. The resinous part is separated from it by cooling.
      2. It is also dissolved in alcohol without leaving any re
 sidue,                             i
     3. The parts which arc soluble in water contain more
 bitter principle than those which are soluble in alcohol, al
 though these last are not entirely free from it.
     4. The hepatic aloes differ from the socotrine, in so far
 as they contain an albuminous vegetable matter, and less
 resin than the latter.
     5. It is not completely dissolved in boiling water, for the .
 coagulated albumen resists it.
     6. It is not wholly dissolved in alcohol. This is the way
 in which we may distinguish it very evidently from socotriue
 aloes, even when their physical character* are the same.
       XLII.     Analysis of Aloes.        By   M. Braconnot*.
§   I. Aloes       are procured from several plants which bear
the    same   name   : at Morviedris       in Spain the aloe vulgaris
furnishes     three  sorts,   which   only differ from each other in
the way in which they are prepared.                  In the West Indies
the substance in question is extracted from the aloe barba-
densis, which, as well as the foregoing species, is regarded by
some writers as a variety of the aloe perfoliata, and which
is cultivated in the most wretched soils.                The aloe spicata'
a distinct species from the above, also furnishes juice of a
good quality ; but the purest and most valuable is brought
in bladders from the island of Socotra, situated at the en
trance of the Arabian Gulph in the Indian Seas : it is ob-
                    * Ajiniln de Chimit, tome  Ixviii. p. 20.
                                                                   tained

                                Analysis of Aloes.                            225
tamed by cutting transversely the leaves of the aloe perfo-
liala socotrina, placing earthen vessels underneath it to
receive the juice, which is thickened in the sun.
   The aloes which was made the subject of the examina
tion is of a yellowish red, and semi-transparent : it pre-
sentSj in its fracture, several yellow points which glister on
a red ground : reduced to powder it is a fine yellow colour :
it has a very bitter taste, and a smell which some persons
think is not disagreeable : it does not become electrical on
 friction.
    When      exposed to a heat of 80° + 0 of Reaumur, it be
 gins   to  soften,   and then melts : on account of its being
 easy   of  fusion,  it  i3 much easier to pulverize it in winter
 than in summer.           If we present a piece of it to the flame
 of a candle, it melts with a crackling noise, and inflames.
     § II. 50 grammes of aloes were distilled at a heat very
 gentle at first, and incapable of decomposing                      it,
                                                             when the
 following     products    were  obtained    1st.
                                              :   Eight   grammes of
-water charged with an essential oil which gives aloes their
 smell.      2d. At    agreater heat there passed over 8*7 gram
 mes of almost colourless water,           which
                                             in      found one gram
                                                       I
 me of acetic acid, but no ammonia, on adding quicklime
 in powder to the liquor.         3d. Five grammes of        heavy red
                                                                    a
 oil soluble in alcohol.        4lh.    great quantity of oleaginous
                                         A
 hydrogen gas and caibonic acid. 5th. There remained in
 the retort (which had begun to melt) twenty grammes of                        a
 hard charcoal very voluminous and honeycombed, which
 retained    a great quantity of hydrogen, which we saw burnt
 by   exposing    it
                   a  long time in       crucible at strong heat in
                                         a                 a
 order to incinerate        it,
                             which was impossible         preserved all
                                                           :   it
 its blackness, its shining appearance, and            great hardness
                                                       a                       :
it   had lost however 12*5, which        I attribute       in
                                                            great mea
                                                                a
 sure to the hydrogen.          The 7'5 grammes which remained
 did not contain any potash. This charcoal was treated
 with muriatic acid the filtered liquor was precipitated
                            :                                                  by
 ammonia, which separated oxide of iron and               small quan
                                                               a
 tity of phosphate of lime           the carbonate of potash preci
                                     :
 pitated some decigrammes of carbonate of lime.
     If we heat nitric acid on this charcoal, we obtain small             a
 quantity of tanning matter which precipitates strong glue.
    §  III. Aloes powder, bruised
                       in                      class mortar with cold
                                              in   a
 water, yielded    a   mass which, squeezed through the hands,
 was tacky like turpentine.            We succeeded in obtaining
a   complete solution           by
                               adding water in successive quanti
 ties, hut   it required     great quantity; the last portion which
                             (a
 remained to dissolve was similar to the first in point of
     Vol. 36. No. 149. Sept. 1810.                     P     bitterness

220
bitterness uA
frothy on bein
   One hu:K'.: .
of Heanni^r
of     aloes, wii'n
pure ligncoi.-              !
and deptisitc I
of aloes in ¦¦
of heat, tli.i'
                      tl<
ceases to
                        ¦
                      •
      When            ¦
                      n
water           pre
      1.    It    ivi,
ner.
      2.    The
without
      3.    Tl,"
preeipii:         i
  4.        'Il
precipit
weaker
      A.    Tl
this
           ¦ In
Ion Hi
     (i.   'i
I'i'i .ii
II1U       to
mnri.u
as mi
of     „¦
u
verv
      'lb
colon,
pint.       .
whu
Opel.
filki!.
were
its    eo
dark       :
acid,       <
wouk!
logon-

                                    Analysis of Aloes.                        227
it  a precipitate very abundant in comparison of that which
is produced in the recent solution of aloes.
    These facts, in my opinion, amply prove that aloes docs
not constitute a species of the resins.
    § IV. Alcohol at 38° entirely dissolves aloes very speed
ily, particularly if heat be employed; which announces the
absence of gummy or extractive matter in this substance.
The filtered liquor was of such a deep red colour that its
transparency could scarcely be perceived : water produces an
abundant sediment in it of a pale yellow colour, owing to
this liquid which is retained in        for          it,
                                               resumes its primi
                                                               it
tive brown colour on desiccation.
    If we evaporate the alcoholic solution of aloes, we re
mark that the least motion, the slightest breathing on the
liquid, produces kind of crystallization in            which dis    it,
appears and then             is a
                       reproduced. Although      alcohol  dissolves
this substance very well, this       not the case with the fixed
                                                 is
and volatile oils.     exposed to heat
                             I             mixture of oil of olives
                                                           a
and aloes, and this last substance remained in        melted state  a
at the bottom the essence of turpentine, which
                     :                                 boiled with  I
the aloes, acted nearly in the same manner             the volatile  :
oil nevertheless assumed       slight amber colour.
                                             a
     §V. Alkaline solutions dissolve aloes cold and with
much facility      combinations are formed in which the bit
                     :
 terness seems in some measure marked.             Acids produce
in these solutions abundant precipitates which are coloured
on desiccation.      The volatile alkali diluted in water, also
dissolves aloes perfectly     after having filtered the liquor,
                                         :                                        it
was of      deep red colour
             a                  and    was evaporated slowly, to
                                         :           it
drive off the excess of ammonia. In proportion as this liquor
was thickened the surface exhibited           continual motion,a
which seemed to indicate        tendency to crystallization
                                             a                   for          ;
we remarked other needles which successively appeared and
disappeared. On continuing the evaporation almost to
dryness, we obtained, crystals                   in
                                      needles attached to      resi       a
nous-like mass on heating this matter with certain quan
                         :                                          a
tity of lime and water,       very evident extrication of am
                                         a
monia takes place.
     §VI. The weak acids have not very remarkable action   a
upon aloes      nevertheless they dissolve
                 :                              better than water,
                                                               it
 which whitens the solution of aloes in distilled vinegar.
The mineral acids act much more energetically upon it.
Nitric acid dissolves      very well when cold, and there re
                                    it
sults    deep red liquor, from which water throws down an
         a
abundant precipitate.
    Ten grammes of aloes were treated in retort with eighty     a
                                                 P   2   grammas

228                      Analysis of Aloes.
grammes of nitric acid at 36°, taking care to administer the
fire with caution. There was a brisk re-action, and libera
tion of abundant red vapours. When they disappeared, the
retort was removed from the fire, and the liquor which it
contained was of a deep yellow colour.           It deposited upon
cooling     a great quantity of a flaky yellow  substance.   The li
quor,     when   evaporated  to the  consistence  of honey,  was di
luted in water and filtered. There remained in the filter a
vellovv substance, which, after having been washed and dried,
formed one fourth of the aloes employed in the experiment.
 I thought at first that this matter was a portion of the aloes
 which had escaped the action of the nitric acid : but the fol
 lowing properties soon convinced me that it was an acid
 with some analogy to the yellow acid, and the detonating
 matter which Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin obtained by
 the action of the nitric acid on animal substances, but
 which differs from it in several respects.
     Thevellow aloeticacid, when well washed and dried, is of
 a very fine yellow colour, and extremely bitter.        It does not
 crystallize, reddens blue turnsole paper, and effervesces
 with the alkaline carbonates.
     It has an agreeable aromatic smell, particularly when it is
  gently heated.      It melts like nitre, gives out an aromatic
 vapour mixed with bitterness, and leaves an abundant charry
 residue.
     When distilled at a gentle heat, it furnished all the usual
  products of vegetable substances, and ended by detonating,
  producing at the same time a purple flame. A very abun
  dant charcoal remained, forming the third part of the sub
  stance employed.
     This acid is not very soluble in water. It required two
  hectogrammes and a half of this fluid at ]0o+O Reaumur to
  dissolve entirely two decigrammes of it. , This solution was
  of the . fine red colour of arterial blood. The muriate of tin
  produced in it a precipitate of the colour of wine-lees, and
  the sulphate of iron heightens the colour.
      Fifteen grammes of alcohol at 38° could only dissolve a
  decigramme of this yellow acid, and the solution was of a
  very deep red colour.
     The mineral acids, warm, dissolve this yellow matter with
  out extricating any thing from it ; but it is soon deposited
  afterwards on account of its insolubility.
      Potash forms with it a combination capable of crystal
  lizing, and of a deep-red. This red salt detonates with the
  violence of gunpowder, either on exposing it to a certain
  hea^t,
          or by touching it with a lighted coal, and leaves after
                                                                    its

                             Analysis of Aloes.                                       229
 its combustion a slight charry trace, and                   a   remarkable smell
 of prussic acid, which might           lead us to suspect the presence
 of azote.
     We may easily produce this red detonating substance, by
  pouring on the yellow acid of aloes a slight warm solution
  of caustic potash, which has but a weak dissolving action
  upon it.
     The nitric liquor, from which the yellow aloetic acid has
 been separated, Mvas saturated by potash.         A very small
 quantity of red detonating matter was deposited at the end
  of four-and-twenty hours.        Nitrate of lime, which was
 poured upon         produced an abundant precipitate of oxalate
                       it,
 of lime when well washed and dried weighed 3-£ grammes.
             :                                      it
 The liquor separated from the oxalate of Time was precipi
  tated      by
              the nitrate of lead.   The sediment, when treated
 with one third of its weight of weak sulphuric acid, fur
 nished about one gramme of malic acid, partly dried.
    §  VII.      results from the above facts, that aloes
                  It                                             not             is
a   gum   resin,  as has been thought, since we do not find
                                                                                      in
                                                                                      it
 either the one or the other of these associated principles                            :
 nor can we class aloes among the resins, although           resem •       it
 bles them much more than the gums.                    therefore It   is               a
 principle sui generis, which       propose, from its properties,
                                      I
 to call resino-amer. This principle     probably widely diffused,
                                               is
 and has its species like other vegetable substances.           this        It   is
 which had been at first confounded with the resins, which
 have been sometimes taken for oxygenated extractive matter,
 and which M. Vauquelin has amply described in his interest
ing memoir upon different species of quinquina.                 also       It   is
 the same substance which          is
                                   deposited  more  or  less  abun
dantly from the decoctions of many of the bitter plants, in
which febrifuge virtues have been for          long time recog
                                                         a
nised    ; such as the ariemisia alsynthium, the centauria cal~
cilrapa and lenedicta, chicory and fumitory *.
    It   is true that the virtues of these plants have been
reckoned less efficacious than the astringent febrifuges        and             :
I   am persuaded that       kina, the principle which acts spe
                             in
cifically against the fever, and the periodical return of dis
eases,    is owing to the combination of the resino-amer with
tannin, or some similar substance. My colleague, Dr. Hal-
dats, directed          by
                      these views,    about to enter upon some
                                          is
important experiments, of which he will give an account,
  • Itappears to me that the resiniform matter found in the bile by             M. The-
nard greatly resembles the resmu-amcr of aloes.
                                  P3                                                 and

230               Fatal  Case    of Inguinal Hernia.
and which may perhaps lead to some great and useful dis
coveries.
   We know that aloes taken internally act as a very active
tonic, and are powerfully antiseptic when applied externally.
Surgeons daily use aloes in tincture, as a detergent for old
ulcers, caries, and gangrenes, which proceed rapidly. Would
it have this antiseptic property if taken internally ? We
know it besides for its febrifuge and purgative virtues : —
but it has certainly never been known before, that it ceases
to purge the instant it is united to gall-nuts in powder, as I
have had occasion to verify.
XLIII. A Fatal       Case   of Inguinal Hernia,    by John Taun
   ton, Esq.     Surgeon     to the  City  and Finsbury Dispensa
   ries, and to the City Truss Society for the Relief of the
   Ruptured Poor.
                         To    Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,     Should      the  following     case of hernia (which was
attended   with    some    important peculiarities) be deemed
worthy of a place in your valuable Magazine, the recording
of it will give me pleasure.
   Mr. J. H. aet. 53, an able-bodied man, of a good consti
tution, has always lived a very regular life, and enjoyed
good health, has been subject to hernia in the left groin for
many years ; for which complaint he constantly wore a truss,
which prevented him from suffering any serious inconveni
ence.
   On the 5th of August the intestine passed through the
abdominal ring, and formed a tumour of considerable size
in the left side of the scrotum- The tumour was very tense
and painful on pressure, but was apparently reduced with
considerable difficulty by a surgeon who resided near the pa
tient.
   The abdomen continued painful on pressure, the pain be
ing referred principally to the umbilicus and region of the
stomach, with a sensation of heat.           Fomentations and the
warm bath were employed without any relief.             The bowels
remained in a constipated state : no stool could be procured
either by medicines taken by the mouth, or by cathartic
glysters, several of which were injected.
   The hiccough became very troublesome ; every thing
taken by the mouth was rejected by the stomach ; feculent
matter was' vomited in large quantities; the tongue was
                                                            '
                                                              much

                 Fatal   Case  of Inguinal Hernia.           23 1
 much furred ; (lie pulse irregular, frequent, and intermit
 ted.   There was also g^eat thirst and fever.
    The countenance became livid ; the eye had that peculiar
 stare which often precedes death from strangulated hernia ;
 the extremities became cold ; the skin generally cold and
 clammy, in a partial state of cold perspiration.
    These symptoms ended in death in 15 days from the first
 attack ; nor does il appear (although the symptoms of
 strangulated hernia continued from the beginning of the
 disease) that any attention was ever directed to the hernia,
 beyond that of pressing the protruded viscera within the ex
 ternal abdominal ring on the first day of the disease.
    The medicines were cathartics, opiates, saline draughts,
 arid glysters. Fomentations to the abdomen and the warm
 bath were also used.
    These particulars were related to me by two of the pro
 fessional gentlemen who attended him, as I did not visit the
 patient during life, but only attended to examine the parts
.after death, when the following appearances were noted.
    The whole of the thoracic viscera were healthy. The
 gall bladder was distended with bile, and contained several
 small biliary calculi.
    The liver, spleen, pancreas, and omentum were healthy ;
 the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, and ilium were much
 distended with flatus. The jejunum and ilium inflamed:
 the inflammation      increased as the intestines were turned
 downwards to the left abdominal ring, through which a con
 volution of the ilium had protruded about twelve inches
 before its termination in the ccecum.           The protrusion
 formed a tumour about as large as a middle-sized apple,
 and situated on the anterior part of the spermatic process,
 between the peritoneum and abdominal muscles, so as not
 to form any tumour visible on the external part of the body;
 but there cannot be a doubt but it might have been disco
 vered during the life of the patient by pressure.
    The stricture was produced by the peritoneum only.
    There were not any adhesions between the hernial sac
 and intestine, nor had ihe sac suffered from chronic inflam
 mation.    The portion of intestine contained in the sac was
 highly inflamed, but not in a state of gangrene. The in
 testines below the stricture were empty and much con
 tracted ; the inflammation       extended  along the intestine
 only about four inches below the part where the stricture
 was situated.
    The rest of the abdominal viscera were perfectly healthy.
    The appearances, on dissection, of this case show, that
                                   P4                          if

   232              Royal Academy of          Copenhagen.
  if an   operation had been performed early, there is every rea
   son to suppose that the life of the individual might have
   been preserved.
      It also proves the necessity of carefully examining every
   part of the abdomen usually the seat of hernia, when the
   symptoms of that disease exist.
      I cannot too earnestly recommend the early performance
   of an operation in strangulated hernia, when it resists the
  usual means of reduction *.              For want of attention to this
   circumstance alone, many valuable lives have been lost to the
   community, and their families left unprotected ; their wi^
  dows and orphans become a burden to the public, relying
  for their support only on parochial assistance.
     sept.26, i8io.                                    John     Taunton.
              XL1V. Proceedings of Learned                  Societies.
                  ROYAL ACADEMY OF COPENHAGEN.
  This      academy has proposed          the  following prize-questions
  lor   1810 : — In Mathematics.            A  body which has the form
  and figure of a cylinder, such as Congreve's rockets, is pro
 jected at a certain elevation or angle with the horizon, and
  is continually impelled bv the flames whic h issue from it.
  The substance which feeds the f.re is gradually consumed,
  and the weight of the body diminished.                      This being the
  case, 1. What is the curve described               by   that   body ?     2. If
  the inflammable matter contained by the cylinder burns in
  such a manner that the inflamed strata are neither parallel
  to each other, nor perpendicular to the axis, to what per
  turbations will the rocket be subject? how are they to be
  prevented or corrected ? 3. As it is necessary ihat the cy
  linder be perforated and hollowed, so as to afford the flame
  a greater surface, and to increase the force of the flame that
  issues from it, it is required to know what form or figure is
  most advantageous for the excavation ? The society wishes
  that attention be paid, if possible, to the resistance and pres
  sure of the air; but yet the prize will be adjudged to the
  best answer to the above three questions.
      In Natural Philosophy. — Philosophers have long be
  stowed great pains on seeking to discover the connexion
/that subsists between electricity and magnetism, which ex
  hibit phaenomena so similar and so different. Modern ob
  servations and discoveries have furnished new means of pro-
     • Few, if
               any, would be the fatal cases in this disease, if the time and the
 performance of the operation were sufficiently attended to. — Hay's Observa-
 i ions on Surgery.
                                                                       secuting3

               Royal Academy of      Copenhagen.               233
secuting these researches.    The older philosophers have left
us numerous experiments on this subject, which do not ex
actly correspond with the principles of the experimental
philosophy of the present day.         Some philosophers have
made new and important experiments, which have not been
sufficiently examined or repeated. The Royal Society, think
ing that this part of experimental philosophy may be consi
derably improved, offers a prize to the writer, who, taking
experience for his guide and support, shall give the best ex
position of the mutual connexion between electricity and
magnetism.
   In Philosophy. — 1. There are persons who still deny the
utility of physical doctrines and experiments in explaining
the phsenomena of the mind and soul : others, on the con
trary, contemptuously reject psychological observations and
reasons, in researches which relate to the body, or restrict
the application of them to certain diseases.       It would be
useful to discuss these two opinions, to show and establish
more clearly how far psychology and natural philosophy
may be combined ; and to demonstrate, by historical evi
dence, what each of these sciences has hitherto contributed
to the advancement of the other.         2. The idea of an uni
versal and characteristic language, proposed by Leibnitz,
having never been sufficiently explained by himself, and ap
pearing to have not been understood by any person, the
question is, to give an accurate and luminous designation of
that language, to point out the way that is capable of lead
ing to this desirable object, and at the same time to examine
 how far the methods hitherto tried in certain sciences, for
instance, in mathematics and chemistry, might be correctly
applied to philosophy and the other branches of human
 knowledge. For the best answer to each of these questions
the academy offers a gold medal of the value of fifty Danish
ducats. Answers to all, except the last, the term of which
is extended to 1811, must be sent before the conclusion of
 1810, either in Latin, French, English, German, Swedish,
or Danish, to M. Buyge, professor of astronomy at Copen
hagen.
          WERNERIAN NATURAL HISTORY SOCIETY.
    At  the meeting  of this Society, on Saturday    2 1st of July
last,  Mr. Campbell of Carbrook       read some observations on
 the cause of the antilunar or inferior tide, impressing the
Newtonian theory on that subject ; and Dr. Thomas Thom
 son read an account of two natural combinations of hydro
 gen and carbon, viz. carburetted hydrogen and supercar-
burctted hydrogen, neither of them containing any oxygen.
                                                       XLV.     /«-

                                  [   234    ]
          XLV.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
  Sir,    An  extraordinary accident lately happened to my
  neighbour, Mr. Watts, chemist, in the Strand, which has
 excited the attention of several persons of his profession. I
 am anxious your ingenious readers should know some par
 ticulars respecting it ; and if you will indulge me by insert
 ing briefly an account of the affair, I shall feel obliged, as
 it might in future prevent a more serious evil.
    Mr. Watts had taken into his premises, as usual, a car-
 hoy of aquafortis, and from some unknown cause, the fol
 lowing morning, his warehouse appeared to be on fire;
 there being a great quantity of smoke seen issuing from
many parts of the building. On entering the apartment,
 the carboy was on fire, and more than half consumed.           I
 saw the remains of the basket and straw taken into the
yard.    The air quickly revived the fire, and I have no
doubt but I could very easily have blown it into a flame.
Particular inquiry was made respecting the straw, and it
appears to have been perfectly clean and new.         There was
no turpentine, or other inflammable spirits, within a foot
of the spot where the carboy stood ; and it has very much
surprised all who have seen           it,
                                     how the acid could ignite
such materials without       the  aid of other agents. Perhaps
some    of your  scientific  correspondents can assign     cause a
for this strange event,     which  does not appear to be gene
rally known, and may point out          remedy for preventing
                                             a                          a
more serious conflagration.         am,
                                      I sir,
                             Your obliged humble servant,
                              "
  Lancaster Court, Strand,                                   R, TeED.
     11 September, 1810.
  The French Government                has   recently     ordered all the
superb      remains of Roman architecture               at Nismes to be
cleared from the rubbish with which they have been for
several centuries confounded.      All the modern buildings,
which disfigured  these  monuments    of antiquity, have con
sequently been removed,     and  the decayed or ruinous parts
of the original  architecture  have   been strengthened and
repaired.
                       BETHLEM HOSPITAL.
   Application    was made to Parliament,           in the last session,
for an Act to    enable the Governors            of Bethlem Hospital    to
                                                               exchange,

                       Belhlem Hospital.                    235
exchange, with the City of London, the present contracted
site of the hospital, for a piece of ground, containing nearly
twelve acres, situated in Saint George's Fields; on which
spot the unhappy subjects of mental derangement will, in
addition to their former advantages, possess such superior
requisites of air and exercise as they have never yet enjoyed,
which are not only likely to add in a considerable degree to
their comfort, but also to accelerate their cure. The plan
of the ancient structure is very capable of improvement,
and has long indeed required it.       The Governors therefore
have advertised for plans for the new building, and offered
premiums of £.200 for the best, £.100 for the second, and
£.50 for ihe third best designs, in the full confidence of
being adequately assisted in their anxious desires to erect
an hospital which may be at once a monument of a bene
volent and enlightened age, and an honour to a great and
distinguished nation. — The present intention of the Go
vernors is to erect a building capable of containing four
hundred patients, but not to confine themselves even to
that enlarged number, if they shall be enabled, by the libe
rality of the public, to proceed further in their design. — The
funds of the hospital, which are applicable to the purposes
of a new building, amount, however, at thi3 time, to little
more than £.27>boO, while the cost of a new hospital,
upon the scale proposed, can hardly be estimated at a
smaller sura than £.100,000. — To effect, therefore, so de
sirable a purpose as that in view, it will be obvious, that
nothing short of a liberal subscription on the part of the
public at large can suffice. The Governors have therefore
published an address, most^arnestly entreating all corpo
rate bodies, as well as individuals, throughout the kingdom,
to contribute, by their benevolence, more extensive means
of relief and cure, than have ever yet been afforded, to the
unfortunate subjects of the most afflicting malady with
which it has pleased the Almighty in his wisdom to visit
his creatures. Their appeal we are confident will not be
in vain, in a country whose greatest characteristic is its
noble and generous solicitude to alleviate the miseries,
administer to the necessities, and heal the diseases of its
people.
    Subscriptions    are received   by Richard Clarke, Esq.
Chamberlain of London, (the Treasurer of Bethlem Hos
pital), Bridge Street, Black-friars; and by most of the
banking-houses in London.
                                                       MATHE-
                       r

. 236          Mathematics.  — Portrait of Buchanan.
                           MATHEMATICS.
     It is well known to mathematicians, that the doctrine of
  solid angles was left in a very imperfect state by Euclid, and
  has scarcely at all been advanced bv subsequent geometers ;
  one of the latest commentators on Euclid, Professor Playfair,
  having remarked that
                             " we have no way of expounding,
  " even in the simplest cases, the ratio which one of them
  " bears to another." Dr. Gregory, of the Royal Military
  Academy, has recently invented a theory of solid angles,
  which is at once simple, satisfactory, and universal in its
  application.    Ey means of this theory, the relative mag
  nitudes of solid angles may be ascertained, not only when
  they are of the same class, — as those formed by the meeting
  of three planes, those by the meeting of four planes, the
  angles, at the vertices of cones, &c. : but angles of one
  class may be compared with those of another, with respect
  to magnitude; and their mutual relations determined, by
  processes as obvious and elementary as the usual operations
  in Plane Trigonometry.        He finds, for example, that the
  solid angles of   the  regular tetraedron, octaedron, hexae-
  dron, and of I he right-angled cone, are denoted by the
  numbers 87*7361 1, 216-35165, 250, and 292-89322, re
  spectively ; the maximum limit of solid angles being ex
  pressed by 1000,
     Having been favoured with a most exquisite original por
  trait of Buchanan, by Titian, we have procured it to be
  engraved by Woolnoth in his best manner, as one of the
  embellishments of the present Number. Such of our readers
  as wish to possess proofs (of which a few have been worked
  off) of this admirable likeness may obtain them from the
  Publishers of the Magazine, at five shillings each.
  Notice respecting the Preface       to the 4lh Edition of   the
                      Encyclopedia   Brilannica.
     Tn writing the preface to the Encyclopsedia Britannica,
  some mistakes having occurred, relative to the writers en
  gaged in the publication, the conductors of that work beg
  leave to assure their subscribers,   and the public, that they
  are wholly unintentional ; as it   never could be their design
  to detract, in any way, from        the merits of the authors
   whom they employed.         They    understand, in particular,
  from Dr. Kirby, that the article Physiology, attributed by
  mistake to another gentleman, was written bv him ; and
   that the following articles, viz. Farriery, Geography,

                   Treatment     of Hernia — Lectures.                  237
Geology, Materia Medica, Prescriptions, Russia, Amuse-
menls of Science, and Spain, were also contributed by him.
     This notice is to be printed separately, and may be had
by the subscribers to the Encyclopaedia, from the Pub
lishers of that work in London and Edinburgh.
     Rupture is so general a disease, and in its aggravated state
so     frequently and suddenly fatal, that every information
which promises relief, particularly from the regular prac
titioner, ought to be universally known. We therefore give
 the following extract from a work lately published by Mr.
Edward Geoghegan, in which an improvement in the treat
 ment is suggested. — " I place the patient in a recumbent
 position, with his shoulders a little raised to relax the trunk,
 but the pelvis not raised, as that would put the fasciae on
 the stretch. The knees are to be drawn up. If the parts have
 not been irritated by handling them, or the body disturbed
 by jolting it about, or by any such roughness, I proceed
 directly to apply cloths wet with cold water, expose the
 entire body naked to the air, the doors and windows being
 open. This practice usually succeeds within an hour*. If.
 it does not, I surround the hernia with my hand or hands
 at about its middle, in the way that I would grasp a gum
 elastic bottle, to press out its air or other contents, by
 gently approximating its sides, always holding in view,
  that the tumour is to be emptied, and not pushed up.                      I
 never press the hernia in any direction, or at all towards
  the abdomen.          When it is small, it may be done with the
  finger and thumb of one hand.              Having applied the hands,
  I do not remove them for fifteen or twenty minutes, aware
  that reirerated impulses irritate, and that the effects of
  compression are lost each time that it is intermitted." — In
  cases of great pain and tension he omits this practice. —
  This practitioner differs from every other so far, as that the
   usual directions are to press the protruded bowel up towards
  the belly, which he takes great pains to show is improper,
  and insists that the contents should be merely squeezed out.
                                  li:ctukes.
       Dr. Adams's Lectures on the Institutes and Practice of
   Medicine will commence on Monday the Bib. Oct. next, at
   Eight o'clock, at Dr. Anderson's Lecture-rooms, 4", Frith-
   street,   Soho.
      * In some cases where I could not immediately attend, I have directed
   thai cold applications should be ued until my arrival - and atier an hour,
   thev informed me thai they were seized with a shivering, that they heard
   the wind rush out of the hernia, and that they were instantly relieved.
                                                                           On

   238                        Lectures.
      On the same day Dr. Anderson will begin his Course
   of Lectures on Practical Chemistry.
      Lectures on Materia Medica form a part of the above
   Courses.
      Further particulars may be known by applying to Dr.
  Anderson,     as above, or to Dr. Adams,     2, New Bridge-
   street.
       Dr. Clutterbuck    will begin his Autumnal Course of
  Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Physic. Materia
  Medica, and Chemistry, &c. on Friday the 5th October,
  at Ten o'clock in the morning precisely, at his house,
  No. 1 , Crescent, New Bridge-street ; where further par
  ticulars may be had ; or at the General Dispensary, Al-
  dersgate-street. The Lectures are given daily ; Theory and
  Practice, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays ; Materia
  Medica and Chemistry, on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Sa
  turdays, at the same hour.
  George-street, Hanover-square, and St. George's Hospital.
      On Saturday, Oct. 6, a Course of Lectures on Physic
  and Chemistry will recommence in George-street, at the
 usual morning hours: viz. Therapeutics at Eight, the
  Practice of Physic at Half after Eight, and the Chemistry
 a
      Quarter after
                     Nine, by George Pearson, M.D. F.R.S.
 Senior Physician to St. George's Hospital, of the College
 of Physicians, &c.
      Clinical Lectures are given, as usual, on the Patients of
 St. George's Hospital, every Saturday morning at Nine
  o'clock.
           LIST OF PATENTS      FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     To Charles Williams, of Gravel-lane, Southwark, mill
 wright, for a machine for grinding or cutting malt, splitting
 beans, and any other kind of grain, and various other arti
 cles. — Aug. 2, 1810.
     To Marc Isambard Brumel, of Chelsea, for certain ma
 chinery for the purpose of making or manufacturing shoes
 and boots. — Aug. 2.
     To Thomas Collins, London, warehouseman, for an im
 proved mode of making ladders, which being formed of
 different pieces, and capable of being put together by socket
joints, will be found extremely useful for the purposes of
 escalade, engineering, escapes from fire, erecting of build
 ings, and for all other purposes for which ladders of any
description are necessary. — Aug. 10.
                                                            To

             List of Patents for    new Inventions.         23§
   To William Whitmore, of Dudmarton, Salop, esq. for a
magnetic toy to facilitate the teaching of children to spell,
read and cypher, in any tongue, with ease to the teacher,
pleasure to the children, and proportional expedition. —
Aug. 14.
    To Peter Durand, of Hoxton Square, merchant, in con
sequence of a communication          made to him by a certain
foreigner residing abroad, for a method for preserving ani
mal food, vegetable food, and other perishable articles, a
long time from perishing or becoming useless. —Aug. 25.
    To James Walker, of Wapping, in the county of Mid
dlesex, ship-chandler, lor his machine or vessel for the safe
 conveyance of gunpowder, and for its preservation from
injury by damp. — Sept. 7.
    To James Weldon, of the county and city of Litchfield,
engineer, for his further new improvements on a mill for
grinding bark and other articles. — Sept. 7.
    To Joseph C. Dyer, of Boston, State of Massachusetts,
 one of the United States, now residing in the city of West
minster, merchant, who, in consequence of a communication
made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad, is be
 come possessed of a machine for cutting or removing all
 the various kinds of furs which are used in hat-making
 from the skins or pelts, and for cutting the said skins or
 pelts into strips or small pieces. — Sept. J.
    To David Mathews, of Rotherhithe, engineer, for his
 improved method of constructing and building locks with
a groin or Gothic conic arch. Also an improved form of
 the gates, and an improved method of opening and shutting
 the same. — Sept. 7.
    To Joseph Johnson, of the county of Surry, gentleman,
for his new mode of communicating intelligence from one
 apartment of a house to another by means of machinery or
 apparatus, which he denominates a domestic telegraph. —
Sept. 17.
    To Jonathan Varty, of Liverpool, coach-maker, for his
improvements in the axle-trees of carriages. — Sept. 17.
    To Peter Brown, of Henrietta-Street, Covent-Garden,
Middlesex, gentleman, for his new construction of buoys
for ships or vessels, and for rnooring-chains or similar pur
 poses. — Sept. 26.
    To Richard Seaton, of Berwick-Street, Middlesex, liquor-
merchant; and Thomas Rice, of Whitecross- Street, Mid
dlesex, spring roasting-jack-maker,       for their new burner
upon    an  improved  construction,   applicable to all kinds of
lamps.  —  Sept.  26.
                                                        METEO

940                         Meteorology.
                  METEOROLOGICAL            TABLE,
            Br Me. Carey, of the Strand,
                       For  September      1810.
              Thermometer.
 Days of
 Month.
            u c                  Height of
                                the Barom.
                                              2  J  E      Weather.
            P  o                   Inchest
August27     58    74°   62°     30-08          63    Fair
        28   57    74    64           •13       74    Fair
        29   58    71    67           ¦10       65    Fair
        30   59    75    68       29*98         52    Fair
        31   66    77    69           •90       53    Fair
  Sept.   1  68    78    70           •85       61    Fair
          2  70    80    69           •90       60    Fair
          3  69    72    58           •80       58    Cloudy
         4   58    62    54           •72       26    Cloudy
          £  55    68    58       30-00         55    Fair
          6  56    68    51           •00       45    Cloudy
          7  50    64    49           ¦32       51    Fair
         '8 49     64    50           '12       55    Fair
         9   51    66    56           •05       50    Fair
        10   53    68    54      29- 91         41    Fair
        11   50    59    50           •70         0   Rain
        12   58    58    45          •61          0   Rain
        13   48    63    47      30- 06         36    Fair
        14   53    68    48          •20        42    Fair
        15  47     61    51           •38       33    Cloudy
        16   53    64    57          •28        42    Cloudy
        17   57    67    58          •09        38    Fair
        18   58    68    49          ¦05        30    Cloud
        19   51    67    56          •10        22    Cloudy
        SO  56     63    59          •10        10    Foggy
        SI  58     66    58          •05        15    Fosrgy
        S3  56     68    56      29- 95         32    Fair
        S3  57     62    52          •96        20    Showery
        24  56     66    54      30- 09         42    Fair
       £5   58     69    56          •II        80    Fair
        26  57     67    55          •05        82    Fair
          N.B. The  Barometer's height is taken atone o'clock.

                                 [    241     ]
 XLVI.      On the New Mountain Barometer.                    By Sir   Henry
           C. Ekglkfield, Bart. F.R.S. and F.S.4.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sin,    1  he experience of three years having ascertained the
convenience and utility of the mountain barometers, made
on the principles of which a description, drawn up by me,
was inserted in your Journal, (vol. xxx. p. 46,) 1 am induced
 to address you again on the subject ; both to inform the public
 of some improvements made in their construction since my
former letter, and to propose some mode of collecting, for
general benefit, the observations made by individuals.
    The improvement in the construction is principally in
 the cistern.     It had been found that when exposed to gnat
 motion in an unfavourable position, which in lonp; journeys
 is not easily avoided, the agitation of the mercury had
 several times cracked the tube towards the top, in a fissure
 scarcely perceptible to the eye, yet sufficient to let in slowly
 a small portion of air.         To remedy this inconvenience, the
 cistern has now a bottom of leather on w hich a screw presses
 in the usual mode, so as to force the mercury nearly to
 the top of the tube when packed for carriage.                    This screw
 is to be unscrewed as far as it can, when the barometer is
 prepared for use; and the leather bag is so adjusted, that
 there is no reason to fear that the capacity of the cistern
 thus unscrewed for use, will ever be sensibly different from
 itself at different times.         It may be just mentioned, that
 w hen the barometer is carried by a careful person, it is by
no means necessary to screw up the hag between every
station ; as, when unscrewed, the instrument is in precisely
the same state that it always was, iu those of the first con
struction *.
    Mr. Jones,    at the desire of several gentlemen, has en
deavoured     to add a nauge point and adjustment to keep the
mercury in the cistern ever to the same height, as in, other
mountain barometers, but such addition has been found in
practice productive of more inconvenience than advantage.
He now, therefore, measures the content of eveiy tube se
parately, and engraves on the mounting the correction to
be made to the results, as stated in the former paper; and
by this method it is presumed that all errors from the
want of    a gauge   point must be prevented.                 Mr. Jones    has
   * The screw which  frees trie cistern for use, is prote.-ted by an outer cap
from being spoiled by idle curiosity, or injured by a Mow, which often
happened to those barometers where this screw wa« unprotected.
    Vol.  3G.  No.   150. Oct. 1810.                  O
                                                      rw
                                                                          now

242            On the New Mountain Barometer.
now    sold above 150 barometers of this construction.        Of
these, it cannot be doubted that by far the greater part has
been purchased by gentlemen both able and desirous to
use them for the purpose of measuring heights ; and 1 know
that a great number of valuable observations have been
made with them in different parts of our islands.         While,
however, these observations remain in the hands            of the
observers, the public is little benefited by them; and I
doubt not that if it were generally known that a deposit
for them was provided, all those gentlemen who have made
 observations of altitudes with these, or any other good
 mountain barometers, would readily send their observations,
and contribute their part to the common stock of valuable
information which would be deduced from the publication
either of the observations themselves or the results of them.
    For this purpose Mr. Jones, late of Mount-street, now
of Kenton-street, Brunswick-square, the same ingenious
artist who made these barometers at first under my inspec
tion, has kindly consented, at my request, to receive and
arrange all such observations as may be transmitted to him
 (post paid or franked) by the gentlemen who have made
them ; and I shall be happy not only to assist him in com
puting them, but will readily superintend the publication
of them, either in the literary journals, or in a separate work,
as may in process of time appear the most eligible. It seems
the most desirable that the names of the observers should
be published with their observations, as giving the stamp
of authenticity to them: this, however, will ue done, or
omitted, as the several contributors may wish.
   As it is to be hoped that the communications may be
numerous, it will materially diminish the labours of ar
rangement, if a general form be adopted in sending the ob
servations; and it is hoped that the specimen here annexed
will be found convenient to the observers themselves, as
well as to those wljose province it maybe to collect them.
   Extensive geological observations would be in this case
out of their place; yet it might be useful, and productive
of little additional labour or trouble, if the soil of the spot
where each observation was made couldj if possible, be
specified.   Another observation nearly connected with that
of the barometer and thermometer for altitudes, is the
temperature of the waters at or near the places of observa
tion.    Wells of 40 or 50 feet deep arc, for this purpose,
more to be depended on than springs, which often run at
so small a depth below the surface of the ground as to be
much affected by the heat and cold of summer and winter.
                                                                It

               On the Land Winds                  of Coromandel, &c.                                243
  It will, however, be best to make observations as often as
 possible both on the one and the other, as it has been as
 certained, both by Mr. Cavendish and the late Dr. Hunter,
 that the temperature of the waters at any given place is a
 most accurate measure of its mean heat ; a determination
 of which is not only an object of considerable curiosity in
 itself, but of very great consequence in an agricultural point
 of view.
    The annexed form for registering the observations scarcely
 requires an explanation.     The first column is for number
 ing the observations, which extremely facilitates the re
 ference to them.      The succeeding columns are fully ex
 plained by their titles. The last, called Results, is added,
 in order that those persons who choose it may place in one
 view the observations, and the altitudes deduced from them.
 Printed sheets in this form, ready for use, may be had of
 Mr. Jones. The back of each page is left blank, for the
 convenience of inserting any other notes or observations.
                                         I   am, sir,
                                                   Your humble servant,
                                                        H. C. Englefield.
 N-          Place of              Wea Wind.                    Barome
                                                                         |
                                                     Time                               Results.
           Observation.            ther.                          ter.   Ih.A   Th.D
  1     October  6
        Steyne, Bright-
           helmston . ..
                            \
                             )
                                   Sun   NW          2- 15      30-268 63 63            1     and    2
  s     Stand on Race-        >
                                   Do. Do. 30                   29- 870 62 68 400 feet.
        Stand again       ....     Do. Do.           3- 32 29861 62 (11
  4 3                              Do. Do.           4- 15 30- 278 61 61
        Steyne again       . . .
XLVII.         On the Land Winds      of Coromandel, and their
             Causes.       By William Roxburgh, M.D.*
The land    winds on the coast of Coromandel are those
hot winds  which   blow" at  particular season of the year,
                                             a
and hour   of  the day, from the western hills, commonly"
called the Ghauts, towards the Bay of Bengal.       In the
more inland countries, as above the Ghauts, They are not
   • From Transactions       of the Medical      Society   of   London, vol.    i.     part   I.   just
published,
                                         Q   2
                                                                                       confined

  244          On the Land Winds         of Coromandel,
  confined to any regularity, though they are felt sometimes
  with a great degree of severity, and for hours together.
     I understand also that in the upper parts of Bengal they
  are sometimes experienced very severely ; hut whether from
  the west or the northward, or in what part of the year, I
  have not been able to ascertain.          As far as this onlv tends
' to prove the insufficiency of the denomination,             it would
  signify little, although     in   other   respects   it would   be of
  more moment.
     As they are generally supposed to be peculiar to this
  country, and are felt during several months in the year, we
  should imagine their history and causes to have been per
  fectly investigated and understood ; but, 1 know r.ot whv,
  neither the one nor the other have as yet been satisfactorily
  explained.
     The most plausible reason generally given for the great
  accumulation of heat in them is the heat of the season in
  which they prevail, and the long tract of country over
  which they have to pass. That this, however, is rot the
  true cause, it shall be my endeavour to demonstrate; to
  which I will add an attempt to point out the most probable
  one, founded on known chemical principles.
     Respecting the theory I have to offer, I regret that it has
  found but few patrons in this country, which, however, I
  flatter myself may be ascribed more to the manner in which
  it has been proposed, than to the foundation on which it is
  constructed.
      In order to facilitate the explanation of my sentiments,
  as well as to show thit the land winds ftally deserve some
  attention from the philosopher, I shall briefly recount the
  phenomena accompanying their beginning and progress,
  as well as the effects by which they are generally followed.
     Could my pen equal my sensations, J should be able to
  paint their effects in the most lively colours, aided by eight
  years experience in a country the most noted on the coast*
  for their intensity.
     The land winds are preceded in the latter end of March
  or in the beginning of April by whirlwinds, which between
  eleven and twelve o'clock at noon hurry in various direc
  tions, mostly from west to east, towards the sea. These are
  called by the natives Peshashs or Devils, because they some
  times do a little mischief to the lighter buildings.
     About the same time, or a little after the appearance
  of the whirlwinds, we may observe all ranges of hills gar-
                                                                        <U+2666>
                   • Samulcotah in the Northern Circars.
                                                                 nished

                            and (heir Causes.                    245
   nished   as it were with clouds, which become daily darker
  and    heavier,    until they discharge themselves with much
   thunder and lightning in a heavy shower of rain.           After
  this marked phenomenon the land winds set in imme
  diately with all the violence of which they are capable.
      Their commencement is generally in the latter end of
  April, or beginning of May, and their reign lasts to the
  eailier days of June, during which period they generally
  exert their violence from ten or eleven o'clock in the morn
  ing until about three or four o'clock in the afternoon.
      In this season the atmosphere is commonly hazy and
  thick, except that in the evenings and nights the sky is
  serene and clear, provided the land winds do not continue
  the w hole day.
      The rising sun which portends         a land wind dav appears
  of   a fiery   red,  and  as  if involved   in mist, which mist is
  changed      afterwards    into clouds     that lie heavy on the
  Ghauts.
      The land wind of each day is almost always preceded
  by a long calm, and immediately by a cloud of dust.
      Their diurnal violence is terminated aloni; the coast about
 two or three o'clock, by the setting in of the sea-breeze,
 which wafts delight and health as far as its influence ex
 tends, which is not more than ten or twelve miles inland.
 An abatement of their intensity from thence to the Ghauts
 is all that can be hoped for.
     The sea breeze r. gularly begins in the afternoon at one
 or two o'clock, blowing pretty steadily until sunset, when
 it dies away gradually, and at sunrise it is again perceptible,
 though weakly.
     VVnen 1 say its influence is onlv felt ten miles inland, I
 do not wish to be understood that it does not extend tur-
 ther : I mean only its powerful refreshing properties, which
it loses in proportion to the distance troin the sea, and in
an inverse ratio to its strength, which is not great.            In
general it arrives at thirty miles distance from the sea in
The evening, and is then only agreeable by the ventilation
it effectuates.
     In the country above the Ghauts, as in Mysore, the east
wind prevails also in the afternoon, but from a period much
earlier, orcotemporaneous with the sea-breeze on the coast,
which renders it clear that this inland breeze either does
not extend fuither than to the Ghauts, or really originates
there ; a point which deserves to be ascertained, as another
phenomenon depends upon this circumstance.
r
                                  O 3                       Should

240            On the Land Winds    of Coromandel,
    Should the sea-breeze fail, as sometimes happens, the
land wind decreases gradually until it dies away in the be-i
 ginning of the night, which, on account of its calmness, is
 dismal to a degree : next morning, a little motion of the. air
 is again perceptible, but at the usual time the wind sets in
 as strong and hot asthedav before. Everv thing we put our
 hands upon is then distiesMng to the touch, which must
be the case when the temperature     of the body is inferior to
 that of the atmosphere.     This we experienced for almost a
 fortnight in the vear 1799 in the Northern Circars, when
 the thermometer at eight o'clock in the night stood at
 10S°, and at noon at 1 12°.   Shades, globes, tumblers, then
very often crack and break to pieces, and the wooden fur
niture warps and shrinks so much, that even the nails fall
out of doors and tables, &c.       In their greatest iutensity,
however, I have never seen the thermometer rise higher
than l        viz. in the coolest part of the house, though
some sav they have observed it at ISO3.
    The Ghauts, and the hills at no great distance from them,
are then seen lighted all night by spontaneous fires, and
often in a very picturesque manner.
    These illuminations appear, in general, about the middle
of the mountains, aqd seldom or never extend to the top
or bottom of them. Thev take place especially on those
hills on « hich the bamboos grow very thick; which has
probably led the natives to explain this phaenomenon so
rationally, by ascribing it to the friction of these bushes
against each other.
    Lieutenant Kater, of his majestv's 12th regiment, thinks
that the corky hark of the adenanthera pavonina is often
spontaneously inflamed, as he has frequently found, on his
surveys, its bark converted into charcoal, and several of
these trees burnt down to the roots, although they were
not in the vicinity of any other trees.
                J
    In Europe know these spontaneous ignitions have been
much discredited ; and I doubt not but should these few
sheets ever be published, many objections will be raised
ag.iinst what I ha e related: but I have endeavoured         to
state facts only, which a luxuriant imagination might have
painted in more striking colours, but I 4"* sure not with
ftncier adherence to truth.
    The land winds are noted for the dryness which they
gent rally produce on the face of the country, as well as on
that of the animal creation.    This sensation is particularly
felt  in the cyeljds, which   become   in some measure quite
                                                           Stiff

                            and their Causes.                                   247
stiff and painful.    This is owing to the immediate volatili
zation of all huinids that irrigate our organs, and which, in
this particular one, projiably gives rise to inflammations of
the eves, so frequent at this time of the year*.                                      /
   The continuant, e of this wind causes pain in the bones,
and a general lassitude, in all that live; and, in some, pa
ralytic or hemiplectic affections.     Its sudden approach has,
besides, the dreadful   effect  of destroying men and animals
instantaneously.
   It is not very uncommon to see large kites or crows, as
they fly, drop down dead ; and smaller birds I have known
to die, or take refuge in houses, in such numbers, that a
very numerous family has used nothing else for their daily
meals than these victims of the inclemency of the season
and their inhospitality.      In populous places it is also not
very  uncommon      to  hear,   that four or five people     have       f
died in the streets in the course of a day, in consequence of
being taken unprepared. This happens especially at the first
setting in of those winds.
   The natives use no other mean3 of securing themselves
against this wind but shutting up their houses, and bathing
in the morning and evening; Europeans cool it through
wetted yatsj made of straw or grass, sometimes of the roots
of the waltie§, which, wetted, exhale a pleasant but faint
smell.    It will be incredible to those that have never wit
nessed      but the evaporation
             it,                     really so great, that several
                                         is
people   must  be  kept  constantly   throwing water upon the
lats (eight feet bv four) in order to have the desired effect
of cooling small room.a
    Itwould be scarcely necessarv to observe,            were not
                                                              if   it
   contradiction to public opinion, that the cold produced
is in
   not    peculiar property of the wind, but depends upon
             a
the general principle, that all liquids passing into an aeri
form slate absorb heat, and cause immediately around them
    * The                                           it,
            eye flics, so often supposed to occasion     pr> duce
                                                                a  transient and
sharp p;tin       the eye, hut never,
                 in                 I  believe,
                                              a  lasting inflammation.
   It   isgenerally thought "nfectious, and may he so bv the interference of
 the eye flies carrying the contagious matter from an aflected eye to   a  sound
one.
 t     Four people dropped down dead at Yanam, in the year 1797. an hour
after my arrival there from Masulipatam: and at Samufcotah four or hve
died the sanieday on ihe short road between that place and Peddapore: the                 t
number of inhabitants of either of these places does not exceed,        Ibelieve,
five thousand.
 \    The frame of tlieni is    made of bamboos in the form of the opening in
 the house to be tatted, let   it   be door or window, which    is  ihen covered
with strav.- in the manner every one, thiuks best suited to retain the water
longest.
  §   slitdmpoguii muricalum.
                                    Q   4                                   a   di-
        i

                                                                                             ¦
243                        On the Land Winds                  of Coromandel,
a diminution                 of    it,
                      and consequently    relative coldness.          a
On the same    principle depends also the cooling of wine
and water,      the land wind seasons, the latier in light
                           in
earthen vessels which allow an oozing of the water through
their pores, and the former     bottles wrapped in       in
                                                       piece                         a
of cloth or    straw, which must be constantly kept moist
                        in
ened.
          great violence of these winds
         The                                     at last terminated
                                                                  is
 by  frequent showers of rain,          June, in the low countries,
                                                         in
 and       the greater quantity of the regular rains falling in
              by
 the inland countries, which seem to suspend the partial
formation of clouds along the Ghauts, and to leave them
clearer, and visible at      greater distance than they had been
                                           a
 at any other period of the year before.
    After the enumeration of so many disagreeable circum
 stances,     am naturally led to an investigation of the causes
                  I
that produce them.         Before this can be done, however,                             I
must prove, according to promise, that the theory of our
philosophers is founded          error.        in
    They ascribe, as already observed, the extraordinary heat
which distinguishes these winds from most others, to the
absorption of caloric           their passage over an extensive
                                           in
tract of country, at      lime when the sun acts most power
                                       a
fully      our latitudes.
             in
    According to this theory, the heat should increase in
proportion to the space over which this wind              to travel             is       ;
it should be hotter on the coa?t than             at any part of the
                                                                 it   is
country inland, or, which            the same,      should decrease
                                                    is                 it
 by degrees from the eastern to the western sea of the penin
sula.    Experience, however, teaches us the reverse; for
it    hottest near the Ghauts, and among the valleys between
     is
those ranges of hills, than at any place on the coast; and
the heat of ihosc winds decreases also as they approach the
Bay ot Bengal, and            direct ratio from the Ghauts to the
                                   it      a
sea    accordingly,
         :                 at      is in
                              Ambore* hotter than at Ve-Moref,
and   at this  place again than at Arcot        Conjeveram       and
                                                                J,
Madras, where the land winds are seldom felt with any de
gree         of   severity,
     *A place situated     the most western valley of the Ohauts, immediately
                                  in
at the foot of the steepest ascent into the Mysore country.
    ¦*•
      Lies in    spacious valley nearly at the entrance of the Ghaut mountains,
                   a
and has the advantage of an open communication with the flat country to
t!ie north-east.
 t   A lar^e city, the capital of the nabobs of the Carnatic, east of the ranges
of hills railed the Ghauts.
 §      . miles oast of the Iattpr place in the road to Madras,
         .   .                                                      large popu  a
lous place.     have chosen this tract or line as the most known, although
                    I
not the hottest   for Ellore, Rajahniundry, and Samulcotah in the Northern
                       ;
pircars, are by lax more exposed to these winds.                     Time,  (

                            and their Causes.                             SI 9
    Time is another measure applicable to the acquisition of
heat, as it increases to the jireatest pitch which a body is
capable of receiving in proportion to its continuance : the
land winds should therefore be cooler when they set in at
len or eleven o'clock, and hoitest at their termination in
the afternoon ; thev should be so at least at noon, when
the sun is nearly vertical, and has the greatest influence on
the substances from which heat is to be attracted.                       The
contrary,     however,      comes    nearest   to  thelruih;       for   it is
known that these winds set in with their greatest violence
and heat at once, which rather abate than increase, as
might be expected.
     We should, on this principle, further suppose the heat
would increase gradually with the return of the sun to our
latitudes, from its southern declination, and stand always
in proportion to its position.           We find, however, that ex
perience also contradicts this point of the theory under dis
 cussion ; for after the sun has passed our zenith*, the land
 winds set in at once with all their intensity, in the manner
 before described, and they cease as abruptly before its re-r
turn again t-
     A material change in the temperature of this climate is
 certainly effected by the approach of the sun from the south ;
 but the hi.-at which is thus caused, and which increases
 by imperceptible degrees, is never so great, and is only felt
 by those who expose themselves to it unprotected; for the
 air remains proportionally cool, anrl our houses afford, in
 this season, a pleasant retreat.            We rind it far otherwise
 in a land wind ; for this penetrates our inmost recesses, and
 renders life miserable every where.
     I have before observed, that winds equally hot with those
 of periodical duration are felt in all parts of the country,
 and at different seasons; a circumstance alone sufficient,
 if proved, to overthrow the ground A ork of the old theory.
     For a confirmation of this, I will appeal to the geneial
 observation, that immediately before a long rain the weather
 is sultiy, and that a single shower is always preceded by a
 warm disagreeable wind.
     We are very particularly reminded of the approaching
 great monsoon in October by the oppressive heat we have in
  the calm evenings ot that month, which, I am persuaded,
 would equal thai of the land winds in May, if the atmo-
    * The sun is in the zenith at Madras about the CCtii of April.
    +  The sun is a^'ain in our zenith on its southern declination about the
  19th of August.
                                                                       sphere

         *
 850                On ihe Land Winds            of Coromandel,
 pphere was not cooled in the latter part of the night by
 breezes thai have wafted over exteniive inundated plains.
    1 can  refer, secondly, to mv Meteorological    Journal,
 according la which, the 4th of June 1800, at Madavaram,
 a place not far from Bengalore, the thermometer rose for a
 short time to 104° ju9t before a slight shower of rain, and
 at a time when heavy clouds darkened the western                         hemi
sphere.
   Further, in the months of March and April, 1 804, we
had often at Bengalore, in the afternoons, strong gusts of
wind from the eastward, which, in common, were styled
land winds, and were really as hot and disagreeable as mo
derate land winds are in the Carnatic.   1 could have mul
tiplied instances of this kind, but am of opiuion that in a
fact so much known it would be perfectly needless.
   The last refuge of the defenders of this theory is the
valleys of the Ghauts, in which they pretend the heat is
generated by the concentrated and reflected rays of the
sun.
   1 will not deny but the heat occasioned by these causes
may contribute much to raise the heat of the land winds;
but the sudden appearance of the latter, their usual strength,
and abrupt disappearance, all militate against that explana
tion      principal cause.
        as a
   The       of these winds should in this case, to say a few
             heat
words more on the preceding subject, decrease regularly
from the point where it is greatest towards the opposite, on
both sides, 'as is the case on the coast of Coromandel.      On
the contrary, we find that, immediately on our having
ascended the Ghauts, or on the top of hills * elevated above
the clouds, we have escaped their heat all at once.        Il is
hereby  remarkable,   that the  direction of  the wind  remains
to appearance     nearly the same every where.      In Mysore,
for example, the wind              is,
                               in the land wind season, west
during  the greater part   of   the day      the afternoon
                                                  ;   in                   it   is
from the east, and commonly warmer than the former.
   This, together with what had been said before, will,                      I
hope, be thought sufficient to establish my opinion re-
 *    Major Latnbton, at the top of Carnatighur, one of the highest hills in
the Carnatic, about three thousand two hundred feet above the level of the
sea, found, in the middle of the land wind season, the thermometer at 79" and
80°in  the mornings, and, at poon, 82° and 84°, when        was below at 10:1°
                                                           it
and more.
   This observation may be the     more depended upon, as the Major remained
fora  considerable time on the     top of this hill, in the pursuance of bis most
accurate survey in the course      of which he pays great attention to this ai
well as to all other points that   could influence bu learned labours.
                                           v                              lative

                            avd iheir Causes,                            251
lative to what can not be the cause              of the heat in the land
winds.
    It remains now to point out a theory, supported on a
firmer basis, which 1 shall endeavour to do in the follow
ing pages.        It is founded on a chemical principle, and will
explain, 1 think, the heat of these winds in a satisfactory
manner.
    The principle itself needs no demonstration, as it is ad
 mitted as a general la.'. ; viz. that " all bodies, when they
 become more dense, suffer heat to escape ; or, what is the
 same, thev give out heat."               For example, when gases or
 aeriform substances become vapours, they discharge as
 much heat as was necessary to keep them in their former
 gaseous state : further, vapours in condensing into fluids
 are known to do the same, as also fluids, acquiring solidity.
     I am sony that the quantity of heat set free in the con
 densation of vapours required for a pound of water has
 escaped my memory ; but I recollect it was very considera
 ble.      We know, however, that a great deal of it is re
 quired for the evaporation of the same measure, and it is
 but reasonable to admit that the same quantity with which
 it has combined should be discharged on its returning to
 its former state of fluidity.
     In order to applv this principle to explain the presence
 pf heat in our land winds, I must first observe, that the
 atmosphere'in January, Februarv, and March, is perfectly
 clear and serene; and then I will call to mind what has
 been said of the phenomena of those winds, that they are
 preceded, by clouds on and among the Ghauts, and thai a
 heavy shower of rain from that quarter announces their ar
 rival; that during their coniinuince clouds are observed to
 lie on the Ghauts ; and that the atmosphere, even in the
 low country, is hazy and thick.               1 must add also, that the
 countries west of the Ghauts are at this season frequently
 visited by heavy showers of rain, accompanied with much
 thunder and lightning, and sometimes with hail.                      Here in
  the Mysore country I h ive found the heaviest showers of
 this kind-to come from the north-west*, which is exactly
 in the direction of the countries remarkable for the great
 heat of the land winds in this season.                At times, we nave
 also showers from the east and south east, and my attention
 shall not be wanting to ascertaiti whether it is not at the
  time when the land winds blow hottest in the Carnatic,
    * The hottest land winds in this season
                                             (1804) at Madras were, I undetv
 ftaiid, from the norih-west ; which corresponds with the direction from which
 the raios came in Mysore at that period.
                                                                           By

  252      On the   Land Winds of Coromandel, and their             Causes,
 By this      we see, that the clouds formed on the Ghauts,
  charged with water and electricity (by causes I am not now
 to investigate), are drawn to the westward, whilst the heat
 which, during the formation of these clouds, must neces
 sarily he discharged, is carried to the east or to the lower
 parts of the coast, and causes the properties for which the
 land winds are so remarkable.
      I ha/\e acknowledged already, that the heat occasioned
 by the power of the sun in this season, contributes to the
 aggregate of it in the wind; but I must observe al>o, that
 it acts only as a secondary cause, and passively, by pre
 venting its absorption and diminution in the career over a
 variety of substances, particularly moisture, with which it
 would combine, if they had not been previously removed
 or incapacitated.
      In colder climates, this absorption takes place in a greater
 dcgiee, as substances arc abundant with which the heat
 produced by the formation of rain can combine and be
 come imperceptible*.             It is, however, there also often re
 marked, that the heal of the sun in a cloudv day is more
 powerful than at any other time.                 In common this is
 a.-,eribed to the reflection of the rays of the sun from the
 clouds ; but I opine it is often the consequence of the for
 mation of water in the clouds, which obscure the sky at
that moment.
     It has been observed, that the heat of the land winds is
not felt on the top of high hills, or on plains of a very in
considerable perpendicular height above those in which it
rages most violently ; aj for example, in Mysore near the
Ghauts, which is only about live hundred feet higher than
the vallc)s immediately below. This might be considered a
weighty objection against my theory ; as heat, considered
in the light of an elastic fluid, expands equallv on all sides ;
and from whatever cause it proceeds, it should be supposed
to extend even further where it meets with less resistance,
as from the air in higher regions, which is known to be
lighter and more penetrable than near the earth.
     But the reverse takes place; for almost immediately
above the clouds no other heat is perceptible than what
Wljlit be owing to the nature of the climate.
     This circumstance may be accounted for by the dimi
nished density of the air in the lower parts of the country,
    * Earl Pundonald's T iratise, p. 20. " The frequent changes in the de
gree of heat and cold in the atmosphere are to be ascribed more to the alter
nate disengagement    and tixation of heat by chemical combination, than to
the ellecis of the solar rays."
                                                                 produced

Hints   respecting        a New Theory on the Orbits         of Comets.      2A3
produced by the heat of the season, which would naturally
cause the wind to rush thither, with all its contents, and
with greater impetuosity.   The coolness of the atmosphere
on elevated situations may be ascribed also to the evapora
tion of the uppermost strata of the clouds, which accoiiH
panv the land winds.
   Many arguments 1 have dispensed with, which might
have been produced to elucidate and to establish my theory,
as they were chiefly such as could be collected from simple
inference, «nd from affirmative application of doctrines ad
vanced before.
   I will only add, that both the sirocco and samiel may be
owing to similar causes as those which appear to be pro
ductive of the pernicious, or rather disagreeable, effects of
our land winds.
XLVIII.          Hints respecting a New Theory on the Orbits of
        Comets.       By Mr. \V. Ckane,                of'
                                              Edinburgh.
                                  To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,    The   following theory, for any thing     know,          I               is
original   should
            :         be deemed worthy of
                           it                 place in the   a
Philosophical Magazine, its insertion will much oblige
                                Your humble servant,
                                                       W. Crane,
  Sept. 27, 1810.                            Student of Medicine,   Edinburgh.
            "   Hast thou ne'er seen the comet's flaming flight?
                The illustrious strangerpassing, doubles wide
                Heaven's mighty cape, and then revisits Earth." — Young.
  The difficulties with which this intricate branch of                     astro
nomy    issurrounded, the short part of an orbit of comet              a
that  isvisible to us, and the rarity of their appearance, have
given rise to innumerable theories, many of which have no
sooner been advanced than they were immediately aban
doned as erroneous.
   The school of Peripatetics assigned comets no pl$ce in
our planetary system, they only considered them as sub
lunary things made up of the exhalations in the terrestrial
regions; which was the opinion of many, until Tycho Btahc
and Kepler proved       observation that they were beyond the
                             by
moon, and consequently not composed of terrestrial va
pours this was further confirmed
        :                                         by
                                         the observations made
 by Cassini, of that seen in the year 16G5, and of another
that appeared in April 1680.        Cartcsius thought them to
be permanent bodies, like the planets, and to be constantly
                                                         carried

 254               Hints   respecting   a   New Theory
   c.irried from one vrirtex to another in right lines : but
   Cassini supposed from his observations that they moved in
   circles very eccentric, and containing the earth's orbit within
   them ; and from hence was led to think the comet of 1680
   and 1681 was the same as appeared in 1577.           By means
   of this and some others he had an opportunity of seeing*
   he .determined that comets moved through the constella
   tions Antinous, Pegasus, Andromeda, 'I aurus, Centaur,
   Scorpio, and the bow of Sagittarius, which he called the
   zodiac of comets. That this is not the case, later observa
  tions have proved. The comet that appeared in September
   1808 was first seen in Serpentarius, it then passed through
  the right shoulder of Hercules, the Lyre, and disappeared in
  the tail of the Swan, which is a course widely different from
  the zodiac laid down by Cassini.       James Bernouilli, in his
  System of Comets, published in 1682, considers them to be
  satellites moving about a primary planet, which revolved
  around the sun, at a distance equal to 2583 semidiameters
  of the Magnus orbis, in four years and 157 days, although
  Saturn, who is 258 times nearer, makes only one revolu
  tion in about 30 years.       This primary, he says, we can
  never see,, on account_of its smallness and immense di
  stance, and these comets or satellites are only visible when
  they descend towards us in perigeum.          In this theory we
  have a greater body revolving round and carried with a
 smaller; which is contrary to what is observed with regard
 to the other planets and their satellites.    May we not con
 sider this as one of those theories which, had it not come
 from so great a man, would have been buried long ago in
 oblivion ?
     Sir Isaac Newton, Dr. David Gregory, Dr. Halley, and
 others, imagine them to move in very eccentric ellipses,
 having the centre of the sun in one of their foci : but some
 in their calculations have substituted a portion of a parabola
 having the same vertex and focus, which they observe is its
 true trajectory, if it never returns.     This supposition only
leads us from one difficulty. to another; for we may next
ask, By what means did it come within the attraction of
the sun, and from whence ?         Are we to suppose it passes
from one fixed star to another in a serpentine direction,
which is the theory adopted by Mr. Cole of Colchester ?
All the celestial phaenomena with which we are acquainted,
are obedient to certain laws of attraction, and move either
in circles or ellipses, but none in the manner above men
tioned.
     But to return to the former theory ; that       is,that they
                                                            move

                   on ihe Orbits  of Cornels.                 233
move in very   eccentric ellipses, in one of the foci of which is
placed our sua    ; for, as La Place says in his System of the
 World, analogy leads us to imagine that comets move in
orbits, which, instead of being nearly circular, like those of
the other planets, are very eccentric, and the sun extremely
near that part in which they are visible to usj and to observe
the same law as the other planets.
    Hence is it not probable that they revolve about two
fixed stars,   placed in the 'two foci of their orbits?      This
opinion, I think, is strengthened by the amazing eccen
tricity of their orbits, which, as was observed above, ap
 proaches very near to a parabola, no comet has yet been seen
that would answer to an hyperbola: of this amazing di
stance, the exceeding small part we see before a comet ap
 proaches the sun, and when it leaves him, w ould not differ
much from a right line.       Again, as the two foci of the
 ellipse in which it moves are so very distant, is it not pro
 bable there are two attracting powers ? that, is one in each
focus ; and as the attraction of one body begins at the point
 where the other ends, let us conceive the comet to be put
 in motion a little beyond that point, as at A, and by the
 time it arrived at B, its centrifugal              C
force becomes                                        *
                    great enough to jyr^                     "~"^t>
throw it within the attraction of                    ,
 the focus D, which we will sup-                    A
 pose at C : it is now acted upon by the attractive power at
D, and acquires in moving from C to D a velocity great
enough to bring it again to A ; and thus it will revolve
about the two fixed stars B D, in a very eccentric ellipse.
This will also account for their appearance from every part
of the heaVens: and it is supposed that more than 450 have
 been seen in different directions; for about the same fixed
star many may revolve, ytt only one about the same two
fixed star3.
    Ferguson, in his Astronomy, estimates the nearest fixed
star at about 32,000,000,000,000         miles distance from the
earth, consequently it is 32,000,082,000,000 miles from
the sun; and Adams, in his Astronomical Essays, says that
the comet seen by Brydone at Palermo in 1770 moved at
the rate of 60,000,000 miles an hour. Now admitting this
to be its average rate, and that it performed a revolution
once in 129 years, which is the period assigned to that
which appeared in 1661, we shall have 67,802,400,000,000
miles for the length of its orbit ; a.nd it is not improbable
that this would be the perimeter of an eccentric ellipse
whose foci were the distance above mentioned.
                                                              ^

25 G Machine            for   securing    Persons    al tempting Depredations
      All Nature is held together by an universal bond : the ve
getable kingdom is joined to the animal by the sensitive
plant; birds and fishes by the bat and beaver; the monkey
joins beast to men ; and the sun by his vast influence hinds
the worlds together that form our system. Let us extend
our views a tittle further, and we shall have the blazing
comet uniting the systems of other suns to ours, forming
the links of that chain by which the universe is supported.
XL1X.               Description cf a Machine for securing Persons
      attempting Depredations without affecting their Life or
      Limbs.          By Mr. Robert Salmon, of JVoburn *.
Sir,         I  beg    leave to submit to the Society of Arts, &c. a
 mantrap,           which    I hope will meet with their approbation.
To those who live in the country it is needless to explain
 the frequency of petty depredations committed on gardens,
orchards, &c. and which are sometimes very vexatious. Few
 persons would like to endanger the life or limb of the de
 predator by setting the common steel man trap, vet it is pre
 sumed there are but few w ho would not wish to detect the
 offender. The instrument which I have the honour to sub»
mi't to the Society is for the purpose of catching anil holding
 the person without injury.                    At the Agricultural Meeting
 at VVoburn last summer, an ingenious invention for a si
 milar purpose was produced by Sir Theophilus Biddulph; it
 consisted of a wood box, containing two springs in iron
 ban els, and two chains passing over and round lhain : when
 this was set, the chains were withdrawn from round the
 barrels, and extended to a certain distance.                      A triirgcr then
 kept the trapfnmi closing. The whole was then covered over
 with thin iron plates ; so that if a person set his foot on
 those plates his leg dropped into the box, and the chains
 closed round it and held the leg; but as the box was about
 three feet square and a foot deep, it was requisite that it
 should at setting be let into the ground, which would be a
 work of considerable labour, and when done it would be
 difficult to dispose of the stuff from the hole, or to conceal
 the trap; and as- the whole apparatus was cumbersome ami
 expensive, it appeared to me not to be well applicable in
practice,
    * From Trnmactinvx
                               of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts. Hfn».>i-
 fart'ire.t,  ani Commerce, vol. ittvii.        The *ilv<r medal of the Sorietv \vas
 voted to Mr. Salmon for this communication, and one of the machines is
 reaervctl     in ihe Society's reposi.ory for the inspectioa o; the public. "
                                                                            I think

                without affecting their Life or            Limls.        257
      I think it right to give this explanation in justice to Sir
  Theophilus Biddulph, from whom my idea of the utility of
  something of the kind arose, as also to show the difference
  between his invention and the trap I have made, which is
  so very simple as hardly to require explanation. When set,
  it only requires that the two keys be withdrawn, and that
  the trap be covered with a few loose leaves or mould.       To
  the trap I have attached a piece of chain and a screw to be
  screwed into the ground, so as to prevent its being carried
  away ; but against any person that may be caught such a
  precaution is perhaps unnecessary, for any person who is
 caught will find the jaws of the trap close so fast on the
 leg that he cannot drag the trap far without great pain, and
 will consequently be glad to stand still and to call out for
 relief.    For the convenience of explanation I have applied
 mufflers to the jaws of the trap, so that any person may put
 in his leg without the least inconvenience.        I have even
 tried it without, yet, though void of danger, the sensation
 is not pleasant.     The muffle will of course be omitted when
 set for use, as it is not then necessary to guard against a
 little inconvenience, otherwise the springs might be made
 weaker.      I remain, sir,
                         Your most obedient humble servant,
     Woburn, Feb.    12, 1809.                            ROBERT SALMON.
 To C.    Taylor, M.D.           Sec.
    P. S. — Permit  me strongly to recommend to the notice
 of the Society the earth screw attached to the trap, as excel
lent for the purpose of fixing any thing steadily in the earth.
This screw is far superior to the common way of driving an
iron point or stake therein.
   I have employed it for several years in fixing cross-staffs
and other surveying instruments with great advantage.      The
very act of driving a spiked instrument into the earth leaves
it loose with some plav or movement, which prevents it
from being easily secured ; but with a screw of this kind at
the bottom of the instrument it is firmly fixed in the ground,
and a turn of the screw will again fix             it,
                                                should if   anyit   by
means be moved or loosened.         may  alsoItbe screwed  into
the ground with any instrument upon           which would be
                                                         it,
spoiled   by   the act   of driving     it   in.
Description    Mr. Salmon's Man-Trap, which detains the
                of
  Offender, without injuring or maiming him.  See Plate
  VI. Fig. 1.
  The principal figure in the fore-ground of Plate VI.                   is
                                                                         a
Vol. 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810.                       R
                                                perspective

258            Machine  for  securing Depredators.
 perspective  view of this machine.      Fig. 1. ABC is a frame
 of wrought iron,   about 18 inches square; it has an eye pro
 jecting from it to receive a short chain, the other end of
 which is fastened to an iron screw, shown separately at D,
 screwed into the earth bv the key or handle E : this screw
 is about 14 inches long, and, when screwed into hard
 ground, will hold so firmly, that there is no danger of its
•being drawn out, even by two or three men ; and having a
 small square end, it cannot be turned without the key or
 handle E; so that an offender would find it extremely diffi
 cult to remove the trap: ec fgnre two iron frames moving
 on centres in the frame ABC ; these frames have a constant
 tendency to close together, by means of two springs p p,
 fixed in the frame AB, and acting against pins projecting
 from the upright sides of the moveable frame e c ; k k are
 two small iron rods jointed to the upper rod of the moveable
 frame g, and passing through small locks / I, fixed to the
 other frame  f.  These locks contain clicks which are pressed
 by springs into the teeth, as may be seen upon the rods k k,
 so as to prevent the two bars J'g from being drawn asunder
 when they have been closed by means of the springs pp.
 The internal mechanism of the locks is explained by figures
 S, 3, on a larger scale at LM, in the same plate j one side
 of the lock is supposed to be removed to exhibit its interior
 parts, where k represents the rack, or that part of the rod
 ¦which is cut into teeth, r is the click, which engages the
 teeth of the rack, and prevents its being drawn through the
 lock : the click is pressed against the teeth of the rack by
                                   f
 a spring, which is plainly seen in the figures; the locks are
 attached to the ends of t he bar     of the moveable frame, by
 the bar passing through the locks, and when the lids arc
 riveted on it is confined in such a manner that it cannot
 be got out. But as it is necessary to open the bars     f g, and
 draw the clicks back from the teeth of the racks, Mr. Sal
 mon has contrived two different methods of accomplishing
 this object.   Figure 3. M is that which is used in the mo
 del left at the Society's Repository ; a small key or screw S
 is put down through a hole in the lid of the lock, and is
 received into a hole lapped with a screw in the click : by
turning the screw it lifts the click out of the teeth of the
 rack; so that the moving frames       fg    can be opened apart
 from each other, till they lie flat upon the frame AB. The
 iron cross m is then put between the two rods J'g, the screws
 S of the two locks are to be withdrawn from the locks, and
 the trap is set for use.   If an offender should place his foot
 ¦within  the square of the frame, he would tread down the
                                                             cross

      On the charging Capacity          of coated Electrical Jars. 959
   cross m; and having thus removed the obstruction, the two
   frames e efg are closed together by the springs p p, so that
   the baxsfg inclose his leg, and the clicks in the locks pre
  vent the bars being opened without the screws S.                  In some
  of the machines which Mr. Salmon has made since the
  model was deposited with the Society, the locks are made
  like figure 2, L, where a common key is to be introduced,
  and, when turned round, catches the tail of the click ; it
  may have wards to prevent the using of a false key, though
  no wards are shown in the plate. Part of the screw D for
  securing the trap from being carried away by depredators,
  is shown on a larger scale at N, in order that the peculiar
  form of its threads may be better seen, which fix it firmly
  in the earth. Such screws would be very serviceable in
  fastening horses at grass, &c.
  L. An    Account of a New Method of increasing the charging
      Capacity of coated Electrical Jars, discovered by John
      Wingfield, Esq. of Shrewsbury * . Communicated by
      Mr. John Cuthbehtson, Philosophical Instrument-
      Maker, Poland Street, Soho ; with some Experiments by
      himself on that Subject.
  In   my treatise entitled Practical Electricity and Galvanism,
  page 103, I have said that breathing into coated electrical
 jars increased their charging capacity to such an astonishing
  degree,that their discharge would fuse four times the length
  of wire more than         they could in ordinary circumstances j
  which I proved by experiments 147 and 156. Since that
 publication, large electrical batteries are become more ge
 neral, and the number of jars increased; so that batteries
 containing thirty, sixty, and even a hundred jars are fre
 quently met with; and, when so numerous, breathing into
 each jar is very disagreeable; and not only that, but in very
 dry states of the atmosphere, when most wanted, is even
 ineffectual, as those jars first breathed into lose that pro
perty which was produced in them by breathing, before the
 last can have obtained it : so that various other means have,
 been tried; such as wetting the inside of the jars, and put
 ting wet sponges into them, or by greasing and oiling the
vmcoated part in the inside ; all of which gave very uncer
tain results, till John Wingfield, esq. communicated to me,
    * A gentleman   who has lately very much distinguished himself, not only
in the electrical science, but in all other branches of experimental philo
sophy.
                                     R   2                               he
               i

SCO            On increasing the charging Capacity
he had discovered, that pasting of paper on the inside and
outside of the jars above the coating, had the effect of pre
venting the jars from exploding to the outside coating, and
believed that their charging capacity would be increased
 thereby.
     I embraced the first opportunity to try the effect of that
 discovery with single jars.
     Experiment I. — I took a very thick jar (which had been,
used to show the phenomena of voluntary. explosions with
 out breaking) twelve inches high, and 'the coating nine
 inches, containing in the whole about 1/ 1 square inches ; it
was applied to the conductor of a plate electrical machine,
 and six turns of the plate caused a voluntary explosion to
 the coating : the state of the atmosphere not being very dry,
 it required eight and twelve turns to produce a second and
 a third explosion : a fourth could not be produced ; but when
 cleaned and dried as before, six turns caused a voluntary
 discharge.
     Experiment II. — A slip of paper one inch broad was
 taken, of sufficient length to fit round the outside of the
jar when the two ends were pasted together : this was slip
 ped on to its outside to about one inch from the coating:
 the uncoaied part being rubbed clean and dry, and applied
 to the machine, eleven turns of the plate produced a volun
 tary discharge to the outside coating.
     Experiment III. — The paper ring was then slipped down
 to touch the coating, and then applied to the conductor: no
 voluntary discharge could be produced ; and when dis
 charged in the common way, its power did not seem. to be
 increased, — to prove which,
     Experiment IV. —The common discharging electrome
 ter (which is always fixed to the basement of my machines)
 was used, to try to what distance the discharge could be
 made to pass from -the knob of the conductor to the ball
 of the electrometer ; which was found to be one inch and
 five-eighths.
     Experiment V. — A piece of iron wire, -j-Joth part of an
  inch in diameter and one inch in length, was hung to the
  electrometer, through which a second discharge was made
  to pass, and the wire was blued.
      Experiment VI. — The paper ring was then taken off" and
  breathed into twice; the discharge was then produced at the
  distance of two inches, and the wire was fused into balls.
      Experiment VII. — The jar was then rubbed clean and
   dry, and a piece of the same sort pf wire and the same
  length was hung to the electrometer in the same manner

                          of coated Electrical Jars.              261
      as before, and it appeared that the greatest charge it could
, /   take had not the least effect upon the wire: thus it appears
      that a paper ring so applied does not increase the charging
      capacity of jars in the same decree as breathing.
          Experiment    VIII. —The jar was highly charged, and ex
      amined in the dark : the paper ring appeared luminous all
      round the uppermost edge.
          Experiment IX. — The ring was taken off, and pasted on
      in the inside close to>the coating : 23 turns caused a volun
      tary explosion through the ring to the outside coating.
          Experiment X. — A second ring three quarters of an inch
      broad was pasted on close to the other : the same number
      of turns produced a voluntary explosion, and the paper was
      torn bv the discharge, which was repaired and left to dry.
          Experiment XI. — When dry, no voluntary explosion
      could be obtained.
          Experiment XII. — Tts greatest power was then tried, and
      ¦was found to be exactly the same as in Experiment VI.
                                                               (when
     it was breathed into) : it discharged at two inches distance,
      and the same length of wire was fused into balls.
          Experiment XIII. — A second jar was taken of a larger
      size, being 13 inches high, and its coating seven inches;
      in the whole it contained about 190 square inches: after
    , being rubbed clean and dry, it was applied to the conductor
      of the machine : twelve turns of the plate produced a volun
      tary explosion to the outside coating.
          Experiment XIV. — A paper ring was put round the un-
      coated part on the outside at about H inch distant from
      the coa'.ing: eleven turns of the plate produced a voluntary
      explosion to the outside coating : the paper ring was then
       pushed down to the coating, after which no voluntary ex
      plosion to the coating could be obtained ; but it discharged
       itself to the electrometer ball standing at the distance of 2J-
       inches from the knob of the conductor.
          Experiment XV. — The same sort of wire, two inches
       long, as used in Experiment VI, was hung tr! the electrome
      ter, and the discharge made it blue with several bendings, —
      a proof that it had been nearly red hot.
          Experiment XVI. — A ring of common writing-paper
       one inch broad was pasted on the inside close to the coat
      ing, and when dry no voluntary explosion to the coating
      could be obtained ; but it discharged itself to the electro
      meter ball standing at the distance of 2$ inches, and the wire
      was fused into balls.
          Experiment XVII. — The paper rings were now taken off',
       and the. uncoaled part made clean and dry : 19 turns pro-
                                    R  3                        duce

462 On the charging Capacity      of coated Electrical Jars
duced a discharge to the electrometer ball at the same di
 stance, and the same length of wire was slightly blued.
    Experiment X VI 1 1 . — The jar was then breathed into,
 and a discharge was produced at the same distance, but
 the wire was not fused.
    Experiment XIX. — The same jar was breathed into a
 second time, and a discharge was caused at the same di
 stance, and the wire was fused into balls exactly the same
as when the paper rings were on.
    Experiment XX. — A third jar nine inches high and four
inches diameter, the whole containing about 6i square
inches, when rubbed clean and dry, two turns of the plate
caused a voluntary discharge to the outside coating.
    Experiment XXI. — A paper ring was pasted on both
sides close to the coating, and one inch from the top, after
which no voluntary explosion could be obtained, but the
electric fluid was seen to run over the brim of the glass to
the outside coating as quick as the machine could give it :
the discharging distance was seven-eighths of an inch : it
had not power sufficient to make any impression on one
inch of wire.
    Experiment XXIT. — The paper rings were then cut nar
rower at different times, and tried, which increased the dis
charging distance, when there remained only one quarter of
an inch which seemed to be the most favourable above the
coating: the discharging distance was        If  inch, and the
wire was fused, and dispersed in balls.
    Experiment XXIII. — The paper rings were taken off, and
the jar carefully breathed into : six turns of the plate caused
a discharge to the electrometer standing at the distance of
If   inch, and one inch of wire was fused, and dispersed in
balls, equal with the last experiment.
   The above experiments are sufficient to prove that paper
rings pasted on to electrical jars in the manner explained,
do hinder voluntary explosions, and increase the charging
capacity of coated jars, in the same degree as breathing into
them.
    Further experiments and observations, setting forth the.
advantages that electricians are likely to obtain from the
above discovery, will be the subject of a future paper.
                                                   LI.  Method

                                   [    863     ]
 LT.       Method of constructing commodious Houses with
     Earthen Walts. By Mr. Robert Salmon, of IVobum*.
 Dear Sir, ETaving for                 some years past practised at this
 place the art of pise, or         constructing walls with earth, and
 having in consequence               been several times both publicly
 and privately called on            to communicate my observations
 thereon, I have been led           to consider that the best mode of
 generally communicating what I know on the subject would
 be through the medium of the Society of Arts, &c. I have
 accordingly, by the waggon, forwarded a case containing a
 model of my frames and apparatus for performing the work,
 with every particular in my power to give, for the infor
 mation of any persons inclined to build in that way, and
 they will, I hope, be found worthy a place in the collection
 of the Society.
    To such as may be inclined to see specimens of this work,
 and may not have an opportunity of going far distant from
 London, I can recommend a house and other works built,
 and some of them inhabited by my brother, Mr. William
 Salmon, Builder, at Henley- Hill, near Barnet, Herts.
                         I have the honour to be,
              The Society's and your most obedient servant,
       Woburn Park, Dec. 8th, 1808.                       ROBERT SALMON.
 To C.     Taylor, M. D.          Sec.
 Description     of the Engraving of Mr. Salman's Method of
                    building Pise or Earthen H alls.
     Fig. 4. of Plate VI. is a perspective view of the apparatus
 or moulds, in which the earths are rammed to form a wall.
                                                         /,
 The mould consists of two long planks F twelve feet long,
 twenty inches broad, and one inch thick, each made in two
 breadths ; they are strengthened by several pieces of wood
 nailed across them.            Holes are made through these pieces
 of  wood     at  top  and    bottom,     to receive iron bolts, which
 hold    the two   boards     parallel   to  each other, fourteen or six
 teen inches asunder, which is the thickness of the wall in
 tended to be formed between them. The bolts have a large
 head at one end, and a key passes through the other, to
 keep the planks together.              When a wall is to be built, the
foundation is laid in brickwork, which is carried about nine
   • From Transactions
                         of the Society far the Encouragement of Art), Manufac
tures,  and Commerce, vol. xxvii.        The Society voted twenty guineas to
Mr. Salmon for this communication, and models of the apparatus are re-
•erved in their Repository   tor public inspection.
                                        R  4                            inches

                t
864                   Method  of constructing
inches above the ground ; upon this brickwork the planks
are placed, and bolted together.        Two boards, like that
shown at G, are placed between the planks at the ends, to
form the ends of the mould; these boards are placed between
the two bolts a a, which are seen close together at the end
of the moulds, and are held fast by that means ; the earth
is now to be rammed in between the moulds by the rammer
with an iron head X. When the mould is filled with earth
and well rammed down, the ke\s are to be taken out of the
bolts, and the bolts drawn out; the planks are then removed,
and put together again, a length further upon the wall, the
bolts at the end being put through the holes left in the wall,
only one of the end boards is now put in, and the ramming
             as before : in this manner straight walls may be
    uilt of any length; and when the lower course is finished,
Eroceeds
then the mould may be taken to pieces, and put together
 again upon that course, the lower bolts of the frame being
put through the bolt holes which the upper bolts made in
 the wall at the first operation, to insure that the upper part
 of the wall is in the same place, and exactly over the lower.
 When a wall is to be built thinner than usual, a block of
 wood must be placed under the head of each bolt, so as to
 diminish the space between the planks.
     When the angle walls of buildings are to be made, the
 apparatus, is put together, as shown in the plate; four of the
 planks are put together to form a right-angled mould, one
 end of each of the planks F and H is furnished with double
 bolts, the other ends have each two eyebolts fixed into them,
 as shown separately at b d ; then a bolt n connects the two
 moulds, so as to form a hinge ; the planks are kept together,
  so as to be perpendicular to each other, by a long iron rod
  K, hooked into eyebolts fixed in the planks. The outside
  planks of the mould are joined together in a different man
  ner, see fig. 5, that of one frame being longer than that of
  the other, and has two pair of holes through its end O, to
  receive the bolts tt, which are fastened to the ends of the
  other shorter plank, and the keys are put through the ends
  of the bolts, to secure the planks together; a piece of wood
  P is occasionally placed between the end of the short plank
   and the side of the other, to increase the space between the
   planks, to make a thicker wall, the two bolts at the end of
   the plank being received into the notches in the piece of
   wood, and these bolts are then put through the holes Z Z
   pf the long plank.    In building the angle wall, it is neces
   sary that the vertical joint formed between each mould
 I should not be over one another, but arranged in the same
                                                          manner

           commodious     Houses with Earthen    Walls.       265
manner as the joints of brickwork : this is accomplished by
making the lower course of wall upon the brickwork only
half the length ot the mould, which is done by placing the
end board G of the mould in the middle of it. The next
course over this is to be made the whole length of the mould,
the next one only half, and so on, as shown in the figure.
Improved Moulds and Description        of making Earth Walls,
        ly Mr. R. Salmon, ofWoburn,           Bedfordshire.
    The model of      the frame in possession of the Society is
made to a scale of an inch to a foot, the frame at large is
made of 1| inch deal, ploughed and tongued together. The
 bolts and pins or keys of iron, as are also the plates on the
 holes in the sides of the frame. These places are put to
 prevent the keys from cutting into the wood, and the holes
 from gulling and wearing.
    This sort of mould is calculated for making walls, either
 fourteen or sixieen inches thick, and the model (or perspec
 tive view of it in the distance of Plate VI.) shows how the
 mould is to be applied for making the corner of a building
 of the sixteen inch wall ; the same moulds may be applied
 for a fourteen inch wall,    f /"being the outer sides. FH the
 inner sides. When employed for straight walls, or making
 good between the corners of buildings, the two returns of
 the frames are used in pairs,     /find FH     make two sets of
 frames.    The board marked G must be of width equal to
  the thickness of walls to be made, and are for the purpose
  of stopping the earth, and making ends or jaumbs to doors
 or windows, or wherever wanted. The .piece of wood P is
 two inches thick, and is for the purpose of making out the
 external sides of the moulds, from a fourteen inch to a six
  teen inch wall : by introducing this piece between the two
 sides fft  and putting the fixed iron pins in the outer holes
  ZZ,   and taking away the blocks under the heads of the
  outer bolts, the sides of the frame will then be sixteen inches,
  as under, and thereby adapted for a sixteen inch wall. Fig. E
  are pieces of wood about 14- inch square, and cut to the
  length of the thickness of the wall, and are for gauges to
  he applied on top of the bolt, to keep the keys from draw
 ing the sides too close together.
     In beginning the wall, some of them are necessary at the
  bottom, the more firmly to support the frame on the brick,
  ot stone work. They are then worked into the wall, and,
  after the frame is taken down, drove out.         After the first
  course, they are only necessary to the top irons, aud may
  he taken out as soon as the earth is rammed up near them,
                                                                 so

 266                    Method       of constructing
 so that no holes are left in the upper courses of the wall,
 more than the bolt holes.
    When these frames are used, one side is placed in such a
 direction, that the front or end may be required to be taken
 away, and then by means of the angular iron brace K, the
 other return is sure to stand at right angles with the first.
 Care should then be taken, in the first course, to set the
 sides level : that being done, the other upper courses, from
 the nature of the frames, and manner of using them, must
 of course come upright and level wi'.hout any particular
 care, and a wall being properly begun, cannot we'll get wrong.
After the first course of a building is done, the moulds
 should be moved to another, and so on till all the courses
are up; and as the top holes of each preceding course be
come the bottom holes in the succeeding ones, no difficulty
will be found in fixing the mould after the first course is
properly done.
    Fig. 6. shows the iron pin and staples that keep the in
ternal angle of the frame together.      K, fig. 4. an iron stay
to set the returns at right angles. This is only wanted
where other means of setting the building square are not to
be obtained.
    Having described the frame, and means of applying it
 generally, it may be necessary to observe the following par
 ticulars in the process. Having carried one course round
the building, it frequently happens that the top thereof be
comes too dry to attach to the next succeeding course, and
therefore it is adviseable that, as soon as the frame is set for
the succeeding course, a small quantity of thick grout, com
 posed of -j- lime, and    earth, be poured on top of each
                           -J-
 course, immediately before the first layer of earth   is put in.
A very small quantity        sufficient, and will add much to
                            is
 the strength of the work,            by
                                   cementing the courses well
together at the joints. The workman should also, with
 the corner of his rammer, in ramming home to the upright
joints, cut down little of that part of tht wall, up to which
                    a
 he works   ; this will make the upright joints key together,
and unite in    a solid manner.     Having thus proceeded and
got up the walls, the next thing will be to stop the bolt
holes, with mortar made       lime and
                                 4        earth the same as the
                                              £
wall.
  The   earth proper for this work should be neither sand nor
clay, but partaking of both. Clay       particularly objection
                                             is
able, as isalso chalk, or calcareous earth of any sort.   Sand
is also not proper, unless accompanied with some binding
quality : the bolder and coarser the sort of earth the better.
                                                            When

            commodious     Houses with Earthen Walls.          267
When      used, it should retain no more moisture than just to
make it adhere together, under the pressure of the thumb
and finger.       Notwithstanding earths bordering on sand ap
pear   to  make    the strongest work, nevertheless   good earths
may   often    be found   in  parts that do not abound   with sand.
Those that abound with a mixture of grit or fine gravel are
generally the best.       Having provided proper earth, as much
should be put in each layer as to form about an inch and a
half when compressed by ramming.
   The rammer X should not be more than half an inch
wide on the edge, in order that it may more forcibly com
press every part of the earth, which a flat rammer would
not do so well.
    In making the walls, about three inches in thickness
of loose earth should be put in each course, which done,
the same, by means of a trowel made for the purpose, is
drawn back and cleared from the face of the wall, and the
space then filled up with the facing composition, forming
on an average about one inch in thickness ; the whole then
is firmly rammed, (in which, and properly preparing the
facing stuff, much depends the perfection of the work) till
it is quite hard, when it will be compressed to about one
inch and a half in thickness.          The common facing stuff is
composed of lime one part, and earth, the same sort as used
for walling, three parts.          The lime and earth mixed and
slacked together, the same as for mortar.          The more it is
slacked and wetted the better, provided time can be allowed
for it again to dry and pulverize, so as to be fit for ramming.
The better sort of facing stuff may have a small quantity
more of lime in it.
    The foundation should be of brick or stone, carried up
nine inches above the ground ; and if a plinth is to be shown,
then one course above the same should be of brick or stone,
to prevent the water that might lodge on the plinth from
 damaging the earth wall.
    The proper season for performing this work is any time
 that the earth is to be procured sufficiently dry for the pur
pose; the more early in the season the better, in order to
give it time to dry before finishing, or if late it would be ad-
 viseable not to finish till the year after it is built.
    Windows and doors may be left in the walls wherever
wanted, by fixing the head of the moiilds and carrying up
 quoins to form the same: in erecting which some bond tim
 ber should be laid in coarse mortar and rammed in with the
 earth. Lintels may also be laid at the proper height.         This
 method     is  cheapest,    where  only one window  or   door  of a

268                  Method       of constructing
size is wanted ; but if many, the readiest way would be to
make some rough frames hi boards of width equal to thick
 ness of walls, and place them in the situation of the windows
and doors.     When done, the earth is rammed up to them,
laying bond timber at the sides and lintels over them.              In
both cases the windows and door-frames are to be put in
their places and fastened to the bond-timber, after the wall
is up. The bond timber, lintel, and plates, should be kept
as thin as possible, in order to prevent any disagreement be
tween the earth and timber in the shrinking or drying of
the same.     The bond timber about 4 inches by I             floor or
                                                               -J-
                                                               j
wall plates    6inches  by 2;   lintels about   4 inches  thick   and;
it may be worthy    of notice    that any  slabs or rouch   stuff may
be used, the earth being sure to rain close to           and keep
                                                          it              it
in place.
   For common cottages, when the whole of the walls are
up and covered in, the holes should be stopped with very
coarse mortar made the same as the facing stuff", but used
wetter, and the wall then lime-washed over with lime and
sharp sand, which should be made up in small quantities
and used while hot.      This may readily be done              by
                                                             adding        a
knob of lime and sand       little at
                            a           atime as    it used.
                                                         is
   For better kind of cottages the better sort of facing stuff"
may be used, and then, as before, the whole lime-whited                   ;
or    if be required to make the finishing as perfect as pos
          it
sible, the following   isthe best mode, viz. with water and                a
brush thoroughly wet and soak the face of the wall for two
or three yards in superfieie at time all which part, during
                                    a       ;
the said wetting, should be continually rubbed and worked
about with     ahand float, till such time the face            rubbed
                                                                is
smooth and even,      bywhich the facing composition will so
wash up as to become pleasant regular colour, the face smooth
                       a
and hard when dry, and not liable to scale off as              coat of
                                                                 a
            would do. This finishing will be still improved
      small quantity of lime being put in the water used for
(Mastering
 >y   a
soaking the face, and       if,after the wall       well soaked and
                                                    is
rubhed, as above mentioned, there be thrown thereon with
a brush some of the lime and sand, (such as used for lime-
whiting,) and that also worked into the face; the face will
then become as perfect and hard as stucco.
   Having explained the frames as constructed by me for
performing earth walling, as also the manner of finishing                 if,
I beg leave to lay before the Society some observations on
these, compared with the original French means and man
ner of performing the same, as described            in
                                                    the first volume
of Communications to the Board of Agriculture.
                                                                         The

           commodious      Houses with Earthen Walls.
    The  sides   of the frames, as formerly constructed, were
supported    on   joists or cross pieces of timber, which pieces
were cut into the top of each course of walling.        The sides
were then kept together by upright timbers framed into the
cross pieces or joists, and the tops of the upright pieces
were vvristed and held together by ropes going across the
frame from one side to the other.         In consequence of this
construction, by experience I found much labour was lost
in cutting the channels to lay the cross pieces in.         These
channels, after the buildings were up, took labour and ma
terials to fill them in, and rendered the walls less strong.
Also the difficulty of getting the frame rightly placed every
time it was moved, and the elasticity of the rope across the
top, made the whole very imperfect, so much so that all
work done in that manner was untrue and unsound ; as the
rope, however tight it might be strained, would yield to a
certain degree. The labour of moving was great, and when
the frames were set, the cross ropes and uprights above the
 sides were much in (Jje way of the workmen.
     On examining the model I have the honour to send, it
may be seen that these frames being once set true, they re
quire very little care afterwards : being kept together by
 iron bolts, no elasticity can occur, and the earth will be as
 firmly compressed as if rammed between two walls.             No
 cutting away for cross pieces is required, nor any holes but
 the small bolt holes to make good ; and as nothing sticks up
 above the frames, the workman cannot be impeded.               In
 consequence of these alterations the work may be more
 cheaply and truly executed than with the old sort of frame.
     Previously to entering into the expense of this sort of
  work, on my conceptions as to its advantage, it may be ne
  cessary briefly to state from whence such is collected.
     About sixteen or eighteen years ago, the late Duke of
 Bedford directed a foreigner, who was then making some
  walls in Lancashire, to come and make some specimens
  here, and wishing to know how far it might be usefully in
  troduced, I was directed to give attention and every aid to
  the man employed.          Accordingly frames of the old sort
  were made, exactly like those before described, and with
  them some specimens being made, the man returned. These
  specimens     I considered were very bad walling, and in at
  tending   to the   execution thereof, seeing sufficient room for
  improvement, I was directed further to practise it. Frames
  were then constructed like the model, and several walls
  erected, among which were some cottages now standing,

 970 Method     of constructing Houses with Earthen Walls.
 and lastly, the house I now live in.     This has been built
 about twelve years, and is a sufficient proof of the utility of
the practice: the house being as close, warm, and dry in
the walls, as if built of any materials whatever.
    With regard to the expense of the walls of this sort, as
labour is the principal part of the expense, and as in some
places labour is dearer than in others, the best mode of esti
mating it at different places will be from the quantity that a
man should do in a day, and which I have found to be            \\
yard superficial, in the common day's labour of ten hours.
   At this piace the expense may be estimated as follows :
                                                    £* s. d.
Labour to making facing composition, fitting in
   and ramming to a 16-inch wall, where the earth
   is at hand (labourer's being I*. 10c?. per day)
   per yard superficial                               O   2   8
Value of lime used in the composition rammed
   into the face of a yard superficial (lime being
   8c?. per bushel)                                   0 O 3
Lime and labour to rubbing up and finishing the
   outside face of the wall                           O   0 3
            Total finished
                        and faced on one side          0    2      8
If a wall to
          a garden or otherwise, and finished and
  faced on both sides, then add                        0   O       8
            Total for walls finished on both   sides   0   3       4
    At this place the value of a yard of brick-work is more
than ten shillings, of walling only 14 inches thick, the
bricks being 42s. per 1000, and lime 8d. per bushel ; con
sequently the economy of the pisS must appear; and the
same difference will be found in any other place where lime
and bricks bear the same price, and proper earth can be
found at hand. But as attempting this sort of work, where
it is not applicable, or improperly doing it so as to lead to
failure, may prevent its introduction where it would be use
ful, I shall endeavour to point out any precautions that
have struck me, and every thing that has appeared to make
against it.
   Many persons have supposed, and it has been asserted,
that almost any earth will do: but such is certainly very er
roneous ; for proper earth cannot in all places be found ; and
it being difficult to describe   it, or to be sure when
                                                            it
                                                            is
found, it   seems adviseable3 before the entering on any con
                                                       siderable

               Akerations in        the   Light of   the Sun.
siderable work, that the experimentalist should first do a
small piece, and let it stand with the top only covered for a
winter at least.
    It has before been observed that the excellence of the
work depends on its having due compression, as well as be
ing of proper soil. If the compression be not perfect, al
though the soil be good, the walls will be unsound ; and
unfortunately it so happens, that when a wall is built and
 badly rammed, its imperfection cannot readily be observed,
 and further, the defect is likely only to be found but by
 its failure: and hence arises the greatest bar to its general
 introduction; for, as it requires considerable labour to build
 a wall, it requires exertion to do it in proper season ; and if
 the labourer be employed to do the work by task, it be
 comes his interest to get on and do it slightly, and if done
 by day, it will not advance so rapidly : consequently, in
 either way, it will require great attention from a careful
 overlooker.
     From the foregoing comparative statement of pisB against
 brickwork, persons unacquainted with building are inclined
  to suppose that the whole expense of the building will be in
  proportion thereto : contrary to this, it only affects the wall
  ing,— the roof, floor, &c. remaining the same as before,
  excepting as it may reduce the quantity of bond timber and
  lime used in plastering the inside ; this latter is less than
  when plastered on brickwork, the face of the wall being so
  much truer than brickwork.
     A working drawing, on a scale of one inch to a foot, is
  left with the Society, for the inspection of any person in
  clined to construct the apparatus.
LII.  Memoir on the alterations which the Light of the
   Sun undergoes on passing through the Atmosphere.     By
   M. Hassenfratz. Read to the Class of Mathematics
   and Physics of the French Institute, 20th October 1806.*
 The sun       presentsdifferent colours to our eyes : its disk
 appears   white, yellow,    orange, or red, according to the
 purity  of the air, the  height  of the orb in the horizon, the
 latitude of the places where we observe                  it,
                                                and their eleva
 tion   above the level       of   the sea.
  In the  torrid zone, the disk of the sun always white, when
                                                     is
 the air  ispure, and when         at the zenith of the place.
                                     it   is
    In the frigid zone, the disk of the rising or setting sun     is
 always red in the shortest days of the year.
                  *   Annalts dt Chimit, tome   livi.   p. 54.
                                                                 On
                          i

 872     Alterations     which the Light       of the Sun   undergoes
   On high mountains,             at an equal height above the hori
 zon, the disk of the sun          is constantly seen whiter than in
 valleys and plains.
    In general, the white, yellow, orange, or red colour of
 the disk depends (if the purity of the air be the same) on
 the thickness of the strata of air which the ray passes
through before reaching the eye of the spectator : the thin
ner the strata which are passed through, the whiter is the
disk: and vice versa; the disk being at first yellow, then
orange, and afterwards red. When the air is filled with
exhalations, when it contains solid or liquid substances in
suspension, and when its purity is thereby affected, the disk
of the sun is sometimes coloured ; but more frequently the
intensity of its light diminishes, and the disk remains
white*.
  The cause of                    of the sun's disk is one of
                      the coloaring
those   problems which ought     to occupy the attention of
philosophers, and which interests them the more in propor
tion to its influence in the phaenomena of optics.
   It has been strongly asserted, that this effect was caused
by rays subtracted from the fasciculus during its passage
through the air; but we are entirely ignorant what is the
number and species of the molecules subtracted. Each of
the colours of the disk may result from the separation of
one or more coloured molecules: the only condition that
ought to be fulfilled,      is,
                       that the colours engendered by the
subtracted rays should be complementary to those which
are perceived.
   The azure colour in which the sky appears to our eyes,
has induced some persons to suppose that         was    it the      by
subtraction of some blue molecules reflected          the air by
that the colour of the disk was produced: others have
thought that the purple, violet, blue and green rays, being
more refrangible and more reflexible than the others, were
separated from them          in
                          passing through the atmosphere;
and that the red, orange and yellow rays combined with
them, which had not been reflected, occasioned           their     by
junction the colour of the disk finally, others have pre
                                          :
sumed that the violet and green molecules were reflected
by the air at the same time that the red molecules and some
green molecules were refracted.
   Although the colour of the sun's disk seemed to an
nounce an action of the air on the coloured molecules and           ;
  * Hist, tie 'Acad, des Sciences, 1721. De Mairan relates an observation
           l
of the sun having appeared the whole day through vapours. Its disk was
white, and its lustre as usual, but without any rays.
                                                                although

             oft passing through the Atmosphere.              2*3
although it ought to be presumed that the solar spectrum
should undergo variations flowing from this action;            as
no astrotlbmer, to my knowledge, has announced, that in
the experiments which have been repeated at varioustimes,
                                                                  '
and in different places, variations have been observed in the:
colour of the spectrum, and as all are silent as to a phaeno-
menon so singular ; it might be supposed that the cause of
the colouring of the disk depended on an order of alteration
with, which the spectrum was not affected.
   Those hypotheses which attribute to the molecules of air
properties so different were presented under an aspect more
or less seducing; all of them could be discussed, defended,'
and adopted, if the reasonings and authorities of authors
                                                                   1
had been Sufficient : but as none of those who have proposed
them have supported them by any positive facts, I appeal
to experience.
   The most natural experiment, and that which every author •
ought to make before proposing his hypothesis, is the ana
lysis of the rays of light when the disk of the sun is present
ed under colours so various.    This anal vsis has been effected,
and I how present the results to the class.
   I fixed upon some fine days in the summer of 1 799, w-heri
the sky w-as pure ancj the disk of the sun white, which aN
ways happens towards noon, when the Sun is at its greatest
elevation.
   With this view I introduced a solar ray into a dark room
through an aperture of the size of 25 deeimillimetres : I
received it on the surface of a prism, which I turned so as
to make the angles formed by the ray refracted, and the
two faces of the prism equal.       I observed at one and the
same time both the series of the colours, of the spectrum
and its length at 36 decimetres distance from the prism.
1 remarked that all the colours were perfectly distinguished
from the purple to the red, and that on the evening of the
same day, at sunset,       when its disk appeared yellow, the
spectrttms formed by the solar rays were hot so long: the
purple no longer existed, and a greater or less portion of
the violet was wanting, and sometimes it was- even entirely
wanting.
   The experirrrents thnsm'ade at noon and evening were re
commenced in the fine weather of the following years, and
gave the same result.
   I have the honour to present to th- class three speclrumS
obtained with the same prism on the 1 3th of January 1801.
They are remarkable for their length, and for the colours
which form them.        At half past ten o'clock A. M., the
spectrum, fig. 1, (Plate VII.) was 145 millimetres long ;
  V«l< 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810.                S                at

  2?4            Alterations   in the Light of the Suit.
  at noon, fig. C, 185 ; at four o'clock P. M., fig. 3, 110; and
  at ten minutes past four, fig. 4, 100.
     When the spectrum was longest, the yellow interposed
  between the green and the orange was pure; when the
  violet disappeared, the yellow assumed a deeper tinge : it
  was coloured red, and partook of the orange colour.
      I repeated these observations several times, at various
  times of the year, and always with the same success; the
  spectrum increased or diminished in length according as
  the colour of the disk was whiter or yellower.
     Finally, on the 13th of January 1605, I remarked, on
  observing the decomposition of the light of the setting sun,
  that when the disk of that orb was of a fine red, the length
  of the spectrum was diminished more than one half : it
  was no more than 70 millimetres long; whereas at mid
  day it was 183 ; and in the series of colours separated by the
  prism, we could only distinguish the red, orange, and green.
      M. Gerard, draftsman to the polytechnic school, having
  been present on the above occasion, drew and coloured the
                                      Figure 5 is the copy of the
k
  solar spectrum in question.
  drawing,   and   fig. 6 presents the image of the sun when it
  was received on a white card in the dark room: this tint is
  deep orange, approaching the blush of dawn.
     The subtraction of one or several coloured rays in the
  fasciculus which the sun sends us, when its disk is yellow,
  orange, or red, may be easily remarked in the irises observed
  at different hours of the day, either in the series of colours
  which they present, or in the breadth of the coloured arcs.
  I  have several limes verified this fact since my experiment
  in 1802; an experiment which, 1 must confess, then
  seemed to be verv important.        I have even remarked in the
  sky,   when   the  disk of the  sun  was red, irises which con
  tained only red, orange, and green, like the figure of the
  spectrum which I have presented to the class.
      From these facts we may conclude, that among the causes
  which may produce the alterations observed in the colour of
  the sun's disk, one of the most important is the subtrac
  tion of the coloured rays intercepted by the medium which
  they pass through ; and the coloured molecules separated
  from the fasciculus of white light are, the purples and a
   part of the violets, when the disk appears yellow : the pur
   ples, the violets, the yellows, and a part of the indigo blues,
   when the disk appears orange: the purples, the violets, the
  indigo blues, the blues, the yellows, and a little of the
   orange, when the disk appears red : finally, that there may
  he a term, a colouring of the disk in red, under the polar
  circle, at which all the coloured molecules, at lea.sl the red,

 application of Barometer for indicating           the Weather.       27$
are subtracted by the air, and that in this case the spectra
and the irises ought to present a single colour only, which
is the red.
LI 1 1.   On the Application of the Barometer for indicating
  ¦ the   Weather, and for measuring of Heights in the Atmo
     sphere.   By   Richard Walker, Esq.
                         To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,      In
          order to prognosticate the weather by means of the
barometer, one general rule should be premised, viz. that, pre
viously to observing the barometer, the state or' the weather
at the time should be accurately noticed in every particular.
Hence, to speak figuratively, we might affix this motto to
the barometer, " Tell me what the weather           and i3,will   I
tell you what     will be."
                   it
   The circumstances to be collected previously to inspect
ing the barometer are, 1st, The state of the atmosphere*
respecting its degree of clearness or cloudiness     2dly, The
                                                         :
direction of the wind, together with its steadiness or varia
bleness: and 3dly, The altitude and density of the clouds.
                         Signs of     Fair Weather.
     1
     .   The barometer rising may be considered as            a   general
 indication that the weather, comparatively with the state of
it  at the time of observation,         is  becoming clearer.
    2. The atmosphere apparently becoming clearer, and the
 barometer above rain, and rising, show            a   disposition in the
 air for fair weather.
    3. The atmosphere becoming clear, and the barometer
 above changeable, and rising, indicate fair weather.
    4. The atmosphere clear, and the barometer near fair,
 and rising, denote continued fair weather.
    5. Our prognostic of the weather         is     to be guided, rela
 tively,  thus :    If, notwithstanding       the sinking of the baro
 meter,    little  or   no   rain  follow,   and
                                              it    afterwards rise, we
 may expect       continued    dry   weather.
    6. If, during    a   series of cloudy rainy weather, the baro
meter rise gradually, though vet below rain, especially                 if
the wind change from the south or west towards the north
or east points, clear and dry weather may be expected.
    7. The weather for     a       short period, viz. from morning
until evening, may commonly be foretold with             a    considera
ble degree of certainty.            If the barometer has risen during
the night and       is   still rising, the clouds are high and ap
parently dispersing, and the wind calm, especially                    be
                                                              if   it
in  or about     the  north   or  east  points,
                                             a    dry day' may   he con-
                               S    2                            Adeptly

276     application of Barometer        fir indicating      the  J feather,
fidently expected : — the same rule applies for predicting the
weather from evening till morning.
     8. During the increase of the moon there seems to he
a greater disposition or effort in the air for clear dry weather
than in the wane: but this disposition does not usually
commence till about three or four days after the new moon,
and ceases about three or four days after the full moon.
     9. The barometer should be observed occasionally thrice
in the day, or oftener when the weather is changeable, in
order to notice whether the mercury be stationary, rising,
or sinking; for from this circumstance, together with the
direction of the wind and the apparent state of the air at the
time, is information to be collected, and a continuance of the
same, or a sudden change of the weather, to be foreseen*.
     10. Lastly, Observe always — The higher the mercury
shall stand in the scale in each instance, and the more re
gularly progressive its motion shall be, the stronger will he
the indication : likewise, The more the wind inclines towards
the north or east points, the greater will be the disposition
in the air for fair weather.
     The indications of rainy weather will obviously be the
direct reverse of those rules which predict fair weather.
     Frost is indicated in winter by the same rules that in
 dicate fair weather, the wind being in or about the north
 or east points, and the thermometer sinking towards 32.
     A fall of snow seldom conves without a previous frost of
 some duration, and is indicated by the sinking of the baro
 meter, especially if the mercury be below changeable,
 and the thermometer at or near the freezing point.
     When the temperature of the air is about 35°, snow and
 rain sometimes fall together; at a warmer temperature than
 85? it seldom snows, or rains at a colder temperature.
     Thunder is presaged by the same rules which indicate rain,
 accompanied by sultry heat ; the thermometer being up to 75.
      Storms, hurricanes, and high winds, are indicated by the
 barometer falling suddenly, or sinking considerably below
 MUCH RAIN.
      The barometer is known to l>e rising or sinking by the
 mercury having either a convex or concave surface, or by
  the perceptible rise or descent of the mercury if at the time
  of observation the barometer be gently rapped +.
      If at any time the weather should differ widely from the
     * A barometer, conveniently portable,
                                               merely for the purpose of a»cer-
  taining whether the atmosphere is becoming dtnstrnr rarer, is a great desi
  deratum, but, I should apprehend, not very easy to be constructed.
     f The best index for these observations is a plate of metal extending as
  far as the mirftllt of the caliimn of mercury in the barometer, having a
 fainting line across the centre of the plate.
                                                                    indications

            and for measuring Heights in the Atmosphere.                    277
   indications of the barometer, it may be presumed, as is
  sometimes known to happen, that a particular spot is af
  fected by local circumstances.
      After a long continued series of wet weather, we may,
  when| the weather becomes fine, expect an uninterrupted
  continuance of dry weather.
      If, after a long series of wet weather, the barometer rise
  above changeable, and the wind veer steady to the north
  or ea^t points, a continued duration of fair weather may
                                         4
   be expected.
      Slow and progressive variations in the barometer, with a
  fixed and steady state of the wind, indicate permanency with
  the change.
      T he barometer standing at or above fair, denotes ge
  nerally fair weather, although the atmosphere wear at the
  time an unfavourable aspect.
      Lastly, The greater coincidence there is of the cirer.m^
  stances enumerated in the rules above mentioned, the
  stronger may our confidence be in the expectation of fair
  weather, and in the continuance of it when present, by the
  barometer whilst high, remaining stationary, or varying but
  little, and the state of the atmo.-pheie, and direction of the
  wind, disposed to be settled.
      In this variable climate, there is no reliance, I think, to
  be placed on any rules, beyond those above mentioned, for
  indicating the weather for any length of lime together, or
  for any distant period.
      Many of these rules, perhaps, may appear trite, and as
  if collected from the observations of others; but, uncon
 scious of retaining those of any other person in my mind,
 I give these as the result of my own experience.
 A     Summary Method for ascertaining without the Use of
      Logarithms,      the various Degrees of Elevation in the At
      mosphere, by means of the Barometer, which, by the Ex
      amples thai follow, will be found to give a tolerably close
      Approximation to the geometrical Measurement.
               The following Tables are applied thus:
      1st.  Note down the height of the barometer at                the lower
station, in inches, tenths, and hundredths* ; and the tem
perature of the air, as indicated by the thermometer.
      2dly. In a similar manner note down the height of the
barometer at the upper station; and t lie temperature of the
air (if this differ from the former observation).
     3dly. Subtract the quantity shown by the barometer in the
upper station, from that which is shown in the lon er station.
*
   I have judged it unnecessary to descend be'.ow liundrallhs on the barometer.
                                     S  3                       4thly. Seek

27 8   j4p plication   of Barometer for indicating         the Weatlier,
   4thly. Seek in the column of temperatures, Table I., for
the temperature observed at the stations, (or for the mean
of the two, if they differ,) and note down the number of
feet, tenths, and hundredths, which are placed opposite to
that temperature in the adjoining column.
   5thly. Make corrections (if requisite) from Table IT.
   6thly. Multiply the numbers, so four.d and corrected,
by the difference between the altitudes of the barometer at
the lower and upper stations.
   7thly. Add to the product the increased ratio, from
Table III., which finishes the process.
   Table I. exhibits the number of feet, tenths, and hun
dredths, in perpendicular altitude, indicated by the descent
of the mercury in the barometer for each hundredth part
of an in h; which descent varies according to .the tem
perature of the air, at the rate shown in the corresponding
column.      This table is constructed on the supposition that
the barometer at the lower station is at 30 inches.
   N. B. although this calculation be given for each hun
dredth part of an inch of variation on the barometer, it may
be used lor variations of one tenth, or of one inch, by merely
altering^~thedenomination of the figures in the column, thus :
                                                                   Iciuh Himd*
The variation of       100th part    of inch,
                                          an         at tern-")
  perature      go", indicates altitude of                    J   ' 9'
                                                                             i'*h.
                                                      ......
                                                                         '
The variation of       a 10th part    of   an inch                99     , b.
                                                                     ten.
The variation of       an inch                                      995.
   Table II. shows the alteration which must be made in
the numbers taken from Table I., when the barometer is
not at 30 inches in the lower station.      If it be lower than
30 inches, the number of feet, which are placed opposite to
the barometer's height in this tabic, must be added to the
feet of altitude corresponding with the descent of the mer
cury in the barometer for one inch.     If it be higher than 30
inches, sublruct instead of adding,
    N. B. If the variation of the barometer be not so much
as an inch, but only some tenths of an inch, then the
figures in the second column w          not represent feet, but
                                               ill
 tenths    of
            feel to be added or subtracted.
    Table III. shows the number of feet to be ultimately
added to each 100 feet of altitude.       This number varies,
from   1  to 46, according as the barometer in the upper sta
tion stands between the altitudes of 31 and 14 inches.
    N. B. A table for the correction, or equation of hea^t,                     in
the barometer, when the temperature 'of the atmosphere
differs at the upper and lower stations,      provided for here,
                                                     is
 by  the adjustment of the table of temperatures.
                                                                    Table

     and for measut lug Heights in the Atmosphere.                    279
   Table I.                Table II.               Table III.
            Altitudes for  Height of               Increasing Ratio.
            the Variation Barometer.
   <8       ofevery 100th                 3
   3        of an Inch on
   2        the Barome
                                 5  1    15        4               £
   c.       ter.
                                4        12        31,0            1
                                3
                                     1    9        30,0            1
  H
                £>£  I          S    •o   6        29,0
                                                   28,0
                                                                   2
  90    . .  i .9,9.5            1        3                        3
  68            9,9,0       30,0                   27,0           4
                                          0
  66            9,8,5                              26,0            5
                                9         3
  84            9,8,0                              25,0           6
                                8         6
  82            9,7,5                                   5....      7
  80            9,7,0
                                7
                                6
                                          9
                                         IS
                                                  24,0     ....   8
  78            9,6,5                                   5         9
                                5        15
  76            9,6,0                             23,0           10
                                4        18
  74            9,5,5                                   5        11
                                3       SI
  72            9,5,0                             22,0           12
                                2       34
  70            9,4,6                                   7        13
                                1       27             3
  68            9,4,2                                            14
                           29,0         30
  66            9 3,8                             21,0           15
                                9       33
 64             9,3,4                                  7. ...16
                                8       36
 62.... 9,3,0                                          3         17
 60             9,2,6
                                7
                                6
                                        39
                                        43
                                                  20,0     ....  18
 58             9,2,2
                           28,5         45
                                                       7.   ...19
 56             9,1,8                                  3         20
 54            9,1,4
                             s 4                  19,0           21
 52.... 9          1,0                                 7        22
 50            9,0,6                                   3        23
 48            9,0,2                              18,0          24
 46            8,9,8                                   7        25
 44.... 8,9,4                                          5        26
 42            8,9,0                                   3        27
 40. . . .8,8,6                                   17,0          28
 38            8,8,2                                  8   ...  .29
 36            8,7,8                                  6         30
 34            8,7,4                                  4         31
 32   . .   :.8,7,0                                   2..    . .32
 30            8,6,6                              16,0          33
                                                      8         34
                                                      6         35
                                                      4         36
                                                      2         37
                                                      J   ...  .38
                                                  15,0          39
                                                *14,0....46
                                                             Example
On the top of Chimborazo,    one of the Andes, in South America, and
                                 84                                  tha

280 Application         of Baromeier for indicating iheWeo,lher                .
                                 Example      1.
                                                   Inchfi.Tcn'h Hund.
Lower station                                           29,0,0
Upper station                                 ....      28,0,0
                                        Difference        1,0,0.
Temperature of air         60,°                    = 926          feet to  1 inch,
                                                                      of variat".
For JJ9 incbc3      at lower station, add                   30 feet      from
                                                                       Table If.
                                                          056
Increased ratio,     3 to each 100,    Table   III  =       28
                             Estimated height        . .   964 feet.
                                 Example     2.
Lower station                                           30,p,J
Upper station       ......   '.                         29,3,3
                                       Difference         0,4,8.
                                                           Ft.Tenrh.
Temperature of air 60°                            = 92,6 to each 10th
  (Lower station 30 inches, no correction)                           of an inch
Multiply 92,6 feet by 48 tenths             ....  — 444,5.            variation.
Add for increasing ratio \\ per 100 .=                      6,
                            Estimated height..           450,5.
Height by geometrical           measure                  451,2.
                                 Example 3.
                                                     InchevTenlh Hund.
Lower station                                           29,9,7
Upper station                                           26,2,8
                                    Difference            3,6,9
Mean temperature of air 54°                         =       914 feet to-each
For 529,9 at lower station add (Table            II.)           3      inch of
                                                      «               variation.
                                                            917
the highest mountain in the world, a barometer would stand nearly as
low as1 14 inchei, its summit being £0,'i80 feet above the level of the sea.
"The greatest height to be relied on, to which any person has ascended with
a balloon, is that at which the barometer stands at about S!4 inches, which
is equal to 6,027 feet ; though tome arc said to have reached 16,000 feet.
                     '
                                                                       Multiply

   Process for the Preparation            of Muriate of Mercury.                   281
                                                             Kcer. Trn'h.
Multiply 917 by 3,6,9                                = 3383,7
Add, increasing ratio 5           per 10O    ; . .  .=          169,
                             Estimated height          . .   3552,7
Height by geometrical            measure    ......            3558 feet.
                                  Example 4.
                                                         Iiuhc.Tcnth IlnndL
Lower station                          ,                      29-9.3
Upper station                                                 16,8,1
                                         Difference           J 3, 1,2
Mean temperature of air 64*                             =         934     feet to each
 For lower station 29,9 add.                                          3     inch of
                                                                            variation.
                                                                  937
Multiply 937 by 13,1,2                        ..-         12.293,4
Add increasing ratio 29            per 100.      .=         3,565,
                           Estimated height        . .    1 J,85S,4
Height by geometrical            measure   .....          1 5,833       feet.
   N. B. In        the three last examples, the heights of the ba
rometer       at the   different stations, and the geometrical heights,
corresponding thereto, are extracted from different works
pf unquestionable authority.                   I am, sir,
                                                 Your obedient servant,
  Queen-street, Oxford,
       (Jet - 1 _ 1H 10_
                                                       RlCHARP WALKER.
EIV.      (Economical Process for the Preparation of the sub-
   tinted Muriate of Mercury (Calomel): to which is sub
  joined an easy. Method of purifying the Calomel used in
   Commerce.             By M. Planche*.
Anxious           to avoid the inconvenience which results from
the employment of corrosive sublimate in the preparation
of calomel ; convinced by experience that the various me
thods proposed with this view by Van Mons and Brugnatelli
were insufficient;          and considering the discrepancy which
prevails in most of the pharmacopoeias of Europe, as to the
     . 1           • Annates de Chimie, tome    livi.   p. IG8.

S82     Process for the Preparation      of Muriate of Mercury.
doses  of corrosive sublimate,    and of metallic mercury, which
ought    to  be used  in this preparation  ; M. Planche, after nu
merous trials, has ascertained that it is sufficient, in order
to obtain calomel, to sublime a mixture of sulphate of mer
cury at the minimum, and of dry muriate of soda.
    Preparation of the Sulphate of Mercury. Introduce into
a stone retort placed in a reverberating furnace one part of
crude mercury, and one part and a half of sulphuric acid
at 66° of Baume's areometer.           Fix an adopter and a tubu
lated receiver to the retort, which must be made to com
municate either with distilled water contained in Woulf's
flasks, if we wish to collect the sulphurous add ; or with
the external air, if the situation of the place admit of the
gas being set at liberty.      Gradually heat the retort until the
acid boils, and keep up the fire while the acid vapours are
disengaged in abundance, taking care to slacken it towards
the end of the operation, i.e. when the drops of the liquid
which passes from the retort into the bell-glass succeed
each other slowly, and when there is a diminution of the
white vapours. After this operation, which lasts four or five
hours, the retort may be broken ; or, rather, we may sepa
rate by means of tongs the sulphate of mercury, which is
easily detached.
    The acid sulphate of mercury thus obtained is very white
and very friable; it passes to the yellow colour on the ad
dition of the most trifling quantity of cold water.          In or
der to carry this salt to the state of sulphate at the minimum,
the author combines it with quicksilver in the following
manner.
    He takes 18 parts of the above acid sulphate of mercury t
 and eleven parts of mercury.        He triturates them together
in a mortar, or in a porcelain capsule, adding by degrees
 six parts of cold water.
    The first portions of water make the sulphate assume a
vellow colour, which soon disappears on shaking it.            Heat
 is developed.       The matter assumes a very deep gray co
 lour. After a few minutes trituration, he adds a sufficient
 quantity of water to give to the whole the consistence of a
 thick broth ; and he continues to triturate until the mass
has become of a dirty white, and the mercury has totally
 disappeared, which lasts for five or six hours when the mass
 is considerable.      He afterwards dries this substance in a
 stove  at  a temperature of 30° to 35° of Reaumur.
    M.   Planche   is of opinion, that the mercurial mass which
 results   from  this  operation is in the state of sulphate at the
 minimum, and he proves it by the following experiments.
                                                               1. It

         Process for metallizing         Potash and Soda.                 283
   1. It is soluble in distilled water, and its solution does
not titer the tincture of turnsole or the syrup of violets.
   2. It is precipitated black by lime water, and gray by
ammonia.
   Preparation of the mild Muriate ofMercttry. To convert
the sulphate of mercury into calomel, mix intimately, on a
porphyry stone, equal parts in weight of the sulphate of
mercurv as above designated at the minimum, and of sea
salt purified and dried : introduce the mixture into matrasses
with flai bottoms two- thirds of which arc left empty, and
proceed to sublimation in the usual way.         After the opera
tion, hich lasts five or six hours, there will be found in
the arc; of th<. -subliming vessel a loaf of calomel of the
weight of about 30 ounces, if four pounds of mixture are
operated 'Upon.    This salt is as wh ite as that of commerce,
and purer than that which we commonly meet with as
corning from the laboratories oi Switzerland.
    In order to add to its purity, particularly when the heat
 has not been well managed, the author of the memoir pro
 poser the following method, which perfectly succeeded with
him, and which has the advantage of having no action on
the mercurial salt.
    Purification of Calomel.      Pulverize the calomel in a
 mortar of marble or of hard stone.       Pass it through a fine
 hair sieve in order to obtain a homogeneous powder tole
 rably fine. Introduce the pulverized salt into matrasses of
 the same form as in the foiegoing operation: afterwards
cover it with a layer about two lines thick of fine sand, pre
viously washed with water slightly sharpened with muriatic
 acid, in order to free it from the carbonate of lime and
 oxide of iron which are mixed with
                                                  by it,
                                              and tublime as be
fore directed. The calomel purified           this process   very    is
 pure. M. Planche has presented to the Institution         loaf of
                                                                 a
it very regularly crystallized, and in whiteness equal to that
 of corrosive sublimate.
JN.    Description of    Process
                         a          meansly    which we mayof
     metallize Potash and Soda without the Assistance  Iron,      of
     By M. Curaudau*.
The decomposition     of the alkalis, which     have never re
                                                           I
garded   assimple bodies, having  been  long  an object of my
inquiries, I became anxious   to repeat   the experiment ac
cording to which Messrs. Thenard and Gay Lussac have
                 •   Annates   de Chitnic, tome Ixvi, p. 97.
                                                                announced

4S4            Process   for   metallizing    Potash and Soda.
announced lhat potash and soda might be converted into
metal by means of iron; but not having obtained results
more satisfactory than those who to my knowledge have
repeated the same experiment, I continued my inquiries,
which appeared to me to be the more likely to be successful,
as Mr. Davy had thrown so much light upon certain phae-
nomena which I had observed, but could not till then ac
count for.
   In short ;      if,
                   according to the hypothesis of the celebrated
English chemist, potash and soda w ere metallic oxides, was
it not more than probable that the prussic calcinations were
nothing else than the combination of this metal with char
coal  ?  Such at least was my opinion then, and              will be    it
seen how far          was well founded, since
                      it                             succeeded in
                                                               I
metallizing potash and soda,             heating strongly one of
                                             by
these two alkalis with charcoal            process which, as we
                                             ;    a
shall find, enters into the prussic calcinations.
   The metallization of potash and of soda taking place
with one or other of the two mixtures which           have pointed
                                                               I
out, and succeeding equally well in stone retorts as            iron         in
pipes, we may employ the former or latter process indis
criminately.      As to the nature of the vessel,         prefer anI
iron one, .because
                           it
                           ismore permeable to the caloric, and
less subject to fuse than stone, particularly when the latter
is penetrated with alkali     an inconvenience which prevents
                                  ;
us from bringing      the operation to an end     which docs not
                                                           :
so frequently happen with the iron.
   First Process. Mix exactly four parts of well pulverized
animal charcoal with three parts of carbonate of soda dried
in the fire without having been melted         combine the w hole
                                                      :
with  a  sufficient quantity   of linseed oil, but so as not to
make     paste.
          a
    Second Process.      Take two parts of flour, and mix them
intimately   with   one  part of carbonate of soda prepared as
in the foregoing experiment: add to the mixture sufficient             a
quantity of linseed oil, but so as not to prevent         from be  it
ing   in  pulverulent stale.
           a
   Whatever be the kind of vessel employed for calcining
the substance in question, and whether the first or se
cond mixture be used, we must always begin                  heating    by
gradually: but as soon as the matter             dull red, we may
                                                      is   a
increase the fire until we see         the inside of the retort or
                                         in
iron pipe      fine celestial blue light, the areola of which
               a                                                                  is
              To this light there soon succeeds         very abun- a
  ant vapour, which obscures the w hole inside of the vessel,
Sreenish.
a.nd which       the metal extricating itself from the mixture.
                 is

             Process for metallizing Potash and Soda.          485
The  fire must no longer be increased, for at this tempera-
lure the retort begins to melt; and if the iron resists better,
 it isbecause the alkali penetrates it less speedily than it
does the stone ; and also, because the heat which it re
ceives is sooner transmitted to the matter.
   In order to collect the metal as fast as it is formed, intro
duce into the vessel a piece of iron well scoured ; and as
we must not give it time to become red, it must be with
drawn in four or five seconds: it is then entirely covered
with metal, which may be removed by suddenly plunging
the iron into a glass cucurbit filled with spirits of turpen
tine.    This cucurbit ought to be dipped in a bucket of
water, in order to prevent the spirits of turpentine from
boiling.   Still, however, in spite of this precaution, it is
sometimes so heated as to take fire when the pieces of iron
are introduced into it.
   Requisites for the Operation.          It requires three persons
to perform the operation well. One must work the bellows,
and take care of the fire: the most expert of the attendants
collects the metal as it is produced, and plunges with the
utmost celerity the pieces of iron into the turpentine: the
third assistant removes the metal which adheres to the iron,
and afterwards dips it into the water, as well to cool it as
to remove the alkali which has escaped metallization, and
that which is formed by the combustion of the metal be-
fore its immersion into the turpentine.           He takes care also
to clean the pieces of iron well before using thein.
   This operation requires the most dexterous manipulation:
while the metal is forming.             The bellows must also be
carefully managed     ; for, if the  fire be suddenly slackened, the
metal ceases to be set free, and the pieces of iron are covered
with pure alkali only :            if,
                                   on the other hand, the fire    is
hastily increased at this instant, the vessel melts, and the
experiment        fruitless.
                     is         This proves, therefore, that the
temperature ought to be uniform and steady.          I     have ob
served that          always at the heat of melting iron that
                     it   is
the metal     produced.
                is             It rarely happens that an iron pipe
serves twice, and the retorts melt long before the whole
of the metal      obtained which the alkali can produce.
                     is
 I    purpose subsequently to make known any observations
which    Imay happen to make on this metallic produce         :   in
the mean time        think
                      I        may infer from my experiments,
                               I
that the production of the metal         is not owing, as has been
said, to the deoxygenation of the alkali, but      is    on the con
trary new compound, into which hydrogen seems to have
         a
                                                           entered

  2S6          Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
  entered in combination, and which in my opinion would
  be in a very condensed state in it *.
      To conclude : — During the whole operation, hydrogen is
  extricated, alkali not metallized, and radical prtissic gas.                 I
 have collected this last product in particular in great quan
  tities.
      These results tend, therefore, to prove either that hydro
 gen is one of the constituent parts of the alkalis, and the
  disengagement of which is favoured by charcoal, or rather
 that the charcoal itself is a compound of which hydrogen
 is one of the principles.           We must choose between one or
 other of these hypotheses.
 LVI.      Reflections     on some      Mineralogical       Syste7ns.        By
      R. Chenevix, Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.LA.,                     &?c. Trans
      lated entire from the French, with             Notes by the Trans
      lator \.
 FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES AND GENERAL EXAMINATION
                     OF THE WERNERIAN SCHEME.
Nature           has given to all bodies properties which are either
 immediately or mediately sensible.                This is the basis of all
 systems of mineralogy.             One mean of rendering our learn
 ing useful is by establishing unities, to which every thing
 may be referred, and which we afterwards adopt either
 wholly or in part.          We seek a principle the most general
 and least variable possible, to employ it as a basis for the
 determination of these unities: in natural history, it is
 agreed to call the latter by the name of species.                 In the ve
 getable and animal kingdoms, the faculty of reproducing
 individuals fecund and similar to their parents constitutes
 a species.
     This principle of specification has been received as law
 ful; but it is not applicable to the mineral kingdom. Does
 there exist any oiher? If we consult the ancient works on
mineralogy, we are tempted to believe that it is totally
wanting.          In more modern times, M. Werner is engaged in
seeking and noting in minerals every thing that immediately
    • The opinion exposed in this
                                         paragraph has been since retracted by
the French chemists. — Edit.
    •f As the learned author has not thought proper to publish these ingenious
and scientific reflections in his native language, a circumstance much to be
regretted, the translator has, for the sake of perspicuity, taken the liberty of
classing them under different heads, according to the subject discussed: he
lias also ventured occasionally to introduce in [ ] the real or approximate
«ynonyms of the various minerals mentioned by the author, in order to
enable the English reader to form more precise notions of the different sub
stances, and feel the force and justice of the author's reasoning.  B.
                                                                       strikes

           Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.                   287
Strikes the senses; and he has succeeded in uniting the
principles which enable him to class and distinguish mi
nerals into a body of doctrine.         The colour, brilliancy,
fracture, and other properties, have been examined in a
point of view the best calculated to attain this object: the
advantages which a knowledge of the latent qualities may
offer have not been neglected ; — these labours have procured
the author the approbation of the learned world.         In this
manner a great step has been made; and if it does not con
duct us entirely to our object, it at least demonstrates the
difficulty of attaining it. M. Werner has said (Memoir of
Daubuisson, Journal fife Physique, Frimaire,! 6th year), " that
all the minerals which have the same constituent parts,
both with respect to quality and quantity, form only one
species ; and that all those which differ essentially belong to
different species. If, in the same species," he adds, " divers
minerals having the same characters (one only excepted)
differ from others in two or three characters (a greater num
ber would induce a difference of species) from those which
we have designated, they form a particular subspecies.
Finally, When an individual in a species, or subspecies,
presents but one different character, it forms a variety."
    To the word essentially I have two objections.        In the
first place, it does not excite the same idea in all minds, and
we can have no precise notion respecting         while    has no
                                                          it,    it
 fixed signification. In the second place, the chemical means
which could enable us to pronounce with some certainty
 on what belongs essentially or accidentally to the compo
 sition of mineral, are entirely omitten. But let us suppose,
             a
 for moment, that we have acquired the necessary knowledge.
      a
 The chemical composition      therefore the true basis
                                 is                      specifi  of
 cation in this system*. We also learn from the abovequota-
 tion, that when two minerals of the same species differ in one
  •   To   this the Wernerians object, that it    degrading to mineralogy to
                                                 is
be dependent on chemistry    ;thatit   ispossible for a man to bea   very good
mineralogist without being previously       achemist  ;and that thev are two
distiutand independent sciences.     In support of these positions, they some
times appeal to the increasing number of botanical nomcnclaturists who are
not vegetable physiologists) but the allusion only ter.ds to place mechanism
before science; the former are to the latter what sculptors and lapidaries are
to scientific mineralogists. The Wernerians, therefore, when they reject
chemical science, and build solely on their external characters, place them
selves on precisely the same basis aj the lapidaries and sculptorsi    they be
come artists, but not men of science properly so called. They may indeed
be most acute observers, very accurate reporters of their observations, and
even pioneers in the fields of mineralogical science; but they ought not to
aspire to be world-makers, or attempt to raise any superstructure without
the aid of chemistry  ; while mineralogy and particularly geology are not less
sciences of deduction than of observation. — Trans.
                                                                 character,

    988       Reflections on s6me M'meralogical     Si/slews.
    character, they are varieties ; if in two or three, they form
i   subspecies.    If the number of dissimilar specific characters
    exceed three, the minerals thus characterized must belong
    to different species.    Here, then, is a second jdea of the
    species  which  has  just presented itself; and to reconcile it
    with the first, we have only to believe that the variation of
   more than three specific characters is an inseparable consc
    ience of an essential difference in the chemical composition
   of minerals.
       We cannot be perfectly sensible why the number three
   rhould be that which characterizes a change in the che
   mical composition, and we are templed to believe that it
   has been taken at random.        It is nevertheless founded on
   a motive.     The species is subdivided into subspecies ant)
   variety ; the variety, therefore, is the last subdivision of
   the species ; and to determine the last subdivision but one,
  the variation of two or of three has been chosen.            It is,
   therefore, neceisary to carry beyond three the difference of
   species; that is to sav, (according to the passage already
   quoted,) the essential difference in the chemical composition.
  ¦1 have said that there was a very good motive for choosing;
   the number three; but I have not said that it was suscepti
   ble of being acknowledged by nature.
       In establishing the difference of species solely ort the dif
   ference of any determinate number of specific characters,-
   we render it independent of every consideration eitljer of
   the value of the characters, or of the extent in which the
   shades of these characters differ.        In this hypothesis it
   matters not, that two minerals have two or even thi-ec cha
   racters so different that they form, if we may so speak, the
   extremes of the series of characteristic analogies: if we can
   not discover a fourth which is also different, these two mi
   nerals must belong to the same species : or let any number
   whatever of minerals that I can divide into two series form
   a difference, in three specific characters; let all those of the
   first portion be opake, ductile, and so soft as to be cut with
   the nail ; let those of the second be transparent, not ductile,
   and so hard as to resist the file; let all the other characters
   be entirely similar in uvery respect, still the individuals
   which compose these two portions arc of the same species,
   Mnce the number of different characters does not exceed
   three.    Moreover, let us suppose all these minerals of a
   brownish red colour, except one only, which maybe a red
   dish brown.      Here we must now renounce these principle*
  rn which the single shade between brownish red and reddish
   brown, (fur M. Werner places them in two different species
                                                              among

          Reflections on some Miner alogical Systems.        289
 Among the colours) effects the translation of a mineral from
 one species to that of another, as it is that which, super
 added to the first, forms the fourth characteristic difference,
while the other minerals always remain in the same species
as before. — It is the last pound under which the camel sue*
 cuinbs.
    Here is a second example of the very serious incon
veniences arising from making the species depend on any
 fixed number of characters.      Form is a character, crystal
lization is comprehended in forms. M. Werner admits the
prism only where there exist certain proportions between
Us height and its breadth ; if we diminish the former, the
prism becomes a table. The prism and table are considered
as making two different species of primitive forms.         Take
a crystal of calcareous spar in a hexahedral prism, and an
other crystal of the same in a hexahedral table j here is a
different primary specific character in these two specimens
of calcareous spar. Suppose the table very near becoming
a prism, and the prism approaching very near to the table ;
and suppose the one translucid and the other opake; add
two specific characters not less insignificant than these two,
and behold a new species at very little expense.        But, had
the causes which determine crystallization added some mo
 lecules of carbonate of lime to the calcareous spar, in the
direction of the axis of the prism which was considered a
table, it would have been saved from this forced separation
from its equals.
    In establishing a subspecies, if the liberty of choosing two
or three for the number of characters by which the ob
server decides, leave any influence to the particular value
of each character, it is necessary that this value should rest
on a solid basis ; otherwise we risk the danger of making
arbitrary dispositions, and the same mineral may be found
belonging to as many different species as there will be per
sons who shall, examine it.       M. Werner, indeed, has di
stinguished some characters by the order of importance in
the determination of the species, as well as in the diagnosis
of minerals. He gives sometimes to the specific gravity,
sometimes to the colour, more value than to the greater part
of the other characters. I have seized every opportunity
to acquire clear ideas on this subject, either in consulting-
M. Werner himself, or addressing those who had profited
most by his instructions ; and all that I have been able to
learn amounts only to this, That the value of a character
varies from one species to another : thus, then, to decide
on it,   it  necessary to know the species, that
              is                                   is  to say, in
    Vol. 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810.           T            algebraic

ego       Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
algebraic language, for to find the value          of x, we must
commence with knowing it.
 WERNERIAN DIVISION         OF         THE EXTERNAL CHARACTERS.
    M. Werner has divided the external characters into ge
neric characters, specific characters, and characters of va
rieties which influence the systematical distribution of mi
nerals under analogous denominations.           The colour, lustre,
and specific gravity undergo subdivisions.           White, gray,
black, blue, green, yellow and brown, arc species among
the colours.     The shades of these characters form subdivi
sions, and they are pronounced in adding an epithet to the
¦word which designates the specific character.          Thus, cela
don- or sea-green is a variety of green ; gosling- (serin) green
is another; sky-blue is a variety of blue, as sulphur-yellow
is one of yellow.      These distinctions cannot be mistaken
as soon as we understand to pronounce the attributes of the
specific colour according to the rules.          But the difference
between celadon-green and gosling-green is really greater
than between 3ky-blue and celadon-green, and the same
between gosling-green and sulphur-yellow : that is to say,
 the varieties of the same species differ more from each other
 than two species differ. This mode of distribution may
suffice for the nomenclature, but by no means for the thing;
it satisfies the ear, because the ear does not judge of colours.
    The division of external characters into specific and ge
 neric characters, and characters of variety, places us in a
 new difficulty ; for we here sec a third principle of classifica
 tion relative to minerals.    We had the number of different'
 characters, and the value of each character; now we have
 the intensity of these same characters. It is also impossible
 to see clearly how we ought to form species and varieties
 in minerals : if it is by the number solely, we exclude the
 importance of characters, and the shades are all of the same
 value; if we concede any thing to the importance, we must
 modify the rules respecting the number; and          the character
                                                    i-f
 of variety be sufficient to establish the mineralogical variety,
 as but one is  wanting, What shall we do when       it   is
                                                           a specific
 character which differs? How many characters of variety
 are equivalent to a  specific character? How many to gene     a
 ric In all these, too, we must carefully avoid taking the least
   ?
 possible difference of characters to establish the mineralo
 gical subdivision, which       not itself the smallest.
                                  is
                             it a
    Unity of principle in        system of classification      isthat
 which tends most to give         precision.    If we feci ourselves
 obliged to admit several principles,        loses this advantage,
                                             it
                                                              unless

          Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.         291
unless that the consistence of these principles be not so
necessarily united as to prevent their separation.       For ex
ample; if a certain colour was an inevitable consequence of
the presence of a certain constituent part, we might adopt
the colour as a principle of classification, at the same time
with the presence or absence of this constituent part. But,
in doing this, we would admit at bottom but one single
principle as the basis of the system, since the existence of
the one would necessarily imply that of the other.            As
M. Werner has admitted external characters to form the
basis of his system, at the same time that he explicitly de
clares, that "all minerals which have essentially the same
constituent parts both with respect to quality and quantity
form the same species," we must suppose that he has dis
covered certain connexions        which exist between these
characters and the essential chemical composition of the
same mineral.       The results of chemical analysis, never
theless, do not correspond with this supposition; and the
science which unfolds the composition of minerals pro
nounces it in a manner that does not agree with our re
ceived ideas of the external characters.     At the first glance
over the classification of M. Werner, we may perceive the
difficulty in which this contradiction involves us; for the
desire of reconciling two things dissimilar in themselves,
 has introduced an uncertainty which prevails over all its
 parts.    If we wish that this celebrated author should rer
 main faithful to his principles, I see no other mode than
 to suppose that he takes the testimony of external charac
 ters as the index of the chemical composition, rather than
 the results of chemistry itself.
    Other authors, who have published works according to
 the principles of M.Werner, tell us, that although this phi
 losopher considers all minerals which correspond in external
 character and chemical composition, as belonging to the
 same species, he does not pretend that his arrangement
 should agree with the experiments of the chemist.        This is
 to speak at hazard, and to avow frankly that he regards
 theoretical assertions as superior to experience, and the
 system which he has adopted as preferable to the principles
 of science. It would therefore only be when the chemi
 cal results agree with the external resemblances of minerals,
 that they could occupy a place in this system.          We see
 sensible characters combined with chemical composition to
 determine a species; but if they do not agree with the
 result9 of chemistry, this science can be of no utility.

292          Reflections on some Mineralogical Systents.
Such ideas will not be very generally received among those
who have studied this science, nor even by those who are
most disposed to discover its imperfections.
INCONSISTENCY            AND UNCERTAINTY OP THE WERNERIAN
                        PLAN OF SPECIFICATION.
    We now perceive the difficulty of reconciling the im
mense number of principles which this system has founded,
and the contradictions which the minerals themselves must
render unavoidable in whoever adopts them as a basis. Let
us examine, in a few examples, if their celebrated author
has been able to draw any uniform laws from them.                       Five
things are to be known, viz.
     1st. If all the minerals which have essentially the same
chemical composition are ranged in the same species.
    2dly. If all those which have an essential difference in
their chemical composition are placed in different species.
    3dly. If all the minerals which differ in more than three
specific characters, whatever may be the number of those
which they have in common, belong to different species.
    4thly. If all those which do not differ in more than three
different characters, are ranged in the same species. And,
    filhly. If the minerals arc always divided into genera, spe
cies, and varieties, according to their difference ; that is to
say, if those placed in separate genera always differ more
from each other, than those which belong to species, or to
different varieties, &c.
    The relative condition in the 1st Art. is violated in the
most striking manner by Werner's zirconian genus, which is
divided into three species, and to which chemical analysis
gives the same results. In corundum and adamautine spar
we have two species * with the same chemical composition :
it is the same in appatite, asparagus-stone and phospholite.
Gypsum and fraueneis (selenite) are in a similar state ; and
 carbonated lime presents us with no less than the alarm
ing number of 14 species, which contain eight subspecies
t.;id six varieties.
     In the 2d Art. we have beryl which contains glucine
 earth, and schorlous beryl which contains none, but which
 has instead of it fluoric acid.          These minerals, without any
    * Here the Wernerians make a distinction without a differences corun
dum is used as synonymous with the adamantine s.par of Kirwan, and im
 perfect corundum of Greville and Bournon; while diamond spar is made a.
 distinct species, although forming only the subspecies corindon harmophantoi
 Hauy, or adamantine corundum of Ikogniart. — Trans.
                                                                     affinity

             Rejections on some Mineralogical Systems.                    293
    affinity in their chemical compositions, belong to the same
    species. (June 1805*.)
       I shall not stop to give examples proving that the 3d
    rule has been abused : it has been violated at almost every
    step. In the greater part of the minerals which are but
   varieties of the same species, if we examine them closely,
    we shall find more than three specific characters which are
   dissimilar. The division of characters into generic, specific,
   and characters of variety, and the little precision which ex
   ists in all that has been said on the number and importance
    of characters, render this examination irksome.
       As to the 4 th Art. I asked the celebrated author of the sy
   stem of external characters, if there existed a sufficient dis
   parity between the properties of sulphated barytes and sul-
   phated slrontian to constitute them two species ; and he
   answered No.         Here chemistry makes two genera where
   the external characters would not have two species.
      For the 5th Art. there is not less difference between the
  garnet and pyrope, quartz and eisenkiesel [iron flint, Jame
   son], beryl and emerald, than between the common or
   compact feldspar and hohlspalh (macle of the French), pot
   ter's clay and schiejerthon [slate clay of Jameson, and argile
feuilletSe of Brogniart], mountain cork [asbeste tresse of
  Haiiy, or A. suheriforme of Brogniart], and amianth, cal
  careous spar, pisolite [peastone of Jameson, and chaux car-
  loiiatee concretion&e of" Haiiy] and compact, common and
  fibrous limestone.
      I have chosen only a few examples ; but they are suffi
  cient to prove that there is not one of the rules proposed to
  serve as a basis to the system which has not been in
 fringed ; sometimes one prevails, sometimes another; and
 we can only refer the consequent instability to the insuffi
  ciency of the principles.
         PHILOSOPHERS       AND PHILOSOPHY OF FRKYBERG.
     During a residence of 18 months at Freyberg, where                     I
 had every day occasion to admire the precision and accuracy
with which the learned professor recognized minerals at the
 first view, and where I was more than ever convinced by
the example of others of the difference which exists between
the institution of species and the knowledge of individuals,
    • Professor Jameson has even gone further, and divided, after Werner,
                                          "
beryl into two subspecies, calling the one /irst sub-pecies, precious beryl"
(beryl of Kirwan), and the other "second subspecies    schorlous beryl," the
pycnite of Haiiy, and shorlite of Kirwan ; thus indicating a relation in nu
merical order which has no existence in nature. — Trans.
                                   T  3                              I neg-

294          Reflections on some Miner alogical Systems.
I  neglected no means of forming to myself a distinct idea
of the former. Sometimes they spoke to me of the che
mical composition ; but when I cited the zircon and hy
acinth, I was answered, that the external characters made
the difference.       If heavy s par and celestine were the subject,
they again      referred    to chemistry.      Often they spoke to me
of approximate characters (caractires des rapprochemens) ,
or characters of agreement and disagreement, of which no
mention has been made in the enumeration ; and they
quoted to me, as a reason for placing potter's clay {glaise)
and schistose argil in the same species, that both are disunited
in water. To justify the separation of chalk from mineral
agaric [rock milk, Jameson ; and spongy carbonated lime,
Haiiy], of foaming earth [or schaum earth of Jameson,
silvery chalk of Kirwan, talcous pearly carbonated lime of
Haiiy] from schiefferspalh [slate spar of Jameson, argentine
 of Kirwan], they relied on the external characters; and to
prove that bitterspath [muricalcite, Kirwan ; chaux carbo-
natee magnesifere, Haiiy ; chaux carbonatee lente picrile,
 Brogniart] justly makes a species different from calcareous
 spar, they turned about to chemistry without daring openly
 to claim its support.             Sometimes the colours were but
 shades or accidents; sometimes they offered characters of
 the highest importance.            At other moments they confessed
 1o me that they made species by instinct : and when I com
 plained of not being satisfied with some conclusions indi
 cated by this guide, they answered, " One is not always
 in his instinct." Finally, after being detected in every
 manner, they referred the specification to the tact of the
 observer*.         But, in this respect, who should, venture to
 make species if not M. Werner alone?
      If I have spoken of these details which I often collected
     * True philosophers are deeply indebted to Mr. C. for this clear and
 manly exposition of a system not of science hut of delusion worthy only of
  the lowest religious jugglers and fanatics. The " mineralogical instinct" is
  certainly a new faculty discovered in the human mind by the philosophers
  of Freybcrg, whose ardent zeal in propagating their opinions furnishes a
  better proof of their passions than of their logic or reasoning powers.     It
  may, perhaps, be laid down as a general truism, applicable in every branch
  of natural philosophy, that all schemes or systems of natural knowledgo
  may be esteemed scientific or dogmatic just in proportion as their followers
  embrace them by reason or by passion. Science is properly a creature of
  reason, and modestly retires whenever the passions or affections appear:
  opinions, heingoriginally suggested by the feelings, are naturally supported
  and propagated by the passions, while science can only be maintained and
  disseminated by close abstract reasoning.   Hence it is not difficult to con
  ceive why some of the more imprudent Wi rnerians have expressed them
  selves with so much violence against the volume containing the above state™
  aieut offsets and rellections.-^TRANs.
                                                                             in

             Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.          295
in conversation,        and   if I have quoted the words of other
persons       as well   as   M. Werner, it is to  prove that in the
system of  e.rternul characters   there  are   no  principles of spe
cification which  could serve  as  the  basis  of  any  science ; for,
if there had been any, it is more than probable that some
one would have been able to show me them ; and, until that
I  receive a clear and distinct answer on this head, I shall
be pardoned for believing and saying that there are none.
 BASIS        OF A SCIENTIFIC SYSTEM OF MINERALOGICAL
                        SPECIFICATION.
     If in   the multitude of properties which distinguish bodies
we are fortunate enough to find those which lead to a more
certain and exact determination, let us hope that when pro
perly unfolded they may be converted into principles, and
that a science shall spring up from the whole.        The pre
cision of the terms which it shall employ will be the mea
sure of its accuracy, and the definitions become its language.
   The knowledge which we have hitherto acquired, fur
nishes us with two means of appreciating in bodies those
qualities which escape the cognizance of our senses. These
means are physical and chemical ; they unite, to the advan
tage of being able to appreciate with more precision the
properties which on the first view are but imperfectly dis
covered, that still greater, of developing the new properties
which are only manifested by indirect means.           Having
6een the little success attending the system of immediately
sensible properties, and the little ho'pe which remains of
improving       since M.Werner has not been able to make
                 it,
it better, let us have recourse to the succour of these two
sciences  to establish mineralogical species.
   Physics and chemistry furnish us two modes of attaining
the final results of the division of bodies.    Without enter
ing into useless metaphysical discussions on infinity, wc
may suppose any substance whatever reduced to the finest
and most imperceptible particles which the mind can
imagine.     This     the last point of physical division, and
                        is
one of these grains presents us with the physical element
of body. Yet this element may be still very compound
                                                                   jf
     a
in another point of view, and undergo another species
division       by
               means which      are properly the province of
chemistry.    When the latter       al^o carried to its ultimate
                                        is
point, we obtain the chemical element.         By physical ele
ment we understand that which occupies the smallest por
tion of space which we can conceive; chimical element
supposes the least possible number of component principles.
                                   T4                            The

396      "Reflections on some   Mineralogical   Systems.
The former    eludes our senses by its extreme tenuity long
before it has attained its limit ; the latter would not be less
correctly represented bv a mountain of pure silica than by
the smallest atom. The function of the one in nature is to
aggregate itself in quantities more or less considerable to
form masses, from those particles which we can perceive
only by the aid of the mircroscope, to those enormous piles
which we can scarcely embrace in imagination ; the office
of the other is to form bodies which we call compound : thus
the simplicity of one of these elements does not affect the
other.    They have nothing in common, but as being the
results to which we are led by the only two means of divi
sion hiiherto known. We may affirm that in every case we
can obtain these results, or that we cannot be obliged to
take the limits of our knowledge for those of nature. This
is sufficient; and we are not in opposition to philosophy,
when, in making some efforts to advance towards the end,
we substitute the one for the other; and when we find a
representation, which in every thing essential resembles the
object of research, we may dispense with a rigour which
would in some respects be superfluous.
    Hence, from the combination of these elements under
 different circumstances,    results that infinite variety of
 nature which we call fantastical when we do not compre
 hend it ; and it is by depriving the products of nature of
 the accidents which alter them, that we bring them back to
that simplicity in which alone they are constant.       What,
then, remains for genius to do, but to investigate nature in
 a manner in which it cannot escape our researches, and to
 obtain unequivocal proofs, or else consider it in a state in
 which it ceases to be changeable ?
MECHANICO-CHEMICAL OR CRYSTALLOGRAPHICA L SYSTEM
  OF HAUY, AND HIS DEFINITION OF MINERALOGICAL
  SPECIES.
  Now, what       has the author of a mineralogical system
founded   on  internal  properties effected in our times? In
stead of stopping at the surface, he has penetrated into the
interior of the mineral, and a new world has presented itself
to his contemplation.        He has seen it in its simplicity,
considered   the  elements    which compose  it,  examined their
habits  and  mutual    relations,  discovered the chain which in
an invariable manner unites the final results of the only
two means of division of which we know the possibility,
and has defined the species.       "The mineralogical species, *'
                   ,c
 says M. Haiiy,            collection of minerals whose integral
                    is
                    a
                                                       molecules

            Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.                   297
molecules are similar, and composed of the same elements
united in the same proportion." It is the assemblage of
all the minerals which agree, with respect to the final re
sults of division, in their physical and chemical molecules,
in the true expression of nature reduced to its greatest sim
plicity*.
     This definition of the mineralogical             species is rigorous,
and leaves nothing to be desired ; but it requires a know
ledge of the integral molecules.                In the first place, it re
quires us to ascertain what its form is in all cases similar to
itself : in the second place, we must be able to determine
the nature and relations of its chemical elements. The first
problem consists in finding the planes which terminate the
 small solid called the integral molecule, or, what amounts
 to the same thing, a solid which may resemble it 5 for it is
 not the absolute but the relative dimensions of this mole
 cule which are required.             But, the planes which terminate
 this solid can be but those which are parallel to the different
 directions in which a mineral is divisible without break
 ing, or what has been denominated the direction of the
 cleavage.
      It is otherwise with the problem respecting the chemical
 element.        We know that there exist vacuums between the
 molecules of bodies, and that even these vacuities are very
 considerable : hence it is that foreign matters have so often
 interposed themselves, and altered the sensible characters
 of a group of molecules or of a mass. Suppose that all the
 directions of the cleavage parallel to the planes which ter
  minate the physical molecule are ascertained. Whatever
 may be the dimensions of the piece in which these direc
  tions are found, we have the representative                  of the mole
  cule ; but as these dimensions necessarily exceed those of
  the molecule itself, it follows that the piece contains more
  than one molecule, and hence foreign matters may deposit
  themselves in the interstices.            Hitherto chemistry possesses
  only the means of distinguishing the simple parts which
  compose the physical elements from those which are inter
  posed. Hence a source of uncertainty in the results of
  chemical analysis; and, in order that it may enjoy all the
      * Most assuredly this conception, even were it devoid of basis, would do
  honour to the human intellect. Man is placed in the middle of the universe,
  as if to contemplate the infinite space which surrounds him.    On whatever
  side he looks, — whether he contemplates those worlds whose volumes and
  remote distances are to him without measure, or whether he considers the
  atoms which form them and the laws by which these atoms are united, — every
   thing is to him infinite, and begets in his mind that sentiment of sublimity
   originating (n a grandeur for which we have no expression.
 ;                                                                confidence

 298       Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
  confidence which the state of our knowledge should insure
 it, we should apply        only to the physical molecules which
                               it
  have been previously separated one               by
                                                  one to carry off
  the foreign matter interposed.         But, as the true physical
 molecule      issituated beyond our means, and the thought
  only  can reach          knowledge of the chemical element
                         it,   a
  would seem to be too remote for us ever to aspire to it.
 Nevertheless nature and labour offer us some means. First,
it   does not always happen that the physical molecules are
 embarrassed        by
                    foreign matter      next, suppose several mi
                                         :
 nerals whose physical division gives, for instance, an irre
 gular tetrahedron, but in all of uniform dimensions, and
 that chemistry finds in one the elements a,b,c,d,e;             an   in
 other, a, c, d;
           b,            in
                        short, that     e, and others
                                             d,           we please,
                                                             if
 may be variable, but that a,           I,
                                     c, may be sensibly invariable
 in all the different pieces: now the species       unchangeable
                                                    is                     ;
 therefore we have       right to conclude that a,
                           a                                 are the
                                                             b,
                                                             c,
 chemical elements of the species, and that the others are ac
 cidental.     It  thus that chemistry itself furnishes
                    is                                       method
                                                                  a
 of correction which has been found sufficiently rigorous,
and the two molecules are still in our power.
    Taking the point in its most general sense; every time
 that we can' discover         any mineral whatever the relative
                                   in
connexions of the simple component substances which
have been observed to be invariable, as well as the relative
dimensions of the solid which              produced
                                              is         division in
                                                            by
all the divers directions of the cleavage, we have every thing
necessary to define         species.
                               a       All minerals, however, do
not present thes.e data; and this principle of specification,
however precise        may be, does not embrace the whole of
                         it
the mineral kingdom.
    Let us suppose thousand individuals or mineral mole
                           a
cules of single species suspended in the same solvent.
           a
By diminution of the dissolving power, these individuals
       a
would tend to unite themselves in groups;               might then
                                                            it
happen either that the molecules should assume such an
arrangement as the aggregate would easily yield to me
chanical division, whence we might extract the integral
molecule of the species or its representative; or that the
molecules might unite confusedly in an irregular mass, so
that the type of the species could not be recoguized. Again;
if  we suppose the molecules of several species in the same
•olvent, we shall have two analogous cases           the molecules
                                                        ;
of each species might unite to form aggregates of sensible
dimensions, and afterwards concur in the formation of the
mass, in which each species would be perfectly discerni

            Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.       299
ble; or, they might       be so blended together in their origin,
that in the mass which would be produced, it would be im
possible to discover one simple species       whose molecules
had contributed to form it.
TRUE PRINCIPLES         OF FORMING MINERALOGICAL SPECIES.
     In the mineral kingdom, therefore, we must admit the
following four conditions, arising from circumstances which
have presided at the formation of minerals :
     1st.   Simple minerals whose molecule we are able to dis
 cover    :                         ,
     2d. Simple       minerals whose molecule    eludes  our   re
 searches :
     3d. Compound minerals in which the simple component
 minerals are discernible:
     4th. Compound minerals in which we cannot distinguish
 the simple components.
     Of these four conditions there is but the first which gives
 the species with strictness, and which truly appertains to
 science ; but the others belong to nature, and must not be
 excluded from the method of classification.         If, then, we
 find in any mineral, characters sufficiently marked to esta
 blish a well-founded opinion that it is of the same species
  with some one of the first section, we refer it by analogy to
  this, and consider it as belonging to the same species.
      What is carbonated lime? — It is a mineral composed of
  055 lime, and 0-45 carbonic acid, and which has for its
  molecule an obtuse rhomboid, whose great angle is 101*
  32/ 13".       Here is carbonated lime defined; and it is evi
  dent that in our principles a mineral which has these pro
  perties necessarily belongs to this species.      What is com
  pact carbonated lime ? — It is a mineral whose chemical com
  position makes us presume with the utmost likelihood that
  it is of the same species as crystallized carbonated lime,
  and that it differs only in the circumstances under which it
  has been formed, not having permitted the symmetrical ar
  rangement of its molecules, so that one might extract from
   the mass the solid, which it represents.     Here the type is
   but presumed ; and it is only after strong proof from ana
   logy that we resolve to class in the species of carbonated
   lime, a substance which cannot be proved strictly to belong
   to it.
      In granite, gneiss, and porphyry we distinguish the pieces
   of simple minerals of which they are composed. They appear
   to have enjoyed in their formation all the circumstances
   which could favour the union of the molecules of the same
                                                            species

 300       Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
 species together, to form masses of a perceptible magni
 tude.    If the result appears to be invariable, at least in
 what relates to the general mode of aggregation, should it
be every where the same, we shall be obliged to admit that
nature here also works by immutable laws, and that we
must fiud means to comprehend them in the system of
 science. These masses will therefore be mixed species,
and appertain to geognosis; they will be strictly geognostic
species, seeing that the simple minerals of which they are
composed are so, that in their union they have observed
invariable laws, and that it is no more difficult to pro
nounce on three species united, provided that the specific
character be there distinctly visible, than on three species
when they are separated.
    The minerals in the fourth condition constitute the
greatest difficulty in mineralogy. This science here finds its
crypt ogam i a.
    The analogy which led us to assign a place to the con
fused mixtures of molecules of one species, abandons us as
soon as we wish to apply it to pieces which are composed
of imperceptible molecules of divers species. In the sup
position that we cannot discern those molecules of each
species, it is impossible to refer the piece with propriety to
any one. But if we observe in these masses the same con
stancy of character as in the mixtures of perceptible species,
although we can demonstrate nothing in their constitution,
we must assign them a place, and the appreciation of na
ture here be abandoned in some measure to the conscience
of the observer. The first difficulty is to know what is the
number of different species, the molecules of which have
contributed to the formation of the mass. Suppose an ag
gregate in which we cannot discover any form of mole
cule, which at the same time effervesces with acids, and
emits fire with steel, of which one part dissolves in muriatic
acid, leaving carbonic acid gas to escape, while the other is
entirely insoluble ; that the dissolved part be lime, the
other silica; To what species shall it be referred?        Is it
even possible to refer it to any ?   There is carbonated lime
and silica, and our operations inform us that there has been
a mixture of the two species.      But this advantage, how
ever weak it may be, no longer exists, if all the molecules
which are found in the same mass act in the same manner
with the same chemical and physical instruments ; and we
have no more resources to learn if it is composed of mole
cules of one species, of two, or of several.   I shall cite the
agate, jasper, hornstone, and the long list of species which
                                                             arc

       Refactions on some Miner alogical Systems.            301
are found in the argillaceous or clay genus of Werner, of
which we are ignorant, and perhaps for ever shall be ig
norant, to how many simple species they owe their origin.
What do we know of the family of argillaceous schist, of
serpentine, of pierre ollaire [potstone, Jameson ; talc ol-
laire, Haiiy, and serpentine ollaire, Brogniart] , of pipe-clay,
and of fuller's earth ; except that we do not conceive why
they have been made strictly species? Whenever a mineral
gives no true representative of the species, and that we do
not there find other physical or chemical properties to re
 fer it with sufficient certainty to any whatever, in which it
may be strictly admissible, it is better to make it a species
of convention, in order to complete the outline which na
 ture has traced.
    DISTINCTION BETWEEN MINERALOGICAL              SPECIES.
   In this point of view, the species of the mineral kingdom
should be divided into four sections, corresponding with
the four conditions of which I have already spoken. The
first should contain the species strictly so called {especes de
rigueur); the second, those by analogy; the third, those
which I call geognostic; and the fourth, those of conven
tion. All belong to nature ; the first only appertains to
science, if we wish to preserve to this word that idea of
rigour which it necessarily carries with it.
    The principle of M. Haiiy embraces all those which are
known in the first section, therefore this system embraces
 all the mineralogy which is capable of becoming a science.
    The method of M. Werner extends to all the mineral
 kingdom.     "   Who embraces too much, badly binds," it is
 said :  thus  we  know not what is a species, because all are
 species.    We   have a measure without unity.
     I pretend not that the system of mineralogy should
 be subjected     to the division indicated by these four sec
 tions;   but  if  we wish to consider the bodies which com
 pose   this  kingdom with respect to the rank which they
 ought strictly to occupy, we can no longer divide them
 otherwise ; and even in classing them accordine to more
 essential principles, it would not be useless to mention this,
 in order that each individual may be estimated at its just
 value.
     The advantages that mineralogy has derived from the
 philosophic spirit which directed the researches into the
 true type of the species, and the happy application of an
 exact method of determinating     it,have been immense.      All
 at once it   is  becomea    science
                                  ;      it   is
                                            supported   by  fixed
                                                       principles,

 302       Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
principles susceptible of demonstration, and has resolved
 problems, enlightened futurity, and anticipated the results
of analysis.
        SYSTEM OF HAUY AND WERNER CONTRASTED.
   By a happy anticipation of chemistry, which has been
confirmed by experiment, we owe to the system of latent
properties the union of beryl with emerald, granatite with
staurolite, as well as the separation of chabasie from anal-
cime [both are denominated cubic zeolite by Werner and
his disciple Jameson], stylbite [foliated zeolite, Jameson]
from.mesotype [radiated zeolite, Jameson], and the acan-
ticone from thallite.    It his left existing the harmony by
which nature has united zircon, hyacinth, and zircoiute ;
garnet and pyrope', quartz and eisenkiesel (iron flint).     It
has not made a mineralogical species of heliotrope, com
posed, according to Werner, who admits it as a species, of
chalcedony and green earth, of prase, which consists ofquartz
and strahlstein [actinolite, Jameson ; actinote, Haiiy ; am-
phibole actinote, Brogniart] . It has not placed sapphire
and corundum in two different genera; but agreeing with
chemistry, and renouncing prejudices, it has not classed a
fossil entirely composed of alumine in the siliceous genus
merely because it is hard.      It has no repugnance to the
admission of the diamond among combustibles.            In the
argillaceous genus, where the subdivisions are so little cha
racterized, it has not made 32 species no more than 14 in
carbonated lime, nor two in sulphated lime, or four in sul-
phated barytes ; and above all, we have not 103 species in
the earthy fossils.    It has not transposed a mineral this
year to the side of a species from which it was separated in
the preceding, and which some months after will be chased
from the side of its new neighbour to pursue its fortune
elsewhere. It has not made different species, the one after
the other, traverse the whole list of minerals, without being
able to find where to fix themselves, like those importunate
guests, who go every where and whom all persons evade.
Its principles are fixed ; and although it occupies more
time to pronounce, it virtually decides sooner, as it dis
poses more surely and leaves nothing arbitrary.     It neither
makes distinctions without differences, approximations \rap-
prochemens]     without analogies, nor species without cha
racters.
   Notwithstanding, it will not pretend that minerals should
persevere in retaining a rank which principles refuse them;
nor will it deem the circumstance a misfortune, that the
                                                       science

          On the Decomposition            of Water       by Charcoal.        30*
science  varies in gaining new means of improving itself.
Since the publication of his work, M. Haiiv has already
made considerable changes in his system, but ail of them
were foreseen and previously indicated, with the single ex
ception of sphene, which he then knew only by some in
distinct crystals.   When one has laid down certain princi
ples, the path of science is then found circumscribed, but
its march is direct : if it change, it is only for a rational
melioration, and it proceeds in advancing.         If delivered to
the current of opinions, or of hypotheses, it is discussed in
every sense, and fortunate if it does not retrograde.        For it
there is no more surety, each one buffeting it at his pleasure.
To reform is a great art, and to retouch without defacing
requires great ability.     Principles produce improvements,
arbitrariness induces revolutions.
    M. Haiiy had formerly determined the molecule of spar-
gclstein [asparagus-stone, the chaux phosphatide chrysolithe
 of Haiiy and Brogniart] as well as that of appatite; but at
an interval of several years, as the idea of comparing his
 results did not occur till M. Vauquelin had discovered that
 spargelstein is a phosphate of lime.       Here chemistry was
 found to agree with crystallography.
    A mineral was discovered, which some thought to be of
 the calcareous    genus, which dissolved in acids without
 either effervescing or emitting fluoric acid, but which never
 theless gave traces of a combination with an acid ; and M.
 Werner pronounced it a phosphate of lime. He was not
 deceived ; but the difference which there is between reason
 ing and divining,       is,
                        to set out on    principle, or to start at
                                                   a
 hazard.    Yet, even      setting out on
                               in               principle, we are
                                                           a
 not always sure of reasoning.       Phosphorus        burning      in          is
 phosphorescent and odorous         quartz when rubbed has the
                                            ;
 same properties; therefore silica      composed of phosphoric
                                                 is
 acid and lime.       It  thus that
                             is         very celebrated German
                                                 a
 professor spoke, and he pretended to reason           his preten   :
                                                                                     '
 sions were so much the greater, that the combination of
 phoshoric acid and lime           neither phosphorescent nor
                                          is
 odorous.
                                  [To   be continued.]
LVII.       On the Decomposition    Water     Charcoal.
                                                of       By    by
   M. Tordeox,       Student    Chemistry in
                                         of  the Polytechnic
   School    *.
 In the note at the end of the observations of M. Figuier,
eu the sulphurets contained in the soda of commerce, in                         a
                  * Aimalu   de Cliimie, tome     Uvi. p. 318.           preceding

   304     On the Decomposition    of Water  by Charcoal.
   preceding Number of the Annales, M. Figuier adduces an
  example of the explosions which sometimes take place in
  soap-works, which he ascribes to the hydrogen gas mixed
  with atmospheric air, existing in the interior of the
  vat, above the caustic lixivium ; and he explains the for
  mation of this gas, by supposing that the sulphurets which
  crude soda contains, set free a quantity of hydrogen ex
  ceeding that which is necessary for the formation of the
  hydrogenated sulphuret, when we treat this kind of soda
  with water.
     We know that when an alkaline sulphuret is put into
  water, the latter is partly decomposed.         A sulphate is
  formed, and the hydrogen set at liberty is combined with
  the remains of the sulphur and the base, in order to form a
  hydrogenated sulphuret.       We -know also that in this ex
  periment there is no extrication of gas if we operate at a
  low temperature.
     Hence it is evident that the hydrogen gas which swims
  over the soap-maker's ley, does not proceed from the de
  composition of the water by the alkaline sulphuret.
     I have been led to ascribe the production of this gas to
  the charcoal always met with in the soda of commerce, by
  a remark which I made several months ago. I had ob
  served that potash purified by lime, which had been long in
  contact with vegetable substances, and which was strongly
  coloured by the charred substances which it had taken up
  from them, when fused in a crucible, gave out a great deal
  of gas which took fire spontaneously ; and when the alkali
  was red hot, its combustion resembled that of hydrogen
    It appeared to me on reading the memoir of M. Figuier, that
  the hydrogen of which he speaks might have been pro
  duced by a nearly similar cause.     I made some experiments
  on this subject, and the object of this note is to detail the
  results.
     The potash, on which     I made the first observation, be
  sides charred substances, also contained a quantity of water,
  the more considerable, as it had not been reddened in the
  desiccation ; and all circumstances being favourable, it ap
  peared to me that the carbonic acid might have been formed
  IB this case by the resulting attraction of charcoal for oxy
  gen, and of potash for this acid ; and that the hydrogen gas
  must have been extricated pure or carburetted.
                                                       I
     In order to ascertain if this was really the case, distilled
  in a stone retort, potash similar to that which I had used in
- the crucible : in an instant the heat was sufficient to drive
                                                               off

           On the Decomposition        of Water hj    Charcoal.      305
   off water from  the potash, and a gas began to be set free,
   which issued incessantly during parts of the operation. This
   gas was insoluble in water; it had a feeble empyreumatic
  smell; it did not distuib lime water, and it was inflam
  mable, burning like a mixture of hydrogen gas and carbu-
  relted hydrogen gas : it made lime water turbid after its
  combustion ; when mixed with oxygen in Volta's eudio
  meter, it detonated by the electric spark.
     The disengagement was kept up a long time at a weak
  heat; nevertheless I increased the fire until the bottom of
  the retort was red hot : I always obtained the same product,
  only the hydrogen became purer.
     After some time the disengagement of gas slackened.                I
  increased the fire : and when the retort was very red it be
 gan again ; but the gas which I obtained this time was en
 tirely absorbed by the water, and by the lime water which it
 rendered turbid. It was no longer inflammable, and proved
 to be pure carbonic acid. At the end of the operation, how
 ever, it left a combustible residue, when it was shaken with
 lime water: this residue was probably gazeous oxide of car
 bon.     The potash had become almost white, and the re
 tort was attacked.
     It appears to me that we may explain this operation in
 the following manner : The water in presence of the char
 coal and of the potash, acts in the same way as when it is
 in contact with an alkaline sulphuret or phosphuret.               Car
 bonic acid and a carbonate are formed ; since the potash
 purified by lime may contain at this temperature a greater
 quantity of carbonic acid than that which it contains al
 ready ; and if when the retort is red hot it is extricated from
 this acid, this perhaps is merely owing to the combination
 of the potash with the earths of the retort, a combination
which does not admit of the presence of carbonic acid.
Lastly, the gaseous oxide of carbon certainly proceeds from
 the decomposition of a little acid by a residuum of charcoal.
     I confirmed this experiment on potash very much charred
and carbonated, obtained in the following manner : — I eva
porated to dryness alcohol containing a great quantity of
potash in solution; not effervescing with the acids, but
very high coloured, although transparent.               The evapora
tion was effected     in  a   silver  vessel  in order to  obtain pure
potash:    in proportion    as  the  operation   advanced,  the potash
became very     black  ; and   towards    the  end it swelled   up, giv
ing out an inflammable gas: finally, it became dry and
spongy.      It was treated with water, and evaporated to dry
ness without filtering ; it was black like charcoal, and ef-
    Vol. 36. No. 150. Oct. 1810.                   U          fervesced

  306      Expulsion of       Teenia by Oleum Terehinthinab.
  fervesced    a little.     It was in this state that I submitted it
  to distillation in a stone retort, as I had done with respect
  to the lime potash. The results of the operation were ab
  solutely similar ; and when I removed the potash from the
  retort, it was white, and exhibited some effervescence.
     I should in all probability have obtained the same results
  with soda purified by lime, if I had subjected it to the same
  experiments, considering the great resemblance which exists
  between these two alkalis.
     In order to assimilate my experiments a little with those
  which arc performed on a great scale in the soap-works,
 it remained to form the caustic lixivium of the soap-makers,
 and to observe what took place in this operation.                         With
 this view I made a paste with 500 grammes of pulverized
 alicant soda, and 250 grammes of lime newly slacked.                           I
 diluted it in water, and left it ten or twelve days at a tem
 perature from 10° to 15° of Reaumur in a proper apparatus.
 Some bubbles of azotic gas only were set free.                      Although
 the result of this last experiment teaches us nothing satis
 factory, I am not less inclined to think that the hydrogen
 gas, whether pure or carburetted, which is produced in soap-
 works, is owing, as I have observed above, to the decom
 position of water by charcoal.                  In fact, it is not to be
 doubted that the circumstances of this experiment are ex
 tremely different from those which we meet with in the
 manufactories where large masses are operated upon, or
where the soda employed is better adapted for the opera
tion, either from containing more charcoal, or from being
in more minute division. In short, there is a variety of cir
cumstances which must necessarily modify the results.
LVIII.       Cases    illustrating the Effects of Oil          of Turpentine
                     in expelling the Tape-worm.
                                   Case I.
By   John    Coakley        Lettsom,        M. D.      and President      of the
                           Medical Society.
Early       in September 1809, I was consulted by J. P. esq.,
about thirty-five years of age, on account of an uneasiness
in the abdomen, with dyspepsia, which were supposed to
originate from taenia, or tape-worm, as small portions of it
had occasionally been evacuated by the rectum.
    I prescribed a course of the male fern, with occasional
      * From Transactions oj  the Medical Society  of London, vol. i. part I.
                                                                    cathartics,

        Expulsion of   Taenia    ly Oleum Terelinthince.         30?
 cathartics, as recommended by Madame Nouflet. In this
 plan he persevered for the space of three months, in which
 period he discharged, at two different times, about eight
yards of the taenia.      In April 1810, he again applied to
me, in consequence of labouring under his former com
 plaints ; adding, that he imagined, from the long use of the
plant I had recommended, his pains, and particularly the
dyspepsia and general debility, had increased.
    At this time I ordered the oleum terebinthinae rectifica-
tum, in a dose of nine drachm's by weight, and after it a
little honey to remove the heat and unpleasant taste it might
occasion.     In a week after taking the oil, he called upon
me agreeahly to my request, and gave me the following in
formation : That, as far as he could judge, in swallowing
this medicine, it occasioned less heat than would have re
sulted from taking the same quantity of brandy, or other
spirit ; and that the taste and heat it produced were soon
removed by the honey.
    Jn about three hours after taking this dose, a laxative
motion was producsd, without any discharge of taenia : but
soon afterwards, with the second stool, more than four
yards of the worm were discharged, and also a quantity of
matter, resembling, as the patient expressed           it,
                                                   the substance
and skins of the taenia.     On the surface of this evacuation
he noticed the oil floating, together with the taenia and the
substance mentioned.      It  produced little or no pain, and
certainly much less than the purgative he had taken after
the use of the male fern.      The subsequent motions con
tained no taenia, nor any of the substance before noticed.
He experienced no pain or heat in the urinary passages,
though the urine continued to impart        terebinthinate smell
                                              a
for three or four successive days.
    My patient has since remained in perfect health, enjoy
ing degree of comfort to which he had been
    a                                                    stranger
                                                             a
for the preceding half year.
    From this and other instances,   I am induced to conclude,
that the best method of taking the oil         without any ad
                                                  is
mixture j   and that the dose of nine drachms occasions very,
                                                                       *
little inconvenience :   and further, that this quantity, per-
haps owing to its quick purgative effect, excites no irritation
in the urinary passages, although          imparts its peculiar
                                             it
smell to the urine.
 I    do not recollect that it  has been heretofore observed,
that the oil has been evacuated in its original state.          It
might hence be inferred, that      it   most efficacious when
                                        is
                               U   2                    exhibited

308             National    Vaccine   Eslallishrrienl .
exhibited uncombined, in which state it is not attended
with any particular inconvenience.
    It is well known that taenia may exist in a healthy state
of the system; and that hence its presence cannot be ac
curately ascertained by any other circumstance than the
actual discharge of portions of the worm itself.             Some
times, indeed, there is fella heavy pain in the epigastrium,
 attended with dyspepsia and emaciation; but these are not
 pathognomonic symptoms, as they may arise from other
 causes.
                           [To be continued.]
         LIX.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
              NATIONAL VACCINE ESTABLISHMENT.
The       Board appointed by His Majesty's Government to
regulate    the affairs of this establishment has ordered that
the following description of the vaccine vesicle, and in
 structions relative to vaccination, which have been pre
sented by the director, be strictly observed by the vacci
nating surgeons.
            Description   of the regular    Vaccine Vesicle.
    When vaccination       succeeds, a small red spot is observa
ble on the third day, the day the operation is performed
being reckoned the first.        If  the spot is touched, an eleva
 tion is felt ; and if examined with a magnifying glass, the
Utile tumour appears surrounded by a very slight efflores
cence.
    The spot gradually enlarges ; and between the third and
 sixth day a circular vesicle appears.        The edge of the vac
 cine vesicle is elevated, the centre depressed.          The colour
is at first of a light pink, sometimes of a blueish tint ; and
 changes by degrees to a pearl colour.          The centre is some
what darker than the other parts.
    The vesicle is hard to the touch.
    In its internal structure it is cellular; the cells being filled
 with transparent lymph.
    The vesicle commonly augments till the tenth or eleventh
 day.
     In the early stages, there is usually round the base an
inflamed ring ; or this takes place on the seventh or eighth
day ; towards the ninth it spreads rapidly, and near the
tenth forms an areola of about an inch and a half in diameter.
    This areola is of the usual colour of inflamed skin ; it is
hard, and accompanied with some degree of tumefaction.
                                                                   It

                    National Vaccine Establishment.                      309
   It continues out for   a day or two, and then begins to
fade   sometimes forming two or three concentric circles.
        ;
   After the areola is formed, the vesicle begins to decline ;
                                                                               '
theVentre first turns brown, and the whole gradually changes
into a hard smooth scab, of a very dark mahogany colour.
This dry crust usually drops off about the end of the third
week, leaving a permanent cicatrix.
Varieties in the Progress and Appearance of the Vaccine Ve
       sicle, not preventing the Success of Vaccination.
   The first appearance is seldom earlier, but often later
than has been described. In some rare instances the vesicle
commences even a fortnight or three weeks after vaccina
tion; but if the process is then regular, it is equally effica
cious.
   When the vesicle is slightly ruptured before the sixth
day, if it resume its proper form, and the process continue
quite regular, success is not prevented : nor is      when the it,
crust of    regular vesicle
              a               rubbed off
                                  is         the decline of the
                                                     in
disease.
The irregular        and imperfect   Vesicle and Pustule, which are
                         not to be depended upon.
   In       these deviations there     usually
                                        is       premature itching,
                                                     a
irritation,       inflammation,    vesication,       or suppuration.     Or
the progress of the vesicle      too rapid, its texture soft, its
                                       is
edge  not well defined,  its centre elevated, and the contents
discoloured or purulent.      Or instead of      proper areola,
                                                         a                a
premature efflorescence of       dusky purple hue takes place,
                                       a
and the scab    of light brown or amber colour.
                   is    a
   The irregular vesicle or pustule     more liable to be broken
                                                is
than the other, both from its more pointed form and softer
texture, and also from its being usually so irritable as to
provoke scratching.      When broken, or even without this
happening,    ulceration often ensues.
  A   vesicle, apparently regular at first, sometimes does not
augment to the proper size, but dies away without com
pleting the regular process.   This usually leaves no cicatrix,
or one which       almost imperceptible.
                    is
   When those, or any other considerable deviation from
the regular course of the disease lake place, no dependence
can be placed upon the operation.       In such cases vaccina
tion should be repeated.
     Probable Causes     irregular Vesicles and Pustules.
                             of
   These accidents may be occasioned                  by
                                             matter or lymph
being taken from an irregular vesicle or pustule at any pe
riod, or from    regular vesicle at too late
                     a                         period   or a         ;    by
                                   U        3                        lymph,

310            National Vaccine Establishment.
lymph, though originally pure, which has been injured by
long keeping, by heat, or otherwise. Or they may be caused
by performing the operation with rusty or unclean lancets,
or in a rude manner, or by injuring the vesicle at an early
stage, and thereby exciting too much inflammation,        or in
terrupting the regular progress of the disease.        Herpetic
eruptions, and other cutaneous affections have also been
supposed the cause of these irregularities, and occasionally
to prevent the vaccine lymph having any effect.
   The Methods of taking Vaccine Lymph for Vaccination.
    The lymph of a regular vesicle is efficacious from the
time it is secreted, till the areola begins to spread.         It
may therefore commonly be taken till the ninth day; but
not after the areola is formed.
    The lymph is to be taken by small superficial punctures
made in the vesicle with the point of a lancet. Time should
be allowed for tjie liquid to exude, which will form smalj
 pellucid drops. When requisite, a very slight pressure may
 be cautiously applied with the flat surface of the lancet.
 Great delicacy is requisite in this operation ; for if the ve
sicle is rudely treated, or too much opened, inflammation
 and ulceration may ensue.
    Lymph intended to be used immediately, or in a few
days, may be received on a lancet ; but this is an improper
instrument for preserving it longer ; for the lymph soon
 rusts the lancet, and it is then liable to be inefficacious or
 injurious. Ouills and toothpicks succeed; but small bits
 of ivory shaped like the tooth of a comb, and properly
 pointed, are the most convenient instruments; and to ren
 der them more certain, they should be charged repeatedly.
    In order to preserve lymph for a long period, the best
 method is by two bits of square glass. The lymph is to
 be received on the centre of one of them, bv applying it to
 a punctured vesicle.   When fully charged and dry, it is to
 be covered with another hit of glass of the same size, and
 wrapped up in paper or in gold-beater's skin.
    In whichever way the lymph is taken, it should be al
 lowed to dry without heat in the shade, and be kept ui a
 dry and cool place.   When inclosed in a letter, if great care
 js not taken, it may be injured by the heat of the melted
 wax in sealing the packet.
                   The Mode of Vaccinating.
    Liquid lymph is better than dry, because it scldomcr fails,
 and the operation is more lightly and quickly performed.
 Therefore; in every instance where it is practicable, the pa
                                                            tient

                  National   Vaccine Establishment.            311
  tient from whom the lymph is to be taken should be present>
   and the lymph should be transferred from the one to the other.
      Vaccination is generally performed in the arm* near the
   insertion of the deltoid muscle ; but in order to hide the
   scar, and in adults who are likely to use the arm much, it
   may be adviseable to vaccinate the outside of the leg, a little
   above or below the knee.
      The skin being stretched, a lancet charged with vaccine
   lymph should be held with its flat surface to the skin ; and
   the point insinuated slantingly through the cuticle till it
  touches the cutis.      It should be retained there for a few
   seconds.
      The lancet should be dipped in water and wiped after each
  operation, even when several successive inoculations are to
  be performed.
      Dry lymph on glass may be moistened with a very little
   cold or tep^d water on the point of a lancet, allowing it
  some time to dissolve, and blending it by a little friction
  with the lancet.     It must not be much diluted, but of a
  thick consistence : it is to be inserted in the same manner
  as the recent fluid.
      When quills, ivory lancets, or toothpicks charged with
  dry lymph are used, the lymph should not be diluted ; but
  a puncture having been first made with a common lancet,
  the point of the instrument is to be inserted, and held in
 the puncture half a minute or more, that the lymph may
 gradually dissolve and remain in the wound. If the part of
  the instrument which is charged be afterwards wiped re
 peatedly upon the edges of the puncture, it will tend still
  further to ensure success.
      Vaccinated patients must be cautious not to wear tight
 sleeves, nor to injure the vesicle by pressure, friction, or
 any other violence ; lest considerable inflammation or ul
 ceration should ensue.
      One perfect vaccine vesicle is sufficient ; but for various
 reasons it is always prudent to make two or three punc
 tures, especially when the danger of receiving the small-pox
is imminent, the lymph dry, or the patient's residence di
 stant. Besides, greater security is obtained against a chance
of failure from the derangement or destruction of one ve
sicle by accidental injury, or by the taking of lymph for
vaccination.     When two punctures are to be made in one
limb, they should be at least two inches asunder, on ac
count of the irritation they may occasion.
     One vesicle should be always permitted to go through its
course without being punctured.
     Lancets for vaccination should be kept clean and bright.
                             U4                   Constitutional

312             National  Vaccine  Estallisliment.
                    Constitutional Symptoms.
    Constitutional symptoms sometimes occur at a very early
period, but more commonly from the seventh to the ele
venth day. These are drowsiness, restlessness, a chilliness
succeeded by heat, thirst, head-ach, and other marks of
febrile affection. Now and then sickness or vomiting takes
place, especially in infants.
    The constitutional symptoms are in general slight and
transient.
    In a great proportion of cases there is no perceptible in
disposition ; nevertheless, the person vaccinated is not the
less secure from the future infection of the small-pox, pro
vided the progress of the vesicle has been regular and com
plete.
    Care should be taken not to confound the symptoms of
other diseases with those produced bv vaccine inoculation.
                       Medical Treatment.
    In  general no medicine is required in this mild affection ;
but if the symptoms happen to run a little higher than
usual, the same remedies are to be applied as if they pro
ceeded from any other cause.
    No preparatory medicines are necessary before vaccinating,
 and commonly no cathartics need be given afterwards.
    Should the local inflammation exceed the usual bounds,
which rarely happens, unless from tight sleeves, pressure,
 or friction, it may soon he checked by the frequent appli
cation of compresses of linen dipped in water, in liquor
 Plumbi Acetatis dilutus, or in a solution of one drachm of
 Plumbi Superacetas in a pint of water.        These are to be
applied cold.
    If the scab be rubbed off" prematurely, and ulceration take
 place, cooling and astringent applications may be used ; such
 as a drop of liquor Plumbi Acetatis, which should he allowed
 to dry on the part, and then be covered with compresses
 dipped in water, or in either of the preparations of lead
 above-mentioned, and frequently renewed.
    When ulceration is deep or extensive, a poultice either of
                                                                 "
 bread and milk, or of bread with any of the preparations of
 lead may be applied, as the case seems to require.       They
must never be applied till they are nearly or quite cold.
    In such foul and obstinate sores as resist the foregoing
 applications, the Unguentum Ilydrargyri Nitratis, mixed
 with an equal quantity of Unguentum Cetacci or other si
 milar applications, may sometimes be resorted to with advan
 tage.   And at other times these sores may be healed by the,
 Ceratum Plumbi Superacetatis, or the mildest applications.

                          Mount     Vesuvius.                        313
    The irregular vesicles and pustules are frequently fol
lowed by ulceration at an early period, which is to be treated
in the same manner as if it proceeded from the regular vc*
side.
    When the patient has been previously exposed to the in
fection of small-pox, this disease will be either superseded
or not, according to the time which has elapsed before vac
cination.
    Medical gentlemen in all parts of the empire may be
 supplied with vaccine lymph, without any expense, from
the National Vaccine Establishment.
    Applications for lymph, letters, and communications re
 specting vaccination, will meet with proper attention : they
 should be addressed to Dr. Hervey, register, Leicester-
 Square ; and when from a distance, put under a cover, di
 rected to The Right Hon. the Secretary of State for the
 Home Department.
    Board Room,  21, Leicester Square, Feb. 22, 1810.
                          MOUNT VESUVIUS.
                                                      Naples, Sept. 24.
     The  recent eruption     will make the year 1810 an epoch in
 the  annals of Vesuvius, on account of the manner in which
 it began, and the disasters it has produced.          It is considered
 as a very extraordinary circumstance that this eruption was
 not preceded by the usual indications ; every convulsion of
 Vesuvius being previously announced by the drying up of
 the wells of Naples.         This pheenomenon did not take place
 on this occasion, and, to the great surprise of the inhabi
 tants, Vesuvius began to emit names on the night of the
  10th  of September.
     On the morning of       the 1 1th the flames became more in
 tense, and the lava began to flow from the east and south-
 cast sides of the mountain.          Towards evening the conflar
 gration increased, and about twilight two grand streams of
 fire were seen to flow down the riJge of the volcano; night
 produced no change in this state of things.
     On the morning of the 12th a hollow sound was heard,
 which continued increasing ; the fire and smoke also aug
 mented in intensity, and towards evening the horizon was
 obscured.      The breeze, usual in these parts, having blown
 from the south-east, dissipated the accumulated clouds.
 The mountain continued to vomit lava and a dense smoke,
 which even at a distance was             strongly sulphureous ; the
 hollow noise in the sides of            the   mountain coutinued to
 Increase,
                                                                Curious

 314                     Mount    Vesuvius.
    Curious   to witness as near as possible one of the most
 astonishing pbsenomena of nature, and forgetting the mis
fortune of Pliny, I set out from Naples, and at eight in the
 evening I reached Portici.       From thence to the summit of
 the mountain the road is long and difficult.          About half
way    there   is  a  hermitage,    which    has  long served for
refuge    and   shelter to  the   traveller: — a  good hermit has
 there fixed his residence,      and takes care to furnish for
 a moderate sum, refreshments, which to the fatigued tra
veller are worth their weight in gold.            The environs of
 this hermitage produce the famous wine called Lachryma;
 Christi. — From the hermitage to the foot of the cave there
is a long quarter of a league of road, tolerably good j but
in order to reach from thence the crater, it is necessary to
 climb a mountain of cinders, where at every step you sink
 up to the mid- leg. It took my companions, myself, and
 our guides, two hours to make this ascent ; and it was al
 ready midnight when we reached the crater.
    The fire of the volcano served us for a torch ; the noise
had totally ceased for two hours ; the flame had also consi
derably decreased        these circumstances augmented our se
 curity, and supplied us with the necessary confidence in
traversing such dangerous ground.              We approached as
near as the heat would permit, and we set fire to the sticks
of our guides in the lava, which slowly ran through the
hollows from the crater. The surface of this inflamed matter
nearly resembles metal in a state of fusion ; but as it flows
it carries a kind of scum, which hardens as it cools, and
then forms masses of scoria, which dash against each other,
and roll all on fire, with noise, to the foot of the mountain.
Strong fumes of sulphuric acid gas arise in abundance from
these scoria, and by their caustic and penetrating qualities
render respiration difficult.
    We seemed to be pretty secure in this situation, and were
far from thinking of retiring, when a frightful explosion,
which launched into the air fragments of burning rocks to
the distance of more than 100 toises, reminded us of the
danger to which we were exposed. None of us hesitated
a moment in embracing a retreat ; and in five minutes we
cleared in our descent a space of ground which we had
taken two hours to climb.                       /
    We had not reached the hermitage before a noise more
frightful than ever was heard, and the volcano, in all its
fury, began to launch a mass equal to some thousand cart
loads of stones and fragments of burning rocks, with a
projectile force which it would be difficult to calculate. As
the projection was vertical, almost the whole of this burn

                        Serpents in America.                    315
ing mass fell back again into the mouth' of the volcano,
which vomited it forth anew to receive it again, with the
exception of some fragments which flew off, to fall at a
distance, and alarm the inquisitive spectator.
      The 13th commenced with nearly the same appearances
as those of the preceding day. The volcano was tranquil,
 and the lava ran slowly in the channels wh ch it had formed
 during the night; but at four in the afternoon a frightful
 and continued noise, accompanied with frequent explosions,
 announced a new eruption : the shocks of the volcano were
 so violent, that at Fort de L'CEuf, built upon a rock, where
 I   then was, at the distance of near four leagues, I felt oscil
 lations similar to those produced by an earthquake.
      About five o'clock the eruption commenced, and con
 tinued during the greater part of the night. This time the
 burning matter flowed down all the sides of the mountain,
 with a force hitherto unprecedented ; all Vesuvius seemed
  on fire. The lava has caused the greatest losses : houses
  and whole estates have been overwhelmed ; and at this day
  families in tears and reduced to despair, search in vain for
  the inheritance of their ancestors, buried under the destroy
  ing lava.
       At ten at night the hermitage was no longer accessible;
  a river of fire had obstructed the road.        The districts situ
   ated on the south-east quarter of the mountain had still
   more to suffer. Mount Vesuvius presented the appearance
   of one vast flame, and the seaman at a great distance might
   contemplate at his leisure this terrific illumination of nature.
                         SERPRNTS IN AMERICA.
       The following    is translated   from the Reading (Pennsyl
   vania) Eagle.
                  —  A   daughter    of  Mr. Daniel Stronecker, near
   Orwigsburg,     Berks  county, Pennsylvania, about three vears
   of age, had been observed for a number of days to go to a
   considerable distance from the house with a piece of bread
   which she obtained from her mother. The circumstance at
    tracted the attention of the mother, who desired Mr. S. to
    follow the child and observe what she did with it. On
    coming to the child he found her engaged in feeding several
    snakes, called yellow heads or bastard rattle-snakes.          He
    immediately took it away, and proceeded to the house for
    his gun, and killed two of them at one shot, and another a
    few days after.—The child called these reptiles in the manner
    of calling chickens ; and when its father observed, if it con
     tinued |he practice they woujd bite her—the ctyld replied—
                                                               "
                                                                  No^

316      Native Magnesia.   — Meteoric     Stones. — Coffee.
" No,    father, they won't bite; they only eat the bread          I
give them,"
                      NATIVE MAGNESIA.
   Although magnesia enters into the composition of many
mineral substances, yet its existence       in the mineral king
dom, in an uncombined state, has,           till within. these few
years, been  unknown.
   At Hoboken, in New Jersey, on         the estate  of Mr. John
Stevens, is found a mineral which, agreeably to the experi
ments of Professor Bruce, of New Jersey, contains in the
hundred parts,
           Magnesia                                     70
           Water of crystallization                     30
                                                       100.
   SHOWER OF METEORIC          STON1 S  IN NORTH AMERICA.
                          Raleigh, New Connecticut, March 1, 1810.
   On Tuesday,     the 30th of January last, at two o'clock
P.M. there was a fall of meteoric stones in Caswell county.
Their descent was seen for a considerable distance round,
and two reports distinctly heard at Hillsborough, a distance
of 30 miles. — A fragment weighing a pound and three
quarters struck a tree in the new ground of a Mr. Taylor,
near where some woodcutters were at work, who, appre
hending the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah, ran home with
out once looking behind them.        Encouraged, however, by
a woman, whose curiosity was superior to her fears, they
returned with her to the place, and brought away the stone,
which was still hot. We understand that Governor Williams
of  the Mississippi territory, now in Rockingham,           intends
sending it to the Chemical Society in New York to be
analysed : it is, he informs us, of a dark brown colour,
porous, and probably contains iron.
                            COFFEE.
   A  foreign journal announces that a M. Bamas, a cloth-
manufacturer in the department of the Seine and Marne,
has succeeded in growing coffee in France.              He sowed
gome Mocha coffee, and obtained a produce of about 13
pounds of beans possessing the proper flavour and form.
Perhaps the most important circumstance attending this
experiment was his neither employing a green- house nor
glass frames, nor any unusual shelter, but simply preparing
the soil with some care.
                                                         pc   luc's

                 Electric Column. — Lectures.                3 17
                 DE LUC'S ELFCTRIC COLUMN.
    We   have again to notice the ringing   of the small bells by
means    of De Luc's electric column.     They were ringing otl
the evening of the 24th of August,      and had been so doing,
without being observed to have stopped, for a period of 154
days and a half.     This long continuance renders it not im
probable that (as was suggested in our Magazine for March)
" the weight of the clapper may be so adapted to the power
of the apparatus, as to cause small bells to continue ringing
for several years without intermission."
    If any of our mechanical readers can suggest to us an
easy method, by which a pendulum vibrating can give mo
tion to wheel-work, they are requested to communicate such
contrivance to us. It is much wished that an instrument
may be made, which by the motion of an index hand and
dial-plate may show the number of vibrations in a given
 time, as it would be very interesting to observe what altera
tions may take place in different states of the atmosphere.
                           LECTUKES.
                      Middlesex Hospital.
     Medical Lectures, 1810-11, by Richard Patrick Satterley,
 M.D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Physician
 to this Hospital,    and to the Foundling Hospital ; and
 Thomas Young, M.D. F.R.S. Fellow of the Royal College
 of Physicians.
     Dr. Satterley's Course of Clinical Instruction will begin
 the first week in November : the attendance on the Patients
 will be continued daily, and Lectures will be given once
 a week, or oftener when it may be necessary, at Eleven
  o'Cloek. — Mr. Cartwright, Surgeon to the Hospital, will
 undertake such occasional demonstrations of morbid ana
 tomy as may be required for the illustration of the respec
 tive cases.   The objects of the Course will also be extended
 to such remarkable peculiarities in the diseases of Children,
 as may occur in the Foundling Hospital. Terms of admis
 sion, to Pupils of the Hospital, Five Guineas.
     Dr. Young will begin, in February, a Course of Lectures
  on Physiology, and on the most important parts of the
  Practice of Phvsic ; in particular the Nature and Treatment
  of Febrile Diseases : he will deliver them on Tuesdays and
  Fridays, at Seven o'Cloek in the Evening.          Admission,
  Two Guineas : to former Pupils, One Guinea.
     Those who are desirous of attending either of these
  Courses, are requested to leave their names with the Apothe
  cary at the Hospital, from whom further particulars may
  be  known.                                           Electrical

 318            List of Patents for new Inventions.
            Electrical and Electro- Chemical Science.
    Mr. George Singer will commence a Course of Lectures
On Electrical Phaenomena, comprehending all the new Dis-
 coveries^ and illustrated by numerous original Experiments.
Early in the ensuing season a Prospectus of the Plan of
Instruction may be had of Mr. Cuthbertson, 54, Poland-
street ; or of Mr. Singer, at the Institution, 3, Princes-street,
 Cavendish-square.
                        Surry Institution.
    The Annual Courses of Popular Lectures at the Surry
Institution, Blackfriars Bridge, commenced on the 15th ult.
and will continue every succeeding Monday and Thursday
Evening, at Seven o'CIock, during the Season. —The fol
lowing Gentlemen have been engaged for the following De
partments, viz.
    Zoology           ,          George Shaw, M.D.      F.R.S.
   Music                         Mr. S. Wesley.
    Zoonomy                      John Mason Good, Esq.
    The Chemistry of the Arts F. Accum, M.R.I.A.
    Natural Philosophy and 1
                                 Mf Hard;e
      Astronomy              J
         LIST OF PATENTS FOft NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Thomas Norris, late of Manchester, cotton merchant,
for his new mode of sheathing or covering the bottoms of
ships or vessels with certain matter or materials, so as to
be a substitute for copper. — Sept. 26.
   To Samuel Hobday, of Woodcock-Street, in the parish
of Aston, near Birmingham, snuffer-maker, for his lever,
by the application of which alone, or with the addition of a
rack, he can make snuffers to act without springs. — Sep
tember 26.
   To Marck Isambard Brunei, of Chelsea, gent, who, in con
sequence of a communication made to him by a certain fo
reigner residing abroad, is become possessed of an apparatus
for giving motion to machinery ; part of which is also ap
plicable to hydraulic and pneumatic purposes. — Oct. 1.
  To Benjamin Milne, of Bridlington, in the county of York,
collector of the customs, for an improved bell- and gun-
alarm. — Oct. 1.
   To Joseph C. Dyer, of Boston, state of Massachusetts,
one of the United States, now residing in London, mer
chant, in consequence of a communication made to him
by a certain foreigner residing abroad, who is become pos
sessed of certain improvements in the construction           and
                                                         method

               List of Patents for  new Inventions.        319
method of using plates and presses, and for combining
various species of work in the same plate for the kind of
 printing usually called plate printing, designed for the ob
jects of detecting counterfeits, for multiplying impressions,
 and saving labour. — Oct. 1 .
     To George Miller, of Panton-street, near the Haymar-
 ket, musical instrument-maker, for his method of making
wind instruments commonly called military fifes, of sub
 stances never before used for that purpose. — Oct. ] .
     To John Towill Rutt, of Goswell-street, in the county
 of Middlesex ; John Webb, of Hoxton, in the said county;
 and John Tretton, of the city of London, card manufac
 turers, for their improved apparatus to machines for making
 fillet, sheet, and hard cards, such as arc used for carding
 wool, cotton, flax, silk, and all substances capable of being
 carded. — Oct. 8.
     To Ebenezer Parker, of Highfield, in the parish of Shef
 field, in the county of York, silver-plater ; and Francis
 Cleeley, of Sheffield aforesaid, surgeons' instrument-manu
 facturer, for their method or plan of making an adjusting
 bedstead on a double frame with a four-fold method, for the
 relief of sick, lame, infirm and aged persons.— Oct. 8.
     To John Hazledine, of Bridgenorth, in the county of
 Salop, engineer, for his manifest improvements in the con
 struction of a plough for the cultivation of land. — Oct. 8.
     To George Hodson, of the city of Edinburgh, North
  Britain, ash-manufacturer, for his improved method of se
  parating the alkaline salt from the acid as it exists in the
  following substances, viz. kelp, black ashes, soaper's salts,
  spent leys, sosa natrose, rock salt, common salt, brine, sea
  water, caput mortuum of aqua-fortis, caput mortUum of
  oil of vitriol, and caput mortuum of salt used by bleachers,
  being on a principle entirely new. —Oct. 8.
      To Charles Francis, of Phoenix Wharf, Nine Elms, in
  the parish of Battersea, Surry, temper lime-burner ; and
  William Waters, of Princes-street, in the parish of St.
  Mary, Lambeth, Surry, potter, tor their improved method
  of joining pipes. — Oct. 8.
      To Henry Stubbs, of Piccadilly, in the county of Middle
  sex, blind-maker, for his new grand imperial aulaeum, from
  three to 1 8 or 20 feet wide, without seam, and to any length
  or colour, for decorating the most superb or useful room, for
  such as drapery, curtains, and fringes, chairs, sofas, tables,
  &c. or finished on one side only for ornamental hangings,
  borders, and every other species of decoration. — Oct. 8.
                                                     METEOEO

                                                 Meteorology.
                                 METEOROLOGICAL                           TABLE,
                        By Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                                      For             October           1810.
                         Thermometer.
                                                          Height
                        si
                                                                    <
                                      o'C loci
  Days of                         a
                                                          the Baro                              Weather.
                                                 Night.
  Month.                                                                      y   -a u
                        P    o   18                         Inches
                                       1
                        CO             1
  Sept. 27              53       68° 54°                   29' g2               S3       Fair
          28            55       68  56                       •90               50       Fair
         29             51       66  56                    30-01                36       fair
         30             56       64  57                    29-93                30       Fair
October     1           58       64  51                    30-1   1             30       Fair
                        55       63 -52                       •24               SO       Fair
            6 5 4 3 2
                        50       64  51                       •22               62       Fair
                        52       64  52                       •25               41       Fair
                        51       64  52                       •09               So       Fair
                        52       61  50                    2991                 SO       Fair
                        48-      66  55                      •98                18       Foggy
            8 7
                                                                                                     •
                                                                                                         !-ib"i
                        53       65  56                      •94                53       Fair
            9           54       61  55                      •90                30       Cloudy
         10             35       39  54                      •82                30       Cloudy
          11            52       59  48                      •90                30       Fair
         12             47       57  44                      •85                55       Fair
         13             40       37  43                   30-05               51         Fair
         14             46       56  46                      •20              36         Cloudy
         15             46       57   47                    •19               32         Fair
         16             42       56   55                  29*84               30         Cloudy
         17             57       62   56                     •55                15       Showery
         18             56       64   55                     •43              35         Fair
         19             50       59   58                     •78              35         Showery
         20             56       64   49                     •68              30         Rain
         21             50       59   56                     •62              36         Showery
         22             57       61   48                     •33              48         Stormy
         23             49       55   44                     •37              42         Fair
                                                                          -
         24             46       52   41                     •83              24         Fair
         25             42       50   40                  30-16               34         Fair
         26             39       49   44                     ¦35              42         Fair
              N.B. The           Barometer's height                is   taken atone o'clock.
                                                 ERRATUM.
   Page 231, line 26 from the top,                   (Mr. Taunton's                      paper oa Inguinal
Hernia,)— for turned read traced.

                           [  381    ]
LX.    Description of a Camp Telegraph, invented by Knight
      Spencer, Esq. Secretary    to ike Surry Institution.
                        To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,   The     important advantages resulting to the naval
service from the introduction or the telegraph by Sir Home
Popham, now universally adopted, are too well known to
be here insisted upon.
   That telegraphic signals have been productive of great
advantages to land armies, for more than 3000 years, is very
easily proved.
   That the most important advantages have resulted to the
French arms, from the use of the telegraph, in the present
age, is too well authenticated to be doubted.
   That commanders of British armies have felt the abso
lute necessity of adopting some mode of telegraphic com
munication, ia proved by the late campaign in Sicily, and,
the present campaign in Spain.
   That many attempts have been made to introduce the
telegraph into our land-service universally, cannot be ques
tioned.
   To what cause, then, is it to be attributed, that to the
present moment this powerful instrument remains to British
armies (generally speaking) nearly a useless invention?
   The only rational answer to this question seems to be,
that, hitherto, no practicable system has been offered, and
the attempts to introduce it must, probably, have failed; —
cither, from the intricacy of the machines, or, the difficulty
of transporting them into situations where they could be
USC'd.
   Whatever cause may have hitherto retarded its intro
duction, it will hardly for a moment be contended, that,
were a telegraph produced as certain in its operations as
the present fixed telegraph, and at the same time so sim
ple and portable as to require no separate establishment,
either for its transport or management, it would not be a
most important acquisition in the field.
    With this conviction on mv mind, I have endeavoured
to obviate the supposed difficulties ; and the result, which
I call my Camp Telegraph, 1 request permission to lay
before the public through the medium of your respectable
Magazine. ; — indulging the hope, that it may meet the at
tention of those who have sufficient influence to briii£ the
subject fairly under the consideration of his majesty's go-
    Vel. 36. No. 151". Nov. 1810.          X         vernment.

322            Description  of a Camp Telegraph.
<U+25BC>eminent.     Perhaps it may not be improper to slate, that
my invention has already been honoured with the appro
bation of several general and oilier officers very capable of
forming correct opinions on the subject; — and that I have
frequently asked a question with it at the .distance ot six
miles, and have received an answer within three- minutes.
Any officer of ordinary capacity will be able, after two hours*
application, to direct a station ; any private will perform
the duty of a signal- man after half an hour's dull ; — and,
the apparatus not being more cumbrous than a Serjeant'*
pike, there stems no necessity whatever for a separate esta
blishment to inanaue it.
                      EXPLANATION.
   To work the Camp Telegraph, which         is numerical, the
director of each station must be assisted     bv three privates
or others, to be called signal-men ; one of whom must be
furnished with a staff 13 or 14 feet high, on which must
be mounted two flexible balls, about three feet diameter, as
described    below : — this is called the centre point.      The
other two signal-men must each be furnished with a staff
ten feet high, mounted with one flexible ball.
   The signals must be made by one or both of the signal
men laking an ordered number of paces tv the right or left
of the centre-point ; in the rear of which the director
takes his stand, during the time of making communications.
   All signals must be made by order of ihe director of the
station, who must give the word for the necessary number
of paces. These are to be taken by the signal-men, in
double-quick time, carrying their balls at the trail ; and w hen
they have arrived at the point or points ordered, the balls
must be instantly elevated.
   All signals must be repeated by the corresponding sta
tion ; and when the director of the station making the
communication, observes this is done, he gives the word
"   Down," and his signal-men must then retire in double-
quick time to the rear of the centre-point,      carrying their
balls at the trail. The word     "   Down" roust likewise be
given by the director of the station receiving a commun'ua-
tion, the instant he observes the signal-men at the corre
sponding station begin to retire.
    A.   (Plate VIII.) Ts the signal of communication, and is
made by placing one of the signal-men at 20 p ices to the
right, and the other at 20 paces to the left, of the centre-
point.
                                     »
                                                           B. I»

                Description  of a Camp Telegraph.             323
    B.   Is the signal of a point or period, and is to be made
at the close of a number, as 375, by placing one signal-man
three paces to the right, and the other three paces to the
left, of the centre-point.
    C. Is the signal of error, and is to be made when your
correspondent has mistaken your last signal : — Suppose you
had made the signal No. 2, which is 20 paces to the right,
and your correspondent answers with 20 paces to the left,
winch is the signal No. 7- Then make the signal of error,
by placing one signal-man three paces to the left, and the
other io pace* to the right of the centre-point; and when
your correspondent has repeated this signal, thereby con
vincing you he is sensible of his error, repeat the signal that
had been mistaken, and, if rightly answered, proceed as
before.
     L). Is   the repeating signal, and is to be made if the
last communication         is not understood.    It is made b^
placing one signal-man three paces, and the other 20 paces,
to the left.
                           NUMERALS.
No.    1.  Ts made     by placing one signal-man three paces to
             the right of the centre-point.
       2.    By placing one signal-man 20 paces to the
             right.
       3.    By placing one signal-man       10  paces,   and one
             20 paces, to the ri^-ht.
       4. By placing one signal-man         at three, and one at
             five paces, to the right.
       5. By placing one signal-man       at 18, and one at 20,
             paces to the right.
       6. By placing one signal-man three paces to the left
             of the centre-point.
       7. Bv placing one signal-man 20 paces to the
            left.
       8. By placing one signal-man       10, and one 20, paces
            to the left.
       9«   By placing one signal-man      at three,  and   one at
            five, paces to the left.
       0. By     placing one signal-man at 18, and one at 20,
            paces to the left.
                               Xs                             Tht

324               Description   of a  Camp Telegraph.
    The flexible    ball   is constructed    in the following   man
ner :
    Take an ash or deal staff of the required length, and the:
substance of a stout pike.           Take twelve whalebones, four
feet six inches long, and fix thtni at nine inches from the
top of the staff, in the way the whalebones of umbrellas are
fixed : — fix the lower ends of these whalebones to a strong
slide (like the sliele of an umbrella), the pipe of which must
be 18 inches long, and project upwards.                To the top of
this pipe, stretchers 18 inches long must be affixed, and
also to the middle of each whalebone, like the stretchers of
an umbrella, to keep the ball stiff when in use. The.e must
then be a strong umbrella-spring          fixed on the staff, at three
feet from the upper fastenings of the whalebones, or top of
 the ball, so that, when the slide is pushed up, the whale
bones will form a sphere of three feet diameter.
    The skeleton of the ball being thus prepared, it is to be
covered with glazed linen,          half black and half white, di
 vided vertically.       Letter G is a drawing of the skeleton of
the ball, but only showing two whalebones instead ol
 twelve.      When the balls arc not in use, they will be un
 sprung, and covered with strong cloth cases.
                      SIGNALS        BY NIGHT.
    To make these, it will require two lamps, about nine
 inches square and 12 inches high, to be elevated, one above
 the other, at the distance of three or lour feet, lor the cen
 tre-point : and one lamp lor each signal-man, to be fixed
 on the top of the ball staff.
    Each lamp must have two hollow lenses, about four inches
 diameter, filled with different-coloured        transparent fluids —
 (say pale green and pale red),— w hich will distinguish them
 from common lights.           They must be suspended upon a pin,
 put through a strong iron frame, resembling the frame of a
 sign which is fixed upon an upright sign-post, so that when
 the staff i3 raised thev will swing perpendicularly;              and
 when they are carried at the trail, they will still be in a per
 pendicular position.
    The reservoir for the oil must be made like those for the
 agitable lamps; the wicks must be flat, and about one inch
 broad.
      Jkj. is a front view of the lamp for night signals.
      X,   is a side view of the same.
    A    code  of numerical    signals, and a numerical   vocabulary
 "  .                                                       applicable


326       Charges         of greatest Efficacy for Artillery                                                 at Sea.
stances and -quantities of resisting surfaces jointly ; or as
the resisting forces of the substances and squares of the
                                                               .                  .         -        M                R
                                                                                                                      —             D«
diameters or the impinging spheres: that is,                                                         —       =                x
     But in general                   —   rr~jr X
                                                               —        : therefore equating                                    these
                                                                                                                      .         F
two values           of     the whole resisting forces,                                         we obtain                              x
                                                                                                                               -y
 Q          —                                         F            R
                                                      j
            R               D1                .                          ¦        D»
      =               X               and             ,t =         —        X                   x
                                                                                                     q
                                                                                                     L       :       and since
 q               r          d%                                     r                  a*             Q
jr ~        d3                    .   .
                                                      _       R              IP              d'                  n
                     X n_ ' 11 1S _F_ ~
~a         ~D»            N                   Y               r X~drX D'
                                                                                                      X
                                                                                                                 N"
                                                                                                                          ~
                                                                                                                                VX
~     x     ^j.-
             :       that      is,    the forces retarding                                  spheres penetrating
uniform resisting substances are as the absolute strengths
of the fibres of the substances directly, and the diameters
and specific gravities of the spheres inversely.
                                                  Lemma                 II.
    The whole spaces or depths to which spheres impinging
 on different resisting sulstances penetrate; are as the squares
 of the initial velocities, the diameters and specific gravities
 of  the spheres directly, and the absolute strengths     the re-                                                         of
 sisting° substances inversely
                                                      ,
                                                              or,      — =—V—
                                                                        S
                                                                                                X    -D     N
                                                                                                      -.— X —                  X
                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                    A
                                                          ;
                                                  J                                 ts                           '•       n
                                                                       S s
                                                                                                      d
                                                                                  V"
      For by mechanics we have — =                                                          x
                                                                                                f   h v,         and          by the
                                                                                      ir„
        ¦
        •   '                                                       s                                 ;                        f
 preceding            lemma                       =
                                                      -g      x                 x -~        ,   which substituted
 .                        .
                                                      —
                                                          S
                                                                       —
                                                                       V*               D            N
                                                                                                     —
                                                              =                                                           R r
                              ,
                                                                                       —
      ,      ,
 in the above             it   becomes                                          x       d ,-    x                 x =r.       ¦
                                                      .f               v'                                n
      These being premised,                           I       now proceed to resolve the fol
 lowing most important
                                                      Problem               ;
      To      general formula which shall express the quan
           find      a
 tity      of'
         charge for any given piece      ordnance to produce the             of
 greatest destruction possible to an enemy's ship at sea;                                                                                it
 being supposed      oak substance
                               of      given thickness, and at a        of
 distance not affecting the initial velocity     the shot.                   '                  of
                                          V»
                                                                                            =
    t> t                            ii                                                               8               d             n
    By Lemma 2, we have, generally,       —
                                          i      — x^-x-^                                                                              x
                                               •                                                          ¦               ¦
                                                       xJ  JN                •        v             t
 -— .       Also the charges of powder vary                                                 as the squares                        of the


3S8      Charges     of greatest Efficacy for Artillery         at Sea.
which is not strictly          true; since that resistance depend?
partly    on the quantity of the surface resisted, which con
tinually varies until the ball has penetrated to the depth of
its radius; when it continues uniform till it arrives at the
 further surface of the object; where the resistance again
 commences its variation.          These deviation0 from uniformity
 are about sufficient to set against that of the law of variation
 of the charges before mentioned; the velocities from them
 falling somewhat short of the law there prescribed after a
 certain charge.
                               Example I.
     An enemy's ship is in sight ; required the clmrge for the
 42-pounder guns to destroy her as quickly and completely
 as   possible when       the ships hare approached near to each
 other: the     side  of the  enemy's vessel (a seventy- four) being
  l\foot   thick of oak timber.
     The diameter of       a 12-pounder       of cast-iron being ="557
 foot; wc            -045 x          3.    — - = G-88306lbs.        or
               get                                                      Gib*.
  1 lozs. for the weight      of  the charge required.
                                  TABLE
  Containing the various charges for the               12-, 18 , 94-, 32-,
     36- ana 42-pounder           guns, for producing the greatest
     effect in -ill eases of act ion : the substance or object being
     of oak materials, and its thickness together with the ra
     dius of the ball from 1 foot to that of 5 feet, regularly
     increasing by 1 in the inches.
                       Thickness of ihe Side of the Vessel, plus the
          Nature                    Radius of the Ball.
            of
        Ordnance.    12 Inches.   13 Inches.    H  Inches.   15 Inches.
         Pounder         lbs.         lbs.          lbs.         lbs.
            12       1-430242     1-559178      r67pll6      1-799052
             18      1 02657 1    2-089285      2249999     2-410714
            24       2336650      2531371       2726O9I      2-920813
         -
            32       28304/0      3 066343      3 302215     3538088
            36       30G1630      3-316766      3 571001     3 827038
            42       3 393180     3675949       3958710      4241475

Charges    of greatest Efficacy for Artillery          at Sea. 329
                Thickness of the Side of the Vessel, plus the
    Nature                  Radius of the Ball.
       of
  Ordnance. 16 Inches. 17 Inches 18 Inches. 19 Inches.
    Pounder       lbs.        lbs.          lb*.       lbs.
       12      l-9'8987    2-838926    2-158863     2278800
       18~     2-571 426 2-732142      2-892856     3053571
       24      3-115533    3310254 3-504975         3-69()096
       32      3773960 4 009833        4245705 4481578
       36      4082 173 4-337310 4592445 4-847581
       42                  4-8O09O5     5-089770    5372535
               4-524240J
             | 20 Inches.  21 Inches.  22 Inches.   23 Inches.
                                                  '
                   lbs.        lbs.          lbs.       lbs.
        12     2-3()8737   2-518674 2-638612        2758547
        18   ,3214285      3374999 3535714 3-696428
       24     '3-894417 4-089137        4283859 4478580
                                          -
       32    | 4717350     4953323 5 189 195 5425068
       3G     '5102717     5-357853     5 612988 5 868124
     '
       42      5655300 5-938065         6220830 6-670202
               24 Inches.  25 Inches.   26 Inches.  27 Inches.
                   lbs.         lbs.         lbs.       lb..
        12     2-878484 2998420 3-118358 3-238292
        18     3-857142,   4-017856     4178570 4-339284
       24      4-673300 4 868021        5OC274I     5 257463
       32      5 66O94O 5-896813        6-132685    6-368559
       36                  6 378396 6633531         6-888668
               6-123260!
       42                  7 069125    7-35 18y0 7-634655
               6786360^

£30  Charges    of greatest Efficacy for Artillery            at Se«.
               Thickness of the Side of the Vessel, plus the Radius
     Nature                        of the Ball.
        of
    Ordnance.  -'8 Inches.   29 Inches.     30 Inches.    31 Inches.
     Pounder         lbs.        lbs.            )bs.          lbs.
        12     3358228       34-8164        3598100       3718036
       '18     4521340       4 6&2054       4 842768      5 003482
        24     5452184       .5-646905      5841626       6 036347
        32     6-504432      5-340305
                                          | 7 076178      7 3 12051
        36     7T43804       7 393940       7654076       7 909212
        42     7 917420      8 200185       8482950       8765715
               32 Inches.    33 Inches.     34 Inches. ,  35 Inches
                    lbs          lbs            lbs.          lbs.
        12     3 837972      3957908        4 0/7844      4- 197780
        18     5-164196      5 324910       5485624       5-646338
        24     6-231068      6 425789       6 620510      6-815231
        32     7-547924      7-783797       8 01 967O     8255543
        36     8- 164348     8-419484; 8 674620           8929756
        42     9048480             J
                             9 33 245       9-611010      9-396775
               36 Inches.   37 Inches       38 Inches.   39 Inches.
                   lbs.          lbs             lbs.         lbs.
        12     4-317716      4 437652       4-557588      4677524
        18     5 807052      5              6T28460       6289I94
                                967766!
        24     7OO9952       7 204673       7 309394      75941 15
        32     8491416       8727289        8963 162      9-I99035
        36     9 184892      9 44O028       9695164       9950300
        42    10- 179540 10 462305         10 745070     11 027833

Charges    of greatest Efficacy for Artillery         at Sea,        331
          Thickness of the Side of the Vessel, plus the Radius
 Nature                       of the B ill.
    of
Ordnance. 40 Inches.    41 laches.    42 Inches.   43 Inches.
 Pounder       lbs          lbs.          lbs.             lbs.
    12      4797460      4-917396      5037332       5-157268
    18      64499O8      6610622       6771336       6932050
    24      7788636      7983557       8-178278      8372999
    32      9-434908     967O78 1      9906654      10- 142527
    36     10-205436     10 460572 10715708         1O970844
    42'    1 1 3 10600   11-593365     11-876130    12-158895
            44 Inches.   4 i Inches.   4b'Inches.   | 47 Inches.
               lbs.         lbs.          lb--             11)5.
    12      5-27/204     5397 140      5 5 17076     5-637012
    18      7 092764      7'253478| 7-4141Q2         7'574906
    24      8-567720      876244 1      8957162      9-151883
    32     10378400 10-614273          10-850146    il066019
    36      1 1-225980   11-481116     11736252 1I-Q91338
    42     12 441660 12-724425         13OO719O     132fc9955
            48 Inches.   49 Inches.    50 Inches     51 Inches.
               lbs.         lbs           lbs.             lbs.
    12      5-756948      5876884       5-996820     61 16756
    18      77356-2Q     7-896334       8057048       8-217762
    24      9 346604     9-541325       9 736046     9-930767
    32     11-321802     11-557765     11703638 12-029511
    36     12246524 12'50l66o          12-756796
                                                     'l3   01 1032
    42                   13-855485
            13-572720                  14T38250|l4-4210I5

332 Charges   of greatest Efficacy for Artillery             at Sea.
                   Thickness of the Side of the Vessel, plus
       Nature                the Radius of the Ball.
         of
      Ordnance      52 Inches.      53 lnchet.  | 51 Inches.
       Pounder         lbs.             lbs             lbs
          12         6-236692        6-350628        6476564
          18         8-3784/6        S039190         8-699904
          24       10-125488       10320209       10-514g30
         32        12265384        12-501257      12 737130
          36       13-26/068       13 522204      13 777340
         42        14703 780       I4-986545 j 15 2e9310
                   55 Inches.      56 Inches       57 Inches.
                        lbs.           lbs.             lbs.
          12        6 5Q6500         6-716436        6836372
          18         88606 18        9021332         9-182046
          24       1070g651        10 904372      1 1 O99O93
          32       12-973003       13-208876      13 444749
         36        14-032476       14-287612      14 542748
          42       15-552070       15 834840      16 117605
                 '
                    58 Inches.      59 Inches.     60 Inches.
                        lbs.            lbs.           lbs.
          12         6056308         7076244         T I 96! 80
          18        9-34i760        9 503474         9664188
          24       1 1-2938 '4     11-488535      11-683256
          32       10-680623       13 916495      14-152368
          36       14-797384       15 053028      15 308156
          42       16400370        16683135        169659OO


834       Charges    of greatest Efficacy for Artillery                   at Sea.
of a very brittle nature, such as stone or brick, then that
charge is to be used which will givie the greatest Telocity to
the shot to produce the maximum effect. But in many cases
of bombardment this charge is by no means to be. preferred;
for though the effect produced each individual time be
greater, yet in any considerable time the whole effect would
be less than that from a smaller charge oftener fired, on ac
count of the extreme heat it would give to the engine after
a few discharges; and in consequence of which greater time
would be required for cooling the gun and preparing it for
further service.
                                     Example II.
   Required the charge for a 24-pounder shot to lurst open
the gates of a city with the greatest ease possible, they be
ing of elm one foot thick.
     Here the object to              be    penetrated being        elm,    the small
letters in the general
               b       formula        —
                                       r^— I =
                                                     —    I:
                               2D$xlf)0O,V     2Dsxl600*'
must be made to denote the several numbers of some ex
periment made in the penetration of this substance. Taking,
therefore, the experiment of Dr. Hutton contained in the
5th problem of his elegant Exercises on Forces, we have
d = ~ ft. v = 1500, and S =                            ft.;   also by the question
S = 1 ft.     D=        -4G, and w = 21 lbs. therefore
                                                                     ^J^^T
k=   -
     1-23 X
          £
              IX—1500-
                  -
                             X—24-
                                     =
                                           830 25
                                               bs. or 4lbs.
                                                 _
                                                         ..
                                                       =r 4 338(18
                                                                     „
      2x-46x      }•]
                X 1000s                    101-36
5|ozs. nearly the weight of the charge required in this case.
   Retaining the experiment of Dr. Hutton as standard for            a
all cases where the substance to be penetrated    of elm, we         is
   „ .                   .     .          (S   + lD)rft>V                 (i  + ^D)tv
                by
,             ,
shall have           reduction                              =-0676 x           £        :
the charge        for any piece the diameter of whose shot                       is   D,
and weight w;       being the thickness of the object as be
                        S
fore.
   It not unworthy of remark, that the gates of besieged
         is                                                                a
        or any like things, might be effectually broken open
Elace,
y   the gun itself, charged only with powder;    bv placing                           it
close to the gates with its muzzle from them         the mo               ;
mentum of recoil being generally sufficient to force such
objects completely.
                                                                         LXII.   Cases


330       Expulsion of Taenia     ly   Oleum Terelnnthinat.
 effect of his electuary of the dolichos pruriens.        The pa
 tient took this at first without, but afterwards with, the
 scobs stanni in large quantities, and tor a considerable time:
 but thoutih, as she assorted, these medicines, more than any
 she had ever taken, relieved her sufferings, they produced
 no discharge ot taenia.
     I now heard of the ol. tereb. having been administered
 in this complaint, and resolved to give it a fair trial, espe
 cially as niy patient was hersell very anxious to use any re
 medy that promised the slightest probability of success.
 1 may premise, that her abdomen was enlarged as formerly,
 her stools slimy, and, in short, all her symptoms indicated
 that she had still large portions of taenia in her intestines.
 I ordered her at first small doses of this oil, viz. two drachms
twice a day, mixed with treacle to disguise its taste.        This
produced no other effect than an increase of pain and un
easiness, and particularly on going to stool, as if it irritated
the rectum.      The dose was now increased to half an ounce,
at longer intervals.     The first dose in this quantity, which
she took without treacle, produced a little sickness and
confusion of ideas, and afterwards operated as a purge. She
complained      of no uneasiness whatever in the urinary or
gans. After these doses, she passed such a quantity ofslimy
mucus, with such relief in all her painful symptoms, that
6he earnestly entreated I would allow her to take a double
dose.    The quantity of an ounce, which she now took, al
ways produced a great degree of giddiness, as if she was in
toxicated, which came on shortly after taking        it, and con
tinued for an hour or more, until the violent cathartic effect
which followed, removed it.
    Although this medicine was repeated, after this manner,
every two or three days for   a   fortnight or more,  by  her own
particular desire, there was no appearance of taenia in her
stools. I    could not, however, but observe, that the mucus
which was discharged so abundantly            by the operation of
the ol. tereb. sometimes exhibited the appearance of white
films, as if   the substance of the worm had been broken
down. She took the very large dose of an ounce and half
two or three times, after the medicine began to lose its
effect, with results similar to those   I   hare described.     In
short,  by  her own account, violent purging was the only
thing that relieved her; and all kinds of strengthening re
medies, as well as nourishing diet, uniformly increased
her sufferings, so that she abstained from food when her
appetite craved  it,  in order to avoid the anticipated pain.
I    have since heard that she went into the London liospital,
                                                              and


   333      Expulsion of Teenia by Oleum Tereb'mlhince.
   free from all symptoms of his complaint,
                                                 and#had regained
   his strength and cheerfulness.          i
       He was generally a little sick after taking the medicine,
   and for a day or two was affected with a severe pain in the
   back part of his head, but complained of no other unplea
   sant effects from its use.
                          Cases IV. and V.
   By George Birkdeck, M.D.F.M.S., Physician                to the
                         General Dispensary.
      Dr. Birkbeck stated to the Society that he had admini
  stered the oil of turpentine, successfully, to two middle-aged
  females who had long been troubled with the tape-worm.
      In the first case half an ounce was given : no unpleasant
  sensation occurred whilst it was swallowed, but consider
  able confusion of ideas and vertigo, with a slight degree of
 nausea, were soon produced.         In a short time a discharge
 from the bowels took place; this was quickly followed by
 another, with which more than four yards of the worm
 were evacuated.       The patient, in consequence of the fre-
 quenmpontaneous         escape of small portions of taenia, and
 the expulsion of a larger quantity about twelve months be
 fore by an active purgative medicine, had an opportunity of
 comparing the ordinary appearance of the worm with that
•which it now presented.       Instead of being whitish, smooth,
 full, and in motion, she represented it lo be dark-coloured,
 shrivelled, filmy, and lifeless.      A second dose of the oil
did not expel any more of the worm, nor, when he last saw
 her, about three months afterwards, had it again appeared.
 In that interval she had not been disturbed by any of the
unpleasant feelings to which she was before subjected.
     Considerable derangement of the general health and great
pain in the pit of the stomach were produced by the tape
worm, in the second case in which the oil of turpentine
was employed.         Although one tea-spoonful only was in
troduced, sickness and acute pain followed : this dose was
repeated several successive mornings, always with the same
immediate effects; but occasionally it was succeeded by
the expulsion of large portions of the worm.          The worm
was represented to have the appearance before noticed.       The
patient had sufficient resolution and confidence to continue
for some time the use of the medicine, and at length be
came free, not only from any further appearance of taenia
in the stools, but likewise horn all those sensations which
had so long denoted its presence in the intestines.
                                                           Case


3-40                      On Refraction.
   T gave him the same quantity as before (viz. ol. tefeb.
rect. et syr. croci aa^j).   This produced violent retchings,
tenesmus, strangury, and great pain in the back ; the urine
was also a little tinged with blood.        The strangury and
tenesmus continued nearly a week, and the patient was not
able to work for several davs alter.     As he had not voided
any portion of worm with the last dose, I concluded that
he was quite well, but requested he would call on me again
in about two months.       He called last week, and T advised
him to try his old remedy (a drachm of jalap), which had
its usual effect, in bringing away a large quantity of the
worm. I fear I shall not be able to induce him again to
try the ol. tereb., from the severe symptoms which it pro
duced when he last used it.
  Aug. 27, 1810.
LXTIT.  A short Account of the Improvements gradually
  made in determining t/ie Astronomic Refraction. By
  T. S. Evans.
The     principal object which the astronomer has in view,
is to determine tlte real places of the heavenly bodies, from
the apparent ones observed from a point situated on the
earth's surface.    In general, it is necessary to reduce them
to what they would have been found, were the observer
situated in the sun's centre : and it is very seldom that they
do not require to be reduced to some other point.        Various
equations and corrections are of course necessary for this
purpose, but none of greater importance than the refraction,
which is caused by the atmosphere that surrounds the earth,
and produces in every ray of light that traverses         it,
                                                           greater
                                                            a
or less deviation from its rectilinear course, according to
the density of the air, and the altitude of the object above
the horizon.     Perhaps there is nothing that has opposed so
great an obstacle to the improvement of astronomy as re
fraction, and nothing requires greater attention                by
                                                             every
one who makes observations of any accuracy, since there
are very strong reasons for presuming that     it   different, in
                                                     is
some degree,       almost every different situation.
                   in                                    Most of
the principal astronomers from Tycho Brahe down to the
present time have done something which tended to improve
the method of finding      it
                           :    but further observations and
experiments are still wanting, for there       is,
                                                 even now, an
                                      in it,
uncertainty of several seconds in        at low altitudes.     To
bring under one point of view, and      the compass of small    a
                                                          sketch,


342                                On Refraction.
tirely different quantity, viz. 30' in the horizon: but this,
according to him, terminated at only 20° of altitude*.
      The following is the manner in which it is related that
Tycho made this discoveryf. He had determined with one
 or two instruments, extremely well made, the latitude of
 the place, by observations of polaris above and below the
 pole,       lie determined it also by the sun's altitude in both
 solstices, and found it four minutes less by the latter.                    At
 first he doubted the goodness of his instrument, and there
 fore constructed with the utmost care as many as ten others
 of different sizes and forms, but they all gave nearly the
 same result.          He could no longer attribute this difference
 between the two determinations of the latitude to any de
 fect in the observations, and therefore endeavoured, by an
 attentive consideration of the subject, to find out the cause
 of this curious phsenomenon.                   At length he supposed it
 could only arise from the refraction, which elevated the
  sun at the winter solstice, having then onlv 1 1° of altitude
  above the horizon.            This conjecture agreed very well with
  the principles         of optics ; but still Tvcho Brahe could
  scarcely persuade himself that the refraction was sufficiently
  large to produce so great a difference : on this account he
  made other instruments of ten feet diameter, whose axis
  corresponded exactlv with the pole of the world; and with,
  these lie measured the declination of the stars out of the
  meridian J.         He then found, thai even in summer, the re
  fraction, although insensible at the meridian altitude of the
   sun, was very considerable near the horizon ; and that the
   defect was about half a degree in the horizon.
        A copy of Tycho Brahe's Tablc§ of Refrac                    Alt. Refract.
   tion for a star is given in the margin.                            ¦ 30' 0"
                                                                     0>
         In this state did the refraction continue for                 1 21-30,
    many years.          Even RiccioU j| in 166? sup                  2   15.30
   posed it nothing at about 26' of altitude:                          3  12-30
   but he thought the moon had only 29' of                             4  n-oo
    horizontal refraction in summer; the sun 30',                      5  10-00.
   and the stars 30' 3/".
        * Mem. de l'Acad. av. s. renov.v. torn. v. p. 82. Lon»'s Astronomy, vcl. i.
   p 25 !, where a comparison is given of his Table with those of Newton and
    i'iamsteed.                    t Encycl. Method.
        X The greater part of these very curious and ingenious instruments are
   given in his j4stuiHtnni<&ihstui*ral*eMechanica, prime. 1 .it Wandesburg in
    J 598. 't his work is now become extremely rare, and to be met with only
   in a few of the great public libraries : u:i which account M. Jeaurat had
    the plates engraved again upon a reduced scale, and published in the Me
    moirs of the Academy of Sciences of Paris for the year 1763, p 120.
        § Progvmir.'-p. 79. 104. Street'sAstr. Carol, p. 119. Long's Astr. vol. i.
   p. 254. Maria Cmi'tia Urania Prnpitia. p. 286, fol. 1650.
        J Astr. Reformat. Astr. ref. Tabu!, p. 47.                              It


 344                             On Refraction.
 than 45° of altitude : and he is generally considered as
 the first who proved that           reached all the way to the
                                          it.
 zenith*.      He also supposed that near the equator the
 horizontal refraction was less than              our climate by
                                                              in
 about one-third      that this difference decreased
                       ;                                as far up
 as 60°, after which        was the same nearly for both cli
                             it
 mates.
    From this discovery           followed, as
                                     it            natural conse
                                                               a
 quence, that the refraction must be greater near the pole
 than at Paris    :and this was shortly afterwards proved to
 the Academy           by
                      the publication of      work expressly on
                                                          a
 that subject     f. The king of Sweden, being in 1694 at
 Tornea    inWest Bothnia, near the latitude of 65° 45', and
 observing that the sun did not set there in the summer sol
 stice, sent the following year some mathematicians             to
 make more certain and exact observations of this curious
 phaenomenon.        They are contained in this book, and
Messrs. Cassini and De            Hire concluded from them,
                                       la            \
 that in the latitude of 65° 45' the horizontal refraction must
 be 58', or nearly double of that at Paris.
    According to an observation made by some Dutchmen§
who passed the winter of 1596-7            Nova Zembla, in lati
                                                     in
tude 76° north, the sun, which had entirely disappeared the
 14th of November, began to rise again the 24th of January,
viz. six days sooner than was expected according to astro
nomical calculations . If so, when the sun has been two
                            ||
or three months under the horizon, as the Dutchmen ob
served in 1597> the cold becomes dreadful, and perhaps
the refraction increase* prodigiously.        M.    Monnier as       le
sures us, that he found           by
                               the observations printed in 1599,
that the 24th and 27th of January 1597, there were more
than 4i degrees of refraction       that he could neither explain
                                          :
these observations, reject them as doubtful, nor suppose
any error, as was done            by
                               most of the other astronomers,
Kepler, Cassini, Scotto, and, lastly, M.           Gentilf who     le          ,
maintained that there were errors          the observations, and
                                                     in
accordingly read       memoir on the subject.
                       a                                 were not    If   it
so difficult    ataik to winter in these high latitudes, we
might expect such observations as would remove all doubt
   • Mem. de Acad. 1700, p. 12.
             I'                  1
f    " Refraciio sols inoccidui,'' £*c Holmie. 4to, 169j. These observations
illLapland were made by Messrs. Spole and Bilber};.
J    In two papers ot remarks on these observations published by them in
the Mem. de I'Acad. 1700, p. 37.
  §  Smith's Optics,   p  61.    Remarks     Dr. Jurin's Notes on Varenius'«
Geography, vol. p. 441.
                i.                         Leipsic Acts, 1679.
                                            ||
  c  Voy. daus les Mers des Indes, torn. p. 395; torn.
                                                i.         p. 832.
                                                               ii.
                                                                                   on


  S46                             On Refraction.
 De la Grange*, Euler, Gregory8, Hodgson-1, Huygens'0,
  Kramp", Lambert'2, Laplace1 3, Mayer'-1, Newton'5, Oriani'%
 Thomas Simpson'", Brook Taylor'8, Heinsius'-, Tobias
 Mayer", La Hire1', d'Alembert". •
      It was conjectured by many of the early writers, that the
 refraction was subject to variations depending upon the
 weather: but it then amounted to little more than a con
 jecture, on account of the indifferent manner in which
 astronomic        instruments were divided.               Picard found by
 meridian altitudes of the sun in 1669, that it was greater
 in winter than in summer.                He found also that it was less
 by day than by night.              In the observations given at the
 end of his journey to Uraniburg *, to settle the latitude of
 that place, and its difference of longitude' from Paris, for
the purpose of comparing the observations of Tycho Brahe
with those made at the Royal Observatory of Paris, he
found the horizontal refraction for the first limb of the sun
that made its appearance above the horizon there 33' 2",
and for the second 32' 3/". So that in the small interval of
time that the sun took to rise, the refraction was diminished
25 seconds by the warmth arising from the sun's presence.
     A quadrant being also directed by him from the top of
Mount Valerian towards the summit of the church of Notre
Dame at Paris, he found the depression 20' ; but the sun
had scarcely risen, when it was increased to 22'; exhala
tions being raised by the sun's presence, and the medium
between Paris and Mount Valerian become more equal ;
whereas, before the sun rose, the air of Paris was more dense
than that of Mount Valerian f.
    The density of the atmosphere being the immediate cause
of the refraction, it was very natural to suppose that it must
decrease      as this density became less; whether by causes
which diminished its weight, or by the expansion produced
by heat : and, indeed, astronomers were not long after this,
   e NouveauxMe"moircs de Berlin, vol. iii.       '
                                                    Mem. de Berlin, 1754,torn.x.
   8 Astronomy, vol. i. p. 3.58.edit, of 1715, in Svo.
   S Mathematics, vol. i. p. 367. Fluxions, p. 133.
   10Traite de la Lumiere, p. 44. Dioptrica, 4to, 1703,
   11Analyse des Refract. Astr. et Terres 4to. Strasburg, 1799.
   11Les Proprietes Remarquables de la Route de la Lumicvc.          A la Haye,
1759. Another edition in German, 1773.
• 13Mecanique Celeste, vol. iv. p. 231.
   '<Tables, 1770.              'S Principia, b. i sect. 14.
   16Ephem. de Milan, 1788.            " Mathematical Dissertation*, 1743.
   18Methodus Incrcmentorum, 4to. Lond. 1715. Propos. 87, p. 108.
   '5 DissertatiodcComputo rcfractionum Astron. 4;o. Leipbig, 1749.
   30 De Refractionibus Astronomicis, 4to. Altorf. 1781.
   »' Mem. de l'Acad. pour 1702, p. 52.
   •* Opuscules Math6matiques, torn. viii. p. 297.
   * Mem. de 1'Acad.iw. s. reu. tom.i.
                                               f  Encycl. Meth. art. RtfratHan,
                                                                        before


348                         On Refraction.
tion to be about one-seventh less than in Europe*.                     The
horizontal refraction he found to be 27': but at 6' of alti
tude it is 7' 4" ; and at 45° it is 44". Bouguer then gives
a tablet for Quito, which is more elevated                above the level
of the sea. M. le Gentil % found it greater at Pondicherry
in India, although in the torrid zone.
    The refraction diminishes when we are elevated above
the level of the sea.        Bouguer observed § the quantity of it
at Chimbora^o, 2388 toises above the level of the sea, and
found it in the horizon only 194'.                 At the cross of Pit-
chinca, 2014 toises above the sea, he found it 20' 48"; at
Quito, 1479 toises above the sea, 22' 50": but at the level
of the sea 27'- These observations, when joined with the
theory, produced the following rule ; That if we take the
excess of 5158 toises above the elevation of the place, with
regard to the level of the sea, the refraction will be as the
square root of this excess.          Thus the square root of 5158
toises is 27', for the horizontal refraction at the level of the
tea, in the torrid zone : and the square root of the excess
of 5158 above the elevation of the place will be its hori
zontal refraction.         The quantity 5158 is the height above
which the refractive matter 110 longer produces any sensible
effect, at least in the torrid zone||.
     But although by this time considerable attention had been
paid to the subject, yet great differences were to be found in
the tables then most in use.          Thus at the altitude of 30%
according to Flamsteed, the refraction was l' 23"; New
ton l' 30"; Cassini l' 42"; and de la Hire l' 55"; leaving
an uncertainty of more than half a minute: and it must
have been very mortifying to an observer, after having taken
the utmost pains to avoid errors of two or three seconds, to
 find his reduced observations liable to so great an error, ac
 cording to the choice of his table of refraction.
     It is indeed rather extraordinary, that in a memoir pub
 lished by Cassini de Thury, among those of the Academy
 for 1745, he attempted to reconcile a number of observa
 tions with each other, by considering the state of the ther
 mometer only, without at all noticing that of the barome
 ter; although at that time Hauksbee's experiments had
 been published about 37 years.
     He concludes his paper, as is very natural to suppose,
 without being able to make the observations agree: nor
 does it clearly appear that the French noticed the above-
    * This Table is in the memoir above cited.
    f  Mcm.1749. Conn.des Mouv. Celest.p. 17fi5.       % Mem. 1774.Voyage,
 torn. i.     § Mem. p. 1749.            || JEncyql. Method, art Refr.
                                                                mentioned




332                       Researches on the muriatic      Acid
waked by     and waked with the idea of cannon fired close
                    it,                                 a
to them.
   The watchmen in the streets, and the toll -man at Hyde-
park corner, described the air as completely on fire, and the
tremendous sound as being quite close to them.            not               It   is
improbable that the discharge, whether to or from the cloud,
took place in several points at once.  If the account     the                    in
papers of     sentinel being struck down, near the Horse-
                    a
Guards, was true, this must have been the case, and will
account for the explosion having been so violent in London.
                          am, sir,  I
                                 Your obedient servant,
  Tilney-street, Nov.        7,   1810.             H. C. EnGLEFIELD.
LXV.   Researches on the oxymuriatic Acid, its Nature and
   Combinations  and on the Elements
                          ;              the muriatic Acid.
                                                        of
   With some Experiments on Sulphur and Phosphorus,
   made in the Laboratory     the Royal Institution* .
                                          of            By
   H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.I. F.R.S.E.f
The     illustrious discoverer of the oxymuriatic      acid consi
dered       as muriatic
           it             acid freed from hydrogen         and the     X,
common muriatic acid as            compound
                                          a     of hydrogen and
oxymuriatic acid; and on this theory he denominated oxy
muriatic acid dephlogisticatcd muriatic acid.
   M. Berthollet        few years after the discovery of Scheele,
                            §,a
made       number of important and curious experiments on
           a
this body      from which he concluded, that
                ;                                  was composed
                                                             it
of muriatic acid gas and oxygen and this idea for nearly
                                               ;
20, years has been almost universally adopted.
   Dr. Henry, in an elaborate series of experiments, made
with the view of decomposing muriatic acid gas, ascertained
that hydrogen was produced from                      by
                                              electricity; and he
                                               it
attributed the phenomenon        to water contained in the gas||.
   In the Bakerian lecture for 1608, have given an account
                                               I
of the action of potassium upon muriatic acid gas,           which      by
more than one-third of its volume of hydrogen           produced; is
and    Ihave stated, that muriatic acid can        no instance be
                                                             in
procured from oxymuiiatic acid, or from dry muriates, un
less water or its elements be present.
    In the second volume of the Mcmoires d'Arcueil, MM.
  • Communicated to the Royal Society at the request of the Managers of
the Royal Institution.                              i
t    From the Philosophical Transactions for 1809,Part II.
     Mem. Acad. Stockholm for 1774, p. 94.
 § \Journal dc Pkyiifue, 1785, p. 325.        Phil. Trans, for 1600, p. 19t.
                                               |l
                                                                                  Gay


 354             Researches on the muriatic Acid
 if the acids of phosphorus really existed in these combina
 tions, it would not be difficult to obtain them, and thus to<
 gain proofs of the existence of oxygen in oxymuriatic acid.
    I made a considerable quantity of the solid compound of
 oxymuriatic     acid and phosphorus by combustion, and sa
 turated it with ammonia, by heating it in a proper receiver
 filled with ammoniacal gas, on which it acted with great
 energy, producing much heat; and they formed a white
 opake powder.       Supposing that this substance was com
 posed of the dry muriates and phosphates of ammonia; as
 muriate of ammonia is very volatile, and as ammonia is
 driven off from phosphoric acid, by a heat below redness,   I
 conceived that, by igniting the product obtained, I should
 procure phosphoric acid ; I therefore introduced some of
 the powder into a tube of green glass, and heated it to red
 ness, out of the contact of air, by a spirit lamp ; but found,
 to my great surprise, that it was not at all volatile nor de
 composable at this degree of heat, and that it gave off no
gaseous matter.
     The circumstance that a substance composed principally
of oxymuriatic acid, and ammonia, should resist decom
position or change at so high a temperature, induced me to
pay particular attention to the properties of this new body.
     It had no taste nor smell ; it did not seem to be soluble,
nor did it undergo any perceptible change when digested in
boiling water : it did not appear to be acted upon by sul-
  huric, muriatic, or nitric acids, nor by a strong lixivium
  f potash. The only processes by which it seemed sus
ceptible of decomposition were by combustion, or the action
of ignited hydrat of potash. When brought into the flame
of a spirit lamp and made red-hot, it gave fetble indications
of inflammation, and tinged the flame of a yellow colour,
and left a fixed acid having the properties of phosphoric
acid.      When acted on by red-hot hydrat of potash, it
emitted a smell of ammonia, burnt where it was in contact
with air, and appeared to dissolve in the alkali. The pot
ash which had been so acted upon gave muriatic acid, by
the addition of sulphuric acid.
     I heated some of the powder to whiteness, in a tube of
platina; but it did not appear to alter ; and after ignition
gave ammonia by the action of fused hydrat of potash.
     I caused ammonia, made as dry as possible, to act on the
phosphuretted liquor of MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard;
       on the sulphuretted muriatic liquor of Dr. Thomson
 ?nd
                                                            ;
  ut no decomposition took place nor was any muriate of
                                 ;
ammonia formed when proper precautions were taken to
                                                        exclude


356               Researches on the muriatic          Acid
posited ; and the residual gas contained about \% of mu
riatic acid gas, and the remainder was inflammable.
   MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard have proved by a copious
collection of instances, that in the usual cases where oxy
gen is procured from oxymuriatic acid, water is always pre
sent, and muriatic acid gas is formed : now, as it     shown           is-
that oxymuriatic    acid gas     converted into muriatic acid
                                   is
gas    bycombining with hydrogen,         scarcely possible to
                                            it   is
avoid the conclusion,    that the oxygen    derived from the
                                                      is
decomposition    of water, and, consequently, that the idea
of the existence of water in muriatic acid gas      hypothe       is
tical, depending upon an assumption which has not yet
been proved — the existence of oxygen in oxymuriatic acid
gas.
   MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard indeed have stated an ex
periment, which they consider as proving that muriatic acid
gas contains one quarter of its weight of combined water.
They passed this gas over litharge, and obtained so much
water; but   it   is oovious that in this case they formed the
same compound as that produced              by
                                             the action of oxymu
riatic acid on lead     ;and in this process the muriatic acid
must lose its hydrogen, and the lead its oxygen            which of
                                                                  ;
course would form water         : these   able chemists,     indeed,
from the conclusion of their memoir, seem aware that such
an explanation my be given, for they say that the oxymu
riatic acid may l>e considered as       simple body.
                                        a
 I    have repeated those experiments which led me first to
suspect the existence of combined water in muriatic acid,
with considerable care;     I find that, when mercury          made         is
to act upon one        volume of muriatic acid gas,
                       in                                    Voltaic   by
electricity,   all the acid disappears, calomel        formed, and
                                                             is
about '5 of hydrogen evolved.
    With potassium, in experiments made over very dry mer
cury, the quantity of hydrogen               always from nine to
                                            is
eleven, the volume of the muriatic acid gas used being 20.
    And in some experiments made very carefully                  my              by
brother Mr. John Davy, on the decomposition of muriatic
 acid gas,  by  heated tin and zinc, hydrogen equal to about
half its volume was disengaged, and metallic muriates, the
 same as those produced       by the combustion of tin and zinc
 in oxymuriatic gas, resulted.
  It   isevident from this series of observations, that Scheele's
 view (though obscured       by terms derived from        vague and
                                                                  a
 unfounded general theory) of the nature of the oxymuriatic
 and muriatic acids may       be considered as an expression of
 facts j  whilst the view adopted           the French school of
                                            by
                                                                      chemistry,


358              Hesearches on the muriatic   Acid
tion so rapid,   as that of oxymuriatic   acid upon metals and
inflammable bodies.
    It may be said, that a strong argument in favour of the
hypothesis, that oxymuriatic acid consists of an acid basis
united to oxygen, exists in the general analogy of the com
pounds of oxymuriatic acid, and metals, to the common
neutral salts : but this analogy, when strictly investigated*
                                                                    it,
will be found to be very indistinct; and even allowing              it
may be applied with as much force to support an opposite
doctrine, namely, that the neutral salts are compounds of
bases with water, and the metals of bases with hydrogen              ;
and that, in the case of the action of oxymuriatic acid and
metals, the metal furnishes hydrogen to form muriatic acid,
and   a basis to produce the neutral combination.
    That the quantity of hydrogen evolved during the decom
position of muriatic acid gas     by  metals, is  the same that
would be produced during the decomposition of water             by
                                                               the
same bodies, appears, at first view, an evidence in favour of
 the existence of water in muriatic acid gas; but as there           is
 only one known combination of hydrogen with oxymuriatic
 acid, one quantity must always be separated.       Hydrogen         is
disengaged from its oxymuriatic combination, by             metal,
                                                            a
in the same manner as one metal          disengaged by another
                                        is
 from similar combinations; and of all inflammable bodies
that form compounds of this kind, except perhaps phos
 phorus and sulphur, hydrogen     is  that which seems to ad
here to oxymuriatic     acid with the lesat force.
 I    have caused strong explosions from an electrical jar to.
pass through oxymuriatic gas,      by   means of points of pla-
tina, tor several hours in succession; but    it  seemed not to
undergo the slightest change.
 I    electrized the oxymuriates of phosphorus and sulphur
for some hours,     by   the power of the Voltaic apparatus of
 1000 double plates  :   no gas separated, but  a  minute quan
tity of hydrogen, which       I am inclined to attribute to the
presence of moisture     in the apparatus employed     for once
                                                        ;       I
obtained hydrogen from Libavius1s liquor       by   asimilar ope
ration:    but
            I    have ascertained that this was owing to the
decomposition      of water adhering to the mercury        and in
                                                            ;
some late experiments made with 2000 double plates, in
which the discharge was from platina wires, and in which
the mercury used for confining the liquor was carefully
boiled, there was no production of any permanent elastic
matter.
   As there are no experimental evidences of the existence
                                                                     of


    360                      Researches on the muriatic Acid.
                                                            or of
                                                                      it it,
  assume the existence of any peculiar acid in                                          a
  considerable portion of combined water            and        per;             is
  haps more conformable to the analogy of chemistry,              to
  suppose the large quantity of oxygen combined with the
  potassium, which we know has an intense affinity for oxy
  gen, and which, from some experiments,            am inclined toT
  believe,     capable of combining directly with more oxygen
                   is
  than exists in potash, than with the oxymuriatic acid, which,
 as far as     known, has no affinity for that substance.
                   is
        It generally supposed that
             is                           mixture of oxymuriatic
                                                 is a
 acid and hyperoxymuriatic        acid    disengaged when hyper-
 oxymuriate of potash          decomposed
                                     is                      by
                                                common muriatic
 acid     * but
             ;     am satisfied from several trials, that the gas
                        I
 procured       this way, when not mixed with oxygen, unites
                       in
 to the same quantity of hydrogenf, as common oxymuriatic
 acid gas from manganese; and          find, by
                                             I      careful exami a
 nation, that the gas disengaged during the solution of pla-
 tina, in    mixture of nitric and muriatic acids, which has
                  a
 been regarded as hyperoxymuriatic        acid, but which stated           I
 some years ago to possess the properties of oxymuriatic acid
 gas    J,  actually that body, owing its peculiar colour to
             is                                                                         a
 small quantity of nitromuriatic vapour suspended in           and              it,
from which                  it
                 easily freed
                            is    washing.  by
   Few substances, perhaps, have less claim to be considered
as acid, than oxymuriatic   acid.  As yet we have no right
to say that    has been decompounded
                        it                  and as its tendency
                                                         ;
of combination      with pure inflammable matters,
                                is                          may                it
possibly belong to the same class of bodies as oxygen.
   May     not in fact be -a peculiar acidifying and dissolving
                  it
principle, forming compounds with combustible bodies,
analogous to acids containing oxygen or oxides,            their               in
    * If hyperoxymuriate of potash be decomposed by nitric or sulphuric acid,
it  affords oxymuriatic acid and oxygen.         Ifbe acted upon by muriatic
                                                    it
 acid,  itaffords a large quantity of oxymuriatic acid gas only. In this last
 case, the phenomenon seems merely to depend upon the decomposition of
 the muriatic acid gas, by the oxygen, loosely combined ill the salt.
 f    This likewise appears from Mr. Cruikshank's experiments. SeeNichol
son's Journal, vol. v. 4to, p. 206.
    f The platitia, find by several experiments made-with great care, has no
                            I
share in producing the evolution of this gas.          formed during the pro
                                                        It
                                                        is
duction of aqua regia. The hydrogen of the muriatic acid attracts oxygen
from the nitric acid- Oxymuriatic acid gas        set free, and nitrous gas re
                                                   is
mains in the solution, ana gives      deep red colour. Nitrous acid and mu
                                       it
                                       a
riatic acid produce no oxymuriatic acid gas. Platiua, during its solution ill
perfectly formed aqua regia, gives only nitrous gas and nitrous vapour and          ;
I find, that rather more oxymuriatic acid gas produced, by heating toge
                                                    is
ther equal quantities of nitric acid of 1-45, and muriatic acid of 1*18, when
they are not in contact with platina.than when exposed to that metal. The
oxymuriatic acid gas produced from muriatic acid by nitric acid,           fin4 I
combines,with about an equal volume of hydrogen by detonation.
                                                                      properties


368                 Of  the Bogs in Ireland.
boundaries of the bogs with any tolerable accuracy.      They
then report as follows : —
    " From inspection of this map we were enabled to con
sider the greater part of these bogs as forming one connected
whole, and to come to the general conclusion, that a por
tion of Ireland, of little more than one fourth of its entire
superficial extent, and included between a line drawn from
Wicklow head to Galway, and another drawn from Howth
head to Sligo, comprises within it about six-sevenths of
the bogs in the island, exclusive of mere mountain bogs,
and bogs of less extent than 500 acres, in its form resem
bling a broad belt drawn across the centre of Ireland, with
its narrowest end nearest to the capital, and gradually ex
tending in breadth as it approaches to the Western Ocean.
This great division of the island extending from east to west
is traversed by the Shannon from north to south, and is
thus divided into two parts : of these the division to the
westward of the river contains more than double the extent
of the bogs which are to be found in the division to the
eastward ; so that, if we suppose the whole of the bogs of
Ireland (exclusive of mere mountain bog and of bogs un
der 500 acres) to be divided into twenty parts, we shall find
about seventeen of them comprised within the great division
we have now described, twelve to the westward and five to
the eastward of the Shannon, and of the remaining three
parts, about two are to the south and one to the north of
this division : of the positive amount of their contents we
have as yet no data that can enable us to speak with any
precision ; but we are led to believe, from various commu
nications with our engineers, that the bogs in the eastern
division of the great district above described amount to
about 260,000 English acres, which on the proportion al
ready mentioned would give rather more than one million
of English acres as the total contents of the bogs of Ire
land, excluding however from consideration       mere moun
 tain bogs, and also all bogs of less extent than 5O0 acres,
 of each of which description the amount is very considera
 ble : of the extent of the latter some idea may be Conned
 from a fact which we have learned from Mr. Larkin, that
 in the single county of Cavan, which he has surveyed, there
 are above ninety bogs, no one of which exceeds 500 Irish
 acres, but which taken collectively contain above 1 1,000
Irish, which is equivalent to above 1 7,600 English acres,
besides many smaller bogs varying in size from five to.
 twenty acres.
                                                       " Mos*


 364                t)f   Ihe Bogs in Ireland.
   Major Taylor's excellent map of tlie county of Kildare fur
   nished us with every necessary information, so far as that
   county was in question: but of the King's county there was
   no map published ; and as it contains not less than 124,000
   English acres of bog, it became a mos/t important object
   to possess ourselves of the necessary information with re
  spect to them.
   "    We therefore thought ourselves fortunate in finding
  that Mr. Larkin, a surveyor of eminence, had surveyed
  the county for the grand jury ; and we contracted with him
  to furnish us with a map of    it, on the large scale required
 by   our instructions
                     ;    and Mr. Larkin making himself re
  sponsible for the accuracy «f the survey, we agreed to give
 him for it   300/. being at the rate of less than three far
 things per acre for every acre of bog        contained.
                                               it           With
  these and the assistance of other documents,         we divided
 all the bogs, containing     above 500 acres, in the counties
 of Kildare, King's county, Tipperary, Westmeath, and
 Longford, into seven districts 'of these we gave the one
                                  :
 which forms the north-eastern part of the Bog of Allen, in
 charge to Mr. Richard Griffith    ;   the south-eastern to Mr.
 Brassington  ;   the north-western    to Mr. Townshend    ;   the
 south-western      to Mr. Longfield   ;  district lying princi
                                           a
 pally in Westmeath       to Mr. Jones     ;and the bpgs   in  the
 county of Longford, and on both banks of the river Inny,
 to Mr. Edgeworth.
     " We also gave large district of bog in the county of
                    a
 Tipperary, which runs nearly parallel to the suir from Ros-
 crea to Cashell, in charge to Mr. Aher, wishing to take
 advantage of the circumstance of his being able to give        a
 portion of his time to that district^- although not to any
other, on account of his other engagements.
     " We next laid down the principles which were to go
vern our expenditure, in such manner as to secure that the
amount of our disbursements should depend in every in
stance on the degree of labour to be performed.
  "    With these views, we fixed the pay of engineers at
two guineas   a   day for every day actually employed, and one
guinea a    day in lieu of allowances for travelling and board
and lodging.       That of their surveyors at one guinea  a   day
for each, while employed, to be at once their pay and in
lieu of all allowances of every description.       For the stafF-
men, chain-men-, and labourers, we intrusted the engineers
to make the best bargains in their power, not exceeding
three shillings per day in any instance         ;and these terms
we trust will appear extremely moderate when compared
                                                            with


 3fj6*
                     Of the Bogs  in Ireland.
     ** There are
                  many, we believe, who consider thet>ogs of
 Ireland to be low and marshy tracts of country not very dis»-
 similar in their composition from the fens of Lincolnshire:
 others, aware that the substance of which they are formed
 greatly differs from that of the fen districts, attribute ne
vertheless the origin of both to pretty nearly the same
 causes ; while an opinion, more prevalent, and perhaps not
 less erroneous than either of the foregoing,    attributes their
formation to fallen forests, which are supposed at some
former period to have covered these districts, and to have
been destroyed either by the effects of time, or by hostile-
armies in the early wars of Ireland.
    " The facts staled in Mr. Griffith's report are obviously
inconsistent with any of these suppositions ; the bogs which
he has surveyed being every where in elevated situations,
and the trees which have hitherto been so constantly found
buried in the edges of these bogs, where alone it is probable
they have generally been sought for, are very rarely to be
found in the interior parts at least of this district.
    "   Without entering in this report into any inquiry as to
the origin of peat bogs, we are however anxious to give to
such persons as have not had an opportunity of examining
them, some idea of the general appearances which they
actually present.
    " It appears from Mr. Griffith, that each of the four bogs
included in the subject of his report, is a mass of the pe
culiar substance called peat, of the average thickness of
2.5 feet, no where less than twelve, nor found to exceed 42;
this substance varying materially in its appearances and
properties, in proportion to the depth at which it lies :
on the upper surface, covered with moss of various species,
and, to the depth of about ten feet? composed of a mass of
the fibres of similar vegetables in different stages of decom
position proportioned to their depth from the surface, ge
nerally however too open in their texture to be applied to
the purposes of fuel : below this generally lies a light black
ish brown turf, containing the fibres of moss still visible,
though not perfect, and extending to a further depth of
perhaps ten feet under this.     In the instance exhibited in
the section at the close of Mr. Griffith's report, are found
small branches and twigs of alder and birch, but we do not
understand him as being of opinion that such is by any
means generally the case : at a greater depth the fibres of
vegetable matter cease to be visible, the colour of the turf
becomes blacker, and the substance much more compact,
its properties as fuel more valuable, and gradually increas-


368                Of   the Bogs   in Ireland.
   The commissioners then report their opinion of the pro*
bable expense of these operations, &c. &c. By Mr. Grif
fith's report to the commissioners, the total amount of es
timate for draining the several bogs contained in the eastern
division, or district No. 1, is 147,032/. 6s. lid. and the
quantity of land to be gained 22,490 Irish (equal to 36,430
English) acres.
   The following description of a section of a turf bank in
Timahoe Bog (sec Plate IX.) is copied from the conclusion
of Mr. Griffith's report : —
  " The foregoing section is an exact representation of a
turf bank on the southern edge of Timahoe Bog.
  " The surface of the bog has been partially drained for
about 20 perches into the interior, which has occasioned the
upper and most porous part to subside three feet, the fibres of
moss having lost their watery support, and not being suf
ficiently strong in themselves to retain their former eleva
tion. The annual growth of moss on thisbog being prevented
by the absence of water, it may be considered as dead.
    " In the Report, page 30, I have stated, that in drained
bogs, when the bog-mosses, &c. which compose the upper
surface shall have subsided, and by the near approach of
their mossy fibres (which when alive are kept asunder by
water) and their exposure to the atmosphere shall become
(to a certain degree)'putrid,  it will be found that various
grasses of good quality, and even white clover, will vege
tate spontaneously on its surface.
   " The bog, of which the section is the face, has now
been superficially drained for three years, and the effect
above described has taken place to a certain degree, a3
the common meadow, the tivrin, or jointed grass, and
white clover, are now growing on its surface, though spa
ringly ; and the surface of the bog has been so far acted
upon by the atmosphere as to have totally lost the texture
of the moss, and to have assumed a close-grained earthy
appearance ; whilst in the bed immediately below        it, the
mossy fibres are so perfect, as to render the different species
perfectly distinguishable to the botanist, as may be seen     by
the specimens which    1 now lay before the commissioners.
              " DESCRIPTION    AND ANALYSIS.
             " No. 1                2   feet   thick.
  "  Surface of bog decomposed        by
                                      exposure to the atmo
sphere:   mass compact   contains rarely any vegetable re
                           ;
mains ;  where they occur they are chiefly composed of fibres
                                                              of


370                    Of   t lie Bogs in   Ireland.
 ¦
    "Analysis. — 1,440        grains yielded, of volatile cm- Grain.*,
                        pvreumatic oil                               140
                     Of water, containing a small portion
                        of oil that could not be separated          834
                     Light porous charcoal                           298
                     Carbonated         hydrogen gas, which
                        burned with a clear blueish-white
                        light, equal, if not superior, to the
                         coal gas                                    168
                                                                  1,440
    "  500 grains of this charcoal yielded 15 grains of light
yellowish-white ashes, composed of vegetable matter, and
   slight tinge of oxide of iron.
          ,
             " No. 6                     3 feet thick.
    "  Mass compact ; contains no vegetable remains ; when
used as turf burns swiftly, and with a bright flame ; it is
usually denominated greasy turf, from its inflaming quickly
like grease.
             Colour,    . .     . .  dull yellowish-brown      :
             Specific gravity       . . '604                      Grains.
"   1,440 grains yielded, of volatile empyreumatic oil               ISO
    Water, containing a small portion ofoil that could
       not be separated          ..                                  SI 6
    Light porous charcoal, which, when broken, ex
       hibited a faintly shining lustre                              327
    Gaseous product, which, when ignited, burned with
       a blueish-white light, similar to No. 5             .. .. 117
                                                                   1,440
    "  500 grains    of  this charcoal      yielded  16  grains  of yel-
 lowish-wliite ashes, similar in quality to No. 5.
             " No. 7                      10 feet thick.
    " Mass very compact ; no vegetable remains visible ;
 when used as turf burns slowly, and with an unpleasant
 smell.
             Colour,      .. .. blackish -brown.
    "  Fracture earthy, with a tendency to conchoidal; lus
 tre, when first broken, faintly glimmering.
             Specific gravity        ..     ... 1-057.            Graint.
 "   1,440 grains yielded, of volatile empyreumatic oil               138
    Of water, containing a minute portion of oil that
       could not be separated                                        538
    A very compact charcoal, internal lustre glistening 590
    Gaseous product                                                   174
                                                                  1,440
                                                                  "  500


37S                      On purifying Olive        Oil for
to be able to lay before the commissioners a more detailed
analysis, containing a minute examination of the compo»
sition of the ashes contained in the charcoal, and also the-
exact composition of the gaseous products."
LXVII.              On purifying Olive Oil for theTivots                   of Chro-
                      nometers. By Ez. Walker, Esq.
                                   To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,      After    an" the experiments which have been made
to decrease friction in time- keepers, nothing has yet been
found to answer this purpose so well as oil. But it has
long been known that the application of this fluid to ma
rine chronometers is attended with very pernicious conse
quences ; for it gradually loses its fluidity during a long voy
age, and adheres to the parts of the machine, by which all
regularity in its performance is destroved.         Hence I was
led to suppose, that time-keepers might be improved if oil
of a better quality, than that which had been commonly
used, could be procured.
    About the year 1799, I made several experiments to se
parate from olive oil some of those impurities which it is
known to contain, and I succeeded so far as to separate a
thick mucilaginous matter from the best I could procure.
This mucilage is an opake whitish matter, heavier than oil
but lighter than water.        The oil from which the mucilage
has been taken is exceedingly transparent in a fluid state,
but after it has been frozen it appears much whiter than
 common oil exposed to the same degree of cold.
    About ten years ago I sent a small quantity of this oil to
Mr. Barraud, requesting him to make trial of               and in      it,
 March 1802 he gave me the following account: —
     "I  have," says Mr. Barraud, "just received          chrono       a
 meter, in which the oil you favoured me with was used                            ;
 which having performed          voyage of 16 months to and from
                                        a
 India,     vibrating as freely as at first, and keeping the rate
               is
it  went out with to       fraction of
                               a         second."
                                               a
    Since that time Mr. Barraud has frequently applied to
 me for more of this oil, and continues to use         in his bestit
 time-keepers;     but to be informed more particularly respect
ing      it,
           Iwrote to him requesting to know the result of his
 long experience, and the following extract        taken from his
                                                             is
 interesting answer —      :   ¦
                                                                              «   r,


374                                 On Musical Temperaments.
being nearly full, must    be well corked, set in a cool place,
and suffered to stand undisturbed lor three or four months,
or until all the water shall have subsided, with the mucilage
on the top of                 it,
                    and the oil, perfectly transparent, swim
ming upon the top of the mucilage.        When time has thus
completed the operation, the pure oil must be poured off
into very small phials, and kept in cool place, well corked, a
to preserve     from the air.
                     it
  Lynn, Nov. 13, 1810.                         E. WaI.KER.
/
LXVIII. Afurther        Set    Fifteen Corollaries, to the Musical
                                              of
    Theorems in Page 39,           means     which, lite Tempera
                                                   by            of
    ments       of
              any one      the Concords being given, all the other
                                        of
    Temperaments and all the Wolves can be calculated with
    the greatest facility . By Mr. John Fa key.
                                            To   Mr. Tilloch,
Sir,   The    six musical Theorems which you did me the
favour to print in your 147th Number having given much
satisfaction to several of my musical acquaintances,    am                                       I
induced to send you 15 other Corollaries in addition to the
 12 inserted at page 44: they are naturally  divisible into
three classes, viz.
   1st. When the temperament of iheffth      given.                           is
Corollary           13.  The temperament of the    Id                     1
                                                                          1        is   =    1
                                                                                             1   2
                                                                                                 +      m
       —    4       x temperament of the Vth.
            _       ,           lls—4r        u—4t
                                              — —                                   .        ,
            By theorem                  3,              2   +                 m     is the           tem-
       perament of the                      Hid,   and      —
                                                            4r
                                                                 2   -f   —
                                                                          4t
                                                                             m          is   4       times
       the temperament of V,    theorem    the sum of these
                                                       by             1
                                                                      :
       is   1
            1     m, whence the truth of the corollary
                    2     -{-                                                                           is
       manifest: as indeed                                  by
1
                             is,    merelv abbreviating and
                                                  it
       ordering theorem 3.
Corollary   14.  112 + m —3 x temperament of                                             V       = tem
       perament of VI.
                Hi      u     Zr      3t                                                     lis — 3r
         Here        + — m          2    m =                     2                                      2
                          I                   u             s             u                      s
                u        3/
       ¦H                     ¦ ni,*   as   in theorem      6
                                                            :    — and     so of all the fol
                    ic
       lowing.
Corollary 15. 11                        x    temperament             of   V       — 12        2      — m
    = Vth wolf.
                                                                                             Corollary


                                       [   376       ]
LXIX.         On the Barometer.                'By Richard          Walker,        Esq.
                                  To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,      In
           consequence of its having been intimated to me,
that a short rationale, or gene ral view of the various changes
in the weather, and the indications of the barometer, as
connected with them, might not te unacceptable, i beg
leave to transmit the following, which maybe considered as
an appendage to the paper " On the Application of the Ba
rometer for indicating the Weather, &c." you did me the
favour to insert in your last Number.
   Water exists in the atmosphere in two different states,
viz. 1st, in a state of chemical combination; thaj is, so
completely incorporated with the air, as to iorm with it
one homogeneous transparent fluid; — and, 2dly, in a state
of mechanical combination ; which                         is,
                                              when the minute
particles of water are merely suspended in the air, forming
that state of the atmosphere, which        denominated cloudy
                                                         is
or misty.
  The dense     state of the air being fittest for the chemical
combination above mentioned;          clear, dry weather, generally
speaking, accompanies the higher degrees of the mercury
in the barometer, whilst,         rare state of the air being less
                                           a
capable of receiving the water into chemical combination,
it    then merely suspended in
     is                                   state of mechunical com
                                                 a
bination, forming clouds, mists, &c.
   Hence       follows, that, when the mercury stands at or
               it
near fair, clear dry weather             indicated generally
                                                is              and            ;
when at or near rain, cloudy or wet weather; and when
fluctuating mid- way, changeable weather.
     Itoccasionally happens, however, that the atmosphere
is cloudy, and even wet, whilst the barometer            as high as   is
fair; and clear and dry, whilst tie barometer stands as
                                                     t
low as rain. The reason of this, in the first instance, is,
that the air, haying become replete or over-loaded             with
water,    isincapable (by an alteration of temperature, viz.
the air and its contents having become colder) of retaining
or suspending       in
                    it   state of chemical combination
                              a                              and in        ;
the latter case, which happens after rain, succeeding          con             a
tinued dry state of the atmosphere, which having swept
down the vapour with         in its descent the air, though then
                                  it                     ;
in rarer state,
     a                 yet sufficient to retain the proportion of
                         is
water, now much reduced in quantity, in state of chemical       a
combination.
                                                                                   The
          /


 378        Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
 obvious effects of the sun's varying influence in raising
 and dispelling     vapours, we may, I think, account pretty-
 satisfactorily for the various vicissitudes of weather, which
mark the different seasons throughout the year; and, by the
 relation of the barometer to those causes, be enabled to
 foresee, with a considerably grea'er degree of certainty than
 is commonly silpposed, the different changes of weather
 which are, at all times, about to take place.
                         I am, sir,
                                  Your obedient servant,
   Queen-street, Oxford,                            ftD# WALKER.
     Nov. 17th. 1810.
 LXX.     Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.             By
    R. Chbncvix, Esq. F.R.S. and M.R.I.A., &c. Trans
    lated entire from the French, with Notes by the Trans
    lator.
                         [Continued from p. 303.]
    SUPPOSED      DEFECTS      OF THE CRYSTALLOGRAPHTCAL
                                SYSTEM.
 1VT. Hauy has been reproached for his principle of speci
 fication and his definition of the species : one alleging that,
 according to him, muriated soda and sulphated lead are of
 the same species ; another, that the two indications of the
 species are often in contradiction,       and that the same form
 of molecule does not always accompany the same chemical
 composition, and viceversa. Some do not like the octaedron
 for a primitive form, because, to preserve unity of form in
 theintegral molecule, it is necessary to suppose empty spaces ;
 others, in short, reproach him with the difficulty of finding
 all the directions of the cleavage (or the construction of the
 cleft), and the system also with a want of generalization ;
 and finally, as a dernier resource, that we must return to
 the svstem of external characters.
    Will it be believed that I have heard the first of these ob
jections made by a celebrated philosopher, a professor who
 draws around him from all parts of the world the zealous
 lovers of mineralogy, and who repeats it at least once a
 year in his public lectures ? that I have seen it printed and
 published in a work which passes for one of the best on the
 systems of this professor ? It is of German origin, and
 proceeds, no doubt, froni the circumstance that they have
 not yet learned to count even to two on their ringers ; a
 great misfortune for a philosopher.         Identity of form in the
 integral molecule, — this is one condition in order that two
                                                            minerals


 380        Re/lections on some Mineralogtcal Systems.
  that appears to have any foundation ! How many do we
  not find against those sciences which have been refined by
  the lapse of ages, and which have resisted the persecutions
  of inquisitors armed with all (he severity of bad inten
 tion ? If the cavils of certain persons had been listened
 to against the axioms and definitions      in mathematics,      we
 should now, indeed, have been destitute of this route.
 Others would have deprived us of physics and chemistry, at
 the same time with the very matter which served them as an
 object, and, scarcely will it be believed, our own existence.
If   we make a thousand steps in advance, and one remains
 which we are unable to pass, should we for this abandon
 that which we have already attained ? The philosopher
 ought at least to wait, and watch with a calm eye and un
 shaken patience the moment when nature shall betray itself,
if our efforts can effect nothing on it. The state of science
is a state of expectation.
    Even when we have a rigorous demonstration that che
mistry and mineralogy do not correspond in this solitary
case, what then shall we say ? In every thing which nature
presents to our contemplation,       it leads us, by views taken
in all directions, to the point where we find ourselves ar
rested.      In the mass of our learning, what system compre
hends it entirely? yet, notwithstanding       their imperfections,
systems still serve us.      No one thing appears better deter
mined than the species in zoology, as it consists in a cate
gorical answer to a very simple question.         There are, how
ever, animals respecting which it is still disputed whether
they should be admitted as species or varieties.       The vege
table kingdom has also its causes of uncertainty.          Never
theless, these two kingdoms offer a greater number of cha
racters, as the beings which they embrace are endowed
with more marked and more elevated qualities than those
which belong to the mineral kingdom. Why then should
more rigour be required of the latter, with less means ?
Why is it wished to deprive us, on a single deposition
against   it,  ofa  system which     supported on mathematics
                                        is
and confirmed      bychemistry     ?
    Ferriferous carbonated lime        *  mineral often cited by
                                            is   a
                                                             those
   • Brown spar of Jameson, sidero-calclte of Kirwan, chaur cartonaUt
brunissanteof Broguiart, who makes     it the ninth subspeciesof carbonated
lime (or calcareous spar), and separates from what he calls fer spathique,
                                            it
or sparry iron, which he arranges among the metals, on account of its su
perior specific gravity, and its power of occasionally attracting the magnet.
The property of becoming brown when eiposed to nitric acid or the fire,
he thinks, authorizes the above name but this
                                       ;              common to both kinds.
                                                     is
                                                                       Thit


362            Re/lsctions   on some   Mineralogical Systems.
be more distinct, and the specific gravity greatly augmented,
as the spaces otherwise empty or occupied with air shall be
filled with heavier matter.     The action of chemical men
strua may likewise be modified ; and if a molecule of a sub
 stance easily soluble is surrounded      with molecules      of
another which resists chemical solvents much longer, the
former may be in some measure protected from their power.
Other effects may take place ; but, we repeat         the inte   it,
gral molecule remains the same.       Now, in the ferriferous
carbonated lime we do not find the same variety of forms
as   in the simple carbonate   the former
                                  ;          opaque, the latter
                                                   is
is   transparent   the one has lines which seem to mark
                        ;                                                   a
direction of the cleavage more than in the other; the
specific gravity of the first    3*784, that of the second
                                       is                                   is
2*718 and the ferriferous carbonate
          ;                               more easily dissolved
                                              is
in acids. These are all the phaenomena which result from
the interposition    of extraneous substances in the empty
spaces between the molecules of one of the bodies exhibited
in this example.
EXAMINATION OF THE IDENTITY AND UNIFORMITY OP
  THE INTEGRAL MOLECULE.  OBJECTIONS ANSWERED.
     But  I shall be told that the molecule differs, since there
13   adirection of the cleavage more in the one than in the
other.        It the foreign substances which render the junc
                   is
tures more sensible in one case than in another         and      ;     it   is
possible that the same junctures exist         the simple as well
                                                  in
as in the ferriferous      carbonate, without our having as yet
commonly observed them.              can almost venture to assert
                                       I
that they do exist.          have
                             I      specimen of carbonated lime
                                       a
very white and very well crystallized in an obtuse rhomboid
of   a primitive form, and of the same specific gravity as the
simple ordinary carbonate, but of            milky transparence,
                                              a
and in which the lines are as distinct as               in
                                                   any specimen
whatever of ferriferous carbonated lime.          This specimen,
nevertheless, presents in analysis no trace of any substance
foreign to the purest Iceland spar.           therefore very pro-
                                             It   is
hable that simple as well as ferriferous carbonate may be
divided in the direction of the great diagonal        hence  :         it   is
expected to overturn the system of M. Haiiy.            But in all
that we know, and all that we seek to know,            uniformly
                                                         it      is
our own horizon which we substitute for the limits of na
ture.    M. Haiiy has found            in
                                    carbonated lime three direc
tions of the cleavage parallel to the faces of an obtuse
rhomboid, and no more.           He stopped there, and has not
wandered in the regions of imagination.            Although his
                                                                       work


  384       Re/lections on some Mineralogical Systems.
  amines this specimen attentively and unprejudicedly,         must
 believe that the whole has been common carbonated lime,
  which has been exposed to the action of a sulphuric or
  other solution of iron^ that the carbonate of lime has been
 gradually dissolved, and yielded its place to the oxide of
 iron, precipitated from its solvent by the double affinity of
 the lime for the acid in the solution of iron, and the oxide
 of this metal for the carbonic acid. The carbonated lime
 has served as a matrix to the oxide of iron, and it is very
 possible that the direction of the laminae in the way of
 the great diagonals may be rendered more sensible by the
 solution of the old and precipitation of the new molecules
 which came to deposit themselves in this abode. If, how
 ever, I have admitted the existence of a ferriferous carbo
 nated lime, where there is no lime, it is because I have seen
 petrified wood where there was no wood.
    But, in taking the first explanation generally, it seems
 that, far from making the case of which I have spoken the
 subject of an objection, it is for chemistry to draw from it
 the greatest possible advantage.        A grand effort which yet
 remains to be made, is to distinguish between mixtures and
 combinations.       Let us suppose a mass, A, composed of
 any number of physical elements, which have for chemical
                                   '
molecules the substances a v + c, and another mass, B,
 the chemical elements of which may be m + ?i.            It is de
manded if a mixture or a combination shall take place in
putting the bodies A and B together?           If by physical divi
sion we find a molecule similar to the molecule A, another
similar to that of B, and that by chemical division we found
                                l
the chemical elements (a + + c-\-m + n,) it is evident that
we have a mixture.         But if we find a new molecule, C,
with the same chemical            result   (a + b+c+m + n), we
have a combination.        It is therefore for chemistry, en
lightened by physical (or mechanical) division, to resolve
this great problem ; and it is to restrain its influence too
much to confine within the province of mineralogy,             that
which may guide our researches over the whole of nature
or the material world.
    Let us take one particular case, — the neutral tartrate of
potash.     This salt, like all others, has a physical and che
mical constitution peculiar to itself.         If, in adding to it
tartaric acid in a quantity sufficient to convert it into acid
tartrate of potash, and in submitting these two substances
to all the chemical means of combining them, we find the
same form of physical molecule in the one part, and the
form of the physical molecule of tartaric acid in the other;
                                                                we


           ¦»
  386       Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
  somewhat "specious.       In the present age natural philoso
  phers cannot admit it.
     Specific gravity mav he viewed in two points : — where
  the molecules of all the bodies have the same density, and
  then the variation of specific gravity between one mass and
  another depends on their particular arrangement with re
  spect to each other, which admits of more or less empty
  spaces in the different bodies in nature; or where the mole
  cules themselves have a different density in each substance,
  the relative disposition being the same in all.     It is evi
  dent that, on the first supposition,    the molecule and the
  body which it contributed to form would have properties
  different in this respect, and that we could never learn
  any thing of the true specific gravity of the molecule,
  however correctly we knew that of the body.            Platina,
  for example, which I estimate at nearly 21*437, might
  have a molecule ten times (too times if it is wished) more
  dense than it; and the lightness of the aggregate would
  result from the space,       in which 214370 molecules of
  platina might lodge, if the arrangement was the most fa
  vourable possible Tor this effect, containing only 21437*
  The specific gravity of cork has been estimated at 0'24.
  A space therefore which contains 21437 molecules of pla
  tina could contain hut 240 of cork, in this hypothesis;
  yet a molecule of platina loses in water the same quantity
  of its weight as a molecule of cork.
»     In the second supposition we discover the weight of
  the molecule having that of the mass ; and the number of
  molecules in a given volume of platina would be equal to
  that which the same volume of cork would contain.
     There exists, indeed, a third hypothesis, composed of
  these two, and which supposes at the same lime a variation
  in the density of the molecules and in their arrange
  ment.     I shall not discuss what hypothesis should be pre
  ferred in sound philosophy.      I speak at present like those
  mineralogists who judge all by their senses, and f admit
  every thing which they wish, in order to refute all.
     In the hypothesis where the density of the molecules is
  supposed variable, it is evident that the objection falls of
  itself ; for I am able to give those molecules whatever
  density I choose, within reasonable limits.       Now when
  influated lime there would be the two thirds vacant which
  form the subject of reproach, the density of the mole
  cule would be but three times greater than that of the
  mass.    Yet the density of a molecule of gold would be
  six times greater than in this supposition.     Thus, by ad
                                                         mitting


388        Reflections on some Mineralogicul Systems.
 octaedron as a primitive figure, give occasion for some
 reflections which I shall here venture, although I feel by
 their importance, and by the considerations          necessary to
give them due illustration and support, that these points
merit being treated separately and at greater length.        It is
possible that there had been but one single form of mole
 cule in all nature, and that this form was a letraedron.
 In the octaedron the existence of this figure is inevitable,
 since it results from sections parallel even to the' faces of
 the octaedron.      It also occurs, and simultaneously with
 other figures, from supersections made in the direction of
 the diagonals of all the faces of a parallelopiped.          The
 triangular prism likewise affords        but of different forms,
                                           it,
 by supersections in the direction of the diagonals of the
 lateral faces.    As we must necessarily allow of vacuums
 between the molecules of bodies, we may suppose that the
 interstices are those portions of spaces, from which every
 other figure (except * the tetvacdral molecule of the body,)
 would have disappeared.         The form and the quantity of
 these interstices, conjointly with the presence of        greater
                                                                 a
•number of the proper molecules of the bodv, will pro
 duce all the diversities of specific gravity which are known
 in nature; and when we consider that            portion of space
                                                     a
 cannot be inclosed       by
                           less than four planes, we observe in
 the letraedron that mark of simplicity which nature im
 presses on all her works.
     '* All the molecules in nature are
                                           spherical," said most     a
 celebrated German, in showing me that with small balls of
 ivory he produced all the figures which he wished.         " The
 English and the French have not yet advanced so far," he
  added.     " From reason," said to myself. The proba
                                         I
  bility that nature would have given the preference to such a
  solid rather than to another for an universal molecule, every
  thing otherwise being equal, would be inversely as the
 number of planes which terminate them.              Between the
  sphere and the tetraedron       would be as four to infinity.
                                  it
     Besides its being hitherto impossible to extend the system
  of the integral molecule to all minerals, there are naturalists
  who reproach    itwith the difficulty of finding the directions
  of the cleavage in many cases, the trouble of calculating
  them, &c. We should no longer use the microscope,             the
    • This exception enclosed in         appears superfluous¦,   the author
                                                                            : is
                                   (
                                   )
 •peaking of the presumed vacant spaces or vacuums between the molecules
but neither the figure nor the forms of these vacuums interest the practical
 crystallographer, as tangible solids are quite sufficient to establish the va
lidity of the general principle. — Trans.
                                                                  telescope,


390          Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
blue and lighter than sapphire ; but harder, more brilliant,
bluer and heavier than alumina of Halle.                   Il will represent
to us what should be understood by a passage from alu
mina of Halle to sapphire.                  It is in this manner that
they have given a very great number of passages ; too
great, indeed, to cite them.                Let us take some analogous
cases in another kingdom.
     A great naturalist has told us that the paw of a bat brings
it near to man ; and that every one may see the organ of
flight, which merits it a place among birds.                  Here then is
a passage from a bird to man.                     But what is meant by
that?      Is it understood that nature, having succeeded in
making a bird, conceived the project of forming a more
perfect being, but that her first essay produced nothing
better than the image of a hand and a horrible grimace ? Or,
is it pretended that, if in the metempsychosis,                  the lord of
 the earth should become a bird, he must pass under the
 form of this hideous animal ?
     Of all that we can consider as passage, there is nothing
 so marked as an animal engendered between two indivi
 duals of different species.          Such is the mule ; every mem
 ber of which participates in the qualities of one or other
 of its parents.         In the capital of the beautiful kingdom
 of Valencia I learned the following facts from eye-wit
 nesses.      A silk-weaver kept a stallion and a mule in the
 same stable.         One night in winter the mule was taken ill,
 rolled on the ground, and appeared readv to die.                           At
 last it brought forth a foal, so well formed that the finest
 mare could not have produced a better.                   The stallion and
 mule      were left together during eight years, in which
  time the latter brought forth five male and two female
 foals*. Now the mule was half horse half ass ; its off
  spring were half horse half mule.                 But, will it be said
  that the latter, which were perfect horses, contained a
  portion     of the ass, which portion of ass might have
  passed    by the mule to become horse ? Most assuredly
  no sensible person will say so.              Nature has not instituted
  the mule species ; and when in successive generations all
  traces of the ass are effaced in the foals of the mule,
     • As this fact has been questioned
                                             by tnme French theorists, from the
  forced and miniature experiments of BufFon, it is not foreign to the pre
  sent subject to say that the writer of this note has also heard it from unim
  peachable eye-witnesses who were well acquainted with the whole circum
  stances, and that he knew a gentleman, an amateur mineralogist in Valen
  cia, who found one of the offspring of the mule the most serviceable hor e
  that he ever possessed.— Trans.
                                                                              it


392                       Royal Society.
Royal.      Communicated    by the Astronomer Royal. — Extract
of    a  Letter from the Rev. John Brinkley, D.D. F.R.S.
Andrews Professor of Astronomy in the University of
Dublin, to the Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, D.D. F.R.S. Astro
nomer Royal, on the annual Parallax of a. Lyres. — On the
Mode of Breeding of the Oviviviparous Shark, and on the
 Aeration of the foetal Blood in different Classes of Animals.
 By Everard Home, Esq. F.R.S. — On Cystic Oxide, anew
 Species of Urinary Calculus.         By William Hyde Wol-
 laston, M.D. Sec. R.S. — Researches on the oxymuriatic
 Acid, its Nature and Combinations ; and on the Elements
 of the muriatic Acid. With some Experiments on Sulphur
 and Phosphorus,     made in the Laboratory of the Roval In
 stitution.     By H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.I.
 F.R.S.E. — Observations upon Luminous Animals. By             J.
 Macartney, Esq. Communicated           by Everard Home, Esq.
 F.R.S. — Observations and Experiments on Pus. By Geo.
 Pearson, M.D. F.R.S. — Presents received by the Royal So
 ciety from November 1809 to July 1810.
                           GEOGUAPHY.'
     Mr. Myers, of   the Royal Military Academy, will shortly
 complete an Introduction to Historical, Physical, and Poli
 tical Geography; accompanied with Maps, and adapted to
  the higher Classes of Pupils, under both public and private
 Tuition. Mr. M.'s inducement to the undertaking, and hi»
 guide in its accomplishment,       has been utility ; and to at
  tain this object he has condensed into one -moderate-sized
  Octavo Volume the most valuable matter of more extensive
  Systems.     In the construction of the Map9, particular
  attention is paid to simplicity, perspicuity, and accuracy;
  and it is presumed that these qualities, so essential in every
  elementary Treatise, will be found to prevail, in a superior
  degree, throughout the whole performance.
            LXXII.    Proceedings  of Learned   Societies.
                          ROYAL SOCIETY.
  On     the 22d of Nov. Dr. Wollaston read a paper        "  On
  some of the Combinations of oxymuriatic Gas and Oxygen,
  and on the Chemical Relations         of these Principles to
  inflammable Bodies."       By H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S.
      In this paper Mr. Davy details a great number of experi
  ments which he has made on the combinations of oxymu
  riatic gas and oxygen with the metals of the fixed alkalies,
  the metals of the earths, and the common metals ; with a
                                                            view

                             Royal Society.                   393
view    to illustrate the nature, properties, and combinations
of oxymuriatic gas, and its relations to inflammable bodies,
as compared with those of oxygen.             He also offers some
general views and conclusions           concerning   the chemical
powers of different species' of matter, and the proportions in
which they combine.          And lastly, he concludes hi* paper
by some observations on the impropriety             of the present
nomenclature, in reference to the oxymuriatic          gas and its
combinations ; and proposes some concise modes of di
stinguishing these novel bodies.
    Mr. Davy made some previous experiments on the com
binations of potassium and sodium with oxygen ; and of
 potash and soda with water, from which he concludes that
 those metals when burnt in oxygen gas are at their highest
 state of oxygenation — and at their lowest, when in the state
 of potash and soda. Ke also found that ignited potash
 contains about 16 per cent, of water, and ignited soda 22'9
 per cent.
     The spontaneous inflammation of the metals of the fixed
 alkalies in oxymuriatic gas, affords a proof of the intensity
 of their attractions.      In these operations, no water is se
 parated, but mere binary combinations          formed ; the same
 as those produced by igniting muriate of potash and soda.
  Similar compounds are formed when dry potash and soda
  are heated in oxymuriatic      gas, and oxygen is evolved.
     Mr. Davy mentions a simple mode by which pure sodium
  may be obtained.       It is by mixing common salt which has
  been ignited to redness, with potassium, and exposing the
  whole to a red heat in a glass tube or retort ; for every two
  parts of potassium employed, one part of sodium is obtained.
     As the muriates of lime, barytes and strontites remain
  unaltered by any simple attractions, even at a white heat,
  Mr. Davy conceived that these compounds consist merely
  of the metallic bases of the earths in union with oxymu
  riatic gas, and the experiments he has made confirm this
  conclusion. Thus when lime, barytes, &c. were heated in
  oxymuriatic gas, oxvgen was expelled, and substances ex
  actly similar to the dry muriates were formed.
     In operating on the metals, Mr. Davy employed green
  glass retorts holdiug from three to six cubical inches of gas,
  they were furnished with stop-cocks.          The metal was first
  introduced into the retort, it was then exhausted and filled
  with oxymuriatic       gas, the heat of a spirit lamp was em
  ployed in the processes.       The products from arsenic, anti
  mony, and bismuth, were the butters of arsenic, antimony*,
  and bismuth ; and on the addition of water, the white oxides

 394                         New Engine.
and muriatic acid.       Tin produced Libavius's liquor, mer
cury, corrosive sublimate, silver and lead, horn silver, and
horn lead. Iron, a beautiful, volatile, crystallized substance
which gave the red muriate of iron on the addition of water.
   Mr. Davy also found that oxymuriatic gas decomposes
the metallic oxides at a heat below redness ; — those of the
volatile metals more easily than those of the fixed metals,
and protoxides more readily than peroxides.             Mr. Davy
notices two beautiful experiments on the agency of oxy
muriatic gas on white oxide of arsenic, and black oxide of
iron. In these cases, no oxygen was evolved, the portion
separated from one part of the oxides combined with the
other part, and the products were butter of arsenic and
arsenic acid, and ferruginous sublimate and red oxide of iron.
   Mr. Davy notices an experiment in which he decom
posed the gray oxide of tin by muriatic acid gas.          In this
case, water rapidly separated and Libavius's liquor was
formed.                    i
   Mr. Davy conceives that these new inquiries confirm all
the conclusions he has drawn in his recent paper on " Oxy
muriatic Acid, &.c."
      LXXIII.    Intelligence   and Miscellaneous   Articles.
                           NEW ENGINE.
An     engine has been lately invented by Mr. Taylor of Hol-
well, Engineer to the Tavistock Canal, which may be put
into motion either by water or steam, without any alteration
in its construction or in any of its parts.       It is extremely
simple, and may be erected at a moderate expense.              Its
power when worked by water is, as in other hydraulic ma
chines,   in proportion    to the quantity employed and height
of the fall.    When steam       is substituted, the area of the
piston determines the effect.
• It may probably be a valuable machine in cases where a
falling stream may be had equal to useful purposes at one
period of the year, and deficient in a proper supply in dry
seasons.    Many mines and manufactories are in this situa
tion, and might by a single engine of this sort work un
interruptedly, saving the expense of coal when the stream
of water was sufficient, and using the boiler only when the
supply of water fell short.       It is of the kind of hydraulic
machines usually called Pressure Engines ; various con
structions of which have been attempted, but none have yet
been very successfully made, at least upon a large scale.


   396                      Mango Parke.
   and that when all its parts had united, it appeared alt at
   once as a very considerable globe of fire, taking a northerly
  direction : it spread terror amongst the inhabitants of the
  village, who believed their houses would be burnt, and they
  themselves perish. This globe was accompanied by a fright
   ful noise, which was heard at the distance of more than a
  league and a half, and sometimes resembled the rolling of
  a rapid chariot; at others, the noise of rain driven by the
  wind. It was followed by a very thick fog, and carried up
  from the ground every thing it met in its passage.            In
  crossing a river it absorbed water, which soon afterwards
  fell in rain.  It wandered for some time near the village.
      One thing certain is, that the roof of a house was thrown,
  down, which is the only trace it has left.       It was accom
  panied and followed by an abundant rain, much lightning,
 and loud claps of thunder.       Continuing in the same direc
  tion, it suddenly turned into a column of fire, which, with
  the fog, rose towards the heavens.      This made many per
 sons believe the fog was smoke.      It remained about a quar
 ter of an hour in this state, a quarter of a league to the
 north of the village, and at a short distance from the forest
 of Beaulieu.     This column now sunk a little, and at last it
 suddenly disappeared, leaving a thick fog which had no
 smell.     This phaenomenon lasted three quarters of an hour,
 and travelled over the space of half a league.
                       MR. MUNGO PAKKE.
                                                November 8, 1810.
     The painful incertitude respecting the fate of this adven
 turous character yet exists.    An account has however been
 received in town this week, which again revives the almost
 extinguished spark of hope. It is stated by a very respecta
ble gentleman, Capt. Davison, commander of a vessel of
Messrs. Anderson, lately returned from the Coast of Africa,
that on the 26th of July last a Moor arrived from the in
terior at Bunce Island, in the river Sierra Leone, from whom
the following particulars were learned. — In January 1809
Mr. Parke was seen by the Moor, at a short distance from
Tombuctoo, in a state of very bad health, in one of the
natives' huts, after having been imprisoned by a native
chief.     He was, however, all that time at liberty, and had
received permission to proceed on his route. Capt. Davison
interrogated the man frequently and minutely ; and, from
the consistency of his answers, entertains no doubt of the
correctness of his narrative.
                                                               To


398       Society for Relief   of Widows of Medical Men.
and amazement        which enchained all their faculties; their
¦whole property   swept away in a few minutes, and in the
place where their once beautiful gardens and flourishing
orchards stood, nought now appeared but a vast expanse of
water ! About thirty-two persons, it is calculated, have
lost their lives by this awful and calamitous event, and cat
tle and property to a considerable amount destroyed.           A
great degree of alarm continues to pervade the whole island,
as on the east side an orifice has been discovered, resem
bling the crater of a volcano, and out of which flames oc
casionally burst through.        Hitherto they have been unac
companied by any ejection of volcanic matter."
   On Wednesday, October the 3d, the Society for Relief
of Widows     and Orphans of Medical Men, in London and
its Vicinity, held their Half-yearly General Court at the
usual Place of Meeting — the Gray's Inn Coffee-House,
Holborn ; at which time their Annual Election of Officers
and Directors took place, and the following were the ar
rangements made for the ensuing Year, viz.
                              PATRON,
           His Royal Highness the Duke         of Kent.
                            PRESIDENT,
                       James Ware, Esq.
                       VICE-PRESIDENTS,
Sir F. Milman, Bart. Dr. Squire                Mr. Heaviside
Dr. Garthshore           Dr. Dennison          Mr. Moore
Dr. Lettsom              Mr. Howard            Mr. Nevinson
Dr. Blane                Sir W. Blizard         Mr. Rendall.
                          TREASURERS,
        Dr. Denman, Dr.        J.  Sims,   Dr. Dennison.
                           DIRECTORS,
                              Physitiawt.
Dr. Temple         i  Dr. Walshman               Dr. R. Pearson
Dr.  Stone            Dr. S. H. Jackson          Dr. Croft.
Dr. Frampton          Dr. Shaw
                               Surgeons.
Mr. Ed. Browne        Mr. Steele                Mr. Ramsden
Mr. Mathias            Mr. H. L. Thomas         Mr. Lewis.
Mr. Milward           Mr. C. M. Clarke
                             ApotkeraTw*'
Mr. Field       Mr.   Coates     Mr. Starr      Mr. Pilliner
Mr. Upton       Mr.   Seaton     Mr. Malim      Mr. Moore, Jun.
                            TRUSTEES,
Right Hon. Marquis Townshend, President of the Society
                         of Antiquaries ;
                                                            Right


400                                        Meteorology.
                    meteorological table,
                 By Mr. Carey, of the Strand,
                                     For November 1810.
                                                               1 JO
                     Thermometer.
                                                              (5=5     t,
                                      u .
 D^ys of          o'Clock,            o «   Height of
                                                               SJ
                             Noon-
                                                                      6
 Month.                               ¦J M the Bar»m.                              Weather.
                 Morning.             °£     Inches.
                 8                                            Q cffi
 Oct.    27      44          46°      39°     3005              31          Cloudy
         28      47          49       40      29-62              0          Rain
         29      38          43       33        •65             25
                                                                            £a!r     [the night
         30      36          44       32        •89             38          rair, with snow in
         31       33         44       43        •95             25          Cloudy
  Nov.   l       44          47       40         •63            22          Cloudy
           2     39          47       41        •80             20          Cloudy
                 42          46       41        •87              0          Rain
           4 3   42          46       35        •84             10          Showery
           5     33          41       39        •65             25          Cloudy
           6     40          43       37        •12             10          Showery
                 38          42       37      28 92                         Showery
           8 7   40          46       37      29 00              0 5        Rain
           9     36          51       42        •47             21          Fair
         10      41          48       43      28-50                         Stormy
                                                                 5 0
         U       43          44       44      29-30                         Cloudy
         12      43          45       40        •61             22          Fair
         13      40          45       37      30-10             25          Fair
         14      39          42       43      29'93             25          Rain
         15       51         54       47        •50             15          Fair
         16       52         57       50        •25             26          Fair
         17      47          51       44        •40             22          Fair
         IS      43          48       47        •55              16         Fair
         If) 47              51       46        •56              5          Rain
         20 44               47       50        •60             10          Cloiulv
         21      53          56       47        •40                         Rain
         22      47          47       45                         0 0                              /
                                                •65                         Stormy
         23      45          53       47        •76             21          Fair
         24      47          50       46        •65              0          Rain
         25      44          49       41        •56             10          Showery
         26      43     ,    14       41        •25              0          Rain
            N. B. The Barometer's height              is   taken at one o'clock.


402        Theoretical Suggestions        for     the Improvement
 present instruments of surgery.       They should likewise ob
 serve, with a professional eye, the various mechanical im
 provements which are daily taking place.           Might not the
 circular saw be introduced in some operations ? Small cir
 cular saws, cutters, or wheels with toothed edges of dif
 ferent sizes and thickness, might perhaps be used with ef
 fect in insulating and removing the depressed angular pieces
 of bone which occur in fractures of the skull. When the
 trephine is inadmissible,      a circular  cutter applied to the
 edge of the fracture, might, if used with proper precaution,
 cut away the bone with safety, and make a space sufficient
 to admit the elevator.     Such a cutter might be turned by
 the hand, as- great velocity would be dangerous.        A method
 could easily be contrived to apply such an instrument with
 the requisite steadiness to the part.
    4th. The centre point of the trephine necessarily protrudes
 beyond its teeth; in consequence of which, when the inex
 perienced operator neglects too long to remove                it,
                                                          the most
 serious effects are sure to follow.     Might not this be easily
 prevented   by  having     shoulder, as mechanics term
                            a                                    to    it,
 surround the point, just so far down from the extremity of
 the point, as to permit the saw to fix itself, and no more?
    5th. Would not       contrivance
                            a            be useful, in trepanning
 the skull, to fix the head      the most favourable posture?
                                     in
    6th. The best shape for the points of one description of
 piercing instruments has,        think, never yet been exactly
                                      I
ascertained; and       it   is
                           certainly     question of considerable
                                          a
 importance.      I  mean those piercing instruments,        where
 breadth of instrument       requisite immediately on insertion:
                                is
 for, as to common needles, and other small instruments
merely for piercing,        it evident the more acute we make
                                 is
their points, the better.      In some instruments, however,
where  a  point   ismerely necessary for their insertion, when
that point  is much prolonged beyond the efficient part of the
instrument,  it   becomes injurious: What point will suit such
an instrument best?       Is    well ascertained that the drill or
                                     it
shear point  is  the most advantageous          ? the point formed
                                                     If
 an acute angle, sloped to one side, would           not answer as
                                                          it
well? What        isthe proper angle for such          point? Me
                                                           a
chanics pierce brass, copper, and steel with drills of different
 shapes: May not there be an appropriate point for piercing
 animal membranes?         The French discovered by experi
 ments (fatal experiments!) that the descending hlade of the.
 guillotine cut best when sloped to certain angle.
                                              a              How
 ever confident we may be in our opinion, to experiment
 we should always have recourse, when possible; and in sa
                                                                     tisfying


  404              Researches on the muriatic     Acid       ,
  tach a piece of linen or leather, forming to each beak a
  small purse or sack.      When these forceps should be closed
  upon a calculus in the least spherical, the steel rims would
  extend to let it pass, and it would then be completely sur
  rounded.       The advantages of this forceps would be, that
  the calculus could not escape ; and the bulk to be with
  drawn through the wound, would be very little more than
  the exact bulk of the calculus.
  LXXV.        Researches on the oxymurialic Acid, its Nature and
      Combinations;    and on the Elements of the muriatic Acid.
      With some Experiments on Sulphur and Phosphorus,
     made in the Laboratory of the Royal Institution.            By
      H. Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. Prof. Chem. R.I. F.R.S.E.
                         [Concluded from p. 361.]
 It     is extremely probable that there are many combinations
 of    the oxymuriatic acid with inflammable          bodies which
 have not been yet investigated.        With phosphorus it seems
 capable of combining in at least three proportions; the
 phosphuretted muriatic acid of Gay-Lussac and Thenard is
 the compound containing the maximum                of phosphorus.
 The crystalline phosphoric sublimate, and the liquor formed
 by the combustion of phosphorus in oxymuriatic acid gas,
 disengage no phosphorus           by the anion      of water ; the
 sublimate, as I have already mentioned, affords phosphoric
 and muriatic acid ; and the liquid, I believe oniy phos
 phorous acid and muriatic acid.
    The sublimate from the boracic basis gives, I believe,
only boracic and muriatic acid, and may be regarded as
boracium acidified by oxvmuriatic         acid.
     It is evident, that whenever an oxymuriatic combination
is decomposed by water, the oxide or acid or alkali or oxi
dated body formed must be in the same proportion as the
muriatic acid gas, as the oxygen and hydrogen must bear
the same relation to each other ; and experiments upon
these compounds        will probably afford simple modes of as
certaining the proportions of the elements, in the different
oxides, acids, and alkaline earths.
    If, according to the ingenious idea of Mr. Dalton, hy
drogen be considered a one in weight, in the proportion it
exists in water, then oxygen will be nearly 7*5 ; and as
suming that potash is composed of one proportion of oxy
gen, and one of potassium, then potash will be 48, and
                                                         potassium


406                 Researches on the muriatic Acid
been healed to redness, appears to be a hydrate of potash,
whilst the potash formed by the combustion of potassium
must be considered as a pure metallic oxide, which requirei
about 19 per cent, of water to convert into a hydrat.
   Amongst all the known combustible bodies, charcoal is
the only one which does not combine directly with oxy-
munatic acid gas ; and yet there js reason for believing that
this combination may be formed by the intermedium of
hydrogen.       I am inclined to consider the oily substance
produced by the action of oxymuriatic acid gas, and defiant
gas, as a ternary compound of these bodies; for they com
bine nearly in equal volumes; and I find that, by the action
of potassium upon the oil so produced, muriate of potash
is formed, and gaseous matter, which I have not yet been
able to collect in sufficient quantity to decide upon its na
ture, is formed.     Artificial camphor, and muriatic ether, as
is probable from the ingenious experiments of M. Gehlen
and JV1. Thenard, must be combinations of a similar kind,
one probably with more hydrogen, and the other with more
carbon.
   One of the greatest problems in ceconomical chemistry,
is the decomposition of the muriates of soda and potash.
The solution of this problem will, perhaps, be facilitated by
these new views.       The affinity of potassium and sodium
for oxymuriatic acid is very strong; but so likewise      ^js
                                                          their
attraction for oxygen, and the affinity of their oxides for
water. The affinities of oxymuriatic acid gas for hydrogen,
and of muriatic acid gas for water,. are likewise of  a power
ful kind.     Water, therefore, should be present in all cases,
when      it  intended to attempt to produce alkali.
               is                                     It    not
                                                            is
difficult after these views to explain the decomposition     of
common salt,         by
                     aluminous or siliceous substances, which,
as    has been long known, act only when they contain wa
     it
ter.   In these cases the sodium may be conceived to com
bine with the oxygen of the water and with the earth, to
form      vitreous compound
          a                      ;and the oxymuriatic acid to
.unite with the hydrogen of the water, forming muriatic acid
     Italso easy,
          is       according to these new ideas, to explain
the decomposition  of salt       by
                               moistened litharge, the theory
of which has so much perplexed the most acute chemists.
It maybe conceived to be an instance of compound affinity:
the oxymuriatic acid    attracted
                            is         by
                                     the lead, and the sodium
combines with the oxygen of the litharge and with water to
forrn hydrat of soda, which gradually attracts carbonic acid
from the air.
                                                                 As


408                        Researches on
 tion, and an equilibrium of attraction, may give to a com
 pound, containing several constituents,      that refractory cha
 racter, which is generally attributed to unity of constitution,
 or to the homogeneous nature of its parts ?
    Besides the compound of the phosphoric sublimate and
 ammonia, and the other analogous compounds which have
 been referred to, it is probable that other compounds of like
 nature may be formed of the oxides, alkalies, and earths,
 with the oxymuriatic combinations,        or of the oxymuriatic
 compounds with each other; and should this be the case,
 the more refined analogies of chemical philosophy will be
 extended by these new, and, as it would seem at first view,
 contradictory facts.     For    if,
                                   as  I have said, oxymuriatic
 acid gas be referred to tht same class of bodies as oxygen
 gas, then, as oxvgen      is not an acid, but forms acids by
 combining with certain inflammable bodies, so oxymuriatic
 acid,  by  uniting to similar substances, may be conceived to
 form either acids, which       the case when
                                is               itcombines with
 hydrogen, or compounds like acids or oxides, capable of
 forming neutral combinations, as in the instances of the
oxymuriaies of phosphorus and tin.
    Like oxygen, oxymuriatic acid      isattracted    by
                                                       the positive
surface     inVoltaic combinations     and on the hypothesis of
                                       ;
 the connexion of chemical attraction with electrical pow ers,
 all its energies of combination correspond with those of        a
body supposed to be negative in        high degree.
                                       a
    And in most of its compounds, except those containing
the alkaline metals, which may be conceived in the highest
degree positive, and the metals with which        it  forms inso
luble compounds,      itseems still to retain its negative cha
racter.
cI    shall occupy the time of the Society for        few minutes
                                                      a
longer only, for the. purpose of detailing   a   few observations
connected with the Bakerian lectures, delivered in the two
last years; particularly those parts of them relating to sul
phur and phosphorus, w hich new and more minute inquiries
have enabled me to correct or extend.
 I    have already mentioned that there are considerable dif
ferences in the results of experiments, made on the action
of potassium, on sulphur ard phosphorus, and their com
binations with hydrogen, according to different circumstances
of tlie process.  I   shall now refer to such of these circum
stances as   I have been able fullv to investigate.
    The able researches of Dr. Thomson have shown that
sulphur, in its usual state, contains small quantities of acid
matttr; and though,        in my first experiments,   I  conceived
i   •   •                                                      that


  410                     'Researches on
 action of water about one cubical inch and ,^ of hydrogen is
 made to act upon about half a grain of sulphur, some sulphur
 sublimes during the combination, which always takes place
 with heat and light, and from T'T.to         of a cubical inch of
 sulphuretted hydrogen is evolved.         The compound acted
 on by munauc acid, saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen,
 affords from -&ff to -J-^ of a cubical inch of pure sulphuretted
 hydrogen.
     When more sulphur is used so as to be from twice to
 ten times the weight of the potassium, the quantity of sul
 phuretted hydrogen evolved by the action of the acid, is
 from T7-0-to    ; but if heat be applied to the
                                                    combination^
 so as to drive off the superfluous sulphur, the quantity of
 gas collected is very little inferior to that produced from the
 combination in which a small proportion of sulphur is used;
 and I am inclined to believe, from the phaenomena pre
 sented in a great number of experiments, that sulphur and
 potassium, when healed together under common circum
 stances, combinepnly in one proportion, in which the metal
is to the sulphur nearly as three to one in weight; and in
 which the quantities are such that the compound burns into
neutral sulphate of potash.
    When a grain of potassium is made to act upon about
 1*1 cubical inches of sulphuretted hydrogen, all the hydro
gen is set free, and a sulphuret of potassium containing one-
fourth of sulphur is formed, exactly the same as that produced
by the immediate combination of sulphur and the metal.
    When sulphuretted hydrogen is employed in larger quan
tities, there is an absorption of this gas, and a volume is
taken up about equal to the quantity of hydrogen disen
gaged, and a compound of sulphuretted hydrogen and sul
phuret of potash is formed, which gives sulphuretted hy
drogen by the action of an acid, nearly double in quantity
to that given by the sulphuret of potassium.
    From a number of experiments I am inclined to believe
that potassium and phosphorus, in whatever quantities they
are heated ^together, combine only in one proportion, a grain
                                  f
of potassium requiring about of a grain of phosphorus to
form a phosphuret; which when acted upon by muriatic
acid, produces from T°j- to -f-S- of a cubical inch of phosphu-
retted hydrogen.
    Haifa grain of potassium decomposes nearly three cubical
inches of phosphuretted hydrogen, and sets free rather more
than four cubical inches of hydrogen ; and the phosphuret
formed seems to be of the same kind as that produced by
direct combination of the metal with phosphorus.

                         Sulphur and Phosphorus.                          411
     If, according to Mr. Dalton's ideas of proportion, the
quantity in which sulphur enters into its combinations were
to be deduced from its union with potassium, in which it
seems to form about one-fourth the weight of the com
pound, the number representing it would be 13"5.                       I have
lately weighed sulphuretted hydrogen and sulphureous acid
gas, with great care : the specific gravity of the first at mean
temperature and pressure, from my experiments, is 10645,
which differs very little from the estimation of Mr. Kirwan :
that of sulphureous acid gas I find is 20967.                 Sulphuretted
hydrogen, as I have shown, contains an equal volume of
hydrogen; and on this datum the number representing sul
phur is 13"4.          I have never been able to burn sulphur in
oxygen without forming sulphuric acid in small quantities;
but in several experiments I have obtained from g2 to 98
 parts of sulphureous acid from 100 of oxygen in volume;
from which I am inclined to believe, that sulphureous acid
consists of sulphur dissolved in an equal volume of oxygen ;
which would give the number as 13*7 * nearly, considering
the acid gas as containing one proportion of sulphur, and
two of*oxygen ; and these estimations do not differ from
each other materially.
     I  have made several experiments on the1 combustion of
phosphorus in oxygen gas.               From the most accurate, I am
inclined to conclude that 25 of phosphorus absorb in com
bustion about 34 of oxygen in weight : and considering
phosphoric acid as composed of three proportions of oxy
gen and one of phosphorus, the number representing phos
phorus will be about 16*5, which is not very remote from
the number that may be deduced from the composition of
phosphuret of potassium.
     The numbers which represent the proportions in which
sulphur and phosphorus unite with other bodies, are such,
as do not exclude the existence of combined                     portions of
oxygen and hydrogen, in their constitution ; hut it may be
questioned, whether the opinion which I formed, that the
    * The estimation from the composition of sulphuretted hydrogen, must
be considered as most accurate, and that from the formation of the sulphuret
 of potassium as least accurate: for it was only by combining sulphur and
 potassium in small proportions, and ascertaining in what cases uncombined
 sulphur could be distilled from the compound, that I gained my conclusions
concerning the composition of the sulphuret of potassium.
    In the last Bakerian lecture, I have estimated the specific gravity of sul
phuretted hydrogen at 35 grains the 100 cubical inches, which was not far
from the mean between the estimations of Mr. Kirwan and Mr. Thenard.
According to this last experiment, sulphuretted hydrogen is composed of
one proportion of hydrogen, represented by 1, and one of sulphur repre
sented by 1S4.
                                                               inflammable

 412           Researches on Sulphur and Phosphorus.
 inflammable    gas disengaged from them by electricity,          is
 necessary to the peculiar form in which these bodies exist,
 is not erroneous.      Phosphorus, as I have stated in the last
 Balserian lecture, is capable of forming a solid hydruret :
 and a part of the sulphur distilled from iron pyrites is
 usually of a soft consistence, and emits the smell of sul
 phuretted hydrogen, and probably contains that body.             It
 is not unlikely, that in all cases, phosphorus and sulphur
 contain small quantities      of the hydrurets of phosphorus
 and sulphur; and the production of a minute portion of
 sulphuricacid in the slow combustion of sulphur, is pro
 bably connected with the production          of water. Though
 the pure oxides of sulphur and phosphorus have never been
 obtained, yet from the doctrine of definite proportions, these
 bodies ought, under certain circumstances, to be formed.
 And I am inclined to believe, that they sometimes exist in
 minute quantities in common           phosphorus    and sulphur,
 and with hydrogen give to them their variable properties.
   The colours of different specimens of phosphorus, as well as
 of sulphur, differ considerably ; the red colour of phosphorus
 as it is commonly prepared, is probably owing to a' slight
 mixture of oxide.       Common roll sulphur is of a very pale
yellow, the Sicilian sulphur of an orange colour, and the
sulphur distilled from iron pyrites in vacuo, which arose in
the last period of the process, of a pale yellowish-green
colous.     All the late experiments that I have made, as well
as my former researches, induce me to suspect a notable
proportion of oxygen in Sicilian sulphur, which is probably
owing to the presence of oxide of sulphur, which may give
rise to sulphuric acid in distillation, or to sulphuric acid
itself.    _
                                                              •
    Conceiving that, if definite proportions       of oxygen and
hydrogen existed in sulphur and phosphorus, they ought to
be manifested in the agency of oxymuriatic            acid gas on
these bodies, I made some- experiments          on the results of
these operations.      In the first trial, on the combination of
sulphur with oxymuriatic acid gas, I employed five grains
of roll sulphur, and admitted the gas into the exhausted
retort, from a vessel in which it had been in contact with
warm water: in this case more than a half a cubical inch
of oxygen gas, and nearly two cubical inches of muriatic
acid gas, were produced.       Suspecting in this instance, that
aqueous vapour had bem decomposed, I employed cold
water in the next experiment, a;ul dncd the gas by muriate
of lime: in this case, though Sicilian sulphur was used, no
oxygen gas was evolved; and not a half a cubical inch of
                                                          muriatic


 414         Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
     Finally, the physical molecule is considered as without
  parts : it can only change all at once ; therefore in the system
  of integral molecule, there can be no intermediate or demi-
  species of passage.      In the system of external characters,
  passages are conceived, and all may be passages, if it is
 wished, for it cannot be said why any being is a species.
     In geology things are somewhat different.           Granite is
  composed of quartz, mica, and feldspar.         By withdrawing
  the influence of mica, if the quantity of feldspar begins to
 diminish in the granite, the latter will change its appearance
 until that by continual variation it becomes gneiss ; and ul
 timately, when there will be no more feldspar, we shall have
 micaceous schist.       This micaceous schist may lose its quartz
 or its mica, until it becomes on the one side mica and the
 other pure quartz.       We can therefore suppose all these mi
 nerals proceeding from granite, as a common centre, to
 pure quartz, feldspar and mica, by thr«e or more divergen
 cies like passages.      But for what ? It is that in them all,
 we have only the limits which are rigorous or definite.
    In this pretended chain, with the aid of which theorists
 have so often sought to bind all parts of the universe, we
 see breaks at every step, and, far from possessing the whole,
we have yet scarcely a few links.        It was wished to force
them to unite, but the feeble clasps that men have substi
tuted break in defiance of them.
    A celebrated analyst has applied this word passage to a
remarkable error.       In making experiments on a new sub-
»tance, he observed that it changed colour under circum
stances which produced the same effect on metallic oxides,
while that its other properties tended to those of the earths.
Hence he concluded that it constituted the passage or trans
ition from earths to metals.
    I have seen in Germany, in a beautiful cabinet of petrifi
cations, the head of a bear perfectly preserved and petrified.
theselovely transition rocks, like all other beautiful thing), are not numerous,
and Mr. Jameson knows only, '* 1st, transition-limestone ; 2d, transition-
trap; 3d, grey-wacke; and 4th, flinty slate." He adds, in the true style of
 German logic, p. 146, of what be calls " Elements of Geognosy," that
" transition-limestone, which appears to be the oldest member of the transi
tion class, is a simple rock.\" The idea of transition and of simplicity is won
derfully philosophical and congruous. It will prepare the mind of the che
mist for what follows, namely, that this simple rock contains petrifications
of marine animals, as corallites, encrinites, trochites, Sec, and that it is ",very
frequently traversed by small veins of calcspar; it is not particularly metal
liferous," but that " we possess very little satisfactory information respect
ing either the kind, repository, or quantity of ore it contains;" yet the au
thor hesitates not to declare that it is both a simple and a transition (t. e. com
pound] rock! —Trans.

          Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.               4 15
I  inquired if it was the common or the white Polar bear
[Ursus maritimus~], and was answered,
                                                " It mav be the
passage from one to the other." (Es magwohl ein iibergang
scyn.)     The mineral kingdom, in appropriating this unfor
tunate bear, has rendered it the subject of an absurdity.
    With tha word passage we may associate two other fa
vourites in the same class; modification and tendence*. For
merly manganese was considered as a modification of iron ;
nickel, cobalt, lime, magnesia, the earths and alkalis, al
most all were modifications.          It might have been said that
in modifying nature produced all.          When a man is afraid
of saying he does not know, he speaks of modification.              But
philosophy, in appropriating to itself the sciences, has ba
nished this fear ; and, in fact, what are all these pretended
modifications, but modifications of our ignorance ?
     In the same cabinet of petrifications I saw a disciple of
the transcendent philosophy who admired each specimen,
was enraptured with a lichen, and in ecstasy before a fish.
 " You believe," said he, " that these are real impressions of
 animals and plants.          No; they are tendencies in nature to
 form them ; tendencies to organization, — trials."               Con
 ducting him gently near a beautiful piece of Florence marble,
 " Behold," said I, " a tendency in nature to build ruins."
 I also demonstrated to him, by graphical granite, that nature
 had a tendency to write !
     The philosopher supported his opinions on the circum
 stance that among the petrifications we find natural species
which no longer exist : now, it is contrary to the system of
 dualism that a species should be extinguished,          as then the
 sum of all the quantities in the universe would be no longer
 equal to zero.        I observed to him that these species might
 be concealed for the moment in caverm.            Yet he occupies
 a distinguished      place in the mines of Germany, and will
 soon appear before the world in the character of an author.
 How little honourable are these dreams, of which transcend
 entalism is so proud, even to human weakness !
         SYSTEMATIC PRINCIPLES OF CLASSIFICATION.
     Besides the division into species, five or six other general
 ones are admitted in mineralogy (Emmeiling, p. 27, vol. i.
  Jd edition ; and Brochant, vol. i, p. 45), classes, genera,
  subspecies, 8cc.      There are, it is said, as many classes as
 fundamental principles, (grund lestandtheile) marking, and
  predominating in, the combination of minerals ; the earths,
    * To these may be added Mr. Jameson's English terms of ftitlz, suilr,
 fmmation suite,drusy, £?c. fiTc— Trani.
                                                                   salts.

   416       Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
  salts, combustible minerals and metals.          There are as many
  genera as chemical principles (chemische lestandtheile) pre
  dominating in, or at least characterizing, the fossil combi
  nations.    I know not what difference it is wished to make
  between fundamental        and chemical      principles,   and the
  shades which separate them are not explained in a satisfac
  tory manner.      Consequently I understand nothing of this
  partition, in classes, genera, &c. In the system of M. Hauy
  there are four classes analogous to those of M. Werner ;
  acidiferous substances, terreous substances, immetallic com
 bustible substances, and metallic substances.             In the first
 class the alkaline and earthy nature constitutes the orders,
 and each individual       base forms a genus.        In the second
 class there are no other subdivisions than the species.          The
 third class contains two orders, the simple and compound
 combustibles.      The fourth, three orders, according to the
 oxidability and reductability of the metals, and each indivi
 dual metal forms a genus.       All this is clear and precise, and
 is not obscured by any superfluous explanations.
    M. Werner has divided the chemical elements into two
 functions in the classification of minerals.        They are either
predominant in quantity or characterizing.           In coppery py
rites, iron is the most abundant principle j yet copper gives
the character to the mineral.        Chemistry accounts for the
abun'dance of a principle : yet the particular characters of a
fossil, its oryctognostic and other properties decide on its
characterizing     power.     But as all is drawn from the testi
mony of our senses, and every thing is made to speak to
them in this system, the minerals in such a classification are
transported to the place which the characterizing principle
may assign them, however contradictory it should be to the
abundant principle.       Thus 0*15 of silica prevails over 0*76
of alumine, and places spindle in the siliceous genus, while
0*26 alumine against 0 46 silica transports the schist to the
argillaceous genus, and gives it its name. They have endea
voured to explain the difference betweeu the abundant prin
ciple and the characterizing principle, by means of an en
veloping matter (umbullendes stoffes) and the attempt has
had the success of most others for explaining that which we
do not understand ; it has confined the difficulty to one
word.      I shall not examine if this principle has been ob
served in the distribution      of minerals in genera, because
this part of- the classification is of little importance in com
parison jvith that which treats of the species.        It must how
ever be observed, that it appears more and more every day
that we have gratuitously attributed to some elements the
                                                                 idaa


418            Reflections an some Mineralogical Systettts.
  art of merely and simply recognising them, the principal re
  sources must he drawn from the external characters.       Wer
  ner engages his pupils to use them to the almost total ex
  clusion of any other succour.      They are enjoined to confine
 .themselves as much as possihle to the limits of their senses;
  the use of the microscope is prohibited, and the world which
  exists beyond their organs must not be viewed by them.
  They must not employ a drop of acid, to determine whether
  a body effervesces with        till the last extremity*. The
                                   it,
  strong light of the sun, used to discover sparkling, ought to
  be considered but as       microscopic mean which
                               a                           not al-        is
.ways     inour po*er.    Almost every thing that nature or art
  offers to facilitate our researches     denied, and we are re
                                                is
  duced to the simple light of the day and our five senses.
     M. Haiiy, after having founded the specification on the
  form and composition       of the integral molecule, adduces
  means of attaining -the diagnosis        more easy and more
  prompt than the inquiry into that form or composition.         It
is   true, he takes little pains to describe    and he does well,
                                                      ;
  because he can define     but besides the character taken from
                             ;
 the integral molecule, he adds others with which physics and
 chemistry have furnished him.        Thus, for borated magnesia
 we have as     a
                 geometric character the cube; but this figure \s
a   term or limit, and consequently      common to other mine
                                              is
 rals.    Physical characters are therefore added      as specific;
 gravity, hardness, elasticity, and     chemical character drawn
                                            a
 from the appearances w]ien exposed to the action of the
 blow pipe. All the more striking characters are given to
 gether, which tend directly and absolutely to separate the
 substances with which they might be confounded in conse
 quence of the identity of form in the integral molecule.
 This method, indeed, requires some physical and chemical
 knowledge,      while that of Werner dispenses with         sur           it
prisingly.
  WERNXRIAN E3TIMATK OF SPECIFIC GRAVITY AND OP
                                   ANGLES.
     In
      the particular exposition given                by
                                            Werner of the ex
ternal characters, he treats   the first place of colour.
                                     in                     This-
made many persons believe that he considered      as  principal
                                                             it       a
character, and drew on him reproaches from which          hasten      I
   • Hence, donbtless, the reason that the disci pies of Werner are all so
                                                                             furi-
ouily hostile to chemistry, that they are so limited in their pursuits, so con
tracted in their notions, and so deficient in those principles of general science
Which contribute to meliorate the stateof human existence,aud improre so -
•*ty.—    tuM
                                                                                to


420               Reflsctions on some Mhieralogical Si/sterns.
mulae       is,
           that mineral substances in general are moderately
heavy, since that of 233 minerals, whose specific gravity                                             is
giveu       by
           Haiiy (vol.    p. 26      there are 133 between 2,000
                                     i.          )1
                                                  ,
and 4,000, and only 46 which are between 4,000 and 6,000.
By describing      mineral thus, native sulphur, whose specific
                        a
gravity     2-0332, and telesia, which weighs 3-9941, would
             is
be included       the same expression.
                       in
    The estimation of' the angles          given with      isprecision                a
worthy of thai which characterizes the estimate of the spe
cific gravity.     An angle        very obtuse when
                                                is             greater                it   is
 than   20°
        1      obtuse,
                   ;          from lOO^ td 20°
                                 if   it   is           little obtuse,
                                                                     1         ;
                                                                               a
 from 90° to 100°; light,             exceed 90°; verv acute, be
                                                if    it
 tween 45° and 90J      acute, when
                                ;             45°    and very acute,
                                                           it   is        ;
when      it less than 45°.
                  is            (Brochant, vol.           97.)   Thus      i.   p.
 we learn that right angle
                        a          that which has more than 90\
                                                 i9
J  have heard M. Werner say, (and          have written his lectures
                                                           I
as he delivered them,) that         difference of 10° did not pre
                                                 a
 vent him from considering am- angle as           right angle      thus
                                                                      a                         :
 we need not be much astonished at seeing cubic zeolite so
 called [analcime and chabasia, H.], as the great angle of its
 faces differs but 3° 30' from the right angle.
             WERNERIAN THEORY OF PRIMITIVE FORMS.
      Crystallization   treated as
                                is   third article    athe particular          in
external    characters of solid minerals, under the name of
regular external forms.             observed that there are seven
                                                It   is
species of principal forms, which may be considered as the
nuclei of other forms; and          this point of view they fulfil
                                                     in
the same unctions as the primitive forms of Haiiy.
                  f
    Werner was at perfect liberty                          in
                                          his choice, as he set out
on      agratuitous hypothesis.      There was no consideration
which impelled him to give preference to such or such a                                                a
form. He had before him the whole of geomeirv, with the
unlimited permission of choice among all the figures which
it  possesses   in common with mineralogy.            We must be
lieve that some principle adopted                           by
                                           reflection would preside
at the choice he was about to make, and we can conceive
none more worthy of preference than that which corrc-
aponds with simplicity.
   M. Werner has chosen the icosaedron, or body terminated
by twenty faces; the dodecaedrou, bv twelve              the cube,              ;                      by
six the prism, pyramid, table,
      ;                                  an indeterminate number
                                                           by                                          ;
 and the lentil, or lens,          two, as       by preiended.    Th«it   is
 icosaedron         very complex figure; the prism, pyramid,
                       is   a
 and table, are in some measure indefinite           and the lentil,      ;
which we are told        composed of two faces,
                                is                      indeed, com             is,
                                                                                                    posed

           "Reflections  on some  Mlnerelogical Systems.        4?1
posed of two bent faces, but they result from an infinite
number of planes.         The character of simplicity therefore ii
totally wanting in this choice.
    Still, however, there aje many more objections to this me
thod.      There is scarcely any figure which I have not heard
considered in several points of view. The dodecaedron with
rhoniboidal faces has been sometimes regarded as a hexaedral
prism, terminated at each extremity bv a triedral pyramid.
    The hexaedron appears entirely useless, as besides this
figure there may be two modes of considering all the cry
stals which belong to it.       The cube, for instance, is a hexae
dron, but at the same time it is a quadrangular prism with
square faces.         The rhomboid is also a hexaedron and a
quadrangular prism, with rhomboidal faces ; and every te-
tracdral prism terminated by planer as bases is a hexaedron.
Moreover, these figures may be. considered as two mutilated
triedral pyramids, united, it is true, base to base, with the
edge against the face.        Here then is a crystal which belongs
to three different species of principal forms ; and such is the
influence of this character in the specification of minerals,
that the same mineral may' very weli belong to three species
in the oryctognostic system.
    The table is nothing but a prism extremely shortened.
The geometer knows as well as any other what a table is:
but I suspect that from Arch.medes to Newton ; from the
first who failed in squaring the circle, till the learned Ger
man who told me that he had discovered a fourth dimension
in space, — no geometer has treated it as a geometrical figure.
This invention is purely mineralogical.            But where does
the prism finish, and the table commence ? Is there a point
where a crystal being no longer a prism is not yet a table ?       I
do not see why the table should not be ranked among the
 imitative forms, as the club, bush, comb, mirror, and other,
usual instruments.
   WERNERIAN PRETENSIONS TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE
                        INTEGRAL MOLECULE.
    There is an article in the external characters of Werner,
which at first seems to have some resemblance to the form
of Haiiy's integral molecule : I mean what relates to the
lamellated fracture.        After having spoken of the perfection,
imperfection,        &c. of the lamina;, their direction and their
form, he speaks of the structure of the laminae (lamina
tion), or of the cleavage (durchgang der blatter), and says
that it mav be double, triple, quadruple, and sextuple.            If
 it were wished to enter into all the details of this subject,
                                    2 D i                        we

42*           Reflections on some Mineralogical Systems.
we could find nothing more proper to demonstrate the weak
ness and futility of the system of external characters ; but
it is not, in fact, worthy of attention.        Let us take only two
instances.     Mica is given as a mineral which has only a
single direction of cleavage; this supposes two faces termi
nated by planes.      But two planes are not sufficient to con
tain a solid.   What then terminates the other faces of mica?
This is what Haiiy found in discovering other directions of the
laminae, by which he was led to determine the primitive form
and integral molecule of mica, which is a right quadrangu
lar prism whose bases are rhombs.            Consequently there are
 three directions of the cleavage, and each of these three has
 another parallel to       it,
                            whence' result six parallel faces two
 and two, or      parallelopiped.
                    a                  According to Werner, hva-
 cinth has but. two directions of cleavage. Haiiy found its
 primitive form an octaedron with isoscele triangles, and con
 sequently its integral molecule        regular tetragclron, and four
                                           a
 directions of cleavage.        Werner stopped his researches
 where his senses abandoned him.             Haiiv has availed him
self of all the means which profound knowledge of the
                                           a
 different branches of the natural sciences has put                   in
                                                                   his,
 power    ;and in throwing       strong light on certain minerals,
                                  a
 be has rendered sensible the fissures which could not other
 wise have been perceived.
     Some persons, indeed, have pretended to infer from what
 Werner says respecting the property of cleavage, that he,
 also knew the form of the integral molecule, but having
 perceived its futility as          principle of classification,
                                      a                             he
 abandoned the idea.         Two notes (p. 28 and 1-27 of the
 French translation),        his Treatise on External Characters,
                             in
 have been pointed out as Announcing clearlv his opinion.
                ,
I   have been able to see nothing              in
                                          the first, except that ani
 mals and vegetables have different parts, which we call or
 gans, and that the separation of those parts destroys the
  animal or vegetable, while we can divide           mineral into as
                                                        a
  many small parcels as we please, without its ceasing to be the
  same mineral.     But      we destroy its composition, then the
                            if
  mineral     destroyed.
              is                  not therefore doubtful that their
                                 It   is
  relations consist in their composition,        [n     p.
                                                           there   the is
                                                      " The systems
                                                        3
                                                        1
                                                        ,
  following remarkable but just observation             :
  oft hose who have wished to arrange fossils               by
                                                        their external
  characters    have already furnished
                *
                                              proof of the inconve
                                                    a
                                                                nience
    • I  have been assured by an old pupil and relative of Werner, that was
                                                                       it
Mt      originally his intention to furm any system of mineralogy on eiternal
                                      '       •                -   characters,
                                  '


                             [    424   ]
LXXVIT.       Memoir   on the   Diminution of the Obliquity of the
  ' Ecliptic,
               as  resulting   from ancient Observations.       By
    M.   Laplace. Translated from the " Connoissance
    des Terns for 1811" by Thomas Firminger, Esq.
                          To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,    The    variation of the obliquity of the ecliptic having
been a phsenomenon in astronomy of a nature to engage the
most lively interest of those who have made this sublime
and useful science the subject of their studv, and as it* in
vestigation has never been fully developed till the appearance
of that profound work the Mecaniqtie Celeste of M. Laplace,
I  have no doubt the following comparison of ancient ob
servations with the deductions derived from his formula
will be highly interesting to many of your readers. The
article is taken from the Connoissance des Terns for the year
1811 ; and the only apology offered for its translation is
the extreme scarcity of that work in this country i it was
drawn up by the profound mathematician             and philosopher
above mentioned, with a view to compare his deductions
with the actual state of the system at an interval of time a3
great as observations of sufficient accuracy would admit;
and the coincidence, taking into consideration the imperfect
state of science in those ages, is remarkably striking.            It
presents to us not only one of the most undeniable proofs
of the Newtonian principle of gravitation, a fabric on which
the whole of the Mccamque Celeste is founded, but furnishes
the historian with facts which give additional credit to the
faithfulness of the narration.         On this as well as on other
occasions we have a right to form our opinion from analogy.
We see the recorded observations agree, as nearly as the state
of science in those davs will admit, with what theorv has
assigned to them; and as they do not make a separate his
tory of themselves, but are coupled .with the history of
the times in which they were made, the known truth of the
one gives a satisfaction to the mind in appreciating the value
to be affixed to the other.        If we look lo the account given
 in the Lunar Tables published bv the Board of Longitude
 in France, we shall find those tables were compiled princi
 pally from the astronomical observations made in the Royal
 Observatory at Greenwich ; and not only the epocha, but the
 present state of diminution in the obliquity of the ecliptic
 has been in a great measure determined from them: we
 shall not, therefore, be surprised to find, hereafter, a nearer
                                                              coiij-

            Diminutio?i of the Obliquity of                      the   Ecliptic.            425
     coincidence in the actual state of the ancient observations,
     and the deductions drawn from theory, when we possess, as
     we hope soon to do, the means of settling this epocha and
     actual state of diminution at the present period.        The grand
     mural circle now making for the Royal Observatory, by
     Mr. Troughton, will, it is expected, be in readiness for ob
     servation early in the ensuing year; and we cannot doubt
     but that the first object to be determined with              will be        it,
     the settling of the above-mentioned data, so essential in the
     theory and practice of astronomy.             The observations of
     Mr. Pond have clearly tended to show errors               the mural    in
     quadrants at Greenwich of considerable magnitude                 and              ;
     whatever accuracy these instruments might originally possess,
     we have now no hesitation, from            comparison ot contem
                                                        a
     porary observations,      not only of Mr. Pond, but of Mr.
     Groombridge, Dr. Brinkly, &c, to express our satisfaction
'¦   on this point.    Indeed       it not difficult to account for the
                                         is
     above-mentioned errors, when we take into consideration
     the construction of the mural quadrants, and of the obser
     vatory in which they are contained.         These instruments are
     freely suspended,     in   line nearly with their centre of gra
                                a
     vity,  by  two pins from        large stone pier; the upper and
                                     a
     lower parts are therefore very differently affected            every          by
     change of temperature in the atmosphere: for instance,                                  if
     we suppose an increase of heat to be equally diffused over
     the whole instrument; the upper part (for we must consi
     der the expansion as taking place from the point of suspen
     sion) will be less affected than the lower,         having the ac it
     tion of gravity counteracting the force of expansion, whilst
     the lower part   is  assisted      its expansion from the same
                                         in
     force of gravity, and vice versa; or,        other words, with its
                                                            in
     own weight, which in these instruments              very great, the
                                                                       is
     wholeI   think amountingto nearly 1000 pounds each. We
     shall therefore observe, that           scarcely possible for these
                                              it   is
     instruments to have retained their original accuracy for but
     a  very short space of time after they were first put up: the
     change however might be inpercf-ptible for several years                                ;
     but as we now know that metals when continually acted
     upon, do not retain their first figure except where the parts
     are duly balanced, we can easily see how the change of figure
     must necessarily happen.        In running our eye over the ob
     servations made    by Dr. Bradley with Bird's mural quadrant,
     we find frequent mention,        when observing the stars        the              in
     night-time, and particularly when the difference           the tem      in
     perature of the atmosphere within and without was very con
                                                                                 siderable,

    42ff           Memoir on     the Diminution of the
    siderable, that it wasnecessary to lower thequadranta littlej
    and it was a practice always tokeeptheplumb-Jineconstanlly
    over the point at bottom, without any regard to the variable
    temperature of the instrument.      Admitting, therefore,lhe in
    strument at the commencement of observation to have had an
    equable temperature and to have been nicely adjusted; it u
   evident that a readjustment, after a partial effect has taken
   place, is to throw so much error into the observation.      I have
   often-been surprised that so sagacious a man as Dr. Bradley-
    should not have noticed this circumstance.       It accounts in
   the most satisfactory maimer for the disagreement in the
   deductions of the observation of the stars in the, feet of Ge
   mini, used in carrying forward the error of collimation de
   duced from comparative observations with the zenith sector
   and quadrant.      The variations in these instruments are
   likewise rendered still greater from the construction of the
   Observatory, which, having a slanting roof, receives the
   sun's rays almost perpendicularly upon it, and is so much
  heated in summer as to occasion a change of temperature
  in the top and bottom of the room amounting to 10° or
   12°.    Such a roof is perhaps capable of many facilities in
  the opening and shutting the necessary shutters, but I think
  it is the very worst form for an observatory.      The adoption
 of circular instruments in the stead of quadrants is one of
 the greatest improvements in practical astronomy.            In the
 instrument      now making by Mr. Troughton, any part may
 be made the depending one, and the whole instrument             be
 ing cot|5tantly turned about must preserve its proper figure.
      The article which I have herewith sent you, sir, being a
 very long one, I will not trespass further at present, intend
 ing at some future period to take an extensive view of tht
 progress and improved state of practical astronomy.
                        Your   very obliged
                                and obedient humble servant,
                                            Thomas Fikminger.
     Although the successive diminution of the obliquity of
the ecliptic, as we approach to modern times, cannot now
be controverted,       still it is with the greatest interest that
we witness at the end of ages the slow development of
the great inequalities of the system of the world. . In
after ages, when with the results of theory a long series of
very accurate observations can be compared, this sublime
spectacle can be enjoyed much better than it is by us, to
whom antiquity has only, transmitted such observations as
                                                             often-


 428             Memoir    on the Diminution of the
 lions to be made in places westward, eastward, northward,
 and southward, of Tching-tcheou.
    " In the town of Tching-tcheou, a gnomon eight feet
long gave at noon, at the summer solstice, a shadow of one
foot rive inches.     The declination of the sun being sup
posed 23° 29', the observation of Tcheou-Kong gives the
north latitude 34° 22' 3".      The centre of the town Hon-an-
fou has been observed at a latitude of 34° 43' 15", with an
instrument made by Chapontot, by several altitudes of the
sun : — difference between the missionaries' observations and
Tcheou-Kong, 21' 10', of which quantity Hon-an-fou
would appear to be more to the northward than given by
Tcheou -Kong's observation.        Although the exact situation
of the town of Tching-tcheou cannot be ascertained, it
appears that the difference from Hon-an-fou cannot give
a difference of 21' 10". A want of accuracy in the observa
tions, particularly in the gnomon, might produce a part of
this difference.
    « The missionaries supposed a declination in the ecliptic
of 23° 29': they applied refraction, parallaxes, and diame
ter of the sun, agreeably to de la Hire's new Tables, and
thought they were sure of the adjustment of the instrument.
The difference may also arise from some change in the obli
quity of the ecliptic."
    I shall in the first place observe, that the Chinese divide
the foot into ten inches, the inch into ten fen, the fen into
ten li,lheli into ten hao,&c: so that the length of the shadow
is one foot five inches. As to the latitude of 34° 43' 15" of the
town of Tching-tcheou, the same as has been designed by
the names of Loyang and Hon-an-fou, Father Gaubil, in a
note of the page just cited from " Edifying. Letters," says
that that observation was made in June 1712 : that according
to one observation this latitude was found 34° 52' 8"; and
to a second, 34° 46' 15"; lastly, that a third gave 34° 43'
 15."   This last appears to him preferable to the other two.
The difference of these results proves the want of exactness
in those observations, which, combined with the incertitude
of the exact place of Tcheou- Kong's observations, would
render it highly desirable to know the length of the shadow
in the winter solstice, at the time of that prince.
    This is what I find on this subject in the MS. cited by
 Father Gaubil. {Conn, des Terns fonlS09, p. 393.)
    " At all times the Chinese have observed the sun's
 shadow at noon, and at other times ; but the mos'r ancient
 observation we are possessed of is that of Tcheou-Kong,
                                                         brother


                                                '
 430             Memoir on   the Diminution of the
 in the solstices at Loyang, attributed    to Tcheou-Kong, are
 first set down ; after which rules are given to add to, or sub- .
 tract from, the length of these shadows, according as the
 places are further north or south than Loyang.          What I
 here mention is clearly explained in some of the said works;
 but in others, the editors have not been careful to give the
 rules for the increase or decrease of the shadows observed
 by Tcheou-Kong, for application to places further north or
 south ; whence it arises that in calendars for Nanking or
 Hin-tcheou, or other towns, the shadows are .given for
Loyang only."
    From the foregoing, it appears to me that no doubt can
be entertained of the quoted observation not wholly belong
 ing to Tcheou-Kong. The learned Freret has calculated this
important observation in the third part of his excellent Dis
sertation on the Certainty and Antiquity of the Chinese
Chronology. This is what he says :
    " The most ancient observation of the solstices that is
known with certainty is prince Tcheou-Kong's, brother to
Vou-vang the founder of the dynasty Tcheou. Tcheou-
Kong was regent of the empire trom the year 1104 to the
year 1098. The observation was made in one of these six
years.     The precise date of the observation for the time of
the cycle and moon is not marked, but the place of ob
servation and length of shadows are known.         This detail is
related in the Tcheou-li, which is a part of the Li-ki or
Book of Rites.
   "A gnomon was made use of, of eight feet Chinese: at the
summer solstice the shadow was one foot five-tenths,         and
in the winter it was 13 feet ; which gives for the obliquity
of the ecliptic 23° 54' 14"; the same quantity nearly as was
supposed by the ancient Greek astronomers Pytheas, Era
tosthenes, Hipparchus, and Ptolomy.
    «' The altitude of the pole at Loyang, (place of the obser
vation) as determined by the altitude of the sun above the
horizon and by the resulting obliquity of the ecliptic, is
found 34° 47' 33".       Regis and Mailla, by an observation,
made with accurate instruments,- have found it 34° 46' 15".
By the obliquity of 23,29 as supposed by our modem astro
nomers, Loyang would be placed at 34° 32', differing only
15' 13''; which gives room to presume that the obliquity of
the ecliptic must have changed.                      t
    u The observation of Tcheou-Kong was made at a time
anterior to Solomon's reign, and about the war of Troy. Its
exactness proves that observations must have been made in
China several centuries back."
                                                        Freret's

                       Olliquiiy of the Ecliptic .             431*
    Freret's calculations want a slight correction.      By recti
fying them, and allowing for the refraction and the parallax
of the sun supposed to be 8",7, I find 79° 22' 39",6 for
the altitude of the superior edge of the sun's disk at tht
summer solstice, and of 31° 35' 1",8 for thatof the said edge
in the winter solstice.      By subtracting the apparent semi-
diameter of the sun at the two solstices, which I find to be
15'47",7and 16' 14",3 respectively, the corresponding al
 titudes to the centre will be 79° 6' 51",9, and 31° 18' 47",5,
which gives 23° 54' 2",2 for the obliquity of the ecliptic,
and 34° 47' 10" for the polar altitude; which, being nearly
a mean between the three observations of the missionaries,
proves the accuracy of Tcheou- Kong's determinations.
    Freret by certain and ingenious calculations had in the
same dissertation fixed the epocha of Tcheou- Kong's regency
between the year 1098 and 1101, before our aera.            1 shall
observe that in this respect he agrees perfectly with Father
 Gaubil.      I shall then suppose that these observations were
made in the year 1 100 before our aera.        I have given in the
 3d vol. of my Mic. Cel. b. vi. ch. 12, a formula by which
 the obliquity of the ecliptic may be determined for a very
 distant period : and t expressing a number of years elapsed
 since 1750, the value of this obliquity in decimal degrees
 will   be
26°,0796— 3676',6l— cos(/43",0446) — 10330,4 sin («)9",m7)
 whereby t = — 2850, which gives in decimal degrees the
 corresponding obliquity of the ecliptic = 26°,5i6l 1, or in
 ordinary degrees =25° 51' 53"; which must be increased
 about 5", because the obliquity of the ecliptic in 1750 ex
 ceeded to that amount the quantity used in the preceding
 formula: thus 1 100 years before our aera, the obliquity of
 the ecliptic was 23° 51' 58", — a result which only differs
 2' 4" from that given by the observed lengths of the gno
 mon shadow in the two solstices.         A more perfect coinci
 dence cannot be wished for, if allowance be made for the
 uncertainty attending this sort of observation, owing parti
 cularly to the penumbra which renders the shadow ill-de
 fined.
     If, together with Father Gaubil, the observation alone of
 the summer solstice wa9 taken into account, and the polar
 altitude at Loyang was supposed with him to be 34° 43' J b" ,
 by subtracting its complement 55° 16' 45" from the alti
 tude 793 6' 52" of the sun's centre, determined by the length
 of the shadow in the summer solstice, the obliquity of
  the ecliptic would be 23° 50' l" '. The result of my for
 mula is Very nearly a mean betw«en that and the obliquity

    432            Memoir   on the Diminution of the
    given by the observed lengths of the shadow at the two
    solstices.   This coincidence is a remarkable confirmation,
    of the value of the masses of Venus and Mars, which M.
    Delambre has determined by the comparison of a very great
i   number of observations of the sun by means of the formu
    las, and of the perturbations of the earth's motion I have
   given in the 3d vol. of Mec. Cel.
       Tcheou-Kong, by his observations, had determined the
   moment of the winter solstice, but they have not been
   transmitted to us. We only know that he fixed this solstice
   at 23 Chinese from V, a constellation which begins at r of
   Aquarius, (vol. xxvi. of Edifying Letters, p. 124.)           We
   shall also fix the epochas of this determination at 1000 years
   before our aera. Tcheou-Kong and the Chinese astronomers
   at that time referred the constellation    to the equator; be
   sides 2° Chinese = 1° 58' 17": subtracting this from 270°,
   the difference 268° l' 43" was the right ascension of s of
   Aquarius at the epocha of 1 100 years before our aera.
       In the beginning of 1750, the longitude of* of Aquarius
   was 308° 14' 10"; its latitude was north 83 6' 20'.
       Comparing Bradley and Mayer's catalogues with Piazzy's,
   this star does not appear to have any sensible motion of
   its own, and its annual precession is 50", I.
       I find by the formulas of c. xti. of book vt. of Mec. Cel.
   for the epocha of 1100 years before our aera,
                         ^ = 40° 2' 43"
                         V = 23° 32' 49",
  & being the precession of the equinoxes from that epocha
  till 1750. This precession being referred to the equinox of
   I 750, is the obliquity of the equator on this ecliptic at
  the same epocha.       Thus at this epocha the longitude of 1
  of Aquarius, computed from the intersection of the equator
  with the ecliptic of 1750, was in the year 1 100 before our
  «ra 268° 1 1' 27"; whence I conclude it's right ascension,
  relatively to the same intersection, to be equal to 268° 9' 2".
      I afterwards find, by the formula? of the quoted chapter,
                 f  = 25' 44"; 9 = — 1° 33' 25" :
       being the ecliptic's inclination from that time, above
  that of the ecliptic of 1750, and 9 being the longitude of
  its node upon that said ecliptic, computed from the fixed
  equinox of 1750.        Whence I conclude that the right as
  cension of the true equinox with the preceding;         that is to
  say, the equator's intersection with the fixed ecliptic of 1 750,
  was in the year 1100 before our aera equal to — 42' 12";
  tl>e right ascension of t, relative to the true equinox,      was
  therefore then 2GS°5r 14", greater by 49' 3l" than Tcheou-
                                                            Kong's


434       Diminution of the Olliquity of the Ecliptic.
in the   quoted manuscript;  in which is   read as  follows: {Co?in.
des Terns,    18O9.)
     " Lieou-hiang, father of Lieou-hia, wrote upwards of 50
years before Christ.     This author says that an. eight-feet
 gnomon gave the noon shadow in the winter solstice 13
 feet one inch four fen, in the summer's it was one foot
 five inches four fen.      Litchun-foung, an astronomer of
 the dynasty of the Tangs, complains that these shades were
 improperly applied to Siganfou. Lieou-hiang mentions
 neither the place nor the time of these observations."
     The shade at the summer solstice is not exactly the
 same as that published in the quoted History of Chinese
 Astronomy ; but I think that this last ought to be preferred,
 the shadow given in the MS. giving an evidently too con
 siderable obliquity of ecliptic.     It is very likely that in the
 manuscript Father Gaubil may have written, in a mistake,
 instead of eight fen the same number that he wrote for the
 winter solstice.    Adopting therefore, 1ft, 14 and 13ft, 58
 for the lengths of the shadows at the summer and
 winter solstices, and allowing for the refraction and the
  sun's parallax, I find 31° 2' 23" and 78° 33' 41" for the
 altitudes of the sun's centre, resulting from these observa
 tions.     Half of their difference gives 23° 45' 39* for the
 ecliptic's obliquity.   If we add it to the complement of 78*
 33' 41", we shall have for the altitude of the pole 35° 1 1'
 58", an altitude very different from that of Siganfou, which
 the Jesuits have found 34° 16' 45".           Litchun-foung was
 therefore right to complain that these noon shadows had
 been improperly referred to Siganfou.
     To compare my formula with this observation, T suppose
 that t = — 1850, and then it gives for the obliquity of the
 ecliptic 23° 43' 59",4, and by adding 5", as we have done
 for the preceding observation, we shall have 23° 44' 4'', 4,
  which only differs 1' 34",6 from ihe result of this second
  observation.    These two observations are the only ones
  before the commencement of our rera, that Father Gaubi!
  has made us acquainted with; and it is to be supposed that
  this learned missionary could not discover others : the de
  struction of books by fire, which took place 213 years pre
  vious to the Christian aera, having caused the loss of the
  greatest number of preceding observations.
                          [To be contiuued.]
                                                    LXXVIII. Be-

                            C   435  ]
LX XVIII.      Reply to Mr. M.'s Remarks on Mr. Smyth's
   Comparative Table in vol. xxxv. p. 488. By Mr. Smyth.
                         To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,    I shall   esteem it a favour if you will insert the fol
                                     who signs himself M. in
lowing answer to the gentleman
your Magazine for September.
    Mr. M. says it is " curious that Mr. S. should presume
organ -tuners will continue to tune as their ancestors did
before them, till irrefragable arguments are produced to
prove the superiority of Kirnberger's temperament."        Here,
I confess, I stand convicted of inconclusive reasoning.
The fact, however, I imagine to be this: an organ, with
 compound stops, will not admit of the major thirds being
 tuned sufficiently sharp to ameliorate, in any considerable
 degree, those greatly tempered chords which are called
 wolves; of which I wish the breed were extinct.
     I am glad to find that Mr. M. agrees with me in opinion,
 that Kirnberger's is one of the worst unequal temperaments.
 Had Mr. M. staled indefinite terms his own favourite sy
 stem, it should have been submitted to examination.
    Mr. M. says, "perhaps for the organ a good unequal
 temperament is preferable to the Isotonic."       I was not ig
 norant that even for this instrument      the Isotonic has had
 its advocates ; and Mr. M. presents to my view the names
 of Couperin,Marpurg, Rameau, Cavallo, professor Chladni,
 and many other eminent philosophers.         Now, not being a
  philosopher myself, I take the liberty of asking one plain
 question, which relates solely to the temperament of the
  organ: — Can anv man living prove, that there ever was one
  organ in Christendom     tuned according to the equal tem
 perament, in consequence of a peremptory order from any
  one of these gentlemenyand suffered to remain in that state i
  This is coming to the point.
     A person disposed to cavil might raise arithmetical and
  philosophical doubts whether a real equal temperament has
  ever been heard.
     I wish Mr. M. would inform us, and explain precisely,
  what the system is which he tunes so dexterously on his
  harp, by the melody alone, without      striking consonances.
  Had his instrument so tuned been intended for melody
  alone, this mode of tuning might answer the purpose; but,
  as each of the strings has various relations to other strings,
  and a temperament of a diatonic interval, too small to pro-
                               2 E 2                         duce

43(5        Reply to Remarks on musical Temperament.
duce a sensible effect in melody, will produce a very sensible
effect in harmony,         I congratulate Mr. M. upon a power
which I never had the felicity of seeing exercised by any one
person.
    Never having heard of such a writer as Eximeno, I re
ferred to Dr. Burney's Hislorv of Music, and there learn
that Eximeno was possessed of eloquence, fire, and a lively
imagination; but that his book has been called, in Italy,
 "a whimsical romance upon the art of music, in which he
discovered a rage for pulling down, without the power of
rebuilding."
    I have annexed, in compliance with Mr.M.'s request, the
beats of mean tone temperament in one second.                         I need
not add that, by taking the first decimal, the beats will be
obtained for ten seconds, which I would recommend.                            I
have also subjoined the beats of Mr. Marsh's System ; and
wish to be informed by that gentleman if he has had an
 organ tuned according to this system.
     Persons unacquainted with the theory of the beatings of
 imperfect (that is, tempered) consonances, may object to a
 table of beats, that so large a number as 80 or 50 in ten.
 seconds cannot be counted.             For the information of these
 gentlemen,     I add, that no one can count these beats : in
 fact, they rather howl than beat; but they necessarily result
 from the temperament of the slowly beating consonances
 by which the temperament is laid.
                                       I remain, Mr. Editor,
                                                  Yours, &c.
    Norwich,  Dec. 5, 1810.                              (J, J. SMYTH.
     P. S. — Please to correct an erratum in my paper, p. 250,
  •econd line from the bottom, for policity read policy.
                    Mean Tone Temperament.
                             Beats in one Second.
   c       480.        3.       III.       4.       Vth.        6.        VI.
   B     448-6065    8-3G6    53-8099    5-5740    4-1755        0       6-967.5
   Bb    429-3227 68-1522         0      5-:!4IO   8-9793    80-4716     6-6S9B
   A     401-2438    7-4628       0      4-9886    3-731 1       0       6-2470
    *    375-        6-9675   45-        4-6704 23-4212          0     40-983 2
         358-8898    6-6883       0      4-4648    3-3422        0       5-53 10
    *    335-4110    6-2470   40-2358    4-1755    3-1 194       0     45 5768
    r    320-9972 50-9832         0      3-9793    2-9916    60- 1936    4-9870
    £    30C-        5-5810       0      3-7314    2-7870        0       4-6704
    £b   287-1053 45-5768         0     28-4-218 2-6705      53-8099     4-4735
    D    268-3273    4-9878       0      3-3422    2-4943        0       4-1830
    •    250-7784    4-G704   300968     3-1194    2-3352        0      34-0761
    C    240.        4-4735       0      2-9916    2-2424    45.         3-7314
                                                             Mr. Marsh's


438                  Of   the Bogs   in Ireland.
proper lines of direction for one or more main drains pass
ing through    it,
                 to give vent to the waters which    contains,
                                                           it
and for catch-water drains laid out along its edges, to inter
cept the springs and streams which flow into      from the ad
                                                      it
joining lands.
    " 5th. — In laying down the situation of the main drains,
                                                                     ,
 the engineers are to consider, not merely the general de
 clination of the bog towards the rivers or such or other na
 tural outlets as may best answer for their drainage, but to
 keep in view the further object, where practicable, of con
 verting these main drains, either immediately or ultimately,
 into channels of navigation, for the conveyance of the fu
 ture productions of the bog, and of providing for the con
 nexion of those navigable drains, where convenient, with
 the great lines of navigation already subsisting    where this
                                                       :
is   not possible, they are to consider how these different
 drains may be united to other canals, which may be formed
hereafter.   In laying down the situation of any navigable
drain, the engineers are to attend to the situation of such
manures as may be most suitable for the hog.
   " 6th.^Where the main drains are likelv to be used as
canals, they are not,     inany instance, to be less than 14 feet
broad at bottom, and five feet deep from the water surface.
The breadth and depth of other main drains, and of the
catch-water drains, must be proportioned to the quantity of
water which they are to discharge.
   " 7th. — As there are no districts which are more liable
to the inconvenience of        total want of water in dry sum
                               a
mers, than level tracts of marshy ground, when once their
drainage  is effected, care must be taken in laying down the
direction of the main drains, to allow them, where prac
ticable, to be occasionally dammed up, so as to raise the
water within two feet of the surface, for the purpose of
promoting vegetation      ; and that the catch-water drains, in
like manner, should supply water on the surface, for the
use of cattle, or for the purpose of irrigation,         where the
mode of improvement         shall be deemed advisable         and in
                                                                 ;
situations where     asufficient supply cannot be procured by
these means, the engineers are to consider where reservoirs
may be most advantageously constructed, to be supplied,
in time of flood, from the catch-water drains or rivulets in
 the vicinity of the bogs.
    " 8th. — Where locks may be necessary, the dimensions
which the commissioners recommend are,              feet. in.
        Length                                ,            70        6
                                                      ..40oth.—
        Breadth                                            7         3
        Depth over the fill of          the   gates
                                                                «c
                                                                         J*

                      Of tlie Bbgs in Ireland.               439
     "  9th. — In  all cases  where the bogs are wholly or par
tially surrounded by high land, whose natural inclination is
to the bog, the engineers are to consider where catch-water
 drains may be necessary ; and as it will generally happen
 that these catch-water drains may admit of a greater fall
 than it will be practicable to give to the main drains, care
 must be taken, where the catch-water drains are to join
 the main drains after their issue from the bog, that it shall
 be at such a distance, or on such a level, as to preclude the
 danger of the water to the catch-water drains, in time of
floods, penning back the water of the main drains, so as to
 overflow the bog.      Where the levels will not admit of the
  waters of the catch-water drains being conducted into the
 main drains without being subject to this inconvenience,
 provision must be made for conducting them through sepa
 rate channels into the river, or other place, where the waters
 of the bog are to be discharged.
      " 10th. — Each of the engineers is to prepare a map of
 <the district assigned to him, distinguishing,
      " 1. The extent and boundaries of the bogs which it con
tains.                                                   i
      " 2. The nature of the soil snd country immediately con
 tiguous to each bog, particularly specifying the situations of
  lime-stone, lime-stone gravel, marie, or other manures.
      " 3. The surface of the bog, whether firm black bog,
  or shaking quagmire.
      " 4. The situation of any springs, rivers, or lakes, which
  appear to occasion the wetness of any of the bogs.
      " 5. The course of any rivers, streams, roads, or canals,
  by which the bog is intersected.
      " 6. The drains and other works proposed by the en
  gineers.
      " 7. Such lines of new roads as appear most proper for
  the carriage of manure, for carrying out the future produce
  of the reclaimed hogs, and for communication          with the
   roads in the vicinity.
      "11. These maps are to be accompanied with sections,
   delineating the surface and bottom of the bog, and the na
   ture and depth (as far as may be necessary) of the under
   strata on which it rests.
      " 12. The maps and longitudinal sections are to be drawn
   on a scale of four inches to an Irish mile, and the perpen
   dicular scale of the sections to be  ^  inch on the foot.
      " 13. They are to be accompanied with index maps, on
   the scale of one inch to a mile.
      " i4. In taking the levels necessary for determining the
                                 2 E4                    sections,

440                        Of   the Bogs in     Ireland.
sections,  the engineers are to take care that their assistants
proceed, in all cases, so as to cross and correct each other.
The engineers are to be responsible for the correctness of
the whole.
   "  15. The main drains are generally to be laid down so
as to allow the collateral drains communicating with them,
to embrace the greatest extent of surface the nature of the
bog will admit of: but where the inequalities of level in its
surface, or the outlets of discharge for the waters, present
a choice of plans for its drainage, so as to induce any doubt
in the mind of the engineer which plan may be most eli
gible, he is to submit the different plans to the commis
sioners.                            - ¦
   " 16. The engineers are to accompany the maps with
written reports, containing generally whatever occurs to
them on the subject of the drainage of the districts assigned
to them,      and particularly           specifying,
   "   17.The probable expense of such drains, roads, ca
nals, locks, and other works, as they recommend.
   " 18. The names of the proprietors who claim any fight
or interest in the begs, and to what extent, and in what
proportions,   as far as they can learn.
   "   19. Whether any, and what tracts of bog in their di
stricts have already been reclaimed, and what have been ihe
manures used, and the modes pursued, in their amelioration,
and what is the nature and the state of the crops which
they actually produce.
   " 20. The probable value of the land when reclaimed,
and the mode of culture which may be the best adapted for
it, particularly distinguishing those parts that may be best
suited for planting.
      21. Where any of the bogs proposed to be drained are
at present used for the supply of fuel, the engineer       to re     is
port how far the quantity and quality of the fuel       likely to
                                                                is
be injured or improved              by
                            the works which he recommends.
   u 22. Where the wetness of the
                                       bog appears to be occa
sioned       by
              lake on
                  a     higher level, the engineer
                                a                      to reportis
on the practicability and means of draining the lake; and
also on the difference of levels in summer and winter of alt
rivers and lakes connected with the bogs.
   " 23. Where the bottom of the bog lower than the        is
river into which       would be convenient to discharge the
                           it
waters of the drains, the engineer       to report on the prac
                                                  is
ticability of lowering the river sufficiently to receive them.
   "  24. As      many instances the levels may not admit of
                      in
the bags being drained       the usual manner, in such cases
                                    in
                                                                          the


   442                   Of the  Bogs in Ireland.
       "  30. The engineers are to act under these instructions,
   in respect to all such bogs within their districts as contain
   by estimation or repute more than 500 Irish acres ; of bogs
   of inferior extent, they need only report the existence and
   situation.
       " 31. The commissioners intend to provide the best
   levelling instruments,     which they will supply at the original
  price to such of the surveyors employed as are not already
  furnished with instruments of sufficient accuracy.           They
  intend also to procure some rain-gauges, to enable them to
  determine the dimensions of the principal drains.            They
  request that any gentleman disposed to assist by keeping an
  account of the rain in the vicinity of the bogs, will be so
  good as to signify his intentions to their secretary.
                               By order of the Board.
  Dublin Society House,              B. McCARTHr,
       Sept. 28, 1809.                 Secy tQ the Commissioners.
                     ADDITIONAL     INSTRUCTIONS.
      "  32. The     commissioners   have determined to alter the
 longitudinal scales of the sections referred to in the twelfth
  article of the instructions, from eighty perches to an inch
  (as therein directed) to forty perches to an inch, the scale
 which on further consideration they have preferred to adopt.
      ** The                    scale of the sections (namely -j-'^
                perpendicular
 inch to a foot) is to continue unaltered.
      " 33. As it will probably be found inexpedient to incur
 the expense of engraving the drawings of the sections, re
 ferred to in the eleventh article of the instructions,     the en
 gineers are to specify the lines of sections, and the amount
 of fall in each in their reports ; and further to specify them
 upon their maps, so far as they may find it not inconve
 nient to do so.
     "34. The commissioners have determined that it will
 not be necessary (at least for the present) to execute the
index maps referred to in the 13th article of the instruc
tions.
     "35. The engineers are to prepare, for the purpose of
being presented to parliament,          maps on the scale of two
inches to an Irish mile, reduced from their large maps, spe
cifying every thing contained in the large maps.         These re
duced maps are to be sent in along with the reports of the
engineers to the commissioners.          The largest sized copper
plate that can be allowed for these maps is twenty-six inches
long by twenty broad. Where the district is so large that a
map of the whole of it cannot be contained within these
                                                      dimensions,


444                       Of the   Bogs in Ireland.
 appear according             report which Mr. Griffith, jun.
                          to the
 has made on the subject;    wherein, p. 15 and 16, the tract
of land called the Island of Allen is thus described : —
    " The surface of the Isle of Allen rises very quickly
from the bog on all sides, particularly to the north-west,
where it is composed (at least to a considerable depth) of
limestone gravel, forming very abrupt hills. - In thote places
where the face of the hills has been opened for the pur
pose of raising stone and gravel, the mass is composed of
rounded limestone, varying in size from two feet in dia
meter to less than one inch; tbe largest are not so much
rounded as the small, frequently their sharp angles are
merely rubbed off; they are usually penetrated by contem
poraneous veins of Lydian stone, varying in colour from
black to light grey; the .colour of the limestone is usually
light smoke grey, rarely brlueish black ; when it          the  is,
fracture     large conchoidal
            is                    that of the grey
                                       ;              uneven,
                                                          is
approaching to earthy.
   ** The Lydian stone, when unattached to the limestone,
has usually     tendency to
                 a              rhomboidal
                                   a         form, sometimes
cubical, the edges are more or less rounded, the longitu
dinal fracture    even, the cross fracture
                     is                      conchoidal.
                                                 is
    " From the strong resemblance that subsists between the
rolled limestone and its accompanying substances, and the
upper beds of the limetone strata, which extend from the
county of Tipperary, through Kilkenny, (where the lower
beds are used for marble,) Carlow, Oueen's County, King's
County,         Kildare, Meath, Westmeath, Dublin, &c.                8cc.
there can be no doubt that the least accumulation of lime
stone gravel, which nearly covers the whole province of
Le.inster (forming steep ridges of hills frequently above 300
feet high, and sometimes approaching the summits of lofty
primitive mountains) did originally form the upper beds of
the limetone strata, which when now found in situ are sel
dom firm, on account of their alternating with thin beds of
slate clav, usually much decomposed, and their being tra
versed     by
           numerous fissures and veins of calcareous spar and
Lydian stone.
      It   much more difficult to trace the course of the cur
           is
rents which first removed the limestone from its native bed,
and afterwards having rolled the detached masses backwards
and forwards, deposited them on the sides of hills, whose
base had withstood     the action of the waters, or      cross by
currents and eddies formed independent hills and minor
ridges, the deposition of which, together with     subsequent
                                                      a
deposition of     bed of clay, varying from one to six feet
                     a
                                                                       in


   446                            On Refraction.
  feldspar, are frequently to be met with on the surface :                     I
  did not find any of this rock in its native bed.
       " The hill called the Chair of Kildare and Dunmurty
  Hill, situated to the south-west of the Hill of Allen, are also
  composed of greenstone* ; the Red Hills are conglomerate.
       " Besides the general ridge which (with the exception of
  two low passes through which the bog rivers flow) sur
  rounds the district, and the Island of Allen which divides
  the interior, there are frequently minor and more detached
  ridges, usually of moderate elevation, bounding the several
  bogs, and preventing the passage of the waters to the rivers
  or principal streams, which usually run in valleys beyond
  the ridges, and nearly parallel to the edge of the bogs.
      "  These interior ridges, Where there is no river, usually
  form the line of separation between different bogs."
                                    I am, sir,
                                          Your obedient servant,
                         >                     William Farey.
 LXXX.          A short Account of the Improvements gradually
      made    in determining the Astronomic Refraction.                     By
      Afr.T. S. Evans, Master of the Mathematical School at
      New Charlton, near Woolwich, Kent ; late of the Royal
      Observatory, Greenwich, and of the Royal Military Aca
      demy, Woolwich.
                              [Continued from p. S49.]
 It     would be endless to notice the different opinions re
 jecting     both the terrestrial and the astronomic refraction
 which are to be met with in the writings of various authors
 on the subject : and it would be equally useless to notice
 all the tables of its quantity given by them, some of which
 differ very much from others.              It will be sufficient to men
 tion those only who made some considerable advances to
 wards obtaining it with greater accuracy.
     The next of these in order was La Caillef, who in de
 termining it certainly bestowed very great pains, by making
 and reducing an immense number of observations,                          ana
 afterwards comparing them with others made at Green
wich by Dr. Bradley, at Gottingen by Mayer, at Bologna
 by Zanotti, and by La Lande who was then at Berlin.
 From these it appeared that the refraction at 45° of altitude
was 661" ; but this, as will hereafter be seen, was too great
    * This Is the first discovery of rock of the trap formation in this part of
Ireland.
    f  Mem. de l'Ac. de Sc. 1755, p. 547.
                                                                            by


     448                            On Refraction.
    found that his correction for the thermometer was a little
    over-rated ; and accordingly,               for his new table, altered it
    to -fa for each degree.           And here it may be observed that
    La Caille did not correct his altitudes above 36° at Paris,
    and 30° at the Cape ; first, because he only noted the baro
    meter and thermometer in the night, when he observed
    stars below 30° of altitude.            Secondly, because, that at 36'
    of altitude, where the mean refraction is about                     minute,
    the variation which belongs to 10 degrees of the thermo
    meter only amounts to 3£ seconds ; a quantity about equal
    to the limits of the errors of observations made with an in
    strument of six feet.
        The formula given by Euler * appeared also about this
   time.         It took into account the variation of the refraction
    depending upon the thermometer and barometer, but was
   certainly too complicated to be generally adopted. He shows
   however, that in very different hypotheses the refraction
   will be sufficiently exact, if taken in the inverse ratio of the
   degrees of heat, when the star or planet is not too near the
   horizon, but the precise quantity of this ratio was unknown
  to him.
        In this state the refraction stood when Dr. Bradley took
   the subject into consideration, and began to find its quantity
  from his own observations.                   The rule which he adopted,
  although a very elegant one, he neither lived to complete
  nor to present to the world ; but it was published after his
  death by Dr. Maskelynef, and has commonly been used
  in England up to the present time.                  He found the mean re
   fraction at 453 of altitude 57", and, that at all other alti
  tudes it was equal to 57" multiplied by the tangent of the
   zenith distance, diminished               by three times the refraction.
  Then supposing the mean state of the atmosphere to be at
  29"6 in. of the oarometer, and 50° of Fahrenheit's thermo
  meter, he made the true or corrected refraction equal to
        ,i        /r» r-v
   57" x <,(Z.D.-Sr)
                            - \
                                 x—barom.
                                            x
                                                   400      ...
                                                           where it is to be
                                                                              ,
  understood          that  the mass     of   air is supposed to increase in
  bulk             for each degree of Fahrenheit's        scale.
        A variety of experiments have been made at various
  times to ascertain the increase in bulk of a quantity of air
  represented by unity for a certain number of degrees of rise
  of the thermometer.               The following is a list of some of
\ them}: :
                —
      • Mem. del'Ac. de Berlin, 1754, p. 131.
      f    Pref. to 1st vol. of Obs.,1765. Phil. Trans. 1764 and 1787, p. 157.
  Req. Tables, Stc.
      \   See  La Lande's Astr. 2241. 3d ed. Thomson's Chemistry, vol. i. p. 489.
  La Place's Mec. Cel. vol. iv. p. 270. Phil. Trans. 1809, &c. &c.
  i


                                                                          \
    4iO                         On Refraction.
    progression,     therefore   an hypothesis which participates of
    both lliese progressions would seem to represent il>e re
    fraction, and the observed diminution of heat in the at
    mospheric     layers ; accordingly he makes this curious as
    sumption, and deduces        a formula by means of it.
       .He then applies the same analysis to the finding of an
    equation for the retraction at altitudes below 12:, and gives
    us an expression which has-the advantage of being inde
   pendent of all hypotheses respecting the constitution of
   the atmosphere, resting only upon the nature of it in the
   place where the observation is made, as indicated by the
   barometer and thermometer, after which he determines the
   value of his coefficients.        With respect to that depending
   upon the thermometer, he requested M . Gay Lussac to re
   peat his experiments,        with all possible care, by graduating
   his thermometers exactly, and by paying the gieatest atten
   tion to dry the tubes well, which he made use of: for it
   appeared to him, that upon this depended principally the
  great differences in the results hitherto found by philoso
  phers.     Attending well to the expansion of glass*, and to
  the corrections on account of the variableness of the baro
  meter, durinsr each experiment Gay-Lussac found, by a mean
  of twenty-five experiments, that a volume of air expressed
  by unity at zero of temperature of the centigrade thermo
  meter became 1-375 at the heat of boiling water, under a
  pressure equivalent to that of a column uf niercun = 0-J6
 of a metre in height.
      The other coefficient was determined by M. Delambre,
 who,by comparing a great number of observations, found the
 refraction to be 1 SG-"72S at 50 of apparent altitudef, the tem
 perature being zero, and height of the barometer 0-7Gmeire.
      After this he proceeds to consider the effect of moisture
 in the atmosphere, and concludes the following values for
 the increase of the refraction,          for extreme humidity in the
 air from 15D to 45: of temperature.
                Degrees.                  Increase of Refraction.
                    15°                      0-503" r, 0
                    20                       07-14    I,   0
                    25                      0 077     I, 0
                   30                        1274     t,   0
                   35                        1 051    t,   0
                   40                       2-122     t,  0
               Where    0  represents  the apparent altitude.
    • Upon this and some ol her points connected with the subject of this
paper, seeThomson's Chemistry, book i, div.       sect. 4, edit, of 1810.
    + According to the new centesimal division of the circle; but this, ac
cording to our division of the circle, will be fiO" 49987'2at 45° of apparent
altitude when the barometer is 29          EngL in, and Fahrenheit's therm.
at

                            On Refraction.                              451
   "  It results from this table," he says, '« that the effect of
moisture in the air on the refraction is very small ; the ex
cess of the refractive power of the aqueous vapour on that
of the air being compensated in a great measure by its less
density.     We may nevertheless attend to it by means of the
                      ¦
preceding table, in cases of extreme humidity.                    Observa
tions of the hygrometer will point out the ratio of the quan
tity of vapour spread in a given volume of air to the quan
tity which would produce extreme humidity in this volume.
The increase of refraction which corresponds with extreme
humidity must then be multiplied by this ratio." He con
cludes the subject with the following remark :
    " we would lake into account the figure of the earth
       If
in the theory of refraction, it is to be observed that at the
point where the observer is situated, we may always con
ceive an osculatory circle to the surface of the earth, whose
plane passes through the star: now the figure of the atmo
spheric layers is verv nearly the same as that of the earth;
the circles, concentric to the circle in question, are there
fore oscillators likewise of these different figures; and we
may determine the refraction                 of the star by supposing
 the earth to be spheric, and of a radius equal to this oscilla
tory circle.      Thus wee see, 1st, That the refraction always
 takes place in the vertical plane: edly, That it is not the
 same on all sides of the horizon, since the osculatory cir
 cles are not the same in every direction; but we may rest
 assured, that the error is insensible, when the star is a little
 elevated. At the horizon, however, differences of some se
 conds may occur."             Thus terminates one -of the most
 masterly chapters on this subject ever written ; after which
 he proceeds to treat of the terrestrial refraction.
     Upon these theorems'* found by La Place, reduced to
 rather a more convenient form, and with coefficients d iffer -
 ing a little from his,Delambre has computed a set of Tables
 by means of which the refraction may be found with great
 facility. They were first published by Puissant                f in a work
 closely connected with this subject, and arc well arranged
 for use. The first of them gives the refraction for every
 degree of apparent zenith distance down to 60°, and for
 every 30' from thence to 90°.               They arc adapted for 0-71
 metre of height of the barometer, and 35° of the centigrade
 thermometer J.         Besides the refraction and its difference for
    * Page 27 1, and page 264 of the Mecan. Cel. vol. iv.
    + Traiti de Geodesie, at the end, 4ti>, 1S05.         \ Or, 27'953 English
inches, and 9a° of Fahrenheit's thermometer.
                                    2  F  2                              each

                             Oh Refraction.
each degree, there arc given the logarithms of the refraction
in seconds and their differences : and in two auxiliary tables
are given the logarithms of the factors for correcting it for
the variations of height in the barometer and thermometer.
To    make these corrections depending upon the temperature
always affirmative as far as the table extends, he has added
respectively to the logarithms of the two last tables their
greatest negative logarithm taken positively, and subtracted
 from it the logarithms of the first tabic
     To this succeeds a Table of mean refractions for true di
stances from the zenith for every degree down to 80'', and
for every 10' thence to 91°, with their differences, adapted
for 0 76 metre of the barometer, and 12°-5 of the centigrade
thermometer*, with two auxiliary tables for reducing it to
any other state of the atmosphere.                 Directions are also
given for using them, together with the formulae from
which they were computed, reduced to a more simple
form.
     In noticing the latest improvement made in this subject,
 for which we are indebted to one of our own countrymen,
it is but fair to return him those acknowledgements                       to
 which he is so justly entitled.             When gentlemen of for
 tune give up the gay amusements of the world, and turn
 aside from the pleasures of fashionable life, to cultivate
science in retirement, they deserve our warmest thanks: and
when      we add to this the consideration             that the science
 they cultivate is not onlv one of the most interesting and
 sublime, but of the utmost importance to a commercial na
 tion like Great Britain, our thanks certainly must be changed
into something more like gratitude.
     There are, indeed, very few who can afford to purchase
 instruments of sufficient accuracy to make improvements
in a science so far advanced ; and still fewer of those that
 so amply possess the means of life, who would bestow that
 time and attention which are requisite iu acquiring the ne
 cessary knowledge for this purpose, and turning it to useful
account.
     Such is the present state of the navy of England, and
 her maritime concerns, that the improvement of astronomy
 is a subject which calls seriously for attention; more espe
 cially, as we have but one public institution for that pur
 pose.     The commerce of France is nothing in comparison
of ours, yet the greatest encouragement is given in that
 couutry     to those who promote every science connected
    • Or, £9'92152 English inches, and 54*-J of Fahrenheit'* thermometer.
                                                                      with


454                               On Refraction.
thermometer 45° of Fahrenheit without, or 49° within, which
he considers as the mean state of the atmosphere*.       With
respect to the latter, he finds the multiplier for all degrees
below 49° within, to be *0024 ; and above 49° within,
"0023 \: but for those above or below 45' without, he finds
it •00-21.  Instead, however, of the number 3, which Dr.
Bradley had adopted for his coefficient of r, Mr. Groom-
bridge finds that 3"3625 agrees better with observations :
consequently his numbers and coefficients will give us the
following four equations.
  1st. For the thermometer within, and lelow 495, putting
                      d = 49 — h.
Refr". = 58"-1192x/,(Z—                   3-3625r)         x       -^s   x   (l
                                                                             +        '0024<i).
 2dly. For the thermometer                        within and             above        493, put
                                  d   =   h   — 49.
Eefr". = 58"'1192 X/,(Z-3'3625r)                           X             X (1— 0023rf).
 3dly. For the thermometer                    without          and Lelow 45°, put
                                  d   =45     —       h.
Refr".= 58"'1192 X-', (Z — 3'3625r) x                          -         X   (l   +   -0O21<7).
 4thly. For the thermometer without and                                  above        45°,   put
                       =   — 45.  d       h
Eefr". = 58"'1192X/,(Z—                   3-3G25r)         X^j           X (1— -0021<f).
     Or, in logarithms        :
1st. Thermometer ivithin and below 49°, put                                  d    =    493 —
                        then                  :
          L.   tan.
                      (
                          Z   —
                                  ~g9r)           +   L.i + L.(l0000                  + 24d)      +
               fl-£9303 = L. Ref."
   * Mr. Kirwan states that the mean temperature nf any place equal to                 is
8-1—51s', latitude. According to this the mean temperature of Blackheath
would be 5'2°-S, but its exposed situation may possibly be the cause of this
small difference — Estimate of the Ttnpervure of dijffc'nt C.i'nates, or Dot-
tan's blelmrolegical Ohtmtiims, page SO.      1
f    Mr. Dalton found likewise that the expansion of air from 55" to 133J,
or for the first 78i°, was 167 parts, whilst the expansion from           to 212°,
or for the next 78^ was only 58 parts, or nine lessthan the former. So that
                 is               1
           there a », difference  betw  een
itappears                                   the expansion of air for the high de
grees and that for the low ones.— Manchester Memoirs, vol. T. or Thom-                ;
stn's Chemistry, vol.   i.p. 49\\ edit, of 1810.
                                                                                  Sd. Ther

                                  On Refraction.                                                 455
8d. Thermometer              within and            above 493, put d — hn — 49°,
                                           then :
         L. t,{Z       —     -~-r      )   + h.b + L. (1O0O0                         -   23d) +
                             = L. Ref."
                                                                                  J=
            6 29^03
3d. Thermoiiieter without                  and below 45°, put                            453 — A°,
                                           then :
         L. t,(Z       _     -
                                   3r) + L.              Z>+       L. (10000 +           21<?)    +
            6-29303 =             L Ref."
4th!y.    Thermometer              without           and above                   45°,    put d =
                                  h°   -45°,        then :
         L. t,(Z       —     ~9-r      )   +       JL.   A   + L.(10000 — 2ld) +
            6-29303 = L. Ref."
   But as   appears more simple to avoid the two numbers
            it
49 and t5j and teckon the state of the thermometer from
zero, we may reduce the whole of these equations to that
temperature, and then find other multipliers for the number
of degrees above that point    which     easily done as fol
                                           ;                      is
lows : Put R= the refraction at any given temperature;
r = the degrees of that temperature, = the refraction at          p
zero, v = the multiplier tor the state R, and     = that for                     v
zero : then we have
  R     + Rrra =       R     (l   +    rn) =    j;         whence            R   =           ;   but
on the contrary,         0   — grv as          R   ==             —              consequently,
                                                       p     (1        *v)   ;
g(\ —    rv) = — —            ,   from which wc »;et                   v   =             :   "then,
by substituting Mr. Groombridoe's multipliers for n, we get
the new multipliers  for reducing the retraction from zero
to any other temperature.    By this we also obtain the ad
vantage of having only three equations instead of four;
which, putting       h   = height of thermometer above zero, will
now be as follows         :
1st. From zero           to 49°, within.
         58 -1192        x   1-1 176 tan.           (Z             -~r
                                                   \               80        )
                 —
            (1      -002147) = R."
                     h
2dly.    For all degrees above 49 within.
                                                                   269
         58"'l   192     x 1-127 X                  (Z
                                                                                        29O
                                                                             )
           (1    —   h   -002067)          = R."
                                           2   F4                                        3d. For

456                                     On Refraction.
3d. For the thermometer                         without.
           58-1192 X 1-0945                          r,(Z-— r)                           X                     X
                (1
                   — h
                       -001919}
                                =                        R."
  Or, in logarithms                 :
1st. From zero to 49° within.
           L.        (Z
                              — -—?          »•)    + 0-3413143              -1-   L.&   +   L.(l         —    /t
                •002147) =               L. R."
fdly.- Above         4    90   within.
           L.t,      fZ       —
                                    -^-r     )      +0-3394060+                    L.i   +L.(1 —               A
                •002067)          = L. R."
Sdly. For the thermometer                           without.
           L-   *>   (Z
                     *
                              - -^Tr)+so        *        0-3322437           +L.^        +   L.(1 —            A
                -001919)            =L.R."
  In    these equations,     although very simple, there                                                       is
some little arithmetic trouble in computing the first and
last part of each expression.       As to the first,    will be                              it
easiest done         by
                    table of" the product of 3-36-25 into each
                          a
of the nine digits:      means of which the product of this
                                    by
                                                                                                  it by
number into any other will readily be obtained,            only
adding that of its several digits, into 3-3625.      Or    may
be done     by    multiplying               r       by   —- -       or,     by   the following ex-
                         -                                80
                                                               ;
                                  =
                                        3   x9
                                            -                 1     . •   -„                      1
                                                     —-        —r, which will only re
                                                                                 .
pression     3-3625       r                    r
quire contracted multiplication and division.
   The last may easilv be effected      very ingenious and         by   a
simple method pointed out         M. Cagnoli*.   Thus    by                                               it   is
well known that cos.1 = rad.! — sin.*; therefore putting
x = — hn, and comparing
       1                           with the latter of these   it
two expressions, we have
            c1, A = r; — s~, A —     — hn = x:                 1
consequently         =    hn and the square of the cosine
                         s,   A            ^
corresponding   will be equal to      Whence wc have this      j\
rule.   To the logarithm of add the logarithm of n, and
                                                     h
divide the sum        2.  Seek this number in the Table of
                               by
Logarithmic Sines, and take oat the logarithmic cosine cor-
  • Trigonometry, 2d edit. 4to. Paris lS03,p. 95, or 1st edit. ITST.p. 102.
                                                                                         responding
       V


                                  [   458   ]
  LXXXI.       Description of a Manometer, by means of which
     we may ascertain the Changes which take place in the
     Elasticity and in the Composition of a determinate Volume
     of Air.   By M. C. L.          Blrthollet*.
 The     appellaiion of manometer has been given to various
 instruments which have been contrived tor ascertaining the
 difference'- of density of the strata of the atmosphere ; for
 we cannot determine by the barometer the variations which
 depend upon heat and upon the hygrometncal                 state.
     Otto Guerick describes a manometer, which was after
 wards given by Boyle as his own invention ; but neither of
 these writers distinguishes its use from that of the barome
 ter.    Varignon, Fouchi and Gerstner have since given
 various manometers.
     These instruments have been generally used for ascertain
 ing the changes of density in the air, by means of the dif
 ference between an empty globe and one full of air, but
 sealed hermetically,      and put in equilibrium with a metallic
 weight ; for, when ihe density of the external air changes,
 the globe undergoes a change in its weight, which answers
 to that which takes place in a volume of air equal to that
 which it occupies, while the metallic weighi, which is of a
 small volume only, remains sensibly the same.
     Bouguer employed a different method for comparing the
 densities of the atmospheric airf : he used a pendulum
 which he made to oscillate at various heights, in order to
judsie, from the losses of motion experienced bv the pen
 dulum in a given time, of the resistance of the air, and
 consequently of its density.           His experiments seemed to
 him to confirm the opinion which he had been led to form,
viz. that, from the height at which the barometer supports
 itself at 16 inches, to that at w hich it suppnris itself at 21
inches, there is a constant relation between the densities of
 the air and the weights which compress it ; but that this
 relation varies from that height down to the level of the sea,
 which he attributes to a difference in the elasticity of the
 molecules of the air.           This error may proceed from the
 difficulty of obtaining resulis free from uncertainty by means
 of the pendulum used by Bouguer, as has been proved by
 M. de SaussureJ, and from his neglecting to reckon the
 effect of the heat, and of the hvgrometrical state of the air.
     We might with propriety resort to these methods of
    * From Mnnoires de la Saciiti tVdmuil, torn. i. p. 282.
   f Mem. de VAcad. des Sciences,1753.          J Joum. de Physique, 1790.
                                                             ascertaining


                    Description       of a   Manometer.
perature be different,       wc ought to bring back the gas to the
 first by calculation.                 .                             v
     This calculation requires that we should take in not only
 the change of elasticity produced by the temperature, but
 also that which flows from the tension of the vapour of the
 ¦water which is formed or destroyed;        and for the latter pur
 pose we inav use the observations of Mr. Dalton.
     After having ascertained the variations which have taken
 place in the elasticity at different times of the observation,
 it is important to be able to determine the chemical changes
 which have taken place in the atmosphere of the vegetable
 or animal substance, and the nature of the gaseous sub
 stances which may be liberated or absorbed.
    This object is attained by means of a stop-cock, above
 which we adapt into a reservoir a graduated tube filled
 with water : on opening the stop-cock the water falls into
 the manometer, and its place is supplied in the tube by an
 equal volume of gas : the stop- cock is closed, and we may
 carry the tube with the gas which it contains.
     We thus obtain a quantity of the gas contained in the
 apparatus, every time that we wish to examine               without it,
producing any change          the pressure of that which remains,
                             in
 and in the elevation of the barometer            :  only requisite
                                                      it   is
to submit the gas which has been extracted to chemical
tests.
    We determine the proportion of carbonic acid                 the       by
absorption of lime water, afterwards that of the oxygen by
the hvdrogenated sulphuret          of lime, according to the •
method of M. de Marty*           and lastly, we test the residuum
                                  :
with oxygenated gas in the eudiometer of Volta,                   we       if
suppose an inflammable gas to exist in it.          The remainder
gives the proportion of the azote.
    In most circumstances carbonic acid               formed, and
                                                           is
more or less of         dissolved in the water which has been
                    it
                    is
introduced into the apparatus, according to its quantity,
temperature,     and the pressure to which               submitted.
                                                           it   is
M. Theodore de Saussure, in order to determine the quan
tity of carbonic acid which was absorbed in several of his
experiments,     contented him?elf#with regarding           as equal it
to the volume of water w hich was in his apparatus.             This
determination     isnot sufficiently rigorous, since the quantity
which  is  absorbed     by
                         the water varies much                  by
                                                       the circum
stances which have been detailed.
    The quantity of carbonic acid which has been absorbed
       *   Journal de Physique, tome lii. dimalcs de Chimie, tome Ui.
                                                                                by

                    Description          of a     Manometer.       ^            461
by the liquid contained in the apparatus, may be determined
by precipitating    this acid by lime water, or by water of
barytes, either from the whole or from a part of the liquid:
after that, we introduce the precipitate into a flask, adapt the
tube of a funnel to       it,
                         through which we pour        quantity of  a
dilute sulphuric acid and  ;             by
                                 the loss of w eight w hich takes
place, we ascertain the quantity or carbonic acid which was
dissolved      the liquid, and which
              in                            disengaged from the
                                                      is
carbonate.— We may,                 by
                              the processes which      have- indi  I
cated, ascertain in      volume of air equal to thai of
                           a                                 kilo      a
gramme of water, and contained in          manometer which has
                                                      a
                    the change which would be produced
                                                                                     a by
this dimension,
the volume of one gramme of water            the production of
                                                      ;
quantity of carbonic acid which does not exceed             centi      a
gramme in weight; and variation     a      the proportions of the
                                                      in
oxygen and azote which does not exceed            centieme   a this        :
is   aprecision which would seem to be sufficient for all the
determinations which we would wish to establish.
    We have besides the advantage of being able to repeat
 and compare the tests at different times,           without in
 terrupting the experiment,     and to vary several of its cir
 cumstances   :I   have constructed    manometers of different
 dimensions, in order to apply them to different objects.
    Hitherto  I have made but      small number of observations
                                              a
 with this instrument, and       have not pursued them with
                                         [
 the care which they require; but my chief object              this        in
 publication   isto induce those to employ      who are occupied
                                                           it
 with experiments of this nature, and who have more leisure
 and perseverance than       have.
                                I       shall describe some early
                                                  I
attempts.
   M. Theodore de Saussure, to whom we are indebted for
some learned and laborious researches upon vegetation, has
shown, -that in most of the cases where we suppose that the
oxygen gas was absorbed                  by
                               vegetable or animal substance,
                                          a
there     simply formed
         is                  combination
                                     a      of the carbon of
these substances with the oxygen of the atmosphere; that
the volume of the gas did not diminish, except on account
of the absorption of the carbonic acid                     by by
                                              water; and that
at the same time water was produced          the combination
of the oxygen and hydrogen which existed in the sub
stance; so that, although the residue had been deprived of
                                                                                      it is a
part of its carbon          by
                        the action of the oxygen y,as,                          it
nevertheless found more carbonized afterwards, because
has been stripped of     greater proportion of hydrogen and
                                a
•xygen than of carbon *.
                   *   Reiherches Chimijues sur la Vi^tlaliun.
                                                                                     It

408              Description     of a   Manometer.
     Itappeared to me to be useful to examine whether these
 results, which give the explanation of several transmutations
undergone by animal and vegetable substances, might con
 duce to general consequences, or if they ought to be re
stricted to a certain class of phenomena.
    M.de Saussuic had already remarked that the oxvgengas
was absorbed by the oils, without forming a corresponding
 quantity of carbonic acid.                                  ,
    The theory of the solution of indigo by the alkaline bases
which are combined with        it,when       deprived of oxygen,
                                             it   is
and of its precipitation   by   the oxygen of the atmosphere,
which has been explained in the Elements of the Art of
Dyeing, seemed established on sufficie nt proofs.      Neverthe
less the analogy, with the facts observed byM. deSaussure,
might lead us to believu that the oxygen of the atmosphere
served to form carbonic acid, with         part of the carbon of
                                             a
the indigo which had been rendered soluble.
    A solution of indigo, made         means of the sulphate of
                                        by
iron and of lime, limpid and of fawn-colour, after having
                                      a
been carefully separated from the sediment, was introduced
into manometer of 11 litres 632 capacity: the barometer
      a
was at Om,75,74, the thermometer at 12": two days after-              i
wards the liquor was completely colourless, and the indigo
was precipitated in dark blue, the thermometer beingat 12,5,
the barometer had fallen six millimetres.
    The filtered liquor was covered while       the air with pel
                                                       in
licles of carbonateof lime, and precipitated abundantly with
oxalate of ammonia   :   the blue precipitate retained on   filter
                                                                a
did not effervesce with an acid, and gave with sulphuric
acid  a  very deep solution of indigo.
    Thus we sec that the lime preserved its state during the
precipitation of the indigo, and that carbonic acid            not
                                                                is
formed.
   On the other hand, the test of the air contained       the   in
manometer has shown that        was the oxygen gas which
                                 it
alone had been absorbed     by
                             the indigo, whose precipitation
it had operated.    The experiment repeated second time     a
gave similar results:  but we here neglect the calculations
necessary for determining the quantity of the absorption,
because we have not ascertained the weight of the indigo
precipitated.    We confine ourselves to the conclusion, that
the quantity of oxygen which disappeared has not been
employed in this case to form carbonic acid     but that    ;
                                                                     it
                                                                     is
combined with the indigo, to which      has thereby rendered
                                              it
its insolubility and colour.
 I   was anxious to compare the changes which are pro-                ,
                                                       duced

/
                                       hy a
                                       .jy
                          was
                                              colouring                           'in,
                              Thecampeachy
                        blue                          wood. substance •of
                                       decoction
                       of* a colour,                     of                                                       46-
                                 fine red     because we
                          Th is              when
                                                             campeachv                           sPec/es
                   ground very clear gla?s orprepare itgenerallv                :             06
                                                                  silver
                  contact of        stopper,     in decoction was .^=eis                                           a
                                                                                      are        vessels
                                                                 at it      cooled in used.                    itis
                                                            placed might not                a
                                                                      in the             be bottle with
                                                            the
                                                                                             altered
                         ..oca for ...crtor                      barometer                               by the
             <U+25BC>ery                                            turbid, and manometer, \h~            the th •'
                            .old
                        turbid          two -                        fp"     ih^ 0,n.7593
                                                                                   *
             meiit was an'1          and ofmonth-
                                               months,
                                                       barometer                                  f<
                                                            and
                 At     the       formed,
                                                 a
                                                    reddish ['"'his
          the                  end of         and
                                                     som                   'Y^the        ,;'s    Wer!nS
                    total 1              the                                 our. d   J'^'orb^            10g
         in
          manometerowering of
                IOO parts when
                                               experiment
                                                   the           the                      Win***             e
                                           referred tobarometerthermometer
                                                          its                              was
                                                                        0'n.05(>,
                           Carbonic                            primitive             the sir 21,25
                          Oxygen ygen       acid . .                                            of*"the
                                                       .                     pressure
       _     There                                                                               aincj
                                 "5      Cndof\i-'--..                            - W
                                                                                     ¦35
                                                                                          of
                                  the                            Mas
                               the
                         rs
                              e-v/Tes
    to
                                                                                          "'Hi*
                            '                                                bp
   ""net
            ,aiatiri..
                   o<).
                              ww            '"Oil
                                                                              ¦tr(>en,
       ..av.                206                "                                  J 11)a
 0,0086 V. which is                66+18                                               ft
                         to                         0,n-oo:
    As to                    take                           266.
the        the                       0{ffor th.
                vapour
     numbers of
                         which                                  9a IS
centigrade
•we
                     the
                         table of
                                   ought to                             30
    find
         thatthermometer,             DAl        be                         25   ^
               th? '*
                                and
        »nda(
                                                                         2%.
                                                                                                     lit

  464               Description   of a Manometer.
  The column of mercury sustained by the elastic            vapour
  which was produced during the experiment,
                          =   Om.003 1 I .
  The manometer brought to the primitive data has therefore
  undergone   a decrease
     =  Om.050 + 0m.00S64 + 0m.00311 = Om.06l75,
     =  0.0913  of the volume    of air used in the experiment.
     In order to know on what substance the absorption acts,
  we must keep an account of the quantity of carbonic acid
  which ought to be dissolved; and as we have neglected to
  do it by precipitation, as I have indicated, we shall confine
  ourselves to regard, with M. de Saussure, this quantity as
  equal in volume to the liquid.
    The capacity of the manometer being four litres 676, the
 volume of the liquid = 0,563, the volume of the air in the
 experiment = 4 lit.    Ill,   the volume of the carbonic acid
 dissolved by the liquor = O lit. 565, forms the 0,137: now
 on adding up the proportionsof carbonic acid and of oxvgen
 formed iu the air, and supposing that the oxvgen gas on
 combining with the carbon is replaced by a volume of car
 bonic acid precisely equal to its own, we find that there
 is wanting in 100 parts of air 10,51 of oxygen, or the 0,103.
 of the volume of the air, a quantity which only differ*
 0,032 from that of the carbonic acid which has been sup
 posed to be dissolved by the liquid.       This difference ought
 to be neglected, because the volume of the carbonic acid
 absorbed ought to be inferior to that of the water, either on
account of the elevation of temperature, or on account of
 the diminution of the pressure.
    If we compare this result with the preceding indication
of the manometer, we find that there is only 0,02 of dif
ference, a quantity which may be neglected, chiefly on ac
count of the inaccurate valuation of the carbonic acid held
 in solution.
    The phenomena, therefore, answer perfectly in this cir
cumstance to the observations of M. de Saussure ; the oxy
gen gas is not absorbed by the decoction of campeachy ; hut
the latter changes it into carbonic acid, on giving up car
bon to it : at the same time, without doubt, water is
formed by the intimate union of the oxygen and hydrogen
which existed in the substance, which thereby becomes
more carbonized ; and it is bv these effects that we ought to
explain the alterations which it undergoes in its properties.
    Then this solution gives only a yellow precipitate with
the nitro-muriate of tin, instead of a bright red precipitate :
                                                                an


                    Description           of a   Manometer.
  is to be adjusted successively in two positions which form a
  right angle with each other. This plummet is attached to
  a moveable brass scale H, to which we give only 0!".04 to
  Om.05      of extent. This scale embraces, by means of two
   rings b b, not shut, the barometrical tube: it may thus be
   placed at any height on the barometer, and preserve the
  position which is given to it. It is used to determine the
  quantity which the height of the column of mercury has
  varied in the course of an experiment : if this quantity
   exceeds the limits of this scale, which is not very probable,
   it may be shifted so as to measure at several times the whole
   variation observed.       The absolute height of the mercury is
   taken at the commencement of the experiment on a barometer,
   and we fix one of the extremities of the scale H at the sum
   mit of the mercury at this moment.             The small branch of
   the syphon is furnished with a scale, in order also to ob
   serve the difference of the height of the mercury from the
   commencement to the end of the experiment.                 When the
   experiments require      it,  we give to the tube       length which
                                                               a
   exceeds much that of the common barometers, and                  may  it
    he augmented sufficiently to indicate          pressure double that
                                                     a
    of the atmosphere.
        The plateE     has atC       stop-cock intended to give issue
                                      a
    fo the air of the apparatus when we wish to examine                           it
                                                                                   ;
, and this stop-cock     is      adjusted in such       manner that we
                                                          a
    may repeat these experiments as often as we judge             neces it
    sary in the course of an experiment, without fearing to
    change the nature, or even the state of compression, of the
    air of the manometer.         For this effect, the stop-cock has
    above its collet atL      (figures     3,4, and
                                            1,          two nut-screws,
                                                          5)
    one internal and one external.          On the latter     mounted
                                                                   is              a
    copper salver M, which we fill with distilled water: the
    glass tube N, graduated and furnished with             copper socket
                                                               a
     at O,  is adjusted upon the internal screw, after having been
     also filled with distilled water: the extremity of its screw
  is     furnished with a     round of leather, which we compress.
     On opening the stop-cock the water of the tube                  dis     is
     placed hv the air, which escapes from the manometer, and
     when we perceive that        asufficient quantity has entered into
     the tube, we shut the stop-cock.            Upon unscrewing the
     tube, the volume of the air which has entered generally
     changes, and occupies    a   smaller or larger space, in proportion
     asit    underwent in the manometer              pressure weaker or
                                                      a
     •tronger than that of the atmosphere.          But we remove the
     tube   by plunging the finger into the water of the bason, and
     closing with its extremity the orifice of the tube, and wc

                        On the Barometer.                      467
io   not measure the air until after we have determined with
the usual preeaulions       the temperature       and pressure to
which it is exposed.
    We must only introduce in this manner into the mano
meter, a liquid, which most commonly does not disturb the
results, and the influence of which we can always ascertain :
if we were afraid, however, that it would interrupt the ex
periment, we might receive it into a vessel disposed for this
purpose in the inside of the manometer.
    Fig. 3 shows the various pieces just described, ready to
be adjusted : fig. 5 is a section of these same pieces all
adjusted.
    We ought to take care, in the construction of this appa
ratus, to give the hole of the kev of the stop-cock          a dia
meter sufficiently large to admit of the easy flowing of the
uater of the tube, and it ought not to be less than twelve
millimetres.     In order that the air contained in this hole
may be in the same circumstances with that which occupies
the whole capacity of the manometer, we leave the stop
cock open during the experiments, as seen in fig. 1 and 2 ;
we intercept the communication            with the external air by
means of a copper stopper O (fig. 1 and 4) which has the
same screw with the mounting of the divided tube, and
which is also furnished with a rim of leather.          In order to
close it properly, it has at iis surface a square cavity which
 is seen at p, into which we insert the stalk r of the same
form which is at the extremity of the handle of the key T.
 We then only close the stop-cock at the moment when we
 wish to extract the air from the manometer.
LXXXIT.      On t lie Barometer.    By Richard     Walker,    Esq.
                          To Mr. Tilloch.
Sin, Considering          that I  may not have been sufficiently
explicit in my last paper,         respecting the effects of the
 difference of temperature on the weather, I have been in
duced to offer the following remarks on that part of the
subject.
    A warm temperature of the air, at any degree of density
 of the atmosphere, will retain a greater portion of water in
a state of chemical combination, than a cold temperature of
 the air at a similar degree of density of the atmosphere.
Hence we may account for the almost constant dry state
 of the lower stratum of the atmosphere during the sum-
                                 2  G   2                      MER

         9
468                          On the Barometer.
 mer season, and the almost constant moist slate of the
 lower stratum of the atmosphere during the winter sea
  son ; the air, however, being sometimes sufficiently dense,
 as in the clear weather which accompanies a freezing atmo
 sphere, to retain the water in a state of clwmical combina
 tion, notwithstanding          the diminution of temperature.
    The same circumstance accounts likewise for the dif
 ferent states, with respect to moisture and dryness, of the
 middle seasons, viz. spring and autumn, accordingly
 as these participate in their nature more or less of either of
 the former seasons ; observing that, cceteris paribus, there is
 more rain and misty weather during autumn than spring,
 in consequence of the greater quantity of water which has
 been raised into the atmosphere during the summer than
 the winter season.
    All the circumstances I have had occasion to mention,
 depending upon the greater or less density, and the higher
 and lower degrees of temperature of the atmosphere,                   are
 exemplified by the two following familiar experiments:
    In the first instance, by means of pumping out of a glass
 receiver (containing air apparently dry and perfectly trans
 parent) a certain portion of the air it contains, when the
 air being rarefied deposits a certain portion of the water it
 originally contained in chemical combination in a cloudy
 vapour, which, upon re-admission of the air, is re-absorbed;
and in the second instance, by abstracting heat from a glass
 vessel containing atmospherical air, and again restoring the
 heat.     The latter circumstance is likewise instanced, natu
rally, by what commonly happens in the course of a hot
 summer's dav, particularly when the ground has become
 very moist by previous rain ; the vapour ascending visibly in
 the morning, disappearing during the middle of the day,
 and descending visibly again in the evening*. .
    The variations of temperature in the atmosphere inde
pendent of those which proceed from the direct influence of
 the sun, arise from the conversion of water into vapour,
 which produces cold ; and the condensation of vapour into
 water, which produces heat.             Hence it commonly follows,
 that in proportion as the barometer rises, the thermometer
sinks, and vice versa, throughout the year; the direct influ
ence of the sun in clear weather being abstractedf.
   * At Lima, in Peru, it never rains ; the moisture raised in the
                                                                   day time
being restored again at ni^ht in the state of mist.
   f In summer, during fair weather, the nights, or rather the mornings be
fore sun- rise, are cold, approaching even to iro.t.
                                                                 Thunder


470                      Royal Society.
had been    absorbed by   the metal : and he stated, that the
proportions of oxygen      or of oxymuriatic gas which com
bine with metals, are     always definite; and that when two
proportions    combine,   the one bears a simple ratio to the
other.
    Mr. Davy, inferring from the whole series of facts that
oxymuriatic gas must be considered as a substance as yet
undecompounded,      and analogous in many of its properties
to oxygen gas, but having stronger attractions for most in
flammable bodies, — suggests the necessity of altering its
name; which conveys so false an idea of its nature.
    Conceiving it dangerous in the present improving state
of science to adopt any names connected with theoretical
arrangements, which may require alteration as knowledge
advances, — he ventures to suggest for the consideration of
chemical philosophers the name of chlarice, derived from
its green colour ; and he proposes to signify its compounds
by the name of the basis, with a termination in inc or ane:
thus hornsilver, improperly called muriate of silver, would
be named argentawe      ; muriate of barytes, barytirae,  &c.
     On the 13th and 20th, the Groonian Lecture on muscu
lar motion, by ¦         Brodie, Llsq . F. R.S. was read.   The
subjects introduced in this lecture were less numerous, and
the discussion less varied, than usual on similar occasions;
 and very little or no reference was made to muscular
 action, the ingenious lecturer confining himself to a simple
 detail of the tliermometrical    effects on the animal body, in
 consequence of dividing ihe spinal marrow and afterwards
 inflating the lungs artificially with a pair of bellows, and
 continuing the circulation of the blood under such circum
 stances for nearly two hours.        The subjects of operation
 were chiefly rabbits: and the author made a great number
 of experiments on these animals by dividing the spinal
 marrow and suffering them to die in this manner, noticing
 their temperature and that 'of (he room at particular periods;
 or, after dividing the spinal marrow, inflating the lungs, and
 thus keeping up the circulation       for an hour, and even an
 hour and a half; noting also the temperature of the heart,
 intestines, and rectum, at various times during the experi
 ments.     The result of the author's inquiries was, that ani
 mal heat does not appear to be produced, as generally sup
  posed, by the action of the air on the lungs, and the cir
  culation of the blood ; as those animals whose lungs were
  inflated, and the circulation artificially continued, were al
  ways from one to three or four degrees colder in a certain
  time than those whose spinal marrow was divided and suf

                  Royal Society of Edinburgh.               471
ferecl to die.   Professor Davy suggested to the author, that
the cold air thrown into the lungs (which produced the
usual change in tb<- colour of the blood) might contrihute
 to this effect; and accordingly an experiment was made to
obviate such consequence by means of a ligature : when it
appeared, that in an hour and forty minutes the body in
which the circulation was artificially continued after di
viding the spinal marrow, was only one degree colder than
that which died immediately.      Mr. B.'s experiments seem to
militate against the doctrine of the vitality of the blood;
but they do little towards illustrating the fact, that tortoises
can live and walk about long after having been deprived
entirely of the brain, and even part of the spinal marrow.
    On the evening of the 20lh, part of a letter from Dr.
Parry, of Bath, was read, on certain nervous affections ; as
convulsions,    tremulous motions, and sudden startings or
pulsations of what is vulgarly called the life blood ; after
which the society adjourned till January 10.
               ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
    On Monday the 5th of November, the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh met for the first time in their new apartments
 in George- street, when Dr. Thomas Thomson read two
 papers, giving the account of the analyses of two new mi
 nerals from Greenland.      To one of them he has given the
 name of allanite, and to the other sodalite.       In the first
 he discovered a considerable portion of cerium, and in one
 analysis he detected a quantity of a metallic oxide per
 fectly new in its properties, for which he proposed the
 name of junonium.        The other mineral, according to his
 investigation, affords 23 per cent, of soda and three of mu
 riatic acid.   By an analysis of Mr. Ekeberg, the same con
 stituents were yielded in the proportions of 25 per cent, and
 six per cent.
     At the next meeting on the 19th, a short communica
 tion was read, respecting a singular water-spout observed
 at Ramsgate,
     On the 3d inst. a paper by Dr. Brewster was read, being
 a new demonstration     of the fundamental properties of the
 lever. — Also a communication     by Sir George Mackenzie,
 Bart, relative to the hot springs of Iceland ; when Sir George
 exhibited some beautiful drawings and part of a series of
 magnificent    specimens from that countrv, which he pro
 poses to deposit in the cabinet of the Society : and at the
 last meeting, on the 17th, Sir George began a description
 of the minerals of Iceland, when he exhibited specimen*
 from the district called the Guldbringe Syssel.
                                                 LXXXIV.     In

                                         C   *74      j
                  INDEX to VOL. XXXVI.
jl.   CETATE     of potash. To prepare           Comets.    New theory on orbits »f<
     colourless,                           53                                     25*
 Acid, muriatic, the base of, 71, 152,           CompensationPendulums. On,        81
     353; Oxymuriatic,     a   simple sub        Congreve'srockets,  a prize question,
     stance, 152, 352, S93, 404 com;                                              232
     binations of, 404 Mucous, to pro
                      ;                          Cnromandel. Land winds of,       24i
     cure pure, 191 prussic and prus.
                      ;                          Cow covered with horns,           70
    sous, Porreiton,                      196    Crane on orbits of comets,       253
Alumine- Constituents of,                   88   Craniognosy. A work on,        74,77
Amalgams of the new metals, 86               ;   Crystallography. Hauy on, 64, 121
     mercury   and  silver,               143    Curadcu's process for obtaining so
Ammonia,         Davy on, 17; singular             dium and potassium,            282
    compound of, 71, 152, 354, 407;              Cuthiertson on increasing the charge
    constituents of. Si); perhaps deu-
                                     a             of electric jars,              259
    toiide of ammonium,                     91   Cystic oxide, species of urinary cal
                                                              a
Analysis of meteoric stone, 32; of           a     culus,                          70
    supposed new     earth,  77   of  British
                                                  Dalton, on proportion of oxygen in
                               ;
    and foreign salt, 106 of Atropa                                                     88
                                                     protoxides and neutral salts,
                            ;
    belladonna, 144; ofscammony, of                                                    153
                                                 D' Ariel's notes on Gold,
    socotrine and hepatic aloes,88 225
                                     ,1                                                 —
                                                 Davy's Bakerian lecture for 1809
Animal heat, new ideas on,               470
                                                     Exper. on nitrogen, ammonia, and
Arlvr Dion*. Vitalison,                   143
                                                     the amalgam from ammonia,        1
Artillery, proper charges        for,    333                                          7
                                                     on the metals of the earths, 85s ;
Astronomic refraction. Improvements                  ou muriatic and oxymuriatic acid,
    in,                             S40, 446
                                                     70, 152, S52; his experiments re
Atropa belladonnaanalysed,                143
Attraction, sol-lunar influence of, on               peated at Moscow, 73; conside
                                                     rations of theory, 90 recantation
                                                                          ;
    clouds,                                58
                                                     of French chemists respecting his
Bakerian lecturefor 809, Davy's,
                       1                  1
                                          7
                                                     new metals, 153; new experiment9
Balls.     On penetration     of, with    dif                                  J!*-', 404
                                                     on oxymuriatic gas,
   ferent charges,                       325
                                                 De Clsle on the poison cf the B- ho't
Barometer. Sir H. C.Engle6eld's,241              '
                                                     vpas and Antea,
                                             ;
    prognostics of,                275, 376
                                                 De Luc's geological travels,  3
                                                                               ;     elec
Barraud's mercurial pendulum,              83                              75, 317,472-
                                                    trical column,
harytes. Constituents       of,            88    I),.'-, on sugar of apples,
                                                     v                                218
Berrurd on    muriate   of  tin,         205
                                                 Dyeing. Hints on,                    462
Bernoully on acetate of potash,            53
Bethlem hospital. Subscription for               Earthquake at the Azores,           397
   rebuilding,                           234     Earth scretc. Salmon's,             257
Bogs in Ireland. Parliamentary re                Ecliptic. Obliquity    of,          424
                                   361,437       Electi icicy, a prize question,     232
   port on,
Bracormot'sanalysis of aires,            224     Electrical jars. Charging capacity of.
Calculi, urinary. Remedy for                 8      increased,                       259
Calomel. Cheap process for prepar                Engleficlds (Sir H. C] mountain ba
                                         283       rometer, 241 account      of  a thun
   ing, 281 to purify,
           ;                                                    ;
                                         32!       der-storm,                        349
Camp telegraph. Knight's,
Carey's meteorological tables, 80,      160,     Evans on astronomic refraction, 340
                      240, 320, 400,473                                              446
Chtnecix on mineralogical systems                Extractive principle, prize question,
                                                                     a
                            286, 378, 413                                            154
                                           78    Fail-rim on purity of gold,         132
City, ancient, discovered,
                                                 Farry's   >niisical theorems,
Co/fee grown in France,                  3t6                                  f
Cold, Leslie's artificial,                 76               on Michel's list of
Comtustivn, not caused exclusively
                                          S»7    Farcy        On bop
   by oiygeu,


 76                              INDEX.
Resins. Exper. on, 185; redden turn      Taylor's new engine, to be worked
   sole,                             186    either by water or by steam, 39-4
Roxburgh on land winds of Cororaan-      Telegraph, Knight's,               321
   del,                             243  Thermometer. On Mr. E. Walker's
Royal Society, London, 70, 152, 392        scale, 16; Mr. R. Walker's metal
                                    469    lic for high temperatures,       11£>
Royal Society, Edinburgh,           471  Thief-taker, a mechanical,         255
Rupture. New mode of treating, 237       Thunder-storm. Violent,            349
Salmons thief-catcher, 256 ; method      Torideux on decomposing water, 303
                                         Travels in Siberia, 72 ; in Russia, 72
   of building housesof earth,      2G3
                                         Tromsdorff on aloes,               221
Sail, (muriate of soda) Henry on,
                                         Tunnel under the Thames proposed
                               106, 171
                                           to be made of iron,               34
Sandarach, a pure resin,            185
Screw to secure posts, &c. in the earth, Vaccination. Dublin report, 96 ; na
                                    257    tional establishment instructions,
Serpentsfed by a child,             315                                     308
Ships' guns. Charges for,           328 Vauquelin's analysis of Atropa bella
Singular compound, 71, 152, 354, 407       donna,                           143
Smeuton's pupers, preparing for the Vegetables. On supposid absorption
   press,                           102    of oxygen gas by,                46 1
Smyth's systetnof tuning. On, 165,435 Vesuvius. Eruption of                 313
Soap-works. Cause of explosions in, Upas. Exper. on,                         70
                                    304 Urinary calculi. Remedy for,          8
Societies, learned,   70, 152, 392, 4C9
Soda, effects of, on healthy urine, 13; Walker's, (R.) Thermometer for high
   exper. on,                       393    temperatures, 119; on prognostics
Sodium. Curadau's process for ob           by the barometer, 275, 376, 467
                                         Walker, (E.) on pendulums, 81 ; on
   taining, 283 ; Davy's new process
   for obtaining,                          purifying olive oil,             372
                                    393
                                                                       stone,32
Solar influenceon clouds,            58 Warden's analysis of meteoric
Strata. The principal British,           Watches. Oil for pivots of,        372
                                    102
Strontites. Constituents of,             Water. Decomposition of by char
                                     88
Sugar from apples,                         coal                             303
                                    218
Sulphur. Davy'i exper. on,               Weather. To foretell,        275, 376
                                    352
Surgical cases,                          Wernerian Society,                 233
                              151, 230
Surgery. Hints to improve,               Werner'ssystemexamined       286, 378
                                    401
                                         Winds, land, of Coromandel,        243
Tape-worm, expelled by oil of tur
                                                     method of increasing the
   pentine,                   306, 335 JVingfield's
                                           charge of electric jars,         259
Taunton's surgical cases,      151,230 Wollaston on cystic oxide,            70
               END OP THE THIRTY-SIXTH               VOLUME.
             Printed ly Richard Taylor and Co., Shot Lane, London.
































I
 I
 1
i
I


Replaced with nwwwrM Microform
               1993

