The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uva.x002266012
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.





                                  , THE                  Q    %{^Jl
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
         THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                 THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                                GEOLOGY,
                           AGRICULTURE,
            MANUFACTURES AND COMMERCE.
                BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
                    MJU.A.      F.S.A.   Edin. and Perth,  Sec.
   «  Nec aranearum sane    Vitus  ideo tnelicr q
vllior ^uia ex alienie libamus ut apes.^   Just.
                                   VOL. XL
 For   JVLY, AUGUST, SEPTEMBER,                   OC
                             and   DECEMBER,         1813.
                                   LONDO Ni
         PRINTED BY RICHARD TAYLOR AND CO., SHOE LANE:
And sold by Richardsons ; Cadell and Davies ; Longman.-Hurst, Reei,
        Okme, and Brows i Murrav; Highlet; Sherwood and Co.;
             Harding; London: Constable and Co. Edinburgh;
                      Brash and Reid, and Niven, Glasgow;
                           & Gilbert & Hodges, Dublin.

n
        ;
          '
            .  -'-.I                  THE
"i>«lLOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
f. Memoirs of            the Life  and Works
                                                  of the late Dr. Maske-
     ltne;      read at the Public Meeting of the National In
     stitute of France, Januarp f-s 1813, by A. Dklambre,
     Secretary
                     -
                       translated friftn. -'f fi?j;encli arid communicated
     by a Correspondent, June -fpi-ir'
Nevil         Maskf^5? nb* jj.^ijP.J^-S^Astronoirier               Royal at
Greenwich ; m^en^e^of.t^p''ivf^''rc, 'of Sciences at Paris,
and also one of 3%p4>j0 iyf                     ^bciates of the Class of
Philosophy and/~>                 'eifWiifi  j'     the Imperial Institute;
was born in Lone .               ^/^,%f          October 1732, of an an
cient family long/j^i 'd|ft«^ft^Wy*t of England.                     At nine
years     of  age rurwx
                              -
                                -^Wfrl   Hi WWrninster        school,  where
he soon distinguis^t.-J-^mskU'.                   .  tUMfcrly period   of  his
life he showed a taste for optics and 4 ionomy ; but what
attached him to the prosecution of ihese studies was the
 eclipse of the sun in f 7>t&fof which ten digits were eclipsed
 at London.             It is very remarkable that this eclipse pro
 duced the same effect on the mind of Lalande, who was
 .only three months older than Maslcelyne ; and it may with
 truth be observed thai no celestial phenomenon was ever
 more useful to science than this eclipse, which gave her
 two such very distinguished                 astronomers, who pursued
  this science under different views, each taking the depart
  ment most agreeable to his own taste.                   One wrote largely
  in all the branches of astronomy, and instructed others
  with great success, but made few observations ; the other
  has written comparatively little, but his numerous observa
   tions are universally acknowledged to possess an unrivalled
  degree of accuracy.             Maskelvne perceived how much the
  Science of mathematics was necessary in the line his in-
  -
      Vol. 42. No. 183. July 1813,                       Ag         clinalion.

4                     Memoirs of tlie       Life   and Works
  elination led him to pursue ; he therefor* applied to the
 study of      it,
                and in    few months became master of the
                             a
 elements of geometry and algebra.        This. success was au
 earnest of that distinction to which he afterwards rose in
 the knowledge of plane astronomy, and the deeper parts of
 physical. About this time he went to Cambridge, where
 lie was first admitted at Catherine Hall, and afterwards re
 moved to Trinity College, and he there greatly distinguished
 himself at his examination for his Bachelor's degree.
     In 755 he accepted
      1                      curacy in the neighbourhood of
                                   a
 Loudon, at which he resided during some years, devoting all
.his leisure to his favourite study.     He now became inti
 mate with the great astronomer Bradley, whom he assisted
 in making many important calculations.         In 1756 he be
 came fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, and the fol.
 lowing year fellow of the Koyal Society of London,             ,
     But his astronomical career may properly be said to
 commence in 1761, when he wis chosen to go to St. He
 lena to observe the transit of Venus. And to obtain further
 advantage from this voyage, he proposed to the Royal So
 ciety to make observations on the parallax of Sinus.        La
 Caille had frequently observed this fine star at the Cape of
 Good Hope; and calculating these observations, Dr. Maske*
 lyne thought he perceived       parallax of 4"'5 the result of
                                       a
 which made the distance of Sirius from the earth much
Jess lhap  it   usually considered.
                 is                  Nevertheless, though he
did ample justice to our celebrated astronomer, and to the
excellent work containing his observations    yet he remarked
                                                        ;
with truth, that these observations, made with another
View, were neither sufficiently numerous, nor attended by
circumstances suitable to verify the parallax; and the varia
tions observed, thpugh sufficiently regular in general, might
in part arise from inevitable errors   the observations.
                                                   in
    The Abbe La Caille, hearing of Maskelyne's undertaking,
wrote tp Warton, their cotnmop friend, recommending
him to make observations on the meridian passages of the
moon,     inprder to verify the parallax of this heavenly bfldy,
in  the~determinatipn   of which he had, himself, been en
gaged at the CaPe            fif
                            Good Hope.     He also sent hint        a
Jist of the observations he thought most useful, thus giving
a  striking proqf       pf
                     that )oyp             p,f
                                   truth, which he always made
his first object.
    Dr. Maskelyne, pn his part, had taken similar precau
tions and, without knowjng he was anticipated, sent to the
     ;
i'rench astronomers        list of the observations he recom
                             a
mended.      Cloudy weather prevented the observation of the
                                                               transit

                         tj the  late  Dr.   Mashetyne.                      A
 transit of Ventis, which had been the occasion of the voy*
 age ; but Dr. Maskelyne, who was furnished with an ex
cellent clock of Shelton's regulated at Greenwich by Brad*
ley, and which had been removed with all possible care,
determined the number of vibrations it made less at St.
Helena than at London, to judge from thence the diminu
tion of gravity.
    The second object of the voyage was the parallax of
Sirius : this observation, like the other, failed, but it gave
occasion to a curious and useful remark. To judge whether
the star Sirius had any sensible parallax, it was requisite to
have a better instrument than La Caille's, and to observe
the star in favourable circumstances.                  The last point de
pended on the astronomer, the first on the artist.                       The
Royal Society had a sector made on purpose, which was
completed only at the moment of departure, and therefore
could not be tried at Greenwich. What was Dr. Maske-
Jyne's surprise when he found that this instrument, in
tended for the most delicate researches, gave him daily dif
ferences of 10", 20" and 30" in the measure of the same
angle ! Carefully examining what might be the cause of
these extraordinary variations, he ascertained it by certain
trials, and endeavoured to correct it ; but succeeded only
in part. He reduced the error to 3'', yet this was insuffi
cient for the object he had in view*. He was therefore
obliged to give it up : but this disappointment was the oc-
   * This error was occasioned by the plumb-line, at the top, being in a
loop and hung over a cylinder of l-20th of an inch in diameter, fixed to the
centre of the sector.   The telescope could not be directed to a star without
giving this cylinder a motion of rotation equal to the distance of the star
from the zenithi this motion, by the effect of adhesion to the cylinder,
deranged the line from its first position; and the arc which had passed under
the line was not then the true zenith distance of the star. Dr. Maskelyne*
had the cylinder filed to l-70th of a line, and then the error was reduced
to 3". On this occasion no doubt the actual suspension was thought of,
which consists in attaching the top of the plumb-line to a fixed point, from
which it might hang freely, opposite the point marked on the outer sur
face of the axis of the cylinder. By this means the plumb line will keep the
same position, without variation, and the observed distance may be depended
on. It may be asked whether the sector with which Bradley made his fine
discoveries of aberration and nutation, had not this defect.      The answer
would be the same ; for Bradley's sector, made by Graham, was the model
of the sector constructed by that celebrated artist and taken to Lapland.
Bradley could not then rely on the distances he had measured.     Fortunately
the error would be very nearly the same for each star that he observed ; he
only wanted relative distances, and the sector gave them nearly as exact a§
if there had not been any error. This defect, which certainly existed in the
sector of Lapland, did not prevent Lemonnier, on bjs return to France, from
observing, like Bradley, all the variations produced by aherration,       and
hence fully to confirm the brilliant discoveries of the English astronomer.
See Degre du Miriiitn entre Paris ft Anient,    Paris 1740.
                                      A  3                            casjon

6                Memoirs     of the Life    and   Worh
 casion of an important improvement in the construction of
 astronomical instruments.         He inquired whether La CaiUe's
 sector had not the same fault, and his suspicions were just.
 Instead of a cylinder, LaCaille had only a very fine pin,which
 could not produce an error of more than 2". He further
 inquired whether the sector which the academicians took
 to the polar circle in 1736 was not of a similar construc
 tion, and this conjecture also was right ; hut the dimen
  sions of the cylinder being only half a line, the errors re
 sulting from it could not. be more than a fourth of what
  that experiment has been reproached with, since it has
 been tried again by M. Svanberg with the repeating cir
 cle.
     He therefore could not attend to the parallax of the
  moon, any more than to that of Sirius : nevertheless, to en
  ter as much as possible into the views of La Caille, he had
  recourse to observing the right ascensions.                 He knew
  doubtless that this method could not be compared with
 that of the French astronomer; for he never mentioned the
  results he had obtained, although he repeated these obser
 vations in his voyage to Barbadoes.
     Ff he had the vexation to see all his plans overturned,
 without any fault on his part, he knew at -least, like La
 Cailic, to make his voyage useful to the science of longi
 tude; he made trial of the different methods which had
 been proposed for this problem, he confirmed all the con
 clusions drawn by La Caille, in favour of the distances of
 the moon from the sun ; and as he had more exact instru
 ments, he could be certain that any errors of this method
 were confined in much narrower limits.                 He gave new
 tables to calculate these observations,           and was even so
 scrupulous as to calculate first the effect of refraction, and
 then that of parallax.
     Ou his return he published his British Mariner's Guide *,
 in which he proposed to adopt the plan of the Nautical Al
manac described by La Caille after his voyage to the Cape
 of Good Hope.
     The same year he made a voyage to Barbadoes, the ob
ject of which was to try Harrison's watches* The report
 he made on his return, though favourable in general to the
celebrated artist, whose invention he had been obliged to
submit to the most rigid trial, was far from convincing
Harrison ; who attacked' him in a pamphlet.                 Dr. Maske-
lyne replied.    The seamen and the learned took part for or
               * British Mariner'« Guide', ISO
                                               pages, 1763.
                                                                against,

                        'of   the late   Dr. Maskehjn'e.                  f
iigainst, according                ideas or connections.
                              to their                      M. de
Fleaurin, intimate         with F. Bertoud, and devoted to the
cause of watches>        perhaps forgot on this occasion his usual
moderation.        It   was    great dispute between two useful
                                 a
methods calculated to give assistance to each other.            Dr.
Mask'elyne found watches could not be sufficiently de-*
pended on.      Harrison said, not without some reason, they
were within the limits prescribed          the act of parliament.
                                                      by
He therefore demanded the whole reward                  which was     ;
granted him afterwards, but of which at that time he ob
tained only half.     Pleading his cause he attacked the astro
nomical methods, and took advantage of La Caille's re
marks, when extolling the method of distances he yet
owned the errors to which              was subject.
                                              it         Maskelvne
proved,   by  his experience, that the errors       would    be less
with better instruments than those of La Caille, and such
they then began to make           London.in          probable, that
                                                                It   is
Jn this struggle between mechanics and astronomy each
party might be carried         little too far. The watches did
                                     a
all that was required of them         the act of
                                              by      14, and     at 1
                                                                     7    if
that time Harrison had presented his machine, he would
doubtless, without difficulty, have obtained the whole re
ward. But fifty years afterwards, when instruments had
been improved, and the tables of the moon had received
unhoped-for improvements, was            not excusable to require
                                                   by it
 something    more?     Watches,         the facility they offered^
 were likely to please seamen, enemies to long calculations;
 but their exactness could not be depended on, except in.
short voyages; in long voyages the method of distances
 had an incontestable advantage         thus Dr. Maskelyne ap
                                                  :
 pears  to us to have  shown  as   much    justice as discernment,
 in awarding one half of the sum to Harrison for his watch                     ;
 and the other half to the second Lunar Tables, which Mayer
 had before his death sent to the Board of Longitude in
 London. The English nation afterwards yielded as much
 to motives of generosity as of justice, in completing the re
 ward to Harrison to which he had            right when the literal
                                                           a
 meaning of the act of parliament                considered.    Dr.
                                                               is
 Maskelyne, who was then endeavouring to get the plan of
 the Nautical Almanac adopted, had reason to fear that the
 nation, after having magnificently rewarded one fine in
 vention, might be more indifferent and ceconomical with
 respect to    a yet more useful work.            was his duty to
                                                               It
 plead the cause of science, and he acquitted himself ho
 nourably: both parties gained their cause. Dr. Maskelyne
 established that plan which La Caille could not get adopted
                                         A    4                                in

*                 Memoirs  of the Life and Works
 in France, and the English had the glory of first realizing
 it.   This i& an obligation which seamen and astronomers
 of all ages and all nations will owe to Dr. Maskelyne ;
 to succeed in which required all his perseverance, and the
 high estimation he was universally so justly held' in.     Un
 doubtedly we partly owe to him the successive improve
 ments of the theory of the moon, in which he was con
 stantly occupied.     He was the editor of Mayer's Tables,
 and added to     them  tables of horary motion which. were
 wanting to the copy which came from Gotienhurgh : he
 compared these tables with his daily observations,          and
under his direction Mason gave a corrected and enlarged
 edition of those tables, which have since been improved by
M. Burg, and lately by M. Burckhardt, who have been
assisted partly by Dr. Maskelyne's last observations, and
partly by the analytical discoveries of M. de la Place, who
furnished them with the equations which would have been
 difficult lo discover among so many others, if they had not
 received other assistance than that of observations.
     The office of Astronomer Royal, to which Dr. Maskelyne
was appointed in the beginning of 1765, enabled dim to
render this ereat service to science. The Royal Observatory
is situated in Greenwich Park, a few miles from London.
In this retreat during forty-seven years, Dr. Maskelyne ob
served the heavens, and has in consequence left the most
-complete set of observations with which the world was
ever presented, and thus laid the foundation for the im
provements of astronomical      tables; for it is not sufficient
for an astronomer to have zeal in the service, he must also
possess the means of exerting it to the best advantage : those
can only be met with in establishments founded by govern
ments. This acknowledged truth occasioned the observa
tories of Paris and Greenwich to be built nearly at the same
time; but in these two establishments one essential cir
cumstance was equally forgotten.         Dr. Maskelyne first
thought of supplying this omission, and by so doing has-
rendered science a most important service, and constituted
the principal difference in the two rival observatories.      At
Paris architecture was principally constdered, and at a great
expense a fine edifice was raised, but which was not well
calculated for making observations.       The astronomers, all
academicians, there formed a sort of republic without ma
gistrates, where each employed himself in works which
certainly were useful, but without any general or connected
plan. The Cassinis, the La Hires, the Maraldis, published
from time to time their discoveries,. or some interesting re

                    of the late Dr. Maskelyne.                Q
Suit ; but they did not publish their observations : the world
was therefore obliged to rely entirely on them for the just
ness of their conclusions thence deduced.
    At Greenwich the building was less splendid, but better
adapted to astronomy ; one astronomer and one assistant.
The law which established the observatory imposed on the.
astronomer royal the obligation of observing every day the
sun, the moon, and whatever could be interesting to geo
graphy or navigation.
    Flamstead filled the office for thirty years : part of his
observations were published during his life, and his heirs
afterwards gave a more complete and correct edition «f
them. At his death, in 1 720, he was succeeded by the
celebrated Halley, who continued the same plan with better
instruments until 1750 ; but none of his observations were
ever published.       In this establishment they had neglected
to order the observations to be published annually.
    Bradley succeeded Halley ; got new instruments, and by
 his delicate and important discoveries immortalized him
 self, but did not publish any thing; and his heirs main
 taining that his manuscripts belonged to his family, it was
not until forty years after his death that astronomers were
 put in possession of this treasure.     In France the same in
 attention    produced like effects.      About 17-10, Lemon-
 nier wished to publish "tine Hlsto've Celeste" in imitation
 of Flamstead's.       He brought out one volume, containing
 the observations of Picard and La Hire to the year 168-5:
 this collection appearing fifty years too late, lost nearly all
 its value.     Lemonnier promised a second part, but the
  small sale of the first prevented him from fulfilling his pro
 mise.     As a particular favour, his own observations were
 printed at the Louvre ; but there was an interval of sixty
 years which has not been filled up.        M, Cassini had an
  nounced    " uve ITisloire Celeste," which should contain the
  works of his three predecessors ; but perhaps the example of
  what happened to Lemonnier, or the misfortunes          of the
  revolution which pressed so heavily on him, prevented
  his doing it.     La Caiile not finding any other means of
  publishing    his  " Fondemens de I' Astronomie ," calculated
  gratis twenty years of the Ephemeris for a bookseller, who
  printed for him as many copies of his work as he wanted
  to make presents of to the astronomers of his time.         All
  the observations he made afterwards remain unpublished.
     It is related that the queen of England, struck with the
  sinallness of the salary of the astronomer royal, for so la
  borious a situation, offered to increase it.       Bradley op
                                                            posed

JO                   TSTemous        of the Life and Works
posed     it,   fearing that,   if   the place     of astronomer royal werS
worth any thing,      would no longer be given to an astro
                           it
nomer. One must       admire  th>i disinterested precaution of
Bradley; but         if,
                   in refusing for himself, he had taken this
opportunity of obtaining       fund for printing the observa
                                      a
tions, the queen would doubtless have granted his request,
and he would have prevented the disputes which during
forty years rendered his works nearly useless.         Bradley
missed    afavourable opportunity; Maskelyne created one.
He procured his observations to be published annually at
the expense of the Royal Society, and for doing this he
deserved to be for forty years at the head of astronomy*
Piazzi, who has alone possessed similar advantages, has
only published the smallest part of his numerous obser
vations; probably, from the unsettled state of affairs in
Sicily.
   Since the establishment of         Board of Longitude iit
                                               a
France, the observatories of Paris and Greenwich have
been conducted on nearly the same plan, and furnished
with similar instruments; collections of observations are
annually published, which serve to verify each other        and      ;
when the clouds which overshadowed one of the observa
tories have not equally extended to the other, they supply
the deficiency. The communication           uninterrupted, and
                                                        is
the obligations reciprocal       our tables are in great mea
                                      :   if
sure founded on the English observations, the English cal
culations are partly founded on our tables; but the last of
these tables have been corrected          an equal number of
                                                    by
French and English observations.
   Dr. Maskelyne in 1769 observed the transit of Venus at
Greenwich, although only one phase was visible; but he
prepared instructions for the astronomers sent      England toby
drfTerent places   he collected their observations, and from
                      ;
them settled the parallax of the sun and his distance from
the earth.   His conclusion was the same as that which
Du Sejour obtained        the mean of the two observations of
                                by
the two transits of 1761 and 17C9.
   He never omitted to make the most difficult and in
teresting observations himself, as those of the moon, trust
ing to his assistant only when the observations were more
easy and less important.       He followed with the greatest
attention the methods established                  by
                                         his celebrated prede
cessor Bradley, whom he even excelled in the correctness
of his daily observations; he improved Flamstead's method
of determining at once the right ascensions of the starsi
and of the sun     he made
                      ;        catalogue of the stars, not very-
                                      a
                                                    numerous,

                     of the late Dr. Maskelyne.                 tt
numerous, but corrected in the most careful manner, and
which has served during thirty years as the basis of all
astronomical inquiries.        In short, it may be said of the
four volumes of observations which he has published, that
if by any great revolution the works of all other astrono
mers were lost, and this collection preserved, it would con
tain sufficient materials to raise again, nearly entire, the
edifice of modern astronomy ; which cannot be said of any
other collection, because to the merit of a degree of cor
rectness seldom equalled, and never surpassed, it unites
the advantage of a much longer series of observations ; and
it must increase in value as it becomes older; which un
fortunately cannot be said of the observations of Tycho or
Helvetius, nor even of those of Flamstead and La Hire,
whose observations possessed all the correctness which in
their times could have been expected, but cannot enter into
 competition with the more modern, and are too near the
 present age to be of any great use to the astronomers of
 the eighteenth century.
      Dr. Maskelyne corresponded with all the celebrated
 astronomers of his time : to be convinced of this, it is suf
 ficient to look over the papers of the learned of-all nations,
 which he has presented to the Royal Society. He himself
 did not write so much as could have been wished : but it
 is difficult for an astronomer engaged in constant observa
 tions, with the care of the Nautical Almanac, to undertake
 great theoretical inquiries, in which he would be con
 tinually interrupted ; and yet from the papers he has left
 it appears that he had been deeply engaged in cultivating
 phvsical astronomy. The few writings he has published
 are distinguished by correct and just ideas, and great depth
 of knowledge.         Such is his treatise on the equation of
  time, in which he has corrected, with due attention, a mis
  take which had escaped La Caille, and a smaller error of
  Lalande's.     If in our turn we may be allowed to make any
  remark on his formulary, we should observe, that what
  little he has omitted, he well knew could not have any
  sensible effect.
      Lalande took in good part the lesson which was given
  him ; but Bernouilli having seven years afterwards inserted
  translation of Maskelyne's memoirs in his        "  Recueil pour
  les  Astronomes,"    one  of  Lalande's  pupils (d'Agelet) took
  the part of his master in a manner that might have caused
  a coolness between the parties concerned ; but it had no
  effect of that kind, and the two astronomers corresponded
  as before.     Some doubts were entertained respecting the
                                                           latitude

    19           Memoirs   of live Life tind lVot%$
   latitude and longitude  of Greenwich. Dr. Maskefvne, to
   whom the memoir was sent, showed with his eloquence
   and usual moderation, that the doubts were without founda
   tion ; but he did not oppose the means used by others to
   remove them. On this occasion the English, who had at
   that time done little in the way of great geographical ope
   rations, in which the French had distinguished themselves,
   in their turn became eminent, and surpassed all that had
  hitherto been done. At this time also MM. Cassini and
   I.egendre made trial of the circle of Borda.
      Bouguer, at the conclusion of his measure of the degree
  in Peru, had attempted to determine the attraction of
  mountains, by the quantity which the plumb-line of the
  astronomical sector was affected.      He found a sensible at
  traction, but it was only half the quantity it should have
  been from the size of the mountain ; hence he concluded
  it must be hollow, and internally mined with volcanoes.
  The result, from the incorrectness of his instruments, was
  not to be depended on. Bouguer had himself expressed a
 .wish that the experiment should be made again in Europe,
 with better instruments. Dr. Maskelyne undertook this
 with the sector he had at St. Helena, but of which he had
  corrected the suspension, and changed the divisions.        He
 made choice of the mountain of Schehallion in Scotland.
 In his account will be seen the care and trouble this work,
 which appears so easy, cost him. He found 5"*8 for the
 quantity the line was affected by the attraction of the
 mountain ; from thence he concluded the density of the
 mountain was the mean density of the earth : the result
 deduced was, that the density of the earth is greater towards
 the centre than at the surface, which has been also proved
by the measure of degrees, and by the pendulum : in fact,
 the density of land is four or five times greater than that
 of water. Cavendish, by experiments of another kind, has
 found five and a half; but he had some doubts of the cor
 rectness of his own conclusion ; and as that of Maskelyne
 is also established on some circumstances necessarily sub
ject to some degree of uncertainty, we may, until we have
 further experiments, take the density of the earth at very
 near five times thaij of water.       In short, Dr. Maskelyne
admits it as very possible,     that the  unequal density of the
 surface may have occasioned the- difference in the several
degrees which have been measured.
     These are the principal works published by Dr. Maske
lyne ; he has left many others which have not yet appeared,
and the learned will undoubtedly hear with pleasure, that
                                                             the

                    of the late Th\ Maskelyne.                 If
the care   of giving them to the public has been committed
to Mr. Vince, professor of astronomy and experimental
philosophy at Cambridge, known by a Treatise on Plane
and Physical Astronomy, and the Description of Modern
astronomical Instruments. We shall perhaps find in them
some further particulars of the prismatic micrometer, in
some respects similar to those of M. Rochon and P.
Boscovich.      If wet credit the latter, Dr. Maskelyne is the
first who invented it; Boscovich claims to be the second-
It has been found that the Same invention has been made
about the same time by persons who have not had any
communication with each other.           But hitherto M. Rochon
is the only one who has published observations made with
this micrometer ; the idea of using a double refraction be
longs incontestably to Dr. Maskelyne, and Boscovich him
self acknowledges it. Dr. Maskelyne used only common
glass, and it stems certain that he first thought of making
the prism move in the inside of the telescope ; it remains
therefore for us to learn what results he has drawn from
this construction.
    Dr. Maskelyne, who valued the excellent instruments
which he constantly used, did his utmost to preserve and
improve them, and made those additions which his ex
 perience and love of optics suggested to him.        He had the
 eye-glass   of  the  transit  instrument    made   moveable,   to
 avoid all parallax, by bringing the eye opposite each of the
 five wires that the    star successively  passes.  He found the
 inconvenience of narrow openings, then used in all observar
 tories, and therefore had those of Greenwich enlarged.
 Notwithstanding all this caution, it has latelv been su
 spected that his quadrant has becori)e less exact by the
 wearing, from the constant friction of the parts for more
 than fifty years.    Jt was likely that the astronomer, who
 always paid the same attention to his observations,          and
 besides did not perceive any sign of age in his instrument,
 should not be the first to perceive these trifling alterations.
  Other more modern instruments placed in the hands of
  attentive astronomers occasioned the first idea of it.      Not
  but th^t the small variations they think they have remarked,
  may be explained in a manner that will clear the Green
  wich quadrant.       MM, Besset and Ottamans had given
  Come probable explanation ; but the most certain plan was
  to get new instruments, and this Dr. Maskelyne adopted.
  He ordered a large and fine circle of the celebrated Trough-
  |pn; which he had not himself the pleasure to place in his
                                                           obser

1*          Memoirs    of the late Dr. Maskelyne.
observatory, but which he      has left in the hands of his suc
cessor.
    Mr. Pond will    show the defects which age has produced
in the quadrant, and we shall know what corrections we
are to make to the last Greenwich observations, to render
them as exact as the former ones.
    Dr. Maskelyne died the 9th of February 1811, in the
79th year of his age.
    His works are the four folio volumes of observations;
the papers we have spoken of; the first fifty volumes of
the Nautical Almanacs, calculated under his direction and
revised by him ; the tables requisite for the use of the
Nautical Almanac ; the British Mariner's Guide ; some
treatises on nautical astronomy ; the use of the quadrant ;
and his posthumous works, the contents of which we are
at present ignorant of, and which astronomers will be
anxious to. possess.
    We have hitherto described his scientific character ; but
as a man, a father, a friend, he was not less estimable.
Every astronomer, every man of learning found in him a
brother. M. Chabert gave this account of him on his re
turn from London, where he had taken refuge in our trou
blesome times, and where he had experienced from the
astronomer royal the kindest reception accompanied by the
most delicate and liberal attentions.        His disposition was
mild and amiable ; he gained the affection of all who had
the pleasure of his acquaintance, and his death was lamented
as his life was honoured.       Intended at first for the ecclesi
 astical profession, he always preserved the virtues and
 sentiments which are more peculiarly a duty belonging to
that profession ; and " he died as he had lived, a sincere
 christian, in the joyful hope of being admitted into the pre-
 »ence of the Creator, whose works he had so long contem
 plated and admired."
    He has left an only daughter, Margaret Maskelyne, who
 sent .us some materials, of which we have availed our
 selves ; and we trust she will see with some satisfaction, the
 sentiments of esteem and gratitude which her respected and
 worthy father's confreres of France, and we may add of all
 countries, feel for him.
                                                          II.  Re-

                                [     15     ]
  II.    Remarks     on  the Travsition       Rocks of WerneY.
              Thomas      Allan,      Esq.    F.R.S.    Edin.*
Although            we have many writers on geological subjects,
whose works         are distinguished       by ingenuity of doctrine,
and novelty of opinion, and, among them, some who have
made advances towards arrangement; it was reserved to
the Celebrated Werner, to introduce means, by which rocks
might be described with some degree of precision. Many
ingenious* theories were invented, to account for their for
mation ; but little or no attention was paid to the ac
 quirement of an accurate knowledge, either of their com
position, or their relative position in nature; although these
 certainly appear to be the bases, on which such speculative
 opinions ought to be founded.
     But while we acknowledge these obligations to the Pro
 fessor of Freyberg, we cannot extend our unqualified ap
 probation to the systematic arrangement he has introduced.
 It was not to be expected, that the labours of one indi
 vidual, who, from peculiar circumstances,                    was confined
 within certain limits f, were sufficient to attain perfection;
 nor could it reasonably be supposed, that any district, how
  ever extensive, should be so singularly favoured, as to con
  tain all the variety of facts, that occur in other parts of the
  world, from which deductions are to be drawn, and eluci
  dations afforded,         investing phenomena with characters
  which they do not present elsewhere.
      In forming his arrangement, Werner may have exhausted
  the means he possessed ; he, therefore, ought not to be re
  proached ; for although his conclusions are more general,
  than are warranted by the circumscribed field to which he
  was confined, yet he has formed a groundwork, on which
   the labours of future geologists may rear a system more
   papable of affording satisfaction.
       It is greatly to be wished, that arrangements of this kind
   were less dictated by theorv.          The pupils of the Wernerian
   school have been peculiarly fettered, by an ideal necessity
   of supporting the principles of their master; but the blend
   ing of theory with description, is an error common to all
      * From the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. — I am de
   sired bv  Mr. Allan to state, that the insertion of this paper in another
    Monthly Journal, before the regular publication of the Edinburgh Trans
   actions. was 'without his concurrence or knowledge. — A. T.
      f In Werner's Preface to his Theory of Veins, he states. that his limited
   fortune, and the nature of his present situation, prevented him from travel
   ing into more distant countries. — Anderson's Translation, xxiii.
                                                                  speculative

 18       Remarks on the Transition Rocks     of W truer.
 speculative   geologists ; the support of preconceived opt-,
 timns being very generally the principal object in view.
     Hence we find, that collections of those facts which are
 supposed favourable to certain doetrines, have been eagerly
 pursued, and others, equally interesting in themselves, en
 tirely overlooked ; while that minute detail, which is alone
 capable of placing the student in a situation to draw con
 clusions of his own, has been totally neglected.
     The part of the Wernerian system, which it is my inten-
 tioti to notice at present, is the class of rocks termed Trans
 ition. After stating the grounds on which this distinction
 l*as been established, and the particular rocks of which the
 series is composed, with their extent and importance, I shall
 endeavour to show, that. those which constitute its principal
 members, are similar in different districts ; and, finally, that
'they are of an older date than granite, which maintains the
 first place in point of priority in the system of Werner.
  . It is well known,     that one of the principal arguments
 brought forward by Dr. Hutton, is drawn from the pene-.
 tration of the stratified rocks by veins extending from the
 mass of granite, which he considered as affording a deci
 sive proof, of the subsequent formation of that rock.         It
 must not, therefore, be supposed, that I aim at any thing-
 original in the above assertion, or that I even wish to limit
 the term alpine schist us, as applied by that ingenious phi
 losopher ; there can be no doubt, that, under this name, he
 included both the primitive and transition stratified rocks
 of Werner; but in his time no distinction had been drawn
 between them : it is only later discoveries that have im
 posed the necessity of more specific language, which may
 at once account for that want of precision by which his
 .writings are so much obscured, and the deficiency of mi-
 neralogical knowledge, with which he has been so frequently
 changed.
     Werner, in the construction of his systematic arrange
 ment, thought that he perceived grounds for considering
 all rocks, from granite down to clay-slate, as bearing marks
 of having been- deposited from the original chaotic fluid,
 in a certain determinate order.       In them no detritus, or
 any thing like organised nature, was to be observed ; and
 to this point every rock remained exactly in the same state
 in which/it was at the period when it first acquired solidity.
 To these alone the title of primitive was attached.
     In the rocks immediately following, of which limestone
 is said to be the first, he remarked an essential difference j
 the limestone not only abounded in organic remains, but
                                                           other

           Remarks on the Transition Rocks
                                         of Werner .                    if
tvther   members of the series were composed of fragments,
which must have existed previously in a different state:
hence he inferred that these rocks were formed at a sub
sequent period, which, from their constituent parts, he.
concluded, must have been after the creation of living ani
mals, and nearly at the time when the earth passed from its
chaotic to its habitable state * ; and on these grounds he
distinguished this class by the name of Transition.
   To this another class succeeded, also presenting new and
distinct characters, one of the most remarkable of which is
position. They are never found conformable with the
transition rocks : while these present an uneven or serrated
outline, either from the natural contortions of the strata, or
the broken edges of the highly inclined beds ; the rocks
which succeed fill up the inequalities, and assume an ho
rizontal position. To them he gave the name of flcetz
rocks. v
   Thus the system is divided into three great classes— the
primitive, transition, and floetZi
    Although the transition has been known in this country
as a separate class, only within a few years, yet it occupies
a larger superficial extent in these islands than any other
rock-formation.      But before I proceed to trace its limits,
it may be proper to explain what is understood by the
transition series.
    In doing this, and indeed in whatever else I have stated
with respect to the Wernerian geognosy, I beg to be un
derstood as having taken it from that work, which I con
sider as containing the most authentic' account of the sy
stem taught at Freyberg ; I mean the third volume of Pro
fessor Jameson's Mineralogy.        As Werner has published
no account of it himself, it is only from the works of his
 pupils that we can become acquainted with his system.
After the intense labour which has been bestowed on
bringing it forward f, it cannot be supposed 10' contain any
 errors, according to the strict notions of Werner ; and if
 his pupils find it necessary to introduce any material altera
 tions, and so to mould it as to suit their own subsequent
 observations, it will no longer be the system of that philo
 sopher, — which the arguments in the present paper are
 alone intended to meet.
    The transition series is composed             of limestone,      grau-
    * Jameson's Mineralogy, vol. iii. p. 146.
   -f- Werner, " after the most arduous and long-continued investigation,
 conducted with the most consummate address, discovered the general struc*
 ture of the crust of the globe," &c— Jameson's Mineralogy, vol. iii. p. 42.
    Vol.42. No. 183. July 1813.                    ^               wacke,

 18           Remarks   on the   Transition Rocks   of Werner.
  vvacke, and grauwacke-sfate, trap and flinty-slate.           Lime
  stone is placed first, as being the oldest member, and is
  said to rest immediately on the newer elay-slate*.            Of this
  we have no instance which I am acquainted with in Scot
  land, where, indeed, transition-limestone may be considered
  as rather of rare oceurFesee.             Grauwacke and grauwacke-
  slate are with us the principal members.           The first of these
  is a stone usually of a blueish colour, passing into gray, and
  sometimes grayish-red ; it is composed of fragments, often
  of considerable size, bat sometimes so minute as to be
  scarcely distinguishable ; these fragments are quartz, clay-
  slate, flinty-slate, and occasionally jasper, which are agglu
  tinated by a basis of clay-slate, through which minute par
  ticles of mica are also sometimes dispersed.
      Grauwacke-s'ate diners from the fine-grained grauwacke
  only in its minute stratification and fissik character; it
 bears so strong a resemblance to clay-slate in hand-speci
 mens-, that even an experienced eye cannot distinguish it;
 in the rock it is not so easily mistaken : it usually alternates
 with grauwacke, and is often remarkably contorted.               Both
 substances are traversed by quartz veins, which are some
 times of enormous dimensions, but generally very minute
 and abundant.
      The only limestones of this class that I know of are
 three: First, that of Rae Quarry, near Crook in Peebles
 shire, where it is interstratified with grauwacke,         and con
tains abundance of shells.           The second is that of Cumber
land, on the lakes of Windermere and Coniston, which also
contains organised bodies.              The third is the Plymouth
limestone, which, according to the account of Professor
Playfair, corroborated by Dr. Berger, is also transition-
limestone; and in it Mr. Playfair states that he found a
petrified shell f.     I have not myself visited the spot; but it
is of consequence to observe, that the limestones of all
these different districts exhibit traces of organic remains.
The other transition-rocks are trap and- flinty-slate %; but
I   have had no opportunity of observing either of them in-
their natural position. Such, according to Werner, is the
extent of the transition series; but it does not comprehend-
all the rocks which occur in some of the transition districts,
particularly that of Cumberland, although, with little ex
ception, it is adapted to the south of Scotland in a very
remarkable manner.
    * JamesoaV Mineralogy, vol. Hi. p. 147.
     Illustrations of the Huttoniau Theory, p. 165.
    -)-
 \   I suspect both these abound in the mountains of Cumberland, from spe
cimens    have picktd up among the loose fragments.
          I                                  9                  I    m 1%/

            Remarks on the Transition Rocks             of Werner.             1£J
    I   may now notice the extent of country occupied by
rocks of this description; but such is our limited acquaint
ance even with our own island, that it can be done only in
an imperfect manner.               We know too little of the north of
Scotland, to be able to say what rocks occur beyond the
Moray Frith ; but it is by no means improbable, that when
these regions have been more fully examined, the transition
series will be found among them.                     Indeed I have learnt
from Dr. Macculloch, that it occurs in great abundance in
the north.
     I am inclined to consider that it occupies a large propor
tion of Forfarshire ; and if I be correct in an observation
made on the banks of Loch Katrine several years ago, the
transition rocks extend in that direction. I have likewise
found traces of them on the right bank of the Clyde, near
Dalnotter Hill in Dunbartonshire.                      But the transition
 country we are best acquainted with is that of the south of
 Scotland, which stretches entirely across the island.
     On the one side, it begins near the boundary between
 East Lothian and Berwickshire, and continues along the
 coast to a little beyond the river Tweed.                      Extending a
 line from the first, to a point on the west coast, between
 Girvan and Ballantrae ; and from the second, another which.
 shall pass by Langholm, to a point between Annan and
 Carlisle, we shall find nearly the whole of the intermediate
 space to be transition, excepting where granite comes in,
 and some partial deposites of later strata, which occupy
 the lower parts of the valleys of Nith, Annan, &c.
      The mountainous district of Cumberland, Westmore
 land, and the north of Lancashire, which is divided from
 the transition of the south of Scotland only by a small pro*
 portion of parallel strata*, belongs to the same, at least
 we know of none other with which it can be classed, al
  though it contains a variety of rocks which cannot be re
 ferred to any in the series of Werner.
      Adjoining to this, in the western part of Yorkshire, the
  same rocks occur: it is on these that the limestone of In-
 gleborough and Whernside rests.                    To this succeeds the
  extensive district of parallel strata, including the coal-fields
  of Warrington and Wigan, and the great alluvial de-
  posiie of Cheshire.           These bring us to the neighbourhood
  of   the  Welch mountains, which I believe are all of the
     * This term has been
                             applied to distinguish the sandstone strata, and in
  that sense I now use it i it is objectionable, however ; for all stratified rocks
  present the pha.nomena of parallelism ; consequently, without qualification,
  this term affords no distinction.
                                       B   2                                 same

                                         t
  20        Remarks on the Transition Rocks            of Werner.
   same nature, some specimens having been given me by *
   member of this society, taken from the summit of Snow-
  don. Grauwacke, according to Mr. Aikin, makes its ap
   pearance at Church Stretton in Shropshire* ; and near Hay,
  on the border of Hereford, I observed it myself.
      A great part of Somerset, and, finally, the whole of
  Devon and Cornwall, again excepting the granite, and a
  small portion of serpentine, and some other rocks, are all
  composed of transition strata.           Thus, by extending a line
  almost due south, from Berwick to the English Channel',
  we shall find a large proportion of the country to the west
   composed of transition rocks; while, so far as I know,
  none occurs to the east of it ; although it is probable . that
  at Mount Sorrel in Leicestershire          some of the same series
  may be found.
      We are stir! less acquainted with the precise limits of its
  extent hi Ireland: we know, however, that it occupies the
  coast from Belfast Lough to the mountains of Morne,
  which are of granite ; it also extends westward as far as
  Monaghan, and probably much beyond that point. From
  what Mr. Weld states, in his account of Killarney, it ap
  pears to be the principal rock of the Kerry mountains, and
  I   know it occurs in great abundance in the county of
  Cork.
      Hence,  even   with the little information we possess re
  specting its exact limits, we have enough to know, that
  the transition rocks form a very large proportion of the su
  perficial extent of Great Britain and Ireland, and also com
  prehend the principal mining districts.
      Having thus imperfectly chalked out the boundaries, or
  rather localities, of the transition districts in these islands,
  I  shall endeavour to show that, some of. the rocks of Corn
  wall are grauwacke, in all respects similar to some of the
  south of Scotland; and if strata may be compared to the
  leaves of a book, a few decided and indisputable specimens
  are sufficient to characterize a district.
      It was in consequence of some observations during a
  tour through Cornwall and Devon last summer, that I was
  led to suspect this class stood in a different relation in point
  of periotf, with respect to granite, from that which I had
  hitherto conceived : greater experience, or perhaps sufficient
  attention' to the writings of Dr. Hutton, might have pointed
  out this before.      Had I looked more attentively into his>
. description   of  the  granite district of Galloway, and at the
                  * Geulogical Transactions, vol. i. p. 212.
                                                                  same

                               s
            Remarks on the Transition Rocks           of Werner.          81
^«me  time attended to the nature of the stratified rock of
-which that country is principally composed, this fact would
not have been new to me now.       There were other circum
stances, however, which severally contributed     to prevent
me from supposing that grauwacke      could occur in this po
sition.
    First, the unlimited  use to which Dr. Hutton applied the
term alpine schistus, left us quite uncertain with respect to
the species of rock he meant : secondly, the alteration in
duced on grauwacke, near ils junction with granite, — a cir
cumstance so strikingly exemplified in Galloway, that I own
it deceived myself.; and, lastly, the assertion I have so
often heard repeated by the Wernerian geognosts, that
granite veins never occurred excepting in rockis formed of
the same constituents, alluding to gneiss and mica-slate.
    Before I visited Cornwall, I knew that granite abounded
in the Stannaries, and that tin and wolfram, metals which
are considered nearly of the highest antiquity, were there
 common productions. I therefore expected to meet with.
 a perfect epitome of the Wernerian system, containing the
 usual series of primitive rocks, descending from granite,
 through gneiss, mica-slate, and clay- slate, with all the et
 ccetcrus of serpentines,    traps and porphyries; but in this
I   was mistaken.
    On wiy approach to Exeter through Somerset, I first ob
 served the transition strata between Bridgewater and Taun
 ton ; (Nos. 1 and 2 *) and from thence traced them, more
 or less distinctly, till I crossed the river Tcign, which
 bounds Dartmore on the east.       Thus far great part of the
 country   is very flat, some of it extremely hilly as a road,
 but none of it mountainous. The transition strata are by
 no means continuous, and in many places appear only iu
 small projections above the surface.
     On the right bank of the Teign, the roail winds up the
 side of a steep hill ; and where the rock is cut, tlicre is a
 considerable display of strata, having ail the external ap
  pearance of grauwacke.       On examining             it,
                                                    found some
                                                          I
  of the strata coarser than others; but,     general, the grain
                                                   in
  was extremely     fine, (Nos. 5,6,7.) the texture solid and
  compact, the colour very dark-gray:       was very tough un
                                                 it
  der the hammer,        broke with
                          it            smooth and somewhat
                                            a
  eonchoidal fracture, and did not split into the thin lamina^
 of the grauwacke-slate.       This appearance puzzled me at
 first ; the rock presented all the external characters of grau-
       *
           The numbers refer to the Appendir, at the end cf this paper.
                                    B   3                           wacke,

   22        Remarks on the Transition Rocks           of Werner.
   wackc, and yet internally it was different.              I had not pro
   ceeded    many paces, however, when I came upon granite,
   (No. 8.} the proximity of which, as before mentioned, is
   always marked by a very material alteration in the con
   sistence of the adjoining rock.             This alteration, 1 observe,
   was not unnoticed by Dr. Berger, in his interesting paper*
   on the physical structure of Devon and Cornwall.                     In
  mentioning grauwacke, which he distinguishes from grau-
  wacke-slaie only by its compactness, he savs, " It is found
  higher up than the grauwacke- slate, it may be supposed to
  have been precipitated more slowly, and under less power
  ful pressure; whereby the mass has been allowed to con
  tract, and to assume a kind of crystallization. It rests im-*
  mediately on granite."           The conclusions he draws are dif
  ferent from mine; but from the above quotation it appears,
  that the circumstance I observed at Teign Bridge is usual
  in similar situations all over Cornwall.
      Near St. Austle, on the road leading to Carclaze mine, I
  found grauwacke,          (No. 23.) in my opinion extremely well
  characterized     ;  also on the road to Cambourn, not far from
  Dolcoath, (No. 31.) j likewise on the shore near Penzance
  (No. 42, 43.). Here it is also fine-grained, and tough un
  der the hammer, and at no great distance from granite.
 Near Oakhampton, I found it along with grauwacke-slate,
 in the most unequivocal state, (No. 57.) ; and on the
 shores of the Bristol Channel, near llfracombe, the rocks
 are all of the same material f.
     Here, on the beach, to the west of the town, I spent
 some hours the evening before I crossed to Swansea ; and
 found nothing among the rocks, to lead me for a moment
 to question tl)3l they were wholly composed of grauwacke.
 Indeed I even remarked some of the contortions which are
 so common in this rock.             Next morning, however, when
 walking down to the boat, under a pomt where a small
 battery is built, 1 found on the trodden surface of the rock,
 an appearance very similar to mica-slate, for which sub
 stance it might readily be mistaken (No. 61, 62.) ; but this
 resemblance appears to be owing to the friction of the feet,
 and the action of the weather, on a variety of grauwacke
 containing an unusual proportion of mica.
     By casting an eye over the map of Cornwall, it will be
observed, that the above specimens arc selected from the
    * Geological Transactions, vol. i.
                                       p. 112.
   f  The specimens alluded to were examined by the gentlemen present
when this paper was read, who considered those from the road leading to
Carclaze mine, and from near Oakhamptonr as grauwacke; and those from
the vicinity of Penzance as greenstone.
                                                                    most

           Remarks on the Transition Rocks of Werner.                     23
most remote corners of the peninsula.                On examination,        I
 think they will be found sufficiently similar to the grau
 wacke of Werner, to be entitled to be classed along with
that rock.       Dr. Berger, in bis paper on the physical struc
ture of Cornwall, gives them no other name; and if autho
rity is to be qualified by experience, the opinion of one
who has traced the footsteps of Saussure, and who has
studied the geognosy of Werner with the utmost en
thusiasm, cannot fail to be received with respect.
    I have thus endeavoured to show by the selection of spe
cimens, and by the opinion of a very scientific observer,
that the stratified rock of Cornwall is grauwacke.                 It would
fee uncandid, however, not to acknowledge,                that the general
 texture of this rock was different from the grauwacke of
the south of Scotland ; it was more of the slaty variety«
and frequently seemed, from its smooth and soft feel, to
contain a large proportion of magnesian earth*.
    I understand, that in a course of lectures now delivering,
a very material alteration has been proposed upon the Wer-
nerian system, in order to introduce this rock in a position
distinct, and very distant from grauwacke.                   It appears to
me much more simple to suppose, that rocks of the same
class, in different districts, may present peculiar characters,
than that the operations of nature should have been so
multiplied and complicated, as to afford the endless distinc
tions which are thus required.                 Indeed, I cannot help
thinking, that if the killas of Cornwall had been sufficiently
known, it would have excluded entirely the introduction of
that harsh-sounding German term Grauwacke.                      Killas ap
pears   to  me   to  be  as   proper   a translation    of   that  word as
Specular    Iron-ore     is   of Eisen-glanz,     and    I  think may be
used with great propriety ; distinguishing grauwacke and
grauwacke-slate, by amorphous and schistose killas.
    The only other rock of any importance in Cornwall is
granite, termed Growan by the common people, — a name
also given to clay-porphyry, a substance found pretty fre
quently in large veins (Nos. 16 to 19, 28, 48.). The shades
of distinction chronicled by the mineralogist cannot be
expected to attract the attention of the miner, who knows
 but two rocks, growan and killas, throughout the Stan
naries.     It has been thought that a distinct rock was un-
   * Since I read this paper, I have had occasion to
                                                     pass through the trans
ition country of Peeblesshire, Sec.   On former occasions, I was in the habit
of searching for characteristic specimens of the grauwackei I now looked
for such as ressembled the killas of Cornwall, which I found in abundance
(Nos. 62, 63).
                                    B4                             derstood

 24         Remarks on the Transition Rocks             of Werner.
derstood by the term Elvan; but this is a mistake: elvan
may sometimes be greenstone, but in general is either killas
or granite, and is so termed by the miner when he finds
 the rock harder to work in one place than in another.
      Before I entered Cornwall, I was led to believe that it
 abounded in two kinds of granite, Primary and Secondary.
 Never having had an opportunity of comparing them in
 situ, 1 was anxious to do so here, and different localities
 were pointed out to me : these I examined with care, but
 could discover no grounds to justify any distinction.                   Dr.
 Berger makes no mention of secondary granite ; and an
 other gentleman, whose opinion on this, as on most sub
jects, will be received with the utmost deference, and who
 had the same object in view, during a visit made since                     I
 was there, informs me that he could discover no distinction
  at all.
      It is therefore of importance to ascertain whether the
 granite of Cornwall be new or old; which will easily be
  done, by comparing the appearances it presents, with the
  descriptions of these' rocks as given in the Wernerian
  school; it is there taught, that three formations of granite
  have been ascertained.
      The oldest Is the basis or nucleus, round which all other
 jocks have been deposited.               The second occurs only in
  veins, traversing only the granite of the older formation.
 The third rests on some of the older primitive rocks, in
  unconformable and overlying: position.                    From this de
  scription     of   its  external   relations,    it  is  evident  that the
  granite    of Cornwall     can   neither   be   the    second  nor   third.
  With resnect to its internal structure, we have the follow
  ing definition : Graniie is a granular aggregated rock, com
  posed of felspar, quartz, and mica.                 These alternate from
  large   to  small,     and  even  to  very  fine   granular.    The large
  and coarse granular usually belong to the oldest; the small
  and fine granular to the newest granite formations.                    Be
  sides felspar, quartz and mica, other fossils sometimes
  occur in it; of these, schorl is the most frequent, then
  garnet and tinstone*.
      At Penzance I observed some buildings constructed of a
  remarkably fine-grained granite ; but this I nowhere saw
  in situ: otherwise, from Teign Bridge, where I first set my
  loot on granite, to the Land's End? it is generally of that
  character which entitles it to be ranked with the oldest va
   riety (Nos, 8, 21, 27, 34, 35, 54, 55 ),               fn many places it
                   * Jameson's Mineralogy, vol. iii. p. 102, &c.
                                                                          has

         Discovery  of the  Composition     of the  Arragonite.      25
has suffered to a most wonderful extent by decomposition ;
but where it retains its freshness, no granite can possibly
be better characterized.       The specimens which I was able
to bring awav. and which are now before the Society, are
by no means adequate to convey an idea of the coarse tex
ture it sometimes presents.         In the granite of Dartmoor,
the crystals of felspar are uncommonly large, often four
inches in length. . I believe it was from this neighbourhood
that the flags of the footpath on Westminster Bridge were
brought ; in these, crysiiii of felspar nearly as large may be
observed.
                            [To be continued.]
 III.   Discovery   of the Composition      of the Arragonite. In a
     Letter from Professor     Stromever of^Gottirigen to Pro
    fessor Gilbert of Leipzig.            Dated 23d Feu. 1813.
 1    he arragonite is one of the minerals on the analysis of
 which 1 have been employed this winter. You will be sur
 prised that I have attempted to submit this substance to a
 new     analysis,  when    it had   been already      investigated   by
 Klaproth, Vauquelin, Fourcroy, Bucholz, Thenard, and
 Biot, who had unanimously declared it to be carbonate of
 lime, differing neither in the quality, nor in the quantity of
 its component parts from the common rhornboidal crystals.
 However accurate and demonstrative their experiments ap
  peared    to be,  I  confess   I  have always entertained some
  doubt   of their sufficiency; since such        a case of a structure
  totally different, without any difference in the composition,
 "would be completely singular, and at variance with every
  other fact in crystallography and crystallotomy.                 I am
  therefore particularly happy in being able to announce to
  you, (hat I have at last succeeded in discoverinc an essential
  difference between the arjragonite and the crystallized car
  bonate of lime, and to remove this striking contradiction
  from the science.        The arragonite contains, besides car
  bonate of lime, also carbonate of strontia, chemically united
   with it in a constant proportion, and constituting a true
   natural triple combination of the carbonic acid with lime
   and strontia.    The quantity of the carbonate of strontia in
   the arragonite amounts to between 3 and 4 per cent. That
   so great a quantity of carbonate of strontia should escape
   the notice of those who have examined this mineral, I cant
   only attribute to this circumstance ; that they have consi
   dered the sulphate of strontia as equally insoluble in water
                                                                     with

2<J    Discovery      of the   Composition          of the Arragonite.
 with that of baryta, and hence supposed that, if the arra
 gonite contained strontia, it must infallibly be precipitated
 from the solution in muriatic or nitric acid, by the sulphuric
 acid, or by a salt containing           it,
                                    when the solution was only
 dilutedin  such    degree that the lime would not be separated
                     a
 from it. This supposition        however not true, as
                                     is                      have           I
formerly had occasion to remark in my analysis of the sul
 phate of strontia from Suntel.
    There   isin general    great resemblance
                               a                    the chemical  in
relations of strontia and lime.           therefore very difficult
                                               It   is
to separate them, and have only been able to do
                             I                              effec           it
 tually, by  dissolving the arragonite in pure nitric acid, eva
 porating the solution to crystallization, and treating the
crystalline mass with alcohol,           which the nitrate of
                                                in
 strontia    not soluble.
            is              In the evaporation of the solution,
 we may be convinced that        contains strontia. If we carry
                                    it
 the evaporation nearly to the point of crystallization of the
 nitrate of lime, the nitrate of strontia      deposited while
                                                         is                          it
is  cooling, and often during the evaporation,         was nearly if   it
neutral, in small octahedral crystals which are left unaltered
when alcohol     ispoured on the mass.
    You will naturally ask       this quantity of the carbonate
                                    if
of strontia can be sufficient to produce the striking pecu
liarity of the appearance of the arragonite       and   believe
                                                              ;         I            I
may safely answer that       can.
                               it     Many experiments which
I  have made in analysing the natural magnesian limestones,
seem   to show   that even small proportions of substances
possessed of  strong   powers of crystallization may cause
other substances to assume their form.       For example,                            I
have analysed    aspecimen of perfectly rhomboidal magne
sian spar from St. Goihard, which contained only          per                    7
cent. of carbonate of lime.      In the same manner      have               I
found reason to think that many of the sparry iron stones
derive their rhomboidal    form from the carbonate of lime
which they contain. May           not therefore be imagined,
                                     it
that the crystalline form of the arragonite depends on that
of the carbonate of strontia, which lias certainly stronger
powers of crystallization than the carbonate of lime       As                ?
far however as know, the strontianite has not yet been found
                 1
perfectly crystallized  hence its proper structure
                         :                         unknown,            is
and nothing can be decided positively respecting it. But
may not the circumstance of the frequent confusion of the
arragonite with strontianite be considered as favouring my
Opimon  ?
  My experiments on the magnesian limestones were un
dertaken with view to investigate whether the laws laid
                 a
                                                                                 down

              Report  of the National Vaccine Estallishment.               2/
   down bv Professor Berzelius, for the mixture of the artifi
   cial triple compounds, or "double salts," take place also in
   natural combinations.         The results which I have hitherto
   obtained, from       more  than  ten analyses of different mag-
   nesian limestones, agree beyond all expectation with the
   views of Berzelius.
       I shall also observe in the last place, that T have found
   both in the Saxon           strontianite from Braundorff near
   Freyberg,     and   in the  Scotch  strontianite      analysed by Ptl-
   letier and Klaproth, several parts in 100 of carbonate of
   lime, It was this occurrence of small portions of carbonate
   of lime with the carbonate of strontia, that led me to the
  examination of the arragonite, which has furnished the re
   sults that I have had the pleasure of communicating to you.
      [It appears also from the correspondence of the gentle
  man who has favoured us with a manuscript copy of this
  letter from the continent, that some traces of sirontia had
  before been observed in Carrara marble by a pupil of Ga-
  dolin in Abo, who extracted it by digesting a large quantity
  of powdered marble with a little muriatic acid : but our
  correspondent       remarks that Carrara marble does not possess
  the properties     of the arragomte.]
  IV.     Report  of  the National Vaccine Establishment.            Dated
                             QQd Jpril, 1813.
  To    the  Right Hon. Viscount Sipmouth, Principal Secre
           tary of State, Home Department, &c, &c. tsfc.
                                   National Vaccine Establishment,
                   T he Board            Leicester-Square.  April
                                    of the National Vaccine Esta
                                                                  22, 1813.
  blishment have the honour of informing your lordship, that
  during the year 1812 the Surgeons appointed by their au
  thority to the nine Stations in London have vaccinated
 4,521 persons, and have distributed 23,210 charges of vac
 cine lymph to the public.         The number vaccinated this year
 exceeds that of 1811 by 1,373, and the demand for lymph
 has been often so great that it could not without difficulty
 be supplied.        The Board had last year reason to think that
 nearly      two-thirds   of the children born in the metropolis
 were vaccinated by charitable Institutions, or private practi
 tioners.      There is now reason to believe that three-fourths
 of those horn are submitted to that salutary operation.
 But though the prejudices against the cow-pock, which have
 been artfully encouraged by ignorant and interested men,
'' '                                                               appear

23                         Be part       tif   the
 appear generally to decline in the metropolis, as well as ia
 ether parts of these dominions, yet            with concern that
                                                     it   is
 the Board have noticed the increase of mortality from small
 pox in  this city, last year, to the number of 1,287.
     Previous to the discovery of vaccination the average
 number of deaths from small-pox, within the Bills of Mor
 tality, was 2000      and though in the last ten years 133,139
 persons   were  added   to the population of this great city, yet
 »n 1S11,   by   the benefit of vaccination, the mortality was
 reduced to 75!.      The increase in the last year we have rea
 son to ascribe to the rash and inconsiderate manner in which
 great numbers are still inoculated for the small-pox, and
 afterwards required to attend two or three times          week, at       a
.the place   of   inoculation,  in  every stage   of their  illness.
 This practice   of inoculation, and of promiscuous intercourse
 of the patients at the same time with society,          the great       is
 means by which this disease        is
                                     kept    existence, and its in
                                                     in
 fection propagated to persons and places where         would not    it
 otherwise   be  seen. This    is  not only the opinion of this
 Hoard, founded on observation, but             fact confirmed
                                                 it   is   a                       by
 communications to them from the best authorities, and by
 the most unprejudiced characters.
   The respectable College of Surgeons of Dublin allege
that the practice of inoculation not only supplies         constant       a
source of infection, but prevents the extinction of the dis
ease for even    a short interval.
   The populous city of Norwich was never free from              till         it
the discovery of vaccination, but since that period             has           it        *
experienced occnsional remissions from its ravages.               In
 180-7, after its disappearance for some time, the disorder
was brought into that city     by   a vagrant from London, who,
br fore the Magistrates were apprized of                       it,
                                                      or before the
salutary advice given     by the Faculty to provide     place where  a
such person might be secluded from intercourse with the
inhabitants     could be adopted, communicated           the conta
gion.    Of  1   ,£00, who took the infection, 203 died.         At
that period, viz. 1807, the prejudices against vaccination
had not subsided.          But  in   1812, when that city was
threatened with       a similar visitation,               by
                                                 the appearance of
the small-pox         the neighbourhood, the Magistrates, the
                     in
Faculty, and the Clergy, concurred in recommending vac
cination.     Between the 10th of August and 22d of "Octo
ber following, 1316 persons were vaccinated.             The result
was, that though one gentleman, whose child the Faculty
refused to inoculate, procured matter of small-pox., which

                   Nutional Vaccine Establishment.                  2J
   he applied himself, and from this source seven persona
   took the infection, yet by means of this seasonable vaccina
   tion not a life was lost.
       This result, so different from the events of 1807, cannot
   but make an .impression on every mind open to conviction:
   when vaccination was not performed 1,200 persons took
   the small-pox, of which number 203 died : when speedy
   recourse was had to vaccination there v#as not a single vic
   tim to the disease.
      But it is not at home only that lessons so much to th*
   credit of this new art may be learned.             The Board have
   abundant communications from every quarter of the warkl
   equally to its advantage.      To detail all the evidence which
   they may     have  received  as   to its efficacy, not only in pre
   venting   the  small-pox,  but   its power to suppress its ravages
   under the most unfavourable and threatening circumstances,
   would extend this Report to an improper and an unusual
   length. They will content themselves with mentioning a
   few particulars, which they trust will recommend it to the
   favour and confidence of their countrymen, and to the fos
   tering care of Government.
       On the continent of India vaccination has been hailed
   as the greatest blessing, and has been practised with the
   greatest success and in the most extensive manner.
       In the islands of Ceylon and Bourbon it has been received
  in a manner no less favourable, and been practised with an
  effect no less beneficial.       In the isle of Ceylon, since its
   first introduction, more than 200, COO persons have been
  ^vaccinated; 30,-191 in the year 1811 only, as appears by
  the subjoined table from Mr. Anderson, the superintendam-
   gcneral, to whom but one case of failure in preventing the
  small-pox (and the circumstances of this case render it
  very doubtful) has occurred, in the great numbers which
  he has seen.
      At the Cape of Good Hope the small-pox is dreaded as
  much as the plague, and it has proved there little less de
  structive to human life.       Lord Caledon, the late governor,
  established at Cape Town a vaccine institution, which was
  soon called into activity under his successor Sir J. Cradock.
  The colony consists of a population of 80 or 100,000 indi
  viduals, of which number it was supposed 15,000 were sub
  ject to take the infection of the small-pox, which appeared
  there on the 12th March 1812.              Between that time and
  the 4th July following 233 persons caught the disease, of
  which number 100 died. The remaining part of the it**
  habitants liable to the disorder were preserved by an active
r                                                        vaccination;

30                         Heport  of ike
vaccination, in which all the faculty in the place, as well
 as the regimental and garrison surgeons, strenuously ex
 erted themselves.
    From the various  details with which the Board have been
favoured, we think    it our duty to select one instance, as
tending to show in     a most pointed manner the power of
the vaccine lymph       to arrest the contagion of the small
pox.
    Four hundred negroes from Mosambique were on the 1st
of March landed at Cape Town, one of whom, a woman,
wasonthe5th succeeding afflicted with the confluent small
pox in its most virulent form. This female was at that
time inhabiting a large room, in common w ith 200 more
of her companions, not separated either by day or by night.
On the report of this case the whole of these victims of
«' avarice and cupidity," as the
                                    surgeon terms them, were
immediately subjected to vaccination, and on the following
day removed to a small island (Paarden Island) at a little
distance from the town.       A few days after this the woman
fell a sacrifice to the most aggravated character of that
dreadful disease.    Of the aggregate number of negroes, 73
individuals  received the vaccine disorder, and underwent the
regular course of its action.      From these subjects the re
maining portion were vaccinated.        "They remained on the
island 50 days, during which no further case of small-pox
made its appearance, although they had been exposed to
the whole strength of the contagious atmosphere, nor is
there a single instance wherein any of this large proportion
of persons became subject to the small-pox."         It is added
by the professional gentleman who writes this account,
that throughout the entire course of this "arduous struggle"
(the general vaccination) not a single instance had come to
his knowledge of the failure of vaccination in protecting
the individual from the small-pox, where the former was
ascertained to have taken effect.
   At the Havannah, by the account written by Dr. Thomas
Eomey, Secretary to the Committee of Vaccination, 13,447
persons were vaccinated in 1810; 9,315 of these persons
had been vaccinated in the city of Havannah alone, with
so good an effect, that for two years not a single person had
been interred in the public burying-ground of that city who
died of the small-pox, which before was a great cause of
mortality in it.
   In  the Caraccas, and in Spanish America, the small-pox
has been extinguished       by vaccination.
   The accounts from various parts of Europe are almost as
                                                      favourable

                National Vaccine Estalliskment.                SI
favourable.      In the Report of last year it was observed, that
the small-pox was extinguished at Milan, and at Vienna,
in which latter place for many years the average mortality
 from it had amounted to 800.
     From Malta information has been received, that not only
His Majesty's ships are supplied with lymph to vaccinate
 such sailors as may not have had the small-pox, but that
 the children of the artificers of the Dock-yard, and nearly
 3000 Maltese children, have been vaccinated by the Insti
 tution there (gratis): and it is added by Mr. Allen, the
 surgeon of the Dock-yard, that during a residence of seven
 years at Malta, he has never known an instance of one of
 them being afterwards afflicted with the small- pox.
     Russia has likewise participated in the benefit of vacci
 nation.     It was introduced into the Russian empire in
 and since that time, in its various provinces, 1,23j,637 have
 been vaccinated ; and so uniformly successful has vaccina
 tion been, that. it has been termed, in the language of that
 country, the pock of surety.        Dr. Crighton, physician to
  the Emperor of all the Russias, observes, supposing (ac
 cording to a well-founded rule of calculation) that before  '
  the introduction of vaccination      every seventh child died
  annually of the small-pox, vaccination has saved the lives,
  in the Hussian empire, of 176,519 children, since the year
  J 804.
      The Government of France appears to have taken the
  greatest pains to secure to the people all tife advantages
  which could be derived from this discovery.           A central
  institution was soon established at Paris, to encourage and
   to promote the practice of vaccination, and a similar plan
  for the same purpose was adopted in every considerable
  provincial town.        These provincial institutions were not
  long ago ordered to make a return to the Government, of
   the state of vaccination in their several districts.      From
   these documents a Report has been drawn up by Mr. Ber-
   thollet, Perec and Halle, philosophers of the first reputation,
   and submitted to the class of physical sciences of the Im
   perial Institute; in which it is affirmed, that of 2,<37 i ,C62
   subjects, properly vaccinated in France, only seven cases-
   appear of patients having afterwards taken the small-pox ;
   which is as l to 381,666. It is added, that the well-
  authenticated     instances of persons taking the small-pox
   after inoculation for that disease had perfectly succeed*d,
   are proportionably far more numerous ; and also that in
   Geneva, Rouen, and several other large cities, where the
                                                         Jennenaa

                             '
   M                             Report     of  the
   Jennerian system has not been circumscribed by popular'
   prejudice, the small-pox is no longer known ; and the re
   gisters exhibit strong evidence of consequent increasing po«
   pulation..     The report concludes with expressing great hoped
   that this pestilential disorder will ultimately disappear from
   society.
      This object will doubtless be greatly forwarded by the
  line of conduct adopted by the Roval College of Surgeons
  in London ; in which city, notwithstanding the artifices
  practised, and the falsehoods* even propagated to discredit
  vaccination, it is even now gaining ground.                        The Royal
   College of Surgeons have resolved not to inoculate with
  variolous matter.         The College of Surgeons of Dublin have
  formed the same resolution.               In Gloucestershire sixty-three
  surgeons, convinced          of  the  pernicious tendency of inocula
  tion to support and propagate the small-pox, associated, and
  pledged themselves to decline the practice of it.
      The National Vaccine Establishment have recommended
   the imitation of such examples to the members of the pro
  fession in every part of these dominions, and they have no
  doubt but that the good effects of such advice will soon ap
  pear, in the diminished mortality and the increased popu
  lation of the countrv.
      It may be proper to add, that the surgeons at nine sta
  tions of this metropolis reported to us on the 14th of last
  January, that they had no complaint of any person vacci
  nated by them having afterwards had the small-pox.
      The Board have again the pleasure of stating, that the
  money granted by Parliament during the last session has
  been sufficient to defray the expenses of the year 1812;
  and they are of opinion that the same sum will be adequate
  to the expenditure       of the current year.
                                                Fr. Milman,        President.
  By Order of       the Board,
      James Hervey, M.D. Register.
     * In the bills of mortality for the last year, the death of two persons was
  said to have been occasioned by the cow-pock i but, upon investigation bv
  the Board of the National Vaccine Establishment,       they were found to have
  died from other causeSr and the assertion was proved to be without foun-
v dation.
                                                                             On

                National Vaccine Estallishment.                               33
On     the Vaccine   Disorder,   ly Dr. Servando de Meir v
                     Noriega,    an Ecclesiastic*.
                                    Dated London, lQth January 1813.
  The small-pox,       as well as the measles, were unknown in
New  .Spam before the conquest.      They were brought there,
says Torquemadaf, by a negro        from Painfilo of Narvaez,
and they occasioned such destruction, that be does not he
sitate to affirm that the greatest part of the Indians died,
among whom was the emperor Cuitlahuatzin,who succeeded
Montezume.       It is stated, that according to the reports
which Cortes ordered to be made to him, there died in the
empire of Mexico alone three millions and a half.      It was
not long before fresh variolous infection was brought over,
and according to Torquemada eight hundred thousand In
dians perished.
    Europe has continued to communicate this scourge at
intervals of thirty, twenty, or a less number of years, and
the infection extending itself from Vera Cruz to the most
remote parts, has like a destructive plague spread terror,
death and desolation, over that continent.     The longer it
is retarded, the more fatal it becomes, because the danger
increases with the age of the sufferers.   Thirty-three years
ago there were carried off more than ten thousand persons
in the towns of Mexico and Puebla alone by this contagion,
which was the last but one that has visited that kingdom,
and was brought there after an interval of nineteen years.
It was from this last attack that I was a sufferer in
my native country, Monterrv, the capital of the new
kingdom of Leon : and there was not a family who did not
put on mourning.      Some of these families disappeared al
together, because thev were all adult persons, and had been
seized by the epidemic in the city.     Those who lived in
the country were preserved from its influence by banking
the dung-hills of the large and small cattle around their
dwellings.
  The sroall-pox acts with the greatest virulence upon those
parts of the body most exposed to the sun, such as the face
and hands ; and at the Indians are more exposed by their
habit of life and manner of clothing, the havoc which it
makes among them is more horrible.
   Torquemada says, speaking of the first introduction of
the infection, that the reason why it killed so many, was,
  * From " Report of the National Vaccine   Establishment,   26th   April   1813.
 -f-A Spanish historian.
Vol. 42. No. 193. July 1813.                   C                     because

                   ,
34                   On the Vaccine Disorder.
because the Indians were ignorant of the nature of the dis
ease, and bathed and scratched themselves.
    In the new kingdom of Leon there were several wander
ing nations, so warlike that the Spaniards could not with
arms in their hands resist their attacks upon their towns :
the small-pox, however, extirpated almost all of them ; and
fifty years ago heaps of bones, like so many trophies of the
disease, were to be seen under the old tufted oaks in the
fields.    At tliis present time, when a savage sees one of his
companions attacked with the infection, he leaves him, his
horse, and his provisions, and flies to a great distance in the
woods.
    It  has  never happened that the Spaniards have secured
themselves against infection by stopping their communica
tions with the Indians.
    As soon as the inoculation for the natural small-pox was
introduced into Europe, the Archbishop of Mexico, Haro,
ordered the curates and ecclesiastics to perform it through
their' several towns with their own hands; and although
the prejudices and scruples of some hindered the practice
becoming general, it is certain that to this inoculation is to
be attributed     the diminished evil which the small-pox oc
casioned fourteen years ago,                         /
    The King of Spain having sent the art of vaccination
with Dr. Balmis, it was received with such pompous cere
monies, both civil and military, that the people caught the
enthusiasm.       I believe that not a person remained at that
time unvaccinated. The Viceroy's lady herself, Dona Jues de
Toregui, employed herself in vaccinating the Indian children.
And as the vaccine is found in the cows of the provinces of
Puebla and Michauacan, every body having it at hand, a!l^
the children arc now vaccinated, and the small-pox has not
appeared for fourteen years.         They already believe their
country to be free from such a scouige ; and should its
contagion appear again in Vera Cruz, it would be easy to
counteract it in the beginning by employing the vaccine, al
though its use might have been for some time laid aside.
    The celebrated Dr. Unamie also writes at Luna, that in
the two towns of the Sierra of Peru there had been no
small pox, because the inhabitants inoculated themselves
by milking the cows who actually had the vaccine.        Upon
being asked, whether they had ever the sinall-pox, they an
swered, they only had a few pimples on their hands.
          (Signed)       Dr. Sekvanpq de Meib y Nokiega,
                                                        V.  On

                            t         35       ]
V. On  the Production of the brown Oxide of Lead, under
  Circumstances which have not leen hitherto observed.
  By M. Chevreul*.
It   is well known that lead is susceptible of combining
with oxygen in various proportions, and of forming red,
hrown, and yellow oxides which have not the same affinity
for the acids.    It is from this affinitv of lead for different
quantities   of  oxygen, and from the disposition of the yel
low oxide to form salts, that the cause of the phenomena
which we have observed must be deduced.          When we mix
red oxide of lead with nitric acid, we may observe that one
part of the oxide is brought to the state of yellow oxide,
which is dissolved, while the other part is combined with
the oxygen abandoned by the former to form brown oxide,
which is not dissolved.     Hitherto only two cases have been
remarked, in which the brown oxide of lead was produced :
that to which I have alluded, is where the red or yellow-
oxide of lead is in contact with the oxygenated muriatic
acid : accident brought another under my notice, which £
 shall now communicate.        I had been treating some plate-
 glass {crystal) reduced into a fine powder with nitric acid,
 with a view of analysing it. The matter which was insolu
 ble in the acid had been washed and calcined, and thev*
 heated in a plalina crucible with three times its weight of
 potash.    When we diluted with water the mass which had'
 been fused, an alkaline solution was obtained, plenty of
 silex and yellow oxide of lead, and it was remarked that
 the platina spatula which remained in the crucible during
'the operation contained at its extremity a button of an
 alloy of platina and lead; the bottom of the cmcible was>
 covered with a similar alloy.     The alkaline mass diluted
 with water deposited a brown crystallized powder which
 had a metallic appearance : I took it at first for iridium j
 but after having washed       and poured nitric acid upon
                                it,                                                it,
 the latter assumed   afine red colour, which    lost    filtra
                                                              it          by
 tion:   as the brown oxide of lead presents the same phae-
 nomenon,  I   thought that the brown powder might be this
 very  oxide.   The following experiments proved that was                      1
  right this powder exposed to heat in
      :                                     glass tube was re
                                                        a
 duced to litharge with effervescence;     when treated with
  the muriatic acid, it exhaled abundance of oxymuriatic gas,
  and formed muriate of lead, which crystallized in brilliant
 flakes.   According to these results,      evident that in the
                                                   it   is
                   Annates de Chimie, tome lsxxiv.
               *                                             p.   3.1a.
                                       C   2                              treatment

36                       On Electrical Influence.
treatment      of glass with potash,
                                  a part of the yellow oxide
jf lead which         into its composition, had been decom
                    enters
posed into metallic lead and brown oxide ; that this decom
position was produced in virtue of the affinity of lead for
platina, and of that of the yellow oxide    lead for an excess
                                                    of'
of   oxygen.
 I     am of opinion, that in this case the potash does
not determine the hyperoxidation          of the lead,        the       by
affinity which       can exercise over the oxide at the maxi
                    it
mum, as happens with the oxide of tin at the minimum
dissolved      in
                potash.    found my opinion upon the circum
                             I
stance    of  the   potash having more affinity for the yellow
oxide of lead than for the brown oxide for, in the operation
                                               ;
which     Ihave described, the latter oxide had not been dis
solved    in the water with the alkali   whereas the portion of
                                           ;
yellow oxide which had not been altered was dissolved                         al
most entirely. To conclude           the crystalline form of the
                                      :
brown oxide of lead proves clearly, that         had been at first
                                                     it
in solution,     and  that    was afterwards separated from its
                              it
solvent, probably upon cooling.
     ft results from what        have detailed, that the platina
                                 I
which     is    contact with yellow oxide of lead performs
               in                                                              a.
part analogous to that of the nitric acid which acts upon the
minimum        ;with this difference, however, that the platina,
not being capable of being combined with the oxide of
lead, determines the complete reduction of the oxide which
it attracts    whereas the nitric acid only determined, in the
               ;
mimmum, the separation of that part of the oxygen which
Refuses to combine with the yellow oxide              both cases,
                                                          :   in,
the affinity of the yellow oxide and of the red oxjde for an
excess of oxygen concurs in the result.
VI,   On Electrical Influence. ByQEonGp JoHNSiNGRRiEsy,
     Lecturer on Exptrimental Philosophy and Cliemistry.
                             To    Mr. Tilloch.
SiK,-*l The phsenomena observed                by
                                      your correspondent
E. Walker, Esq. with Mr. 'Bennet's gold-leaf electrometer
have been long familiar to electricians, and are illustrated
in most elementary works             by
                             experiments with electrome
ters attached to insulated metallic rods. With 'such an
apparatus anomalies are less likely to occur than       the'             by
employment of the limited surface of an electrometer-cap,
and the feebly excited body necessarily employed with it.
          ------                               '                    '
                                                                         Such

                        On Electrical Influence.                      37
      Such experiments prove (and have been long considered
as   proving) that there are two methods by which electrical'
effects may result from the action or' an electrified surface
on any insulated conducting body: 1st, by the communi
cation of its own electric slate by immediate contact ; and,
2dly, by its influence on the di',tributio?i of the natural
electricity in the insulated conductor when approximated
to it.
     By the first method, a positive surface can only com
municate positive electricity, and a negative sinface, nega
tive electricity ; and in either case the original electrified
surface has the intensity of its electrical state diminislied,
and the communicated electricity is permanent (the insu
lation being supposed perfect).
     By the second methqd (approximation without contact)
the insulated conductor is contrarily electrified at the ex
tremity nearest the electrified surface, but evinces the same
electricity as that surface, at its remote extremity.
     This method of producing the contrary electrical states
at the opposite ends of an insulated conductor, depending
entirely on the unequal distribution of its natural electricity
 by the approach of an excited surface (with which it has
 no conducting communication), does not diminish the in
 tensity of that surface ; and for the same reason produce*
 no permanent effect ; the electrical appearances that were
 produced by its approach being destroyed by its removal.
      Electricity   ly  approximation      is therefore  as transient   as
 the cause by     ivliich it  is produced.
      As direct contact of an electrified surface communicates
 permanent electricity of a similar kind; so the opposite
 electricity may be communicated               by combining the me
 thods of approximation and contact. Let the different
 states of electricity be excited in an insulated conductor by
  the approach of an electrical surface.           Touch the conductor
  (during    the   continuance      of  these   effects) with any unin-
  sulating substance;        its electric appearances vanish^ though
  it still remains in the proximity of the electrical surface.
  Remove it from that proximity, it again appears electrified ;
  but it is now uniformly and permanently so, and its electri
  city is opposite to that of the excited surface to which it
  was first opposed, and is therefore 720/ derived from that sur
  face; but from the uninsulated substance with which it
  came in contact during the disturbance of its natural elec
   tricity.
      It is by this last method that th« opposite electricity to
                                        C  3                          that

  38     On an Equation in Laplace's MScanique Celeste.
  tTiat of the excited surface obtains in the leaves of Mr.
  Walker's electrometer.           The imperfect insulation of the
  instrument, or the striking of the gold-leaves against the
  tinfoil on the sides of the glass, are the sources of uninsu
  lated contact ; and in a perfectly insulated electrometer of
  any size the effect does not take place unless the excited
  surface is brought so near the cap, as to occasion the gold-
 leaves to strike the sides of the instrument.
     I have elsewhere* stated some objections to the term in
 duction as applied to electric phenomena; and I believe it
  will be quite unnecessary to expatiate on that subject, as a
 reference to its literal interpretation by our best Lexico
 graphers will sufficiently demonstrate its insufficiency and
  absurdity.
                     I  am, sir, yours, &x.
 Princes Street, Cavendish Square,                       (J. J. SlNGER
             JulyS,   1813.
 VII.    On a    supposed   Error in M. Laplace's            " Mecanique
                                  Celeste."
                             To  Mr. Tillock.
 Sir, —   An      admirer    of Laplace ventures to affirm, that thd
 equation quoted         by  Mr. Thompson (in the Philosophical
Magazine        for  last  May),    from the MScanique Celeste, is
by    no means     an  error  or  oversight in the author of that in
 comparable work, but may be easily deduced from the
following train of reasoning on the subject.                  Should you
 think this elucidation worthy a place in your valuable work,
by inserting it you will oblige,
                              Sir, yours respectfully,
                                                     Mathematiccjs.
                                           i
    By referring to the Meeanique Celeste, it will                be   found
                                                                   ffy~3"/j*
that Laplace has not. put the             equation     c=2.m.
                                                    ^~d^~&c-           .
under the form "c.2m=X.m.Sm               \(*~x)                     \   but
tmder the .following,         c.Xm=Zmm>                 ^~^~&c- j
which is very different.           For  c being    a constant     quantity,
^hmScm=c.Sm,                  but
                                     {C*r«)(^)-*c. j
                                                                .
                                                                   being\
          -  - *   • Mifttton'a Journal, vol. xxxi. p. 216.
                                                                   variable,

                                     I
        On ati Equation in Laplace's Mecanlque Celeste.             39
Variable, we have not Z.mm'=2 m.Zm.                In the first place,
there is only one sign of integration in the first member,
and there arc two in the second ; and each oF these signs*
affects the whole of the quantities which follow it; conse
quently the operations which are made upon the same va
riables in the two members are not the same.               Secondly,
the number of bodies. designated by to and m', &c. are not
the same in the two members.           In the first member these
bodies are combined two by two without any of them
being combined with itself; on the contrary, in the second
member each body is combined with itself, as well as with
all the others.        In order, therefore, that the preceding
equation     be just,  we must subtract from the second member
all the terms which give the combination of each body with
itself; this is expressly what Laplace has performed, p. 130,
where he subtracts from         X.m.Sm        at
                                                      the two terms
 +  S.mx. 2m.
    It now
                   --.
                    at          -'at
                         -^S.my.S.m-—.
             only remains for me to prove that these two terms
are   those which were formed by the combination of each
body with itself,       x, y,       ~~, belong to the samebody.
If this   variable be extended to different bodies, it would be
necessary to designate them by different accents.            Thus we
find X, y, -j— >      —,   belong exclusively    to the body tn,    x',
y',       ,        to the body to', and so on.        Consequently,
we can neither give the accent to the variables attached to
m, nor designate by x*\ y"}                    the variables attach
ed to to',   to'", &c.
    Now toto' shows the combination of two different bodies,
consequently S.mm' expresses the whole of the combina
tions of each body with all the others, we have then
2.mm'=.mm +mm'' + m'm" + mm"'-\- &x. On the con
trary, in the expression 2m.x2m.                 x and— have uot
any accent; these two variables then belong to the same
body.       Besides, each has its particular sign of integration ;
they ought then to be combined each to each, bearing the
same accent, and not each of them with all the others.               In
the same manner we may reason ori the variables w, and
                                   C4                               da

  40                         On definite Proportions.
   ~      in the expression Srn.y.S.m.           ~.      Thus the two terms
    -f S.mx.X.m         ~~  , —X.my.X.m              express  that which -is
                                              ^
  given by combining each body with itself.                    Thus we may
   perceive lhat these two terms ought not to be considered
   equal to zero; which obviates Mr. Thompson's objections,
i and redeems Laplace's analyses from the imputation of in
  consistency.
      tuljr 1, 1813..
  Vin.       An Attempt         to determine the definite and simple Pro-
      portions, in which the constituent Parts of unorganic Sub
       stances are united with each other.               By Jacob Berze-
       lius, Professor of Medicine and Pharmacy, and M.R.A.
       Stockholm.
                           [Continued from vot. xli. p. 415.]
         XVII. Analysis of the Muriate of                     Ammonia.        '-
    '
       J.)  Ten        grammes of sal ammoniac were dried on a
  very hot sand bath, and then dissolved in water: nitrate of
  silver was added to the solution, and the precipitate was
  dried on a filter in a temperature far exceeding that of boil-
  ing water. It weighied 26-5 gr. and consequently contained
  4*955 gr. of muriatic acid.             According to this experiment,
   J00 parts of dry sal ammoniac contain 49*55 of muriatic
  acid *. which nearly agrees with Rose's result, that 100
  grains of sal ammoniac afford 266*87 of horn silver.
       2.). I mixed ten grammes of pure caustic lime in a- glass
  retort with four of sal ammoniac, very finely powdered, and
  then dried on a very hot sand bath, and luted to the retort
  a receiver filled with melted muriate of lime, in the tubu
  lated aperture 6f which I fixed a glass tube filled with the.
  same salt.          The receiver and the tube, as well as the retort,
  were weighed.            The retort was gradually heated in a sand
  bath until it became ignited : hence the receiver and the
  tube both became warm, yet no ammouiacal gas whatever
  escaped from the tube.               After the conclusion of the ex
  periment, the whole had lost only a few centigrammes in
  weight j hut the retort weighed 1*485 gr. less, or 37- 12$
  per cent, of the weight of the sal ammoniac.                       Instead
  therefore of 46 1 [49|] percent. of acid, which ought to havs
  remained behind with the lime ; in this case nearly 63 per
  cent, were retained ; and when the retort was again heated
  until the mass began to melt, it lost only a few centL-
                          .   .                                    grain m'es.

                     On definite Proportions.                   41
grammes.       In this experiment, several unexpected circum
stances occurred.         It is particularly remarkable that the
ammoniacal gas was completely absorbed by the dry salt of
lime. When this salt was afterwards exposed to the air,
the ammonia evaporated ; but so slowly, that the salt iu
the receiver smelt very strongly of it after several weeks.
     3.) The experiment was repeated with the same quan
tities of the materials in a similar apparatus ; but the re
 ceiver and the tube were filled with coarsely powdered
 fused caustic potass.         The retort was heated in the sand
 bath, until the mass of salt was completely melted ; when
 cooled, it weighed 1 '5675 gr. less.        The potass in the re
 ceiver had gained '2825 gr., and the tube not quite '01 gr.
 consequently both together '2925, which, deducted from
  the total loss of the retort, leaves i-275 gr. for the ammo
 niacal gas which had escaped from . the four grammes of
  sal ammoniac.        Hence the quantity of pure ammonia in,
  sal ammoniac       appears to be 31*75 per cent.      But in this
  experiment    too   the   salt of lime  had  retained Gl percent,
  of the weight of the sal ammoniac. Was this water,
  which in the closed apparatus could not evaporate at the
  temperature which had been applied to the mass ? I cut off
   the bulb of the retort, weighed it together with the mass of
   salt in a platina crucible, and melted it in the crucible.
  There was a loss of -466 gr., the lime having retained \-Q66
   gr. of muriatic acid, which is 40-15 per cent, of the weight
   of the sal ammoniac, [or rather, taking the mean of the
   Second and third experiments, 1*992 gr. and 4i) 8 per cent.
   Gilbeit;']   a result which agrees very nearly with the result
   of the first experiment found     by    precipitation with
                                                            a   salt
   of silver.
       According to this experiment, 49' 55 parts of muriatic
    acid must require for their saturation 31*/5 of ammonia,
    which allows for sal ammoniac !8'"0 per cent. of water.
   .Consequentlv 100 parts of muriatic acid would be saturated
  by    64-2 of ammonia; and    in     these G4-2 parts, according
    to the analogy of the other bases, there must be 30m             9
    parts of oxygen ;      whence 100 parts of caustic ammonia
    must consist of 47*57 oxygen and 52-43 basis. This agrees
    so little with the analysis of the ammoniacal gas, that
    placed no confidence in the experiment, and repeated             it I
  again.
     4.) Five grammes oF sal ammoniac and 15 of lime were
  mixed in an apparatus like the former,   heat which was
                                              in   a
  raised to complete ignition, and in which the mass was
                                                             melted

  4i   .
                      On definite Proportions.
  melted   into ofie Substance with the glass of the fetort.
  Long before the conclusion of the operation, the evolution
  of ammoniacal gas had completely terminated.         The retort
  had lost 1*6525 gr., the potass in the receiver had gained
  -0525, and that in the tube *0025, which gives, for the dry
  ammoniacal gas that had escaped, 1-5975 gr. and conse
  quently for the sal ammoniac 31 -95 per cent. of pure am
 monia. Since in this experiment the mass was only melted
  at the bottom, it had retained 66' per cent, of water ; but
  the ammoniacal     gas which escaped was the same in both
  experiments,   within  '002 of the weight of the salt.   Hence
  these experinents confirm    each  other completely, and the
 more so, as the greater quantity of water, which passed over
 in the third experiment, had probably retained a little mors
 Of the ammoniacal gas in the potass.
     5.) The high temperature, which had been employed for
 driving over the last portion of water, might possibly have
 decomposed the ammonia, and formed some water from its
 oxygen and a part of its hydrogen, and this water remain
 ing with the salt of lime might have lessened the loss of
 .weight.    In order to put this conjecture to the test, I re
 peated   the  experiment with sal ammoniac, which I had
 mixed with three times its weight of finely powdered caustic
 pfjtass, in a similar apparatus.    The retort was heated over
 the flame of a spirit lamp, and the decomposition took
 place immediately upon the first operation of the heat, so
 that the ammoniacal gas rushed out with violence. As the
 heat' was continued, no more ammoniacal gas was dis
 charged, but only the water of crystallization of the potass
 and of the muriate of potass.         During the expulsion of
 the aqueous vapours from the neck of the retort, it acci
dentally cracked, and a little water visibly evaporated
through the fissure.        But notwithstanding this circum
stance, and although the ammoniacal gas passed so rapidly
through the potass, that it could not be completely dried,
vet the loss of weight amounted to no more than 33-5 per
cent., or only   If  per cent, more than in the former experi
ment ; a proof that my supposition respecting the decom
position of ammonia was unfounded.
    It was therefore established by all these experiments, that
the muriate of ammonia consists of
            Muriatic acic   ....  49-55        100 00
            Caustic ammonia . 31*95             64*48
            Water                 18*50        [37*34]
    And if we proceed on this foundation to calculate the
                                                         quantity

                       On definite Proportions.                               43
quantity of oxygen in ammonia, we shall find that ammonia
must be composed of
             Base                  52-714         100*000
             Oxygen                47*286           89*623.
    A doubt however still remained respecting this result-
Sal ammoniac, sprinkled on moist litmus paper, reddens                        it,
asI    have often observed, in         few seconds, as strongly as
                                       a
an acid would io;      I   therefore imagined that sal ammoniac
might be supersalt, although its taste
              a                                    not acid.
                                                    is          In or
der to try this,   I   dissolved some sal ammoniac in water,
and tried to saturate           with caustic ammonia very much
                               it
diluted,   and   of known    specific gravity. But when          added  I
a  little tincture of litmus to the solution,           was but very
                                                          it
slightly reddened, and         single drop of weak ammonia was
                               a
more than sufficient to restore its blue colour.               Sal am
moniac must therefore still be considered as              neutral salt.
                                                              a
The reddening of the litmus paper probably depends on a
decomposition, in which the ammonia evaporates, and the
substance that colours the litmus recovers its original red
ness, which had been changed to blue                  the addition of
                                                         by
lime or ashes in its preparation.         Every attempt that made       I
to obtain     a  submnriate of ammonia completely failed, so
that ammonia agrees with the other alkalies in being in
capable of combining with the muriatic acid in more than
one proportion.
    After had completed the series of my experiments oa
              I
ammonia,      I   received,    in in
                                  May 1809, an e3say obligingly
sent me       byMr. Davy,         which he treats of the decom
 position of the base of ammonia            by potassium.      He had
turnt 350 parts of potass with 205 of dry ammoniacal gas.
These 350 parts, according to the analysis above related,
take up 73 of oxygen.            Consequently the ammonia had
 contained 38 [35-£] per cent, of oxygen; although little
                   \
dependence can be placed on this number                  for Davy ob
                                                              :
 served   in  these experiments     an   evolution  of  hydrogen gas,
.which was very nearly as great as   the potassium had been
                                           if
oxidated      by
             water   and the product of the combustion of
                       ;
potassium in ammoniacal gas, besides hydrogen gas and
potass, was also      combination of the basis of ammonia
                       a
with potassium in solid form. How then are we to ex
                           a
plain this evolution of hydrogen gas     Was    ?an effect of     it
the decomposition of ammonia, so that nitrogen was con
densed with       smaller portion of hydrogen in the potas
                   a
sium      But in fact Davy obtained,
          ?                                         by
                                          heating the mass,
both these substances in the same proportion that they
have in ammonia.        Davy drew from his experiments the
 '*   -
                                                                       conclusion

44                     Hygrotnetricdl Experiments.
conclusion that nitrogen had been decomposed, arid hud
formed hydrogen and oxygen ; and I cannot see how ft is
possible to reconcile, in any other manner, the apparently
accurate analyses of ammoniacal gas with the exhibition of
oxygen in these experiments.
                                 [To   be continued.]
IX.     Description of an Almometer, and an Account of some
      Photometric, Hygrometric, and Hyaroscoptcal Expert-
      ments.        By Professor Leslie, of Edinburgh*.
It appears that steam, however                 formed, has probably doublei
            of common air, and under the same pressure
the elasticity
would occupy twice as much space. In uniting with that
fluid     it must hence communicate art expansion propor
 tionate to the  quantity dissolved, or to the portion of mois
 ture required for the complete saturation of the air. This
 law suggests the principle of the hygrometer.         But the pro*
 cess of evaporation is still misconceived.         The depression;
 of temperaturjj^ which always accompanies                       it,
                                                           has been
hastily supposed    to be   proportional  to the  rate at which the
moisture      dissipated,
               is           and   to be therefore    augmented by
every circumstance that can accelerate this effect.           But               if
water be exposed to        current of air
                             a               will cool to certain
                                                    it                 a
point, and there its temperature will remain stationary         the        ;
rapidity of the current may hasten the equilibrium, yet
the degree of cold induced will be the same, as the medium
which supports the vapour furnishes the heat necessary to
its formation.      In fact, after the water has been once
cooled down, each portion of the ambient air which comes
to touch the evaporating surface must, from its contact
with    a substance so much denser than itself, be likewise
cooled down to the same standard, and must hence com
municate to the liquid its surplus heat.          Every shell of ait
that     succession encircles the humid mass, while
        it)                                                     ab         it
sorbs along with the moisture which            dissolves the mea
                                                        it
sure of heat necessary to convert this into steam, does at
the same instant thus deposit an equal measure of its own
heat on the chill, exhaling surface.          The abstraction of
heat    byvaporization    on  the  one hand,  and on the other its
deposition at ihe surface of contact, are therefore opposite
contemporaneous       acts, which soon produce          mutual ba
                                                             a
lance, and thereafter the temperature induced continues
  •   Abstracted from "     A short Account of Experiments    and Instruments
depending     on the Relations of Air, Heat, and Moisture."
                                                                       without

                    Pholometrkal Experiments.                    45
 without the smallest alteration.        Hence the dryness of air
 is indicated by the depression of temperature in a humid
 surface exposed to its action.         But the air also communi
 cates heat to wateri by pulsation: this would derange the
  results, were not the discharge of vapour subject to the same
  conditions as the emission of heat, and in both cases the
  proximity of a vitreous or metallic surface produces effects
 entirely similar. Nor is this mode of transmission by the
 play of alternate pulses confined to heat and moisture;
 odours appear to be conveyed through the atmosphere by a
 similar agency.       It is known that although the wind di
  sperses widely    odorous   particles, yet their scent will pene
trate some distance against the current, and they may be
  concentrated by a tapering tube or reflector. This is proved
  by the action of the odour of ammonia on the colours of
  flowers, when exposed in the focus of a reflector.         In this
  case the odorous substance, while dissolving in the air, must
  have excited a sort of pulsatory impression like that of
  sound.     The chief difference appears to be, that odours
  and moisture, consisting of matter sensibly ponderable,
  somewhat resemble wrecks floating on the waves, and are
  consequently not carried forward with the same accuracy,
  or to such a great distance, as heat, which possesses the in
  herent and f xtreme subtility of light itself.
      The differential thermometer, by having one of its balls
  diaphanous, and the other coated with Indian ink or rather
   blown of deep black glass, will become a photometer, and
   indicate the comparative force of the light to which it is
  exposed.     The rays falling on the. clear ball pass unob
   structed; but those striking the dark one are absorbed at its
   surface, where, assuming a latent form, they act as heal.
   This heat continues to accumulate till counteracted bv an
   opposite dispersion, caused by the rise of temperature which
   the ball has acquired.     Hence the space through which the
   coloured liquid sinks in the stem will measure the mo.
   mentary impressions of light, or its actual intensity.         To
   prevent agitation, the instrument is covered with a bell-
   glass.   The photometer exhibits distinctly the progress of
   illumination from the mining's dawn till noon, and thence
   its gradual decline till evening.       At Edinburgh the direct
    impression   of the  sun at noon   during the summer solstice
    amounts   to 90 degrees ; but it regularly declines as his rays
    become more oblique, and at the altitude            of 17° it is
    reduced to one half, at 3° above the horizon the whole
   effect exceeds not one degree.           In winter the greatest

 46                  Description    of an Almometer.
 force of the solar beams measures only 25 degrees.               Between
 a fourth and filth of the whole solar light is lost in its ver
tical descent to the earth's surface, and in a hazy sky it often
 amounts to a third. We usually form false estimates of the
quantity of indirect light reflected from the sky; in our
 climate it may amount to 30 or 40 degrees in summer, and
 tOor 15 in winter. This secondary light is most powerful
when the sky is overspread with thin fleecy clouds ; it is
 feeblest either when the rays are obstructed by a mass of
 thick congregated vapours, or when the atmosphere is per
fectly clear and of an azure tint. The photometer in the
 open air is not only affected by light from the sky, but also
 by what is reflected from surrounding objects.                  This may
 be entirely prevented by screens.                This instrument fur
nishes a ready mode of ascertaining the various degrees of
 transparency.        Of 100 parts of the whole incident light,
 cambric transmits 80, and when wetted 93; fine paper
 suffers 49 to pass through, but when oiled 80.                 It also en
 ables us to ascertain the relative density of lights.              An or
 dinary wax candle placed two inches from the balls of the
 photometer gave an impression of six degrees; on drawing
 it back the effect diminished according to the square of the
 distance.       At the distance of four feet, where the flame
  presented the same visual magnitude as the sun, its action
  was reduced to the gCth part of a degree.               But the full im
 pression     of the  solar  rays,  if  not   enfeebled    in passing the,
 atmosphere,      would    be  125  degrees    : therefore  the sun's light
 is 96 times 125, or 12,000 times more powerful than that
 of a wax candle. If a portion of the luminous solar matter,
 rather less than half an inch in diameter, were transported
 to onr planet, it would emit light equal to J 2,000 candles.
     The separate and distinct effects of evaporaiion, the cold
 ness it occasions, and the quantity of moisture it abstracts, are
 rendered very obvious by the hygrometer when contrasted,
  with an instrument which Professor Leslie has lately in
 vented to measure the quantity of exhalation from a humid
  surface in a given time.              This instrument* he calls an
 Atmometer (from ctTy.o$, exhalation or vapour, and psTpov, a
 measure) see fig. 16, Plate I.           It consists of a thin ball of
  porous     earthenware,     two  or  three   inches in diameter, with,
  a small neck, to which is firmly cemented a long and ra
  ther wide tube, bearing divisions, each of them correspond
  ing to an internal annular section, equal to a film of liquid
    * It it made under the direction of its inventor by Mr. Cary, optician.
                                                                        that

       Experiments   on  Evaporation with the Atmometer.      47
that would cover the outer surface of the ball to the thick
ness of the thousandth part of an inch.         These divisions
are ascertained by a simple calculation, and numbered
downwards to the extent of 100 or 200; to the top of the
tube is fitted a brass cap, having a collar of leather, and
which, after the cavity has been filled with distilled or
boiled water, is screwed tight.        The outside of the ball
being now wiped dry, the instrument is suspended out of
doors, and exposed to the free action of the air.
     "Evaporation is always proportioned to the extent of the
humid surface.      If a sheet of wet paper be applied to a plate
of glass, it will, in a close room, lose its weight exactly at
the same rate, whether it be held vertically or horizontally,
 and whether it occupies the upper or the under side of the
 plate.    The quantity of evaporation from a wet ball is the
 same as from an equal plane surface, or from a circle having
 %w\ce the diameter of the sphere.        In the atmoineter, the
 humidity transudes through the porous substance, just as
 fast as it evaporates from the external surface ; and this
 waste is measured, by the corresponding         descent of the
 water in the stem.       At the same time, the tightness of the
 collar, taking off the pressure of the column of liquid, pre-.
 vents it from oozing so profusely as to drop from the ball ;
  an inconvenience which, in the case of very feeble evapora
  tion, might otherwise take place. As the process goes on,
  a corresponding portion of air is likewise imbibed by the
  moisture on the outside, and, being introduced into the
  ball, rises in a small stream, to occupy the space deserted
  by the subsiding of the water in the tube.         The rate of
  evaporation is nowise affected by the quality of the porous
  ball, and continues exactly the same when the exhaling sur
  face appears almost dry, as when it glistens with abundant
  moisture. The exterior watery film attracts moisture from
  the internal mass with a force inversely as its thickness,
  and will therefore accommodate the supply precisely to any
  given degree of expenditure.       When this consumption is
  excessive, the water mav be allowed to percolate, by un
  screwing the cap, avoiding however the risk of letting it
  drop from the ball.
      " In still air, the indications of the hygrometer, and
   those of the atmometer, bear the same proportion ; and
   the quantity of evaporation for every hour is expressed, in
   thousandths of an inch in depth, by the twentieth part of
   the hygrometric degrees.      For example, in this climate the
   BKdium dryness     in winter being reckoned 15°, and in sum
                                                              mer

  48      Atmomelric and Hygrometric Experiments.
  mer about 40°, the daily exhalation from a sheltered spot
  will amount in winter to   a thickness of '018, and in sum
 mer to *048 decimal parts of an inch.         If we reckon the
 mean daily evaporation from the ground while screened at
 '030, the waste during the whole year will amount to near
 eleven inches, being scarcely the half perhaps of what, un
 der the circulation of the atmosphere, actually obtains.
 The dissipation of moisture indeed is vastly accelerated bv
 the action of sweeping winds, — the effect being sometimes
 augmented five or ten times.      In general, this augmenta
 tion is proportional, as in the case of cooling, to the swift
 ness of the wind, the action of still air itself being reckoned
 equal to that produced by a celerity of eight miles each
 hour. Hence the velocity of wind is easily computed, from
 a comparison of the indications of an hygrometer with an
 atmometer, or of a sheltered, with those of an exposed, at-
 mometer.     Thus, suppose the hygrometer to mark 40 de
 grees, or the column in a sheltered atmometer to subside
 at the rate of two divisions each hour, while in one ex
 posed to the current the descent is 12 divisions; then, as
 2 is to 10, the superadded effect of (he wind, so is 8 to
40 miles, its velocity during the hour.
    " It is curious to remark, what a small proportion of
 any stream of air can acquire heat or moisture, by flowing
 over a warm or a humid surface.         Supposing the air to
have 20 degrees of dryness, the ordinary evaporation would
every hour equal a film of the thousandth part of an inch
thick.    But this portion of moisture would be sufficient,
we have seen, to saturate 800 times its weight of air at
such a low state of dryness ; or, reckoning the air 850 times
lighter than water, this weight would correspond to that of
a cylinder of air 57| feet high, and having its base equal
to the surface of the humid ball, — or to a cylinder 230 feet
high, and of the same diameter as that ball.         Now, since
the ordinary evaporation at 20 degrees of the hygrometer
is equal to the increased effect occasioned by a current of
air moving with the velocity of eight miles in the hour,
and forming therefore against the ball a cylinder of 42,240
feet in height ; it hence follows, that not more than the
 184ih part of this advancing column can be humified by
its streaming over the surface of the ball.       Such commu
nication of moisture is no doubt confined within the nar
row limits of physical contact.      Each minute portion of
air which comes to graze along the humid surface has its
velocity retarded, and acquiring new elasticity from the
                                                        moisture

          Atmometric and Hygrometric Experiments.               4q
moisture which it dissolves, it is quickly thrown back into
the current.     On the rapitlit y of these successive contacts
will depend the absolute quantity of evaporation.
    " But, in perfectlv calm air, the power of evaporation, if
it be very considerable, will yet, as in the case of a heated
»urfaee, create an artificial stream, which mingles its in
fluence with the ordinary dissipation of moisture.          When
the hygrometer marks 75 degrees, this current will have a
corresponding velocity of one mile every hour, and must
therefore augment the regular effect of evaporation by an
eighth part.     In general, to find the cornet hourly evapo
ration iu a medium of still air, as expressed in atmometric
divisions, or the thousandths of an inch of superficial thick
ness, after having divided bv 20 the number of degrees in-
deaied by the hygrometer, let the quotient be increased in
 the ratio of that number to 600.        Thus, if the hygrometer
were to mark Sii degrees, then 1*5 is the approximate mea
sure of evaporation ; and since 30 is contained 20 times in
 600, the correction to be added to 1*5 is likewise i's twen
 tieth part, or 075; so that the hourly evaporation, esti
mated in atmometric divisions, amounts to 1*575, and the
 daily to t8*9.    This correction is however in most instances
 so small, that it mav, without material inaccuracv, be en
 tirely overlooked, hut, in confined hydrogen gas, at the
 same state of dryness, the atmnmeter is as much affected
 as if it were exposed in open air to a wind having the velo-
 fcity of 12 miles an hour; and consequently         the dispersion
 Of moisture    in such a powerful medium is, like that of
 heat under such circumstances, two and a halt times more
 profuse than in atmospheric air.
     "The atmometer is an instrument evidently of extensive
 application and of great utilitv in practice.         To ascertain'
  with accuracv and readiness the quantitv of evaporation
  from any surface in a i>iven time, is an important acqinsi
 tion, not onlv in meteorology, but in agriculture, ami the
 various arts and manufactures.           The rate of exhalation
  from the surface of the ground       is  scarcely of less conse
  quence than the fall of rain, and a knowledge of it might
  often direct the farmer advantaueou-lv in his operations.
  On the rapid dispersion of moisture, depends the efficacy
  of drving houses, which are too frequently constructed
  most unskilfullv, or on verv mistaken principles.         But the
  purposes to which the atmometer so apt Iv applies, were
  hitherto suppl>td in a rude and imperfect manner.            The
  loss that s\ater sustains m a given time from evaporation,
  has commonlv been estimated by weight      ~
                                                 or measure.    If a
      Vol. 42. No.  183,  July 1813.            D             piece

         Atmometric and Hygrometric Experiments.
piece of flannel, stretched by a slender frame, be wetted and*
suspended in the free air, its dissipation of moisture,- after.
a certain interval, is found by help of accurate scales; or if
 water iu a shallow pan be exposed in at similar situation, its
daily waste is detected by the application of a finely divided
rod or gauge.      But these methods are extremelv trouble
some,   and  are  subject besides, especiallv tha latter one, to-
great inaccuracy.      Both the flannel' and the sheet of water
require to be sheltered against the wind and rain, and- con
sequently they will not exhibit, like the atmometer, the
real exhalation which takes place from the ground. The
bottom and sides- of the pan must also, from their extent
of dry surface, affect the temperature of the water, and con
sequently modify the quantity of evaporation.
    "An atmometer suspended in still air 'might there
fore, on taking into- account the time intervened', answer
nearly the purpose of the hygrometer          and this mode can
be employed with advantage, in discovering the mean dry
ness of an apartment after the lapse of hours or days.        But
the delicacy of     the  hygrometer, indicates directly, and   al
most spontaneously, the actual dryness of the medium.
This instrument is hence indispensable in all meteorological
observations, and may contribute essentially towards laying
the foundation of a juster and more comprehensive know
ledge of the various modifications which take place in the
lower regions of our atmosphere.         Heat and moisture are
the chief agents which nature employs in producing those
incessant changes j.and if the invention of the thermometer
has tended so much to correct and enlarge the views of
physical science, may not the introduction of an accurate
hygrometer be expected to confer a similar benefit, and to>       .
direct our researches- into many departments that are stilfc
unexplored ?- To possess the means, for instance, of com
paring disiant climates, must be deemed highly important,.
  . " Even iu this island, the several: winds have their distinct
characters.    If it blows from the northern quarter, the hy
grometer generally inclines to dryness ; but a southerly wind,,
along with warmth,.invariably brings an excess of humidity..
In clear and calm weather, the air is alwavs- drier near the
surface during the day than at a certain height above the
ground, but it becomes damper on the approach of evening,.
while, at some elevation, it retains a moderate degree of
dryness through the whole of the night.           If  the sky be
clouded, less alteration is betrayed in the state of the air,
both during the progress of the day and at different distances
from the ground ; and if wind prevail, the lower strata of

            Atmometric and Hygrometric Experiment*.                 31
the atmosphere, thus agitated and intermingled, will be re*
dneed to a still nearer equality of condition.
   " In the regulating or many processes of art, and in di-
feeting the purchase and selection of various articles of
produce, the application of the hygrometer would render
material service.        Most warehouses, for instance, require
to he kept at a certain point of dryness, and which is higher
or lower according to the purposes for which they are de
signed.       The printing of linen and cotton is carried on in
very dry rooms, but the operations of spinning and weaving
succeed best in air which rather inclines to dampne*9. The
manufacturer is at present entirely tiuided bv observing; the
effects produced, and hence the iroods are often shrivelled,
or otherwise injured, before he can discover any alteration
in 'the state of the medium.        But were an hygrometer, even
of the most       ordinary  construction. placed in the room, it
would exhibit every successive change in the condition of
the air, and immediately suggest the proper correction. The
same means could be employed most beneficially, in at
tempering the atmosphere of public hospitals.
   " That wool and corn have their weight considerably
augmented by the presence of moi.Uure, is a tact well
known.         Without supposing that any fraudulent practices
are used-, this difference, owing merelv to the variable state
of the air in which the substances are kept, may yet in ex
treme cases amount to 10 or even 15 per Cent                .Gram or
paper preserved       in  a damp place,    will   be  found  to swell
nearly after the same proportion.             But the  real condition
of such commodities might easily be detected, by placing
the nvsirometer within a small wired cage, and heaping
over this. for a few minutes, a quantity of the wool or grain
which is to be examined."                   i
   If  a' piece of cambric or linen be intensely dried, rolled
around the bulb of a delicate thermometer, placed within a
deep glass, and a stopped phial of water set beside it in
a room, after one or two hours the whole will have ac
quired the same temperature.           A little of the water in the
phial    is  then  to be poured  on  the cambric ; when the bulb
of the thermometer will become instantly affected, and in
dicate the extrication of heat amounting to three or four
degrees of Fahrenheit.        The heat evolved is alwavs in pro
portion to the previous dryness of the absor ing substance.
With oak saw-dust, previouslv parched, the effect is still
more striking.        The fact of recentlv baked biscuits feeling
hot  in   the  mouth    must be attributed to the same principle,
   M  The presence of heat likewise augments yery considera-
                                  D8                               bly

 Si       Altttomettic and Hygrometric Experiments
 hlyatl those absorbent powers.      Thus* while in winter l\te
 introduction of sulphuric acid under a receiver and in a
 room without fire, scarcely sinks the hygrometer 40 de
 grees, it will, even in our feeble summers. occasion a dry
 ness of 100 or 120 degrees.     On this principle, water may
 be rendered coo! in the sultriest climates, and in everv state
 of the atmosphere ; for nothing more is required than to
expose it to evaporate from a porous vessel, in a medium
 of confined air, and near the action of a large surface of
sulphuric acid. Nay, with that arrangement, artificial con
gelation is produced, if the external temperature should
come but as low as 38 or 40 degrees, on Fahrenheit's scale.
Wine also could be cooled, by casing the sides of the bottle
with wet flannel, and shutting it up in a wide shallow box,
.which is lined with lead or composed of glazed earthen
 ware, and has its bottom covered, perhaps to the thickness
of half an inch, with a stratum of the acid. If this box,
with its contents, were placed in a cellar, the wine would,
at all times in this island, have its temperature reduced, in
the space of four or five hours, to 40 or 42 degrees by
Fahrenheit's scale. By the same very simple contrivance,
wine or water might, in the tropical countries, be cooled,
from 80 degrees on the same scale, to 55, or even lower.
Nor is the desiccating efficacy of the acid sensibly impaired,
till it has absotbed an equal bulk of moisture, atid has con
sequently on successive days occasioned the moderate re
frigeration of more than fifty times its weight of wine or
water.
    " The influence of warmth in augmenting the dryness
of the air, or its disposition to imbibe moisture, explains
most easily a singular fact remaiked by some accurate ob-
nervers.    If two equal surfaces of water be exposed in the
same situation, the one in a shallow, and the other in a
deep vessel of metal or porcelain ; the latter is always found,
after a certain interval of time, to have -suffered, contrary
to what we might expect, more waste by evaporation than
the former. This observation was once made the ground
of a very absurd theory, although the real explication of it
appears abundantly simple.       Amidst all the changes that
happen in the condition of (he ambient medium, the shal
low pan must necessarily receive more completely than the
deeper vessel," the chilling impressions of evaporation, since
it exposes a smaller extent of dry surface to be partly heated
up again by the contact of the air. The larger mass being,
therefore, kept invariably warmer than the other, must in
consequence support a more copious exhalation."
Y«                            .                     X.  Cursory

X,    Cursory Geological Observations lately made, in Skrop--
  , shire, Wales, Lancashire, Scotland, Durham,                      York-'
    shire NR., and Derbyshire.             Some Observations on Mr.
    Bakeivell's Geological Map, and on the supposed Identity
    of the Derbyshire P^tak and the Craven Limestone Racks,
    (Sc. &c. By Mr. John Fauev Sen.
                            To   Mr.   Tilloch.
Sir, —    I have        For a long period been prevented from
communicating         to  your useful work, although I have fre
quently in the interval been reminded by my friends, that
a letier in your xlth volume, p. 45, required an answer
from roe.
    Several weeks before this letter appeared, I left home,
spent two or three days near Ludlow, in examining the
Clee Hills to the E, and the two Limestone Rocks (besides
that under Clee Hills) which I found ranging on the west
and north-west sides of that Town.                 From hence       I   pro
ceeded to Hafod, and spent several days in examining the
strata and ranges of the Cum-ystwith and several others of
the Mineral Veins of that curious district. 'I then pro--
ceeded by Aberystwith, Shrewsbury, Liverpool, Kendal, and
Carlisle, to Edinburgh, where I took a hasty view of Ar
thur's Seat and a few other objects in the vicinity, and then
proceeded for Perth, Aberdeen, Banff, Fochabers, Nairn,
and Inverness, where I spent a day in examining the exca-
vajions for the eastern end of the Caledonian Canal, &c. and
then went through Tain and Dornoch to Dunrobin Castle, in
whose neighbourhood I spent several weeks, examining the
strata thence into Caithness, and as far SW as Bonar Bridge,
and particularly within the Coal -Jit Id, which has been worked*
since 1509, with some intervals, and was lately resumed
 (Phil. Mag. vol. xxxix. p. 337), on the banks of the Brora
 River, near its mouth.
     On my return, 1 came by sea to Banff, spent a day there,
and examined the coarse slate on the shore near MacDuff
and that Town, then again through Aberdeen and Bervie
to Perth : here I Spent two days examining Kinnoul Hill, &c.
    * In Edinburgh, the hot-bed of Geological speculation and contention,
a learned   Doctor lately edited a £d edition of the late Mr. John Williams'«
very valuable work on the " Mineral Kingdom," and has affixed a Life of
 the Author, wherein he has shown his ignorance of the fact, that Mr.
Williams was for several years prior to 1770, theLe9see under the Earl of
Sutherland,   and worker of these Coal-pits (although in his work Mr. W.
scarcely alludes thereto), and the Doctor strongly insinuates, if Dot asserts,
there are no Coals in Sutherland !                                   >
                                    D  3                              whose

54     Mr, Farey's Geological       Observations in Durham, &fc.
whose massive strata appear to me to form part of the con
tinuous edge of Basalt, stretching (generally with a north-
western dip I believe) from near Montrose on the German
Ocean, to Dunbarton on the Clvde, (and perhaps thence
across Arran, he to Roihlin and Antrim ?) covering and
limiting the great Coal-field of the Forth and Clyde;
great part of which-, it seems once to have covered, before
the vast and complicated      denudations  were performed,
which have in many pans cut deep into the Coal measure?;
and left numerous detached Hummocks of riasalt, like that
of Arthur's Seat, and all others which I saw thence to near
                                                    '-            '    '!
JLinross.
   From Edinburgh I returned by Haddington, Dunbar,
Berwick, and Bel ford, to Newcastle; a day which I spent
here, was lost as to any observations on the strata, owing}
to a dismal thick fog : next day I was more fortunate at
Sunderland and Durham : at West Bolden, I left the CoaU
pleasures and ascended the regular edge of the lower yellow
Limestone Roc k, which I at once recognised, and descended
it again a mile NE of Houghton le Spring.         At Ferry
jHill I again ascended the edge of the lower yellow Lime
stone     Rock,   and   was       there   hospitably     entertained        and
ninth instructed, by Mr. Thomas Arrowsmith, who works                         a
colliery through the lower Limestone Rock, as at Parlirig»
ton, Knitaker, Skegby, Nuthall, Bilborough, &c. are or has
been done, Derb. Rep. i. 156, and Phil. Mag, vol. xxxix,
 |>.99 and 103.     South of Ferry-Hill,    soon ascended an
                                                     I
indistinct edge of the Red Marl between the Limestone
Rocks, such as had often deceived me in Notts. and Per-r
pyshire, as mentioned Phil. Mag. vol. xxxix.         104, andp.
then the edge of the upper Yellow Limestone, which dips
into    atrough at Rushyford, and         there covered by
                                                is                            a
clayey soil (perhaps alluvial   which trough and covering
                                     ?)
stratum, seems to me from my inquiries, to extend east-.
ward by Sedgefield, or south of         to the coast SW of
                                              it,
Jjartlepool but these are points on which am extremely
              ;                                          I
desirous of precise information from your Correspondents.
   On the     Sof Avcliff again descended the edge of the
                              I
upper Rock, and came upon the Red Marl, here not am
biguous or doubtful, being thicker than at Fairburn (Phil,
Mag. vol xxxix. p. 104), and thereon (or its imbedded grit
stone)   Itravelled, through Darlington, Croft, North-Caw.
ton, Catterick-Bridge., Leeming, and Ripon; soon after
which,    I descended again on to the top of the lower yel*
low Lime Rock (left on the          of Ferry Hill), and after
                                          S
seeing several large- Limc-\vor4s therein, which stretch
                                                                      NNW

   Mr. Farcy's Geological Olservations inDhrlyshire,t'fc.                       55-
NNW        and SSE for many miles, as I was told, T obliquely
descended the edge of this lower Rock, passed through
 Ripley, and was proceeding on Coal-measures                             towards
 High Harrowgate,           when     unfortunately        it  grew   dusk, and'
 flight soon prevented my seeing the very interesting country
 thence to Leeds, as it "had previously done through several
 miles .of toy approach to Newcastle, and to Perth in my
 return, imd to Nairn, and to Bank-house in the southern
 extremity of Edinburgh county, in my way North : inter
  ruption* to the course of *ny Observations, which I much
 lament, but .could not avoid without the loss of a day in each
 case (which I could not spare) and much extra expense for
 post-chaises, which I always avoid, also, when I can obtain;
 a much more favourable seat for observation                       on a mail or
 stage   coach,    with   the  privilege     secured,     of   a seat   inside iri
 case of night coming on, or of. rain, Sec. which would pre
 vent the constant recording of my observations.
     From Leeds I hastened to Ashover, and with my son's^
 assistance (William F.) who had previously resumed th«
 Survey of Ashover and its vicinity, (that we began in the
  preceding year) by the middle of November, we had so far
 proceeded, that a Report thereon could be made up, my
 Maps copied, &c. * which, and those relating to my Suther
                                                                             land
    * I have great reason now lo wish, that 1 could recall or expunge the
 last paragraph   in page ix of the. preface to vol. ii. of my Derby Report,
 published in February last i a paper, of 1 '20 closely written folio pages having
 been prepared by n:e, under the advice and copied after the repeated
 perusal of G. B. Greenough, Esq.. the late President of the Geological Society,
 was presented through him to that Body on the 4th of February last, ac
 companied by a Mineral Map, filled up with the strata of more than thirty
 square miles including Ashover, on a scale of         inch to a mite ; these were
 in addition, and by Mr. G.'s desire prepared, for explaining a Urge Section
 from actual survey, of the strata for more than seven mites in length of
surface, crossing Ashover, and an attached and corresponding Map of the
 strata and every object on the surface, half a mile wide, on a scale of 10
 inches to a mile, which Section had been conditionally presented and left with
 the Society since March 18i2, by desire of Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., formerly
 a member thereof.
    I heard nothing from the Society, until towards the end of April, when I
 received a Letter acknowledging (according to a printed form) the receipt
 of my paper, &c. and a few days after there appeared in yours and the
 Journal of Mr. Nicholson, a similar paper (sent officially as I have been
 informed) from the Geological Society, as a Report of their proceedings.
 About a month after thif, in consequence of a remonstrance on my part tp
 Mr. G. on some reports and circumstances of a novel kind that had reached
 me, regarding my paper and Maps, he introduced a Gentleman to ipe, who
 a short time after called on me, and among other things told ine, th^t the
 forth-coming volume of the Society's Transactions was intrusted (o Aim, and
 nothing would appear therein but what he approved; that the ideas of the
.Council were averse to the publication of thv paper, he believed he could
                                                          '*'"--              '
                                       T\ A

S€      Mr. Farcy's Geological             Observations      in Scotland,       &C
land business and other urgent matters. have.occasioned the
 intei nipii'.ins to mv occasional contributions. through your
 valuable ivork, towards the knowledge of the stratification
 ot the british Isle*.                         s
   . Behm         a .v .leisure occurred to me for adverting to Mr.
 Bakj will's Loiter in ywir Number tor July 1812, he had
 announced his beitui engaged on an " Introduction to Geo-
  loiiv," and I have since waited until I could give a very at-
  tent ve reading to his Book.                   Now we are more fairly at
 is-ue, on the points in our Letters in your xxxixth vol.
  p. 425, and xhh vol. p. .45.
       The precise nature of Mr B's original " Geological Map
  of England " is now seen, in his 4th plate. As an " Outline"
  say s.o of trtrv individual thereof, of ihis fact he produced however no pnoof,
   jior have I the opportunity to the present hour of learning in a regular
   way, anv npbtpen >>rdecision' i&Qtfi&r     if the Council (much lew of tkeS> cietv)
   respecting my Paper, Section, or Maps or the nature ot the objections that
  have pnvalflv been' raised toauy parts of either !
       This learned Editor -and caterer for the Gcologicrl ta«re, went on to per
   suade n e. that he himself was a well w isher to my put suits and commumca
   tions.. with what truth the circumstances best rell) and had therefore taken
   immense pains lu write a vtte paper Jot ir e, which after perusing (as I did
   with grerat care) j. would <3o well he said to adopt and allow my signature
   lobe placed as.          original communication ! I scarcely need say more, to
   (Convey an jdfa of ijii-, pwfurmance, to my friends, who knoir the /o. /.<of
   Derbyshire and its strata, than that the Report in the Phil. Mag. vol. zli.
   *p. S03 to i 05 and its many misconceptions         and blunders, was n-adr f rom
    this Eilil r's Paper, instead of my original paper , and perhaps this only was
    Head (not on a regulai meeting day) instead of my original paper? Tne
    above fact as to the original of the printed Report, appeared dearly to
    me. from their perfect coincidence in the erroneous points.
        On my objecting to this course to Mr. Editor, and attempting to show,
    that the first p irt of my paper (near half of h and by far the mosi important
    part) would be injured greatly by the total change of arrangement ard in
    ordinate compression it had suffered (the Rtpnrt on this pan is accordingly
    compressed into 4 lines, p. 303), and my Mineral Map greatly spoiled by
    the alteration (from whim only, as far as I could learn) that was insisted ou
    therein    1 was coolly told, that the St rclanti would immediately ielwu my
    papers, if I upplittt fi r them ; and so they did, on the 2lst i f June, without the
    least explanation of or apology for, the extraordinary circumstances pointed
    out to them or refer red to, in my Let.er of the i9 h of June. I have hot at
    tempted ro quote the precise ward* which passed on the above unprecedented
    and disagreeable occasions, but to give the substance, as concisely and as cor
    rectly as I could
        It appeared unnecessary above, in referring my Derbyshire Friends to the
     Geological Report on my paper, p 303, vol. xii. to state, that the loose and
    inapplicable /tufsl>> HerneiiuH l?rn>s therein, were not used by me, but sou.e
    of them expressly disclaimed in my paper as being contrary to more pioper
    terms, previouslv tfi use airong Rngi s' Geologists, and to which I adhered:
    this was in consequence of being actually told by an individual Men.bei ot the
     GeoK gical ou mil, while my paper was m hand, that ij 1 aid nut use Werne-
     rian Terms nobodv wou d read mv paper / It was rather unforiunate, that I
    could not then see the full import ot this hint, and have avoided the loss of
     many weeks of my time this spring, and some subsequent vexation.

           Mr. Farey's      Observations on    Mr. Bakewell's Map.                      57
    it is rather materially incorrect in two or three places: viz. to
     the nonh and north-east of York, the Oalite Limestone, so
    distinctly described in your xxxixth vol. pages 97 and 98,
    is omitted in the " low district," a name ol' his, which cer
    tainly    befits this elevated Limestone tract. Mr. B's Alpine
              ill
    or " Devonian Range" of Primitive and Transition Rocks,
    has been carried   great many miles too far to the north -east,
                            a
    on the shore of the Bristol channel, as Mr. B. might have
'
    learnt, from Mr. Wm. Smith's Report on the Nailsea Coal-
    fit Id, &c. in \our xxxviiith vol. p. 321  had not this Gen-
                                                         ;
     tlunan, and his pursuits, been denied all mention or even
    allusion, in thi« work, containing so much "original infor
    mation" (pane xi).and whose arrangement of particulars on
    the Geologv of England, had not " been before noticed"
     (p. 13).
          Mr.  B. seems not aware, that the'Chalk extends, on and
     neat to the south Coast, considerably to the west of his " low
     district," and that the large tract called Blackdown,          co             is
     vered bv Sand, &c. from under the Chalk, very different
     from anv thing in his " middle district," as he might have
                                               "
     gatlered from Mr. James Sowerhy's Mineral Conchology,"
     pag<>s
               4   57, 56, C>0, &c.
                    ,                   The inhabitants of Exeter and
     all its -vicinitv, would   doubtless  be much obliged to Mr. B.,
     if   he could find l/un. the characteristic       minerals of his
      *« nnddie district," viz.
                                   "coal*, ironstone, and rock-salt,"
      (p   274 and II).
          The Flintshire Coalfield on the SW shore of the Dee
     is   not shown, although mentioned,          295, nor that of An-
                                                        p.
      glesea (alluded    to p. 275 note,)   of  whose situation (on the
       Cefni Rivet) he might have learned something, from Mr.
       Aikin'sTour, p. 132, and Mr. Parkinson's Or^. Rem.           178.           i.
          In Mr. B's " northern Alpine range," some of the small
       Coal Basins or Swtllevs occur, which          have mentioned in
                                                             I
       your  xxxixth   vol. p. 30 Note,  and had   time, I could   think
                                                                      I        I
       mention several Collieries in different and more central
       parts, of this primitive and transition tract of Mr. B.
           Mr.     asserts,
                    B          264, that "no metallic veins" are found
                                p.
       east of his line     C  C,
                                C     anv part of England.
                                         in                    At pages
       654 and ^70 and 407 of the Derby Rep. vol.             have menI.   I
       tioned two contrary instances, another         mentioned in your
                                                             is
          *   TbeWood-Coal of Bovey, occurring, as is very usual with this substance,
      " iii ailuvial ground,"   HI "separated by straiaof clay aud gravel." p. 159,
                                p    ,
      underlaid (as     have heard) by alluvial sand and gravel, 01i
                        I                                                  disirict uf
                                                                               a
      coarse Slaie, has no pre-ensions to rank with the regular Coal- fields ot the
      " middle district," wherein ala'e has no place, being " Transition" Rock,
                                                                  a
      f>. 58.
                1he Coal of Portland Isle and Kimeridge, seem to have better daunt
      to be placed to ike middle district, than, that cf bovey has.
                                                                                   xxxixth

58            Mr. William         Smith's Geological Map.
xxxixth vol. p. 4<}8, and I could I think from other districts,
increase the list. What Mr. B. calls "subterranean" Forests,
p. 11, 305, and 269, viz. stumps of Trees buried in peat, are
not peculiar to the Lincolnshire and Yorkshire Coast, or
even to his " low district," but in every situation from the
Land's-end to John o' Groats', on both sides of the Island;
on fiat shores which have neither wasted or increased by the
action of the currents, in modern times, the same pheno
menon and others occur, indicative of the gradual rise of the
Sea.      In Sutherland this is proved, by the waves having
lately covered with Beach, the hillocks of Coal-pits worked
in Queen Elizabeth's Reign. In the Manuscripts of the
late ingenious Lecturer, Mr. Waltire, his observations on
this phenomenon, on tfee various Coasts of England, and
also of Holland, which lie went to examine, are detailed, as
I   have been informed. Westminster Hall, Boston Church,
and perhaps other fine old buildings, being now often
flooded some feet deep by the increasing tides, furnish other
proofs of the same thing.
     The contemptuous boast by Mr. B. (p. 45 of your xlth
vol.) of his ignorance of what Mr. Smith may have done,
 towards a Map of the Strata of England, (for as to faults,
he had no ground for coupling me and Mr. Smith, as ap.i
pears from your xxxviith vol. p. 441) surely does not seem
much calculated to raise his character as a philosophical
enquirer after truth, oris a liberal historian of the labours
of his cotemporaries *, to say nothing of the interested views
which might be taken of such conduct, from one profes
sional man towards another.                                       .              ;
     I am extremely happy,            however, to be able to state, that
the public are not likely to remain long ignorant of Mr.
    * Mr. B's eagerness to renew his attacks on the subject of Faults (p. 212
and 283) would not permit him to appear totally to oveilook me as lie has-
done Mr. Smith, and it is not unwprthy of remark, that in the only instance
tn which I am expressly referred to., /or a single Geological fact or inference,
ft has been done in an unfair way. — After the account of the Derbyshire
 Mineral Veins had been written for my Report, Mr. Joshua Gregory, the
 very able and respectable overseer of the Gang Mine near Wirksworth,
 happening to be in town, I either read or related to him all the most material
 points therein; on which occasion, and after I hivd any opportunity of
making inquiries of other Miners throughout the countv t as in most, if not on
 every of her material point was expressly done; Mr. Gregory stated, that "«rmft
 of the thickest of the clay wavl'oards" divide even the largest Veins, as com
 pletely as the Toadstcne strata do" (Report I. 245), and for the reasons
 above stated, I added, " as I am informed by Mr. Joshua Gregory, an expe*-
jienced miner." Yet Mr. B. p. 22G, thus refers to the passage, " Mr. Farey"
 savs, " that where the beds of lime-stone are divided by seams of clay, these
 teams frequentlv cut off the vein as effectually as the thick beds df Toad-
 •tone," emitting all mention of Mr. Gregory, or his aiid my- distinction,
th»t only
             " some of tht thickest" wayboards, were here spoken uf.
                          .
            .                                                          Smith's

                Mr.         Farey's Repty io     Mr. Bakewell.           59
Smith's meritorious labours on this important subject, since
Mr. John Cary of the S'.rand has the publication now in
hand, and {he greater part of a Map o*'' England, Wales,
part of Scotland, France, and Ireland (for the sake of shew
ing the connections of strata) is already engraved, on a scale
of 5 miles to an inch, for Mr. Smith's intended publication.
   Mr. B. will 1 conceive find it difficult to shew, that                    I
have asserted that (he metalliferous limestone {in the sin
gular) in Derbyshire is the very lowest stratum of Rocks in
England: for although to suit the purposes of the transi
tion part of his new Theory, Mr. B. cruises always to speak.
of the four regular calcareous Rocks, which Mr. Whiiehurst
and myself have described in the Peak Hundreds, as one
Rock, yet this won't prevent our seeing, that should the top
of the first or upper of these Rock3 be proved to appear
from under Shale-grit and Millstone-grit near Bumsal (as                     I
rather believe it Joes), yet that the top of the second, the third
and the fourth of these Rocks in succession, and more so
the bottom of the last or lowest of them, in short the whole
Series appearing in Craven or near                   it,
                                               may still safely be
doubted, since no new light             thrown, or confirmation
                                                is
offered    inMr. B's recent work, of such his opinion                   it   is
true he has " repeated the assertion again/' at pages 274,
                                                                    ;
279 and 281.
    After having seen the different ranges of Limestone be
tween Lancaster and Kendal, overlieing           Slate, which Mr.
                                                           a
B. has admitted to be the same Slate with that of Craven;
I   have now better reasons than when              first wrote, for
                                                           I
agreeing   w ith Mr.  Mushet    (vol. xl. p. 53) in  thinking; these
to be very different Rocks from any in the north of Derby
 shire and to me they seemed, well to answer to the Rocks
       v
I   had observed W and NW of Ludlow (as already men
 tioned Herein) and had more recently crossed when again
 leaving the slate, near toWelsh-pool,in my return from Wales.
.
     Mr. B's assertion, that had nothing to advance in sup
                                        I
 port of my opinion, as to the Peak and the Craven Lime
 stones, but the existence of my " imaginary great Fault,"
 and his question in the next page, as to how the Limestone
 has passed " over or under" the Fault, too well proves, that
 this Gentleman        but slightly acquainted, or rather not at
                             \s
 all, with my investigations,. on the principles of Faults: but
 as this   is subject on which
                a                    must further enlarge,
                                            I                   shall
                                                                    1
 introduce the same in       future Letter, and remain
                                    a
                          Your obedient servant,
    Upper Crown-street, Westminster,                       JOHN FaREV Sen.
           16th     July,   1813.                    ,              -     —  *
                                                                                 f
                                                                  $1. Case

XL    Case   nf Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Internns. By
    John Taunton,     £5i7. Surgeon to the City and Finsliirye
'
    Dispensaries, and  to the City of London Truss Society,
    Lecturer on Anatomy, Surgery and Physiology, &c. &c.
M rs. Harrison of Grange Court, Carey Street, consulted
me concerning her son, aged three months, on account of
a tumour upon his loins, which was observed at his birth.
 -
    It was a case of spina bifida.' The tumour whs about
the size of an orange, and was situated over the lumbar
vertebrae, and the contained fluid was very evident.            The
sac seemed to be thin ; but the surrounding integuments as
well as those covering the tumour were perfectly free from
inflammation, and the child had no symptoms of general
                                      -  .*
disease.
    In this favourable state of the infant's health,        it. was
thought    advisable  to puncture    the   tumour   in the  manner
recommended       by Mr. Astley Cooper        in the Medical and
Chirurgical Transactions.        Accordingly       a puncture was
made with     a  needle in three different places.       The fluid
discharged was transparent,      though not very limpid, and'
the discharge continued for some days, when the punctures'
closed.    By this treatment the tumour was reduced in size,
and no inflammation took place        ;   neither was there any
unfavourable change        the infant's health.
                           in
    The operation was repeated in         a  similar manner, and
 with similar results, excepting that the fluid discharged was
 thinner and more like serum.
    The operation was repeated seven times in the course of
 five months, and during this period      a  very great quantity of
 fluid was discharged.    About two weeks before the infant's
 death one part of the sac had become very thin and trans
 parent'; another part partially ulcerated, and thus the con
 tained fluid was more freely discha-ged.
     About two weeks also before his death, he was seized
 with occasional starlings     his forehead projected
                                ;                       ;   his eyes
 seemed small; and his eyes and eve-brows expressed           a  pe
 culiar frown. The head continued to enlarge rapidly, and
 the general health became worse and wor.se, though he
 seemed to suffer from no particular symptom.           The l>owels
 were regular and the stoois natural during the whole pro
 gress of the disease and
                       ;       was not suspected that the child
                                it
 had any affection of the head till       a very short time before
 his death, which took place rather suddenly under convul
 sions, as soon as the whole of the fluid was discharged from
^ spine.                                               Examination

           On. the elementary          V articles of certain Crystals.        €t
'. Examination by dissection.      The sac was formed by aa
expansion of the membrane of the spinal marrow, passing
between the spinous processes of the vertebrae.      The nerves
passed  from  the  spinal  marrow  across the cavity of the sac,
and were distributed by many filaments on its internal sur
face.    There was not any inflammation on the sac or
nerves.
   The bones of the head were much separated ; and a pint
and a half of a very limpid and pale-coloured serum was found
in the lateral ventricles.    There \yere no other marks of
disease either in the brain, its membranes, or blood-vessels.
r  When did the hydrocephalus take place ? Was it at the
time in which the child's health began to decline, i. e.
fourteen days before his death ? or, Was the morbid con
dition Of the brain and spmal marrow coeval ? .           ,'      ''
     Greville Street, Hatton Garden,    June IS, 1813.
 XII.    The Bakerian Lecture. On the elementary Particles of
     certain Crystals.   By William Hyde Wollaston,
     M.D.      Sec.   R.S*
 Among      the known forms of crystallized bodies, there is
no one common to a greater number of substances than the
regular octohedron, and no one in which a corresponding
difficulty has occurred with reg.ird to determining which
modification of its form is to be considered as primitive;
since in all these substances the tetrahedron appears to have
equal claim to be received as the original from.i which all
                                                  '
their other modifications are to be derived.
   The relation of these solids to each other is most di
stinctly exhibited to those who are not much conversant
with crystallography, -by assuming the tetrahedron as pri
mitive, for this may immediately be converted into an oc
tohedron by the removal of four smaller' tetrahedrons from
its solid angles.    (Plate I. 'fie. 1.)
   The substance which most readily admits of division by
fracture into these forms is fluor spar; and there is no dif
ficulty in obtaining a sufficient quantity f->f such experi
ments.     But it is not, in fact, either the tetrahedron or the
octohedron, which first presents itself as the apparent pri
mitive form obtained by fracture.
    If we form a plate of uniform thickness by two succes
sive divisions of the spar, parallel to each other, we shall
find the plate divisible into prismatic rods, the section of
             • From the Philosophical Transactions for 1813, part i.     >-
                                   '
                                         _         ..'-                  which
                                                                              •

62    On the elementary Particles    of certain Crystals.
which is a rhomb of 70° 32' and 109° 25' nearly; and if
we again split these rods transversely, we shall obtain a
number of regular acute rhomboids, all similar to each
uther, having their superficial angles 60° and 120°, and
 presenting an appearance of primitive molecule, from which
 all the other modifications of such crysials might very sim
 plv be derived.    And we find, moreover, that the whole
mass of fluor might he divided into, and conceived to con
sist of, these acute rhomboids alone, which may be put to
gether so as to fit each other without any intervening va
cuity.
    But, since the solid thus obtained (as represented fig. 2,)
mav be again split bv natural fractures at right angles to its
axis (fig. 3.), so that a regular tetrahedron may be detached
from each extremity, while the remaining portion assumes
the form of a regular octahedron; and since every rhom
boid, that can be obtained, must admit of the same division^
into one octahedron and two tetrahedrons, the rhomboid
can no longer be regarded as the primitive form ; and since
the parts into w hich it is divisible are dissimilar, we are left
in doubt which of them is to have precedence as primitive*
    In the examination of this question, whether we adopt
the octahedron or the tetrahedron as the primitive form,
since neither of them can fill space without leaving va
cuities, there is a difficulty in conceiving any arrangement
in which the particles will remain at rest : for, whether we
suppose, with the Abbe Haiiy, that the particles are tetra-
hedral with octahedral cavities, or, on the contrary, octa
hedral particles regularly arranged with tetrahedral cavities,
in each case the mutual contact of adjacent. particles is onty
at their edges; and although in such an arrangement it
must be admitted that there may be an equilibrium, it is
evident!)" unstable, and
                          ill adapted to form the basis of any
permanent crystal.
    More than three years have now elapsed since        a     very
simple explanation of this difficulty occutred to me. As in
the course of that time   I  had not discovered  it  to be liable
to any crystallographical objection, and as    it  had appeared
satisfactory to various mathematical and philosophical friends
to whom   1  proposed   it,
                          I    had engaged to make this the
subject of the Bakerian Lecture of the present year, hoping
that some further speculations,      connected with the same
theory, might lead to more correct notions than are at pre
sent entertained of crystallization in general.
    At the time when made this engagement,
                       I                            I   flattered
myself that the conception might be deserving of attention
                                                             from

          On     the eietkevtary        Particles   of certain Crystals.    63
ftom its novelty.                       I
                             have since found, that it is not
                              But
altogether so new as I had then supposed it to he; for, by
the kindness of a friend, I have been referred to Dr. Hooke's
Micrograpbia', in which is contained, most clearly, one
essential part of the same theory.
    However, since the office of a lecturer is properly to dif
fuse knowledge already acquired,        rather than to make
known new discoveries in science, and since these hints of
Dr. liooke have been totally overlooked, from having been
thrown out at a time when crystallography, as a branch of
science, was wholly unknown, and consequently not ap
plied by him to the extent which they may now admit,                         I
have no hesitation in treating the subject as I had before
designed.     And when I have so done, I shall quote the
jsas-:age from Dr. Hooke, to show how exactly the views
which I have taken have, to a certain extent, corresponded
with his ; and I shall hope that, by the assistance of such,
authority, they may meet with a more favourable recep
tion.
   The theory to. which I here allude is this, that, with re
spect to fluor spar and such other substances as assume the
ectohedral and tetrahedral forms, all difficulty is removed!
 fey   supposing       the elementary particles to be perfect spheres,
w hich      by
            mutual attraction have assumed that arrangement
which brings them as near to each* other as possible.
   The relative position of any number of equal balls in the
same plane, when gently pressed together, forming equila
teral triangles with each other (as represented perspective!)?
in fig- 4.)     familiar to every one;. and
                  is                            evident that,
                                                            it   is
if balls so placed were cemented together, and the stratum
thus formed were afterwards broken, the straight lines in
which they would be disposed to separate would form an
gles of 60° with each other.
   If single ball were placed any where at rest upon the
        a
preceding stratum,          evident that
                              it   is      would be in contact!
                                                      it
with three of the lower balls (as in fig. 5.), and that t>he
hues joining the centres- sf four balls so in contact, or the
planes touching their surfaces, would include a regular te
trahedron, having all its sides equilateral triangles.
   The construction of an octohedron,        means of spheres
                                                           by
alone,     as simple as that of the tetrahedron.
            is                                       For four          if
balls be placed      contact on the same plane in form of a
                         in
square, then     single ball resting upon them in the centre,
                    a
being   in contact  with each pair of balls, will present a tri
angular face rising from each side of the square, and the
whole together will represent the superior apex of an octo-
                                                       hedron               ;

64     On the elementary            Partules   of certain Crystals.
hedron ; so that a sixth ball similarly placed underneath
the square will complete the octohedral group, fig. 6'.
   There is one observation with regard to these forms that
will appear paradoxical, namely, that a structure which in
this case was begun upon a square foundation, is really in
trinsically the same as that which is begun upon the tri
angular basis.   But if we lay the octohedral croup, which
consists of six balls, on one of its triangular sides, and
consequently with an opposite triangular lace uppermost,
the two groups, consisting of three balls each, are then
situated precisely as they would be found in two adjacent
strata of the triangular arrangement.   Hence in this posi
tion we may readily convert the octohedron into a regular
tetrahedron, by addition nf four more balls. (fig. 7.) One
placed on the top of the three that are uppermost forms the
apex; and      if the triangular base, on which it rests, be en
larged by addition of three more balls regularly disposed
around   it,  the entire group of ten balls will then be found
                                                               -
to represent.  a   rcgiilar tetrahedron.                                  :-
   For the purpose of representing the acute rhomboid, two
balls must be applied at opposite sides of the smallest octo--
hedral group, as            fig. Q. And
                               in               greater number of
                                                if   a
balls be placed together, fig. 10 and 11, in the same form,
then a   complete tetrahedral group may be removed from
each extremity, leaving            central octohedron, as may be
                                    a
seen in fig.   1   1,which corresponds to fig. 3.
   The passage of Dr. Hooke, from which shall quote so      I
much as to connect the sense,            to be found at page 85 of
                                          is
his Micrographia.
   " From this         shall proceed to
                        I                     second considerable
                                                    a
phenomenon,        which     these   diamants   (meaning thereby
quartz crvstais) exhibit, and that         the regularity of their
                                               is
figure      This    I take to proceed from the most simple
principlerthat    any  kind oi' form can come from, next the
globular;   for           hink
                            1     could make probable, that all
                                    I
these regular   figures  arise  only from three or four several
positions  or   postures    of  globular particles, and those He      t
mo?t plain and obvious, and necessarv conjunctions of
such figured panicles that are possible            And this   have1
ad ocultim demonstrated with           company of bullets, so that
                                        a
there was not anv regular figure which           have hitherto met
                                                        i
withal  of any   of those   bodies  lhat  have 1above  named, that
   could not »i         the composition of bullets or globules
                        by h
I
imitate almost        shaking them together,
   " Thus. for instance, we find that globular bullets will
of themselves,      ifput on an inclining plain so that they
                                                               may

          On the elementary Particles    of certain Crystal*.   65
 may     run together, naturally run into a triangular order
 composing a"ll the variety of figures that can be imagined
 out of equilateral triangles, and such you will find upon
 trial all the surfaces of alum to be composed of          .
     " — nor does it hold only in superficies, but in solidity
  also ; for it's obvious that a fourth globule iaid upon the
 third in this texture composes a regular tetrahedron, which
 is a very usual figure of the crystals of alurm     And there is
 no one figure into which alum is observed to be crystallized,
 but may by this texture of globules be imitated, and by no
 other."
     It docs not appear in what manner this most ingenious
 philosopher thought of applying this doctrine to the forma
 tion of quartz crystal, of vitriol, of salt-petrei Sec. which
 he names.       This remains among the many hints which the
 peculiar jealousy of his temper left unintelligible at the time
 they were written, and which, notwithstanding his inde
 fatigable industry,' were subsequently lost to the public, for
 want of being fully developed.
     We have seen, that by due application of spheres to each
 other, all the most simple forms of one species of crystal
 will be produced, and it is needless to pursue any other
 modifications of the same form, which must result from a
 series of decrements produced according to known laws.
     Since then the simplest arrangement of the most simple
 solid that can    be imagined,  affords  so complete   a solution
 of one of the most difficult questions in crystallography,
 we are naturally led to inquire what forms would probably
 occur from the union of other solids most nearly allied to
 the sphere.      And it will appear that by the supposition of
 elementary [particles that are spheroidical, we may frame
 conjectures as to the origin of other angular solids well
 known to crystallographers.
                        The oltuse Rhomboid:
     If we suppose the axis of our elementary spheroid to be
  its shortest dimension, a class of solids will be formed which
'are numerous in crystallography. It has been remarked
  above, that bv the natural grouping of spherical particles,
  fig. 10, one resulting solid is an acute rhomboid, similar to
  that of fig. 2, having certain determinate angles^ and its
  greatest dimension in the direction of its axis.        Now, if
 other particles having the same relative arrangement be
 supposed to have the form of oblate spheroids, the resulting
  solid, fig. 12, will still be a regular rhomboid; bgt the
  measures of its angles will be different from those of the
      Vol.42. No. 133, July 1 81 3.           £            former,

66      On the elementary Particles          of certain    Crystals.
former, and will      be more      or less obtuse according to tht
 degree of oblateness of the primitive spheroid.
    It is at least possible that carbonate of lime and other
substances, of which the forms are derived from regular
rhomboids as their primitive form, may, in fact, consist of
oblate spheroids as elementary particles.
    It deserves to be remarked, that the conjecture to which
we are thus led by a natural transition, from consideration
of the most simple form of crystals, was long since enter
 tained by Huyghens*, when treating of the oblique refrac
tion of Iceland spar, which he so skilfully aaalysed.                       The
 peculiar law observable in the refraction of light by that
crystal, he found might be explained on the supposition of
spheroidical undulations propagated through the substance
of the spar, and these he thought might perhaps be owing:
to a spheroidical form of its particles, to which the dis
position to split into the rhomboidal form might also be
ascribed.
    By some oversight, however, the proportion of the axes
of such an elementary spheroid is erroneously stated to be
 1 to 8 ; but this is probably an error of the press,                   instead
of l to 2-8, for I find the proportion to be nearly 1 to 2-87.
In fig. 15, F is the apex of a tetrahedron cut from an acute
rhomboid similar to fluor spar, and the sections of two
spheres are represented round the centres F and C.                         I  is
the apex of a corresponding portion cut from the summit
of   a rhomboid of Iceland spar, as composed of spheroids
having the same diameter as the spheres.                     In the former,
the inclination FCT of the edge of the tetrahedron to it's
base is 54° 44'; in the latter, the inclination ICT is 26° 15';
and the altitudes FT, IT are as the tangents of these angles
 1414 to 493 : : 2'87 : I, which also expresses the ratio of
the axis of the sphere to that of the spheroid, or the pro
portional diameters of the generating ellipse.
                          Hexagonal Prisms.
    If  our elementary spheroid be on the contrary oblong,.
instead of oblate, it is evident that by mutual attraction'
their centres will approach nearest to each other when their
axes are parallel, and their shortest diameters in the same
plane (fig. 13.)      The manifest consequence of this struc
ture would be, that a solid so formed would be liable to
split into plates at right angles to the axes, and the plates
would divide into prisms of three or six sides with all their
angles equal, as occurs in phosphate of lime, beryl, 8cc.
           * Buyghemi                                                   '
-'-      *
                       Op . Reiij. torn. i.
                                      '
                                            Tract, de Limine,
                                                       '   "   "p. 70. v-
                                                                              ft

        On the elementary Particles          of certain Crystals.       6f
  It may further be observed, that the proportion of the
height to the base of such a prism must depend on the ratio
between the axes of the elementary spheroid.
                                  The Cube.
    Although       I
                 could not expect that the sole supposition of
Spherical or spheroidical particles would explain the origin
of all the forms observable among the more complicated
crystals, still the hypothesis would have appeared defective,
if it did not include some view of the mode in which so
simple a form as the cube may originate.
    A cube may evidently he put together of spherical par
ticles arranged four and four above each other ; but we have
already seen that ibis is not the form which simple spheres
are naturally disposed to assume, and consequently this hy
pothesis alone is not adequate to its explanation, as Dr.
Hooke had conceived.
    Another obvious supposition is, that the cube might be
considered as a right-angled rhomboid, resulting from the
union of eight spheroids having a certain decree of oblate-
ness (2 to 1) from which a rectangular form might be de
rived. But the cube so formed would not have the proper
ties of the crystallographical cube.       It is obvious, that,
though all its diagonals would thus he equal, yet one axis
parallel to that of the elementary spheroid would probably
have properties different from the rest. The modifications
of its crystalline form would probably not be alike in all
directions as in the usual modifications of the cube, but
would be liable to elongation in the direction of its original
axis.    And if such a crystal were e'ectric, it would have
but «ne pair of poles instead of having four pair, as in the
 crystals of boracite.
    There      however, an hypothesis which at least has sim
             is,
plicity to recommend        and it,    be not
                                       if   it  just representa
                                                     a
 tion of the fact,    must be allowed to bear
                       it                         happy resem
                                                         a
 blance to truth.
    Let mass of matter be supposed to consist of spherical
         a
 particles all of the same size, but of two different kinds in
 equal numbers, represented        black and white balls
                                       by                     and   ;
 let
   it   be required that      their perfect intermixture every
                                 in
 black ball shall be equally distant from all surrounding
 white balls, and that all adjacent balls of the same deno
 mination shall also be eqindistant from each other,          say   I
 then, that these conditions will be fulfilled,     the arrange-
                                                         if
'ment be cubical, and that the particles- will be in equilibrio.
 Fig. 14 represents     cube so constituted of balls^ alternately
                            a
    %-
                                      E2                    black

  6S       On the elementary   Particles of certain Crystals*
   black and- white throughout.        The four black balls are-all
   j-n view.    The distances of their centres being every way a
   superficial diagonal of the cube, thev are equidistant, and
   their configuration represents a regular tetrahedron ; and
   the same is the relative situation of the four white balls.
  .The distances of dissimilar adjacent balls are likewise evi
   dently equal ; so that the conditions of their union are
   complete, as far as appears in the small group: and this i*
   a correct representative of the entire mass, that would be
   composed of equal and similar cubes.
       Since the crystalline form and electric qualities of bora-
   cite are perhaps unique, any explanation of properties so
   peculiar can hardly be expected.      It may; however, be re
  marked, that a possible origin of its four pair of poles may
  be traced in the structure here represented ; for it will be
   seen that a w hite ball and a black one are regularly opposed
   to each other at the extremities of each axis of the cube.
      An hypothesis of uniform intermixture of particle with
  particle, accords so well with the most recent views of
  binary combination in chemistry, that there can be no ne
  cessity, on the present occasion, to enter into any defence
  of that doctrine, as applied to this subject.        And though
  the existence of ultimate physical atoms absolutely indivisi
  ble may require demonstration, their existence is by no
  means necessary to any hypothesis here advanced, which
  requires merely mathematical points endued with powers of
  attraction and repulsion equally on all sides, so that their
                                                                    '
  extent is virtually spherical, for from the union of such
  particles the same solids will result as from the combination
  of spheres impenetrably hard.
 .    There remains one observation with regard to the spherical
 form of elementary particles, whether actual or viitual, that
 must be regarded as favourable to the foregoing hypothesis,
 namely, that many of those substances, which we have
 most reason to think simple bodies, as among the class of
 metals, exhibit this further evidence of their simple nature,
 that they crystallize in the octohedral form, as they would
 ,do if their particles were spherical.
      But it must, on the contrary, be acknowledged, that we
 «an at present assign no reason why the same appearance of
 simplicity should take place in fluor spar, which is presumed
 to contain at least two elements; and it is evident that any
.attempts     to trace a general correspondence       between the
 crystalfographical      and   supposed    chemical   elements of
 bodies must, in     the  present state of these sciences, be pre
 mature.

                    Notices respecting New Books.                       69
      Note.   A theory has lately been advanced
                                                       * by M. Prechtl,
  *which attempts to account for various crystalline forms
  from the different degrees of compression that soft spheres
 'may be supposed to undergo in assuming the solid state!
  It is supposed, that with a certain degTee of softness and of
 relative attraction, the particles will be surrounded each by
 four others, and will all be tetrahedral, although in fact it
  be demonstrably impossible that tetrahedrons alone should
 fill any space.
     It is next supposed, that soft spheres less compressed will
 be surrounded. by five others, and will be formed into trian
  gular prisms. comprised under five similar and equal planes.
 That they should be similar is impossible ; and it is further
 demonstrable, that when the triangular termination of such
 a prism is equal in area to each rectangular               side of the
 prism, so as to present eqnal resistance, according to the
 hypothesis, then the triangular faces will be nearer to the
 centre in the proportion of three to four, so that the attrac
 tions will not be equal, as the hypothesis would require.
     A third hypothesis of M. Prechtl is, that the degree of
 compressibility may he such th3t eacli particle will be sur
 rounded by six others, giving it the form of a cube, which,
h must be admitted, is a very possible supposition.
 .   All further application of the same hypothesis is pre
 cluded by M. Prechtl, by^denying that one particle can'hfi
 surrounded by more 'than six others; although in fact it is
 most evident, that any spbere when not compressed will be.
surrounded by twice that number, and consequently by a
slight degree of compression will be converted into a dode
cahedron,      according to the most probable hypothesis of
•knple compression.
              XI If.   Nut ices respecting New Burks.                 .
                                                                         -
Part I.       of the Philosophic*! Transactions lov 1613 'has
made its appearance,          l ite following are its contents :
     1. On a new detonating Compound, in a Letter from Sir
Humphry Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph
Hanks, Bart. K.B. P.R S. — 2. On a remarkable Application
of Cotes's Theorem.          By J. F. W. Herscbel, Esq.            Com-
municattd by W. Herschcl, LL.D. F.R.S. — 3. Observa
tion of the Summer Solstice,. IS 12, at the Royal Observa
tory.     By John Pond, Esq. Astronomer Royal, F.K.S.—
<f.  Observations     relative to the near and distant Sight of
                     * Journal  (It's Mines, 'No. 166,
                                       E  3                    different

7p                Notices respecting New Books.
different Persons.      By James Ware, Esq. F.R.S. — 5. The
Eakerian Lecture. On the elementary Particles of certain
Crystals. By William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. Sec. R.S.
—6. On a Substance from the Elm Tree, called Ulmin.
By James Smilhson, Esq. F.R.S. — 7- On a Method of
freezing at a Distance.            By William Hyde Wollaston,
                     —
M.D. Sec. R.S. 8. A Catalogue of Nonh Polar Distances
of some of the principal fixed Stars. By John Pond, Esq.
Astronomer Royal, F.R.S. — 9. A Description of the sol
vent Glands and Gizzards of the Ardea Argala, the Casu-
arius Emu, and the long-legged Casowarv from New South
Wales.        By Sir Everard Home, Bart F.R.S.— 10. Addi
tional Remarks on the State in which Alcohol exists in
fermented Liquors.           By William Thomas firande, Esq,
JT.R.S. — 1 1.. On a new Variety in the Breeds of Sheep. By
 Colonel David Humphreys, F.R.S.                 In a Letter to the
Right     Hon.   Sir Joseph    Banks, Bart.   K.B. P.R.S.— 12. Ex
periments      to ascertain  the  coagulating   Power of the Secrer
tion of the gastric Glands.          By Sir Everard Home, Bart,
'F.R.S. Communicated by the Society for promoting the
 Knowledgeof Animal Chemistry. — 13. On some Properties
 of Light. By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. Edin                 In a
 Letter to Sir H. Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. — 14. An . ppendix
 to Mr. Ware's Paper on Vision.            By Sir Charles Blagden,
 F.R.S.— -15. A Method of drawing extremely fine Wires.
 By William Hyde Wollaston, M-D. Sec. R.S.— 16. De
 scription of a Single-lens Micrometer.           By William Hyde
 Wollaston, M.D. Sec. R.S. — 17. Observation of the
 Winter Solstice of 1S12, with the Mural Circle at Green
 wich. By John Pond, Esq. Astronomer Royal, F.R.S. — -
  IS. On the Tusks of the Narw hale. By Sir Everard Home,
 Bart. F.R.S.
 Practical     Observations    on Ectrvpium,     or Eversion of  the
    Eye-lids, with ike Description of a new Operation for
     the Cure of that Disease; on the Modes of forming an
     artificial Pupil ; and the Description of some new Instru*
     ments and Operations for the Cure of Cataract, adapted
     to the different Periods of Life in ivliich that Disease is
    found to occur.         Illustrated by coloured Engravings.
     By Wm. Adams, Member of the Royal College of Sur
    geons, Oculist to the Prince Regent, &c. &c. pp. 268.
     8vo. 12s.
     Mr. Adams is one of the most successful operators on
 the eye, and his industry is happily not inferior to his skilly
  The eversion or turning down of the under eye- lid is often
                                                                     *
                                                           a disease

                  Notices respecting New Books.                7 J*
a .disease equally troublesome to the patient, and disagree
able to others.     Yet it is sometimes practised as a trick to
deceive (the unwary,     I have seen several French sailors who
could turn down their under eye-lids, and keep them so for
several hours without any inconvenience: by means of this
practice, accordiug to their own account, they often saved
themselves from an English prison : their eyes being so
hideous, and feigning other sickness, the English officers
were happy in getting rid of them.        The author however'
has succeeded in effectually curing eversion, when it is an
actual disease, by cutting the eye-lid so as to make it fit.
the eye, a safe a'nd speedy process of reducing the organi
zation to a natural state. He has also obtained consider
able popularity by his operations        on different kinds of
cataract.     On the latter subject some of his remarks merit
public attention, particularly his recommendation          of an
early operation on the eyes of children born with this dis
ease.     Persons who have " had congenital (or more pro
perly connate) cataract removed at an advanced age, are
equally destitute of a knowledge of visual objects as the
merest infant, while at the same time they are placed in
circumstances      far more unfavourable     for its acquisition.
The healthy infant examines every object with all the eager
ness natural to its age ; while the more aged congenital pa
tient, from long continued habit, has contracted a disin
 clination to the exerpise of the eyes, which he is seldom
able entirely to overcome.      The rolling motion of the eye
depending on an involuntary action of the muscles^ is there
fore extremely difficult to be corrected, wfyen the removal
of the cataract has been long delayed, and it affords another
obstacle to improvement in vision : this points out the ne
cessity of an early operation."         Mr. Saunders cured an
 infant of two months ; Mr. Johnson one of six, and
the author one of ten months old.             The propriety, and
 necessity    indeed,   of   an   early operation   on the eyes
 of children born blind in consequence of cataract, are
 sufficiently obvious ; jt must also contribute to the cer
 tainty and completeness of the cure.       Aged patients cured
 of cataract have nevertheless declined the labour of acquir
 ing distinct vision. The author, if possible, would not
 "  suffer an infant's eyes to be exposed to the light till the
 cataracts were removed."        He adds, " an intelligent per
 son should always be appointed to superintend the manage
 ment of those cured of congenital cataracts, whose sole
 business should be to watch and correct as much as possible
 those habits which impede the acquirement of vision, and
                                E4                               to

JS                         Royal Society.
to assist by every expedient which ingenuity can devise In
the attainment of the desired object." . Some of the facts
stated by Mr. Adams respecting the power of habit, tend
to develop the principles of human action, and illustrate
the theory of mind; they are worthy of being recorded,
with this view, among those lately promulgated by Professor
Stewart and Mr. Wardrop in their historical accounts of a
blind boy.
   Dr. Smith and Mr. Sowerby have determined to finish
their celebrated work, " The English Botany," by a general
Index to the xxxvi volumes, which will be completed on
the first of January 1814. It is intended to arrange the names
qf the plants contained in that work, which will amount
to nearly 2600, in one part alphabetically, and in another
part according to the Linnean system, with such improve
ments as have been received since its publication.  When
English   Botany is completed, Mr. Sowerbj hopes to be
able to comply with the wishes of his numerous friends. in
publishing his
                " Mineral Conchology" every month. The
British and Exotic Mineralogy will in all probability be             -
finished in the course of the next year.
            XIV.   Proceedings   of Learned Sacieties.
                       JRQVAL     society.
July 1.— The Earl of Morton, Vice-president, in                the
Chair.  Sir ti. Davy, in a letter to Sir Joseph Banks,        de
tails severalnew experiments which he has made on the
detouatinc pjl, which he lately discovered. It appears, ac
cording to Sir H's experiments, to consist of yi chlorine
awl 9 azote, or one volume of azote and four volumes of
chlorine.   This, Sir £J. candidly acknowledges, is an ex
ample  of the inadequacy of theprv respecting definite pro
portions, as the particles of different pubstanc.es in this case
unite not in tbe gpneralty received proportions qf I to 2,
2 to 3, or 3 to 4, but 4 to 1.     T"e specific gravity of this
compound is 635, water being taken as 1 000 ; or by volume,
ijithe proportion of   119 to 3p.     Sir H. wore a  cap with   a
glass front, while operating  on  this  explosive compound, in
order to protect his eyes   ;yet still the operations were dan
gerous,    as very sma]j quantities of      explode with great
                                            it
violence.
    In this papcr^the author describes some new properties      of
\\}\s extraordinary substance    and the general series of facts
                                 y
                                                         confirms.

                           Royal Society.                          73
confirms the theory that considers azote and chlorine          as yet
ilucit-compounded — or that, if /these substances        are   com
pounds,    their elements  are unknown,    and   have  never     been
obtained separate.
    July 8. A paper from Sir Humphry Davy was communi-
eated bv the President, on the principle existing in the fluoric
compounds, »r the fluoric principle. There are detailed in it
many new facts on the substances obtained from fluor spar.
    The pure fluoric acid is very little heavier than water, but
has its specific gravity greatly increased by its combination
 with water.
    A principle highly energetic which combines with all
the metals and decomposes oxides, is expelled from certain
fiuates by chlorine; but from its intense powers of attrac
 tion it has not been yet obtained in a separate form.
    From the general series of facts, it is concluded' that the
.fluoric combinations probably contain a peculiar principle
analogous to oxygen and chlorine, that the number repre
senting it is less than half that of chlorine, that it is attracted
in Voltaic experiments to the positive surface               that its
acidifying powers are stronger than those of oxygen qnd
chlorine, and that it communicates to its compounds lower
refractive powers.
    Pure liquid fluoric acid the author considers as this prin
ciple combined with hydrogen ; fluoboric gas as this prin
ciple combined with borax ; and silicated fluoric acid gas as
this principle united to silicutn-
    The author, for some of the views which led to tiis experi
ments, acknowledges his obligations to M. Anfrere.
    A paper, by Alexander Marcet, M. D. F. R. S., on the
intense degree of cold-.which is produced by the evaporation
pf the sulphuret of carbon, was read.
    This liquor appears, from the author's experiments, to be
the most evaporable of all known fluids, or at least to pro
duce by its evaporation the most intense degree of cold.
 If  the bulb of a spirit thermometer,      closely enveloped in
fine flannel or cotton wool, be moistened with the fluid,
its temperature falls to about 0; but if the thermometer be
exposed to the effect of a vacuum by being inclosed in the
receiver of a good air pump, it sinks to — SO0 in one or two
minutes. The congelation of mercury in glass tubes may
therefore be most quickly and easily performed by this pro
cess at all seasons and under any atmospheric temperature.
    A short paper by Mr. Smithson was read, containing an
account of a substance ejected from Vesuvius about I 792,
ami called, in 179*, vitriolated tartar.      This substance has
            -
         -                                                      never

  74               Imperial Institute    of France.
 never before been found native, or as a natural product..
 The specimen contained nine different substances, such as
 muriates of iron, &c. which the author did not particularly
  enumerate.      Mr. S. expressed his belief in the volcanic or
  igneous origin of the earth, that it had been ejected by the
  explosion   of some comet,         and that the greater part o£
 mineral productions       bear   evident    marks of having under
 gone   the  action  of violent   heat.                              .
     The Astronomer Royal communicated somfi further ob
  servations on the circumpolar stars, and Dr. Almon a ma*
  thematical paper to the President, neither of which were of
  a nature to be read.       Mr. Pond also communicated the
  observations made by Capt. Hill on the comet w hich was
 visible in April and May last.
     The Society then adjourned till Thursday, November 4.
 IMPERIAL INSTITUTE          OF FRANCE FOR THE YEAR 1812j
                    DRAWN UP BY M. CUVIER.
                    [Continued from vol. xii. page 392.]
          Zoology, Anatomy, and Animal Physiology.
     Last year, we said      a few words upon the researches of
 M.   Lamouroux, upon those innumerable and very small
  eels known at the mouth of some of our rivers by the
 name of montee, and we stated the probability of their be
 longing to some of the lesser known species of this genus.
 M. Lamouroux bias in fact ascertained by new experiments
 that the montee is the fry of the pimperneau, a kind of eel
 indicated by Count Lacepede in his history of fishes, and
 which is distinguished from the rest by its pectoral fins
 being shaped like the wings of a bat.
     M. Risso, a naturalist of Nice, who published two years
  since a very good work upon the fishes of that latitude,
 has transmitted to the Class another on the crustacece, i. e,
 on the animals of the crab kind.             M. Risso in his distri
 bution adopts the method of M. Latreille, to which he adds
 only four new genera.          He describes 100 species, about
 one half of which appear to him to be new : sixteen are re
 presented in coloured plates.         The Class, while it applauds
 the zeal with which M. Risso, in so unpropitious a situa
 tion, endeavours to make known the various animals of the
 Mediterranean, which have been hitherto so badly described,
 must nevertheless be put in posses'sion of more precise de
 tails, before ascribing the character of novelty to so great a
'number of species.
    The ancients speak much of an insect which they called
                                                         Bvprestosy

                   Imperial Institute        of Frknce.                 7*
Buptesios,     or burst-ox, because it suffocated such cattle as
swallowed it with their grass; but, as usual, no description
of the insect has been handed down to us. The moderns
have made various applications of this name, and it would
seem that the insect to which it really belongs has not
been sufficientlv ascertained.       M. Latreille, after a scrupu
lous comparison of the passages in which its properties are
mentioned with recent observations,         has supposed it to be
the melo'e proscarabeeus of Linnaeus, or some proximate
species.     In fact, it is the melo'e only, which adds to acrid
 and suspicious properties the habitude of living in grass
and adhering to it so firmly as to be swallowed by cattle.
     Our associate M. de la Billardiere, who is occupied with
 the raising of bees, having observed one the abdomen of
 which was larger than common, found a white worm in                    it,
 which he delivered to M. Bose for examination. The body
 of this worm was white, divided into twelve rings, flattened
 pnderneath, terminated at one extremity                  by
                                                          two large
 tubercles, each of them pierced with an oval hole, and at
 the, other   by two threads forming two soft points.        Under
 the tubercles there was transverse slit. M. Bose, considering
                             a
 this slit as the mouth, regards the part whjch          terminated
                                                          is
 by   two points as that in which the anus ought to be and          ;
  ranking this animal among the intestinal worms, he has
 formed genus of
          a             it called dipodium.    He admits however
 that the organs may be vice versa          and in this case the
                                                 ;
 worm will considerably resemble several larvae of flies with
 two wings. There            even reason to believe, according to
                            is
  the observations of M. Latreille, that the larvae of one of
  these flies (the connops ferruginosum) exists in the inside
   of the drone bee.         It  very remarkable that so large
                                  is                                     a
  worm should inhabit the body of an insect so small as the
  bee.
      The first static of digestion, which takes place in the
  stomach, must have been at an early period the object of
  the attention of phvsiologists, and recourse has been sue--
  cessively had to all the powers of nature to account for it.
It     was for a  long time ascribed to trituration            by
                                                              means
   of the muscular coats of the stomach. But Reaumur,'
   having remarked that food contained in compressible tubes,
   open at both ends, digested the same as in the stomach, the
   general opinion of latter times has been, according to his
   experiments, that this function        owing to
                                            is        kind of solu
                                                          a
   tion operated   by   a juice  which  exudes   from  the coats of
   the stomach.
      Spallanzani asserts,       in
                                  a    very celebrated work, that having
                                                                  applied

  f6                      intelligence. — Fossils.
                     '
  applied the stomachic or gastric juice taken out of the
  Stomach to alimentary substances or' all kinds, he wit
  nessed, when it was aided by a sufficient heat, effects nearly
  similar to those which it would have produced in the sto
  mach itself.     He even went the length of ascribing to the
  gastric juice,  when     thus isolated, the property of arresting
  the progress of putrefaction.
     He drew this conclusion; (since adopted, tacitly at least,
 by most physiologists), viz. that the gastric juice exercises
  its digestive and antiseptic action by its own peculiar nature,
  and in virtue of its composition and affinities.
                             [To be continued. J
          XV.    Intelligence    and Miscellaneous Articles.
                                  FOSSILS.
 Fossils      of  an    extraordinary    nature  have recently been
 found in the neighbourhood          of Brentford.   The soil as far
 as it has been dug presents five distinct strata.       The upper
 most is a gravelly loam ; then sand and gravel ; a cal
 careous loam ; sand ; and the fifth, blue clay:         The upper
 most contains no fossil remains: the next three contain
 large tusks like those of the African and Indian elephants,
 and the hippopotamus ; horns and jaws of oxen ; horns of
deer; pearl shells, and the shells of fresh-water fish ; but
 no sea animals.        The clay contains the fossil remains of
sea animals only ; as echini, shells, Sec.
           IIST   OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS,
    To Thomas Mead, of Scot Street, in the parish of Scul-
coates, in the county of York, engineer, for bis endiess
 chain of a peculiar construction, with appendages, which
with the assistance of other mechanical apparatus is appli
cable to a variety of useful purposes. — 28th April 1813.—
Four months to inroil specification.
    To Samuel Whitfield, of Birmingham, in the county of
Warwick, brazier, for his improved mournings or furniture
for culinary and other utensils. — 28th April. — 2 months.
    To Samuel Evans, of Brynrywen, in the county of Den
bigh, farmer, for his certain improvements in the working-
«r giving motion to mill work, and machinery applicable
to raising or drawing water from mines, and other useful
purposes. — 1st May. — 6 months.
    To Thomas Walker, of the city of Norwich, machine->
Kiaker, for his various improvements in the construction of
                                                             a hori*

              Liit of Patents for New Inventions.           77'
a  horizontal windmill that may be applied to all sorts of
machinery that is to work by wind. — jthMav. — G months.
    To Charles Broderip, of Great Portland Street, in the
county of Middlesex, gentleman, for his improvement in
vessels to be used for heating fluids, and other substances.
— Sth May. — 6 months.
    To William Reid, of Foot Dee, Aberdeen, in that part
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland called
Scotland, for his instrument constructed on unerring prin
ciples for expeditiously calculating to a certainty without
 referring to tables of any kind (meridional tallies excepted)
 the various eases or problems in navigation, practical ma
 thematics, and trigonometry, heights and distances, and al
 together embracing every science depending on angles.—^
 Stli May. — 2 months.
     To Thomas Daking, of Bocking in the comity of Esses,
 tanner, for his method of heating liquids for the manufac
 ture of leather and other manufactures. — Sth May. — 2 m%xs
     To Jacob Erat, of Wardour Street, in the county of
 Middlesex, harp-maker, for his improvements in the con
 struction of a pedal harp. — Sth May. — 2 months.
     To John Fisher, of Mill End, in the county of Bucking-
 bam ; and Layton Cooke, of the Haymarket, in the city of
 Westminster, land agent, for their improved gaiters and
 modes of fastening the same. — 1 1th May. — 6 months.
     To William Bullock, of Newman Street, in the county
  of Middlesex, locksmith and brass founder, and Jamcd
 Boaz, of Glasgow in Scotland, engineer, for their certain
  improvements or contrivances applicable to doors and win
  dow shutters for preventing them from beins: broken cpeu,
  and such doors from being violently forced in by wind,
  or otherwise, part of which may be applied to other useful
  purposes. — 15th May. — 2 months.
 .. To Edward Cowper, of the parish of St. Mary, Newing-
  lon Butts, in the county of Surry, ironmonger, for his cer
  tain improvements    on the machines commonly used for
  cnttiug the edges of paper and books. — 20th May. — fJ mo.
     To William Brim ton, of Butterly Iron Works, in the
  county of Derby, engineer, for his construction and crectiou
  of engines and other mechanical operations. — G2d May.— -
  2 months.
  „. To Thomas Willcox, of the city of Bristol, mason, for
  his machine for the prevention and cure of smoky chinx-
  .neys, which may be termed Smoke Reverberator, consisting
  of a hollow cap, which may be constructed either of copper
  or any other metallic substance, or with clay with a funnel

78                   Meteorological Observations
and contrivance      for voiding the smoke, to be fixed on the
top of a  chimney stack wilh two or more courses of brick
work, and having for its object to prevent the smoke arising
from the fire in the grate being driven back into the room,
as well by excluding all winds from the orifice of the chim
ney, a3 by promoting the draught of the chimney by means
of a continual accumulation of rarefied air in the cavity of
the cap. — 22d'May. — 2 months.
    To John Thackray, of Archer Street, Windmill Street,
in the county of Middlesex, cabinet-maker, for his method
of inclosing a seat in a portable stool, which seat may be
applied to other useful purposes.      — 22d May.
    To William     Jenkins,   of  Birmingham, brass founder, for
his improvement in the method of manufacturing socket
castors, used with or affixed to cabinet and other furniture
and things. — 22d May.
    Meteorological Observations made at Cambridge, from
                   May    30 to    June 10, 1813.
    May   30. — Very warm, with the different modifications
Variously    disposed in different altitudes, with a cloudy
evening,    and gentle showers.         Therm, at 3 P.M. 76°, at
 1 1 P.M. 63°.    S.    The    peacocks this evening sitting on
the tops of barns and high places, squall more than usual ;
a well-known sign of rain, and one which was verified in
 the present instance.
  -
    May 31. —Warm day, and clear with cirrocumulus and
 cumuli, some of them of rocklike appearance, &c. ; fine clear
 aunset; golden haze.        Therm, at 3 P.M. 73°, at 1 1, 61°.
    June 1.  —  Very clear sky with a few cumuli and cirri.
Therm. at 2 P.M. 78°.            The cumuli began to form after
great   clearness    about  2  P.M.    many of them formed ra
pidly,  and  as  soon  divided   into detachments, and eventually
 disappeared again, remaining nearly in the same place all
 this time.    The currents boih by cirri above and weather
 cocks    below appeared to blow in different directions;
 and were very gentle.          Towards evening the clouds in
 creased in different stations, but the haze in the west after
 sunset was pretty clear.       The night fine, and the thermo
 meter at   li  P.M. 63°.
  i June 2. — Clear hot day ; the thermometer at 5 P.M. was
 76°; at 11, 61°. There were some confused heavy masses
 of cloud in the morning, but they cleared off, and the day
 \vas very fine ; some cumuli continued to make their ap
 pearance in the middle of the day ; by and by a flimsy and
 I -                                                    confused

                          made at Camlridgi                          79
confused sheet of cirrus broke out into cirrocumulus of
small and ill-dafined nuliculce, in some places spongelike
and' porous.'       In the evening was much cirrus coloured
with rich crimson by the sun in different places all around,
but particularly the west.              These cirri in the west were
 more striated and approaching to cirroslratus ; in other
 places they were confused.
     Jline 3. — Cooler than yesterday, at times heavy clouds
 threatening rain ; cumulus in the intervals, with cirrus con
 fused and rainlike aloft, breaking out into small-grained
 flowery cirrocumulus, into windrows, &c. The night be
 came clouded.          Therm. 11 P.M. 55*.
     June 4.->-CIouds often threaten rain in the morning j
  cirrus this day confused and various broke out frequently
 into cirrocumulus ; in the evening below flimsy cirrocumuli
 hung pendulous flocculi refracting first a bright copper-co
 loured light, which as it grew darker passed through fine
 red to lake colour, orange haze.             Therm. 11 P.M. 58°.
      June 5. — Cold cloudy day, with occasional small rain,
  and north wind.         Therm. 11 P.M. 52°.
      June 6. — Cool and cloudy with a little small rain. Wind
  northerly; clearer at night again.             Therm. 11 P.M. 46°.
  Late by moon-light I could discern             a  light flimsy kind of
                                   some places they were disposed in
  rows.
      June   7. — Clouded      in the morning; afterwards it became
  a fine clear day,      with   a little flimsy cirrus in the sky in the
  evening.        The   sun   set  very clear, with a reddish horizon,
  and faint lines of eirrostratus in it. Therm. 1 1 P.M. 48°.
       June 1.8. — Clouded morning, clear day and night. Some
  heavy clouds however in the course of the afternoon: haze
  in the west of a brownish red. Therm. 1 1 S.M. 49°.
     June 9. — Clouded in the morning, afterwards fair; the
  evening was warm, with a good deal of cloud, though
  sunny intervals and calm air.             The clouds were mixed in
  defimte cumuli, flimsy cirrocumuli, and cirrus.               I noticed
   about sunset the remarkable blue appearance of a dark
   cloud in the west, it was a sort of sheet-like cumulostratus.
  Therm, at midnight 60°.
   '   June 10. — Very fine day; cumuli, cirri, &c; fine clear
   moonlight night.
       N.B. — In future I shall endeavour to give a journal of
   the Thermometer, Barometer, &c. with these observations.
   Corpus Christ! College, Cambridge,               THOMAS FoRSTER.
               June 12, 1813.
                                                              METE0R9

                                          Meteorology*
                          METEOROLOGICAL                      TABLE,
                Ev Mr. Cart, of the Strand,
                                        For July 1813.
                     Thermometer.
                                              Heigh; of
P«ys of                        c    o
                               c              the Baiom         CJ >             Weather.
    ich.
                P     i            U
                                    c
                                         .£
                                         iZ
                                               Inches.
                                                                -r _a
                                    :                           q     S
        ec > 58            63       57        30-18              56        Fair
        27       59        70       56          -15              50        i-air
        28       53        67       59        £9'90              46        Showery
        29       60       69        58           -75             36       (Showery
        30       59       66        57           -70              0        Rain
    y      1     58       65       57            -74              0        Rain
           2 ! -57        60       53            -so             44        Cloudy
          3     50        55       50         30-13              43'       Cloudy
        4      . 51       66       52           -10              55        Cloudy
        5       53        66       57           -02              62        Fair
        6       57        69       60         29-78              63       Fair
        7       58        76       62           -65              60       Fair
        8       62        74       CO           -65              68       Fair
      9         61        75       58           -66              72       Fair
     10         62        75       60           -90              67       Fair
     11         62        70       61           -93              60       Fair
     12         61        74       62           -ss              71       Fair
     13         62        69       61           -S2             62        Cloudy
     14         61        64       60           -75             30        Showery
     15         62        62       61           -75              0        Rain
        i.6]    63.       ro       62           -84             66        Showery
     17         61        73       53           -90             69        Fair
     is! 60               74       60           .98             76        Fair
     19         61        72       59           -72             36        Showery
     20         60        72       62           -60             61        Fair
     21        59         66       59          -62              56        Cloudy
     22        59         70       61           .63             70        Fair   [thunder
     £3        60         69       58          -50              61        Showers and
     24        60         70       57          -54              56        Th under show.
     25        61         68   J   59          -56              66        Showery
     26        63         69       58          -65              54        Showery
                               j                                                        .   I
        N B. The Barometer's height
           .                                          is   taken at one o'clock.

                                    [   81    }
f XVt.      On the Fine Arts: an fessay founded on a Discourse
      delivered by the Caualiere Ferro e Ferro, President of
      the Accndemia del Becernimento of Trapani*. By Mr.
      John Galt.
   The      fine arts are the study and delight of all polished
   nations. They disarm the spirit of man of its natural fero*
   city, and they elevate the mind while they soften the heart.
   Ignorance is but another name for barbarity, and the want
  of knowledge         sharpens the appetite of violence.                It wis
  indeed    a  strange paradox of Rousseau,               to maintain that
   mankind were happier when they resembled wild beasts,
   than with all the enjoyments of civilized life, and that the
   cultivation of their intellectual faculties had tended to de
   grade their virtues.         There can be no virtue but what is
   founded on a comprehensive estimate of the effects of hu
   man actions, and an animal under the guidance of instinct
   cannot form any such estimate.
      The chief object of science is the discovery of truth, and
   of art the development of beauty. In the former we trust
   to reason, and in the latter our reliance is on the suggestions
   of the imagination. But judgement and fancy are of mu
   tual assistance in both studies.          Science clears the obstruc
   tions which impede the progress of art, and art adorns and
   smooths the path of science.             No discovery is made with
  out some previous conjectural effort of the mind, some
  exertion of the imagination ; nor is any beauty unfolded^
  where there has not been some preconsideratiou of probable
  effects, some exercise of the reasoning faculties.
      As the human mind is pleased with the contemplation
  of what is true, and delighted with the appearance of what
  is beautiful, it may be assumed that the cultivation of
  science, and the improvement of art, originate in our love
  of pleasure. We commonly divide the olijects of the two
  pursuits into distinct classes, and we think, when we call
  Scientific studies useful, and the productions of art only
  ornamental, that there is something intrinsically different in
  their nature.        But if we examine our own feelings, and
 judge of science by its effects on ourselves, we shall be
  obliged to confess that, although less obviously, it is in fact
  as much recommended              to us by the pleasures to which it
     * The original Italian work, consisting of two volumes quarto, contain
  ing four discourses by Siq. Ferro, was not printed for sale, but was circulated
  gratuitously among the Author's friends*
      Vol. 42. No. 184. August 1813.                    F           ministers,

82                       On the Fine  Arts.
minister*, as the fine arts themselves, which we consider as
Entirely devoted to the excitement of agreeable emotions.
    Of all the arts, that which mo^ voluminously attracts at
tention is the art of building.     Invented in the country and
brought to perfection in the    town,  it owes it's origin, like all
other human contrivances, to necessity.       Man, naked at hii
birth, thrown upon the earth exposed to the cold, the wet,
and the heat, and to the concussion of other bodies, was
constrained    to seek artificial means of protection.         The
rain obliged him to flv for shelter to trees and caverns, thd
only habitations with which Nature has provided her fa
vourite ; for in the improvable faculties bestowed on hii
mind she furnished him with the means of constructing
abodes suitable to himself, suitable to the growth of hid
wants by the improvement         of his condition. The same
instinct which led him to take refuge from the shower,
taught him to prefer those trees of which the branches were
thickest interwoven, and, when they were insufficient, to
draw the boughs closer over his head.             The process of
reasoning from this experience, to the considerations which
led him to form permanent bowers, requires no illustration.
Every hypothesis formed to account for the various styled
of architecture, ascribes them to the structures which the
inhabitants of the countries in which they respectively ori
ginated first raised.     The aisles of the Gothic cathedral,
and that rich foliage of carving with which its vaults are
overspread, cannot be seen without immediately suggesting
the idea of a grove; and in the structure of the Grecian
temple we mav trace the characteristics of an edifice ori
ginally formed of trees hewed and pruned for the con
venience of transportation ; for Greece was not a woody
country, like those northern regions in which the GothiG
architecture arose. In Egypt, where trees are still more
rare than in Greece, where, indeed, there is nothing that
can be properlv compared to our idea of a tree, we find the
 character of the architecture partaking of the features of
what must have been the early habitations of a people ne
 cessitated, by their inarborous climate, to make their per
 manent retreats, and the sanctuaries of their gods, in the
 hollows and caverns of the earth.        The architecture which
 would arise among such a people we should expect to be
'dark, massy, and stupendous; and accordingly we find in
 that of Egypt, and of other countries which resemble it in
 circumstances,     temples and labyrinths that rival in ex*
 tent and intricacy the grottos of nature, and pyramids
 that emulate in magnitude and durability the everlasting
                                                               hill*

                        On the   Fine Arts.                     83
                                                                   '
 hills.   In the more oriental nations we find the same ge
  neral principle obvious, and in their permanent structures t
 similar resemblance to the features of what were probably
 the primaeval habitations of the nations.       In the light and
 pavilion appearance of the Chinese buildings, we may see
  the herecitary indications of a people that formerly re
  sided in tents, and such temporary abodes as were likely to
  be constructed by the inhabitants     of a country abounding
 in extensive plains, and of a climate unfavourable to the
 growth of trees, and yet not so hot as to oblige the natives
 to seek shelter in natural or artificial excavations.
      The first savage, who in the construction of his hut
 united a degree of symmetry w ith solidity, must be regarded
 as the inventor of architecture.     Multiplying improvements
 upon the first result of a combined plan of the reason and
 imagination, after a long series of errors and accidents, a
 code of rules came to be established, by which the art of
 building has since continued to be regulated.         The study
 of these rules furnishes us with a knowledge of the science
 of architecture.
     Although necessity was the mother of architecture, cli
 mate undoubtedly dictated the choice of the materials em
 ployed in the construction of buildings, and chance directed
 the fancy of individuals in the selection of ornaments.
 History, in mentioning that Callimachus of Corinth, by
observing the beautiful effect of a vase accidentally placed in
the midst of a bunch of parsley, was led to think of forming
 the Corinthian capital, has furnished us with a fact, which
 proves that, although a natural law governs man in choos*
ing the style of architecture, and climate prescribes the
materials, the peculiarities of individual genius. and not th«
effect of anv general principle of taste, develop the modi
fications of ornament.      Taste is formed bv the contempla
tion of works of art, and the perfection of such works con-.
ststs in exhibiting the greatest degree of beauty with the
utmost possible resemblance to the original models of
.which necessitv dictated the formation.       Taste, therefore,
does not instruct us   to  prefer for any general reason any on*
particular style of architecture to another, but only to ob*
serve and disapprove of deviations from what is natural.
    Every pleasure after enjoyment occasions a new want.
The shelter and protection obtained from achitecture in«
cited man to seek enjoyments in the improvement of the
art of building.    When his corporeal necessities were sup*
plied, the restlessness of his mind led him to seek ad*
                                F 2                       ditional

84                     On the Fine   Arts.
ditional pleasures by the same means which supplied his
corporeal necessities.
    In the Greek colonies of Asia Minor architecture is sup
posed to have first attained excellence.        At least the best
authors on the history of the arts agree in stating that the
Doric and Ionic orders were first perfectly constructed
there; and it may be questioned if in the lapse of more
than twenty centuries any improvement has been added to
the august simplicity of the Grecian Doric or the simple
elegance of the Ionic column.     The Corinthian, which is of
much later invention, though more elaborately ornamented.
than the other two, is by many of the most approved taste
deemed inferior to them as an order.       It retains less of the
resemblance to the original natural model.          It has more
about it that may be regarded as superfluous, and the foli- -
age of the capital is obviously a redundancy placed there
for no other purpose than the display of skill and expense.
The Corinthian pillars in the porticos of St. Paul's in Lon
don are esteemed very pure specimens of that order ; but
their appearance is less impressive than that of the Doric
columns which still remain among the ruins of the temple
of Minerva at Athens. More than two thousand years
have elapsed, and the remnants of the Greek architecture
still afford models which, never having been equalled, seem
incapable of being further improved. . It may indeed be
still said, that the genius of ancient Greece has furnished
eternal models to the arts in Europe.
   About the same time that the Doric was raised to per
fection in Ionia, the Etruscans invented the Tuscan, a sir .
milar order, but a grosser style; and the Romans, after the
simple and dignified manners of their republic had passed
away, demonstrated by the invention of the Composite, and
their preference of that gaudy order, how much the cor
ruption of their morals had infected their taste.
   The Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, Tuscan and Composite
orders of architecture constitute what is properly under
stood by the classes of architecture.       They are arranged
with distinct appropriate and peculiar ornaments, and their
proportions are regulated by rules which cannot be violated
without impairing their beauty.       This is not the case with
any other kind of architecture, and hence all other modifi
cations of the art of building are called styles, in contra
distinction to orders, such as the Chinese, the Moorish,
and the Gothic.      It is true that in England the Society .
of Antiquaries, and several private amateurs of the arts,
                               .   .                         have

                         On the   Fine Arts.
 have of rate endeavoured to classify and illustrate the dif
 ferent styles of architecture which are found in the ancient
 baronial and ecclesiastical edifices of Great Britain: but the
 inquiry has not yet terminated; although it has ascertained
 that the Saxon, Norman, and Gothic ; or, as the latter is now
 perhaps properly called, the English style, have charac
 teristics as distinct as those of the Doric, Ionic, and Corin
 thian, and codes of general rules that may prove to be
 peculiar to each.
    The human mind has an innate disposition to admire
 order, and to seek pleasure hy the classification of objects.
 Hence architecture is considered as consisting of three di
 stinct species, civil, military, and naval.     I may be justified
 in adding a fourth, ecclesiastical ; for it is impossible to visit
 auy part of Europe without being convinced               that the
 buildings   consecrated  to  religious  rites could  not without
 radical alterations be applied to any other use. The ca
 thedral with its vast ailes, its solemn vaults, and adjoining
 cloisters is as obviously constructed for a special purpose,
 as the fortress, the ship, or the mansion.
    Felones of Byzantium about three hundred years before
 the Christian aera composed a treatise on the engines of
 war and military architecture.        He is therefore justly re
garded as the father of engineers, and the principles which
he is supposed to have elucidated continued to be acted
 upon under various modifications till the invention of gun
powder.      Italy, that has for so -many years' been unknown
as a military nation, claims for Yanmicheli of Verona the
glory of having established the principles of the art of
modern fortification. Vauban, Pagan, Blondel, Scheiter,
&c. only modified his suggestions and developed his prin
ciples.    History ascribes by a kind of courtesy the honour
of inventions and discoveries to the persons who first make
them public, or bring them into use. Tt is thus that in
naval architecture Usoo a Phoenician is considered as the
father of the art, because he is the first on record that na
vigated a canoe.      But in this the courtesy of history goes
too far ; for Noah has certainly a superior claim both on
account of the magnitude and the purpose of his vessel.
    Although the Greeks excelled all the world in the beauty
of their works of art, they did not furnish any treatise on
the theory of architecture till after they had constructed
their finest buildings.    This was natural.      The rules which.
instruct us   to produce beauties in any kind of art, must be
derived from the practice of those who have previously by
the instinct of genius produced excellent works.        The rules
                       T
                                F3                              for

60                     On the Fine    Arts.
for composing a perfect epic poem are derived from the
practice of Homer, as it appears in the Iliad.   In like
manner the principles of architecture as a science are
founded on the result, not of rides previously delivered,
tut of     experiments ; and we are assured that by an ad
herence to the rules, vi e shall produce the same beautiful
effects as the result of the experiments from which the rules
were deduced.        Vitruvius was the first author who esta.-
bished the principles of ancient architecture; but he did
not write until the finest specimens of the art had been
long completed : he was cottmporary with Augustus.               He
mentions incited the names of many architects, but they
were practical met. — men of genius who had given models
in the art, and thereby furnished the means of giving rules
for the guidance of others'.
     It is surprising that, although the work of Vitruvius is
 admitted by all students to be deficient, obscure, and ill-
 arranged, it is still the best work of its kind, particu
 larly in the general laws which are laid down in it for the
 instruction of architects in the choice of the orders suita
 ble to the different kinds of edifices.       A work embracing
 the Saxon, Norman, and Gmhic styles^ in addition to the
classic orders, and discriminating the uses to which they
are respectively adapted, is a' desideratum in the literature
of Europe. In England, a work of this kind is particularly
requisite ; for the English are perhaps less than any other
nation in Europe sensible or even acquainted with the
 proprieties of architecture.     In the St. Paul's, London, one
 of the very finest works of the moderns, and admired by
 the English equal to its merits, the architect has employed
 the very gayest orders, and in the most ornamented style.
The sublime magnitude of the building diminishes, at the
 first view, the effect of its preposterous gaudiness.         It is
pot till after contemplating it with relation to its uses, tha.t
 we perceive how much the style of the architecture is at
variance with the purpose of the fabric.         Surelv the flaunt
ing luxuriance     of the  Corinthian    and  Composite orders is
ill  placed ona    temple  dedicated  to  the service of God, and
appointed to receive the ashes of great and illustrious
men. The decorum of architecture has been equally disre
garded in the construction of the new Theatre of Covent
Garden. The portico       is  undoubtedly  a   beautiful specimen.
of the Grecian Doric, and as such would not have dis
graced even Athens; but the august simplicity of the Doric
is as much out of place at the entrance of the play-house,
as the gaudy elegance of the Corinthian and Composite             is

                          On the    Fine Arts.                 •7
an the church.       Perhaps, if the theatre were entirely de
voted to the exhibition of tragedies, the grave majesty of its
portico would not be objectionable. Still, however, both
the theatre and the cathedral are fine monuments of the
skill of their respective architects; hut they are curious ex
amples of the want of that taste for propriety which is as
requisite in the art of building as in the compositions of the
Muse : and as it has been said of the English, that they
build their hospitals like palaces, and their palaces like-
hospitals, it may be added that they also erect their churches
like theatres, and their theatres like churches.
   Of all the fine arts, architecture is not only that which
is most easilv traced to its origin in the wants of mankind,
but that on which all the others are dependent.           All the
others when compared with architecture are only repre
sentative, and minister only to the Gratification of those
wants which arise from the experience of pleasure.            But
this primteval art  is, in its rudimemal state, almost as ne
cessary to man as food, and          its refined no less essential
                                        in
to the improvement of every other.
   Painting and sculpture are the arts which seem to have
the greatest affinity to architecture,     and most immediately
connected with its use and progress.           For the origin of
painting, we have no evidence of any such obvious instinct
as that which led man to the art of building, and      it may be
doubted, whether    it ought   to be considered  as an  invention
anterior to or coreva! with sculpture.
   The Greeks, with that vanity which their extraordinary
proficiencv   in art and science almost justified them in as
suming,   a   vanity which        probablv constitutional, as
                                   is                              jyt
exists in them as strongly as ever, although they have no
thing left of their ancestors but their vices, but the lees
and dregs of civilization — take to themselves the honour of
the invention of painting and tell us that, in particular, the
                               ;
art of portrait-painting was discovered among them            by   a
girl who was fond of       ayouth devoted to travelling, and
who, to sweeten the time of his absence, delineated on the
wall with the assistance of       lamp the profile of her lover.
                                    a
Instead however       of accepting this as an historical fact, we
ought to reflect how prone the Greeks were to allegory, and
that this elegautfable    but another way of telling us that por^
                          is
trait-painting was suggested            by
                                    adolescent affection.
   Although Anaxagoras      and  Democritus    wrote on ihe rules,
of perspective, we have no proof that the Greeks, notwith
standing their excellence       the delineation of objects, eve*
                               in
made any proficiency in the knowledge of perspective.         We,
have no account of any landscape-painters of great eminence
u   :..                            F    4                   among

  88                        On the Fine  Arts.
  among them.           Among all the artists of antiquity there
  was no Claude.         But they doubtless excelled in the draw
 ing of figures.        We are witnesses of the still surpassing^
 beauty of their statues ; and we should not, therefore,
 question the excellence of their painters.       Indeed the figures
 in outline on their funeral vases put this matter beyond
  question.
     In comparing the remains of Grecian sculpture with the
 works of     the moderns, particularly with the public monu
 ments of the British nation, a very obvious and striking
 difference is at once perceived and felt.       We are sensible, in
 looking    at  the  relics of Greece, of the  presence of a simple
 grace,   and    see  an  admirable naturality of form and figure,
 which is rarely discoverable in the sculptures of the mo
 derns.     This seems to be owing to a cause which admits
 of an easy explanation. The inferioritv of the modems
 arises from their superior scientific knowledge.         They un
 derstand the theory of the art. so well, that they think
 attention to rules is preferable to the study of natural phe
 nomena. The Greek artists, on the contrary, appear to
 have worked from living forms and existing things,             This
js remarkably obvious in the remains of ancient sculpture
 which have been carried to London by Lord Elgin.               The
 riders in them are not singly statues whose muscles and
joints are disposed with exquisite anatomical exactness.
and placed on horses individually equally correctly formed.
But the riders and the horses, as in nature though two
distinct beings, are in the Elgin marbles shown under the
influence of one impulse ; and all those minute and inde
scribable contractions and dilatation of parts, which arise
from their separate conformation, are shown under the 111O1
dification of that impulse which constitutes the unity of
their mutual exertion.         I am not here alluding to the figures
of the metopes, but to those of the bas-reliefs on the frieze.
It is impossible that this felicitous result could have been
obtained by the most careful attention to any system of
rules.      It is indeed impossible that the artist whose busi
ness is to attain perfection of design and beauty of execu
tion, should be able to give sufficient time and consideration
to the study of rules to enable him to work by them withi
out reference to models in nature.           He must unquestion
ably furnish himself with such a conpetent knowledge of
principles as to prevent him from falling into error; but if
he expects to excel in his art, he must study other things
than the principles by which the critics will estimate his
proficiency. As poets must be so far acquainted with
grammar as to. be able to write correct language, painters

                              On the Fine Arts.                             89
and sculptors are required to know the principles of their
respective arts.     But as that knowledge of grammar which
constitutes the merit of a grammarian        will never make a
poet,   so  that  knowledge  of  perspective and   anatomy which
constitutes the merit of a      connoisseur    will never make a
painter or a sculptor.       Painting and sculpture are repre
sentative arts.      Their province is confined to forms that
can be exhibited, and surely excellence cannot be attained
in them but by studying such forms as naturally exist.
In groups the sculptor mav bring together figures that
might never have met, as the landscape- painter may com
bine into one picture objects selected from different views,
and thereby produce an effect that, while perfectly natural,
shall be more pleasing and impressive than any particular
view in nature.- But the sculptor must not attempt to
create forms, nor the painter to draw mountains or trees
from his own fancy, or they will assuredly never fail to
offend, if they do not always disgust.       The two grand alle
gorical landscapes of Claude, descriptive of the rise and
fall of the Roman empire, furnish an admirable illustration
of the maxim which I would inculcate.             There is no part
of Italy, various and beautiful as the scenery of that coun
try  is,   which exhibits such magnificient scenes as these
 paintings but still the moment that we see them we at
            ;
once recognise all the features of the Italian landscape.
 In the picture descriptive of the rise of the Roman nation,
 we are informed at the first glance of the moral which the
 artist intends to convey.      The sky indicates the morning.
 On   more    close examination     we find, by the general ap
 pearance of the woods and other objects, that                  the
                                                                 it   is
 spring of the year, and the allegory        still more distinctly
                                             is
 told  by   the introduction of husbandmen employed in pre
 paring the soil      and the rudeness of society
                         ;                              ingeniously
                                                            is
 expressed      by  number
                     a      of little incidents that nevertheless
 harmonize with the general tone of the composition, while
 the style of the buildings and the features of the landscape
 show that      it   isprobable view of Italy
                          a                         the simple and
                                                       in
 manly ages of the Roman republic. In delineating the
 decline of the empire the painter has been no less happy.
 The circumstances are chosen with equal skill, and com
 bined with equal judgement.         The sun      setting;
                                                  is            the
                                                                  it   is
 close of the vintage.     The temples are in ruins, which em
 phatically inform us how much the reverence for the gods
 lias declined.     The peasants are discovered in state of in
                                                            a
 toxication, and the painter has contrived to represent this
 without any ludicrous circumstance. He wished to con
                                                                            vey

90                         On the Fine Arts.
vey an idea of the corruption of manners, and he has ac
complished it without infringing the solemnity of his com
position. In the first picture, all is vigorous, fresh, active,
and productive; in the second, all is exhausted, decaying,
melancholy, and wasteful.           No poem, no oration, could
have described the subject more eloquently.            The historian
who related the fall of Rome has not employed a pen more
correct than the pencil of the artist.       It is such productions
that   show     the   superiority of genius.     It is this exquisite
arrangement and choice of things actually existing, which
obtains the praise of originality.
    Painting and sculpture may be described as the sensual
class of the fine arts, and poetry and music as the intel
lectual.     The former address themselves at once to our
 senses.    The    forms which they exhibit are the representa
tives of things which we have seen ; but the latter address
 themselves to the mind, and call up trains of thought by
 means which bear no resemblance to those ideas, which
 they nevertheless renew.         The influence of painting and
 sculpture on the mind is like that of oratory, which per
 suades by the statement of truths. The power of poetry
 and music is felt like that of magic, which calls up spirits,
and produces miraculous effects by the mixing of certain
ingredients curiously culled.           As the orator cannot state
* truth justly and perspicuously, without obtaining an im
 mediate concurrence in opinion from his auditors, so the
painter or sculptor cannot exhibit a picture or a statue pro
 perly executed, without obtaining the admiration              of all
 spectators.      But   the jurisdiction of poetry and      music   is
not so universal, for they are dependent on associations in
 the minds of those to whom thev address themselves.
Truth is every where the same, but habits are local.            And
the arts of painting and sculpture are connected with
truths, while those of music and painting are dependent on
habits.    The poet cannot produce any effect on the reader,
unless   the  reader has acquired intellectual associations which
resemble those of the poet. There must be a general cast of
mind common to them both.              In the same manner, music
will produce no sentimental effect unless in particular pas
sages it tends to remind the hearer of sounds in nature, and
by that remembrance to recall the images of scenes and
events also.
   The effects of a local influence, similar to that which has
produced the different styles of architecture, is perceivable
in the poetrv of ail nations; or, in other words, national cir
cumstances have produced national habits of thinking, and
                                                             thereby

          Remarks on the Transition Rocks          of Werntr.    91
thereby occasioned peculiar characteristics in the poetry of
different nations. The more detached, unmixed, and steady
that the society of any country preserves itself, the more
original and singular will be the characteristics of its
poetrv ; and by the same rule, according to the intimacy
and extent of intercourse which nations cultivate with one
another, the more various and general will be the points of
association in their habits of thinking, and their poetry
consequently     approximate to resemblance.            The English
nation more than any other that ever existed has cultivated a
 general intercourse with all parts of the globe; and accord
 ingly we find poets in that country whose works, though
 comparativelv popular there, are but little understood evea
 by the learned of the continent.              In the middle of the
 eighteenth century all Europe was surprised by the ap
 pearance in that country of the poems of Ossian ; works
 which, whatever may be the debate as to their historical
 authenticitv, are admitted to be fine specimens of a kind of
 poetry cultivated by the mountaineers of Scotland, and
 which "was felt to be natural, and acknowledged to be ori
 ginal, even by those who questioned their antiquity. In
 like manner the conquests of the British in India have added
 to the stores of the British poets ; and in England a kind of
  poetry is fast growing into repute, which seems to bear the
 same sort of resemblance to that of the oriental poets
 which the productions of the muse in the days of Leo X.
  bore to that of the Greek and Roman poets of antiquity.
  Mr. Southey has already brought this style to a high de
 gree of excellence ; and the specimens by Sir William Jones,
  along with the Transactions of the Asiatic Society, present
  to the world a glimpse of what pleasures may be added to
  our enjoyment of knowledge, by a nation which combines
  in its enterpiises the glory of victory and the advantages
  of commerce ; which carries in the rear of its armies the
  abundance of industry, and which, by its jurisprudence re
  quiring the military to be subservient to the civil authorities,
  sends to the most distant regions the most enlightened           of
  mankind in the capacity of advocates and judges.
                            fro be continued.]
  XVII.    Remarks   on the   Travsition Jloeks of Werner.        By
              Thomas      Allan,     Esq, F.R.S. Edin.
                         [Concluded from p. 25.]
  Granite      countries usually present a bold and varied out
  line ; but to this rule Cornwall is a most decided exception:
                                                                   its

  99        Remarks on (he Transition Rocks    of Werner.
  its aspect is tame in the extreme, being comparatively flat, —
  a circumstance visibly occasioned by the corroding opera
tions of time. Nowhere are the vestiges of degradation so
  remarkable as here.     The enormous deposites of tin in the
  different stream-works, of which that of Carnon is perhaps
  the most extensive, clearly prove the destruction of sur
  rounding mountains. This tin, in the shape of rounded
 pebbles, formed a stratum, of about a foot thick, under a
 deposite of granite-gravel and mud, together forming an
  overburthen of forty feet thick, and occupying a valley of
 very great extent.       The lodes which furnished this tin
 must have existed above the level of the deposite ; and
 from the quantity of metal deposited, they must have oc
 cupied a large tract of country.     Other monuments of this
 general destruction may be found in the peaks which are
 seen in every direction in the granite districts of Cornwall.
 These are evidently the result of surrounding decomposi
 tion, and are formed of huge masses of rock, apparently
 piled on each other, with a regularitv resembling masonry,
 and in all respects similar to the arrangement observable on
 the summit of every mountain in Arran, where the traces
 of time are also deeplv furrowed.
     Roach Rock, a binary compound of quartz and horn-
 blend, is another very remarkable instance of the same
 fact : this rock is flat at the top, and being quite perpendi
 cular on three sides, when viewed from the west, presents
 the appearance of a square castellated building, which is
 rendered more conspicuous by being nearly of the same
height as the tower of an adjoining church. There can be
 no doubt that this singular rock owes its present appearance
 to the operations of time on the surrounding materials,
'which its peculiar composition has enabled it to with
stand.
     The killas likewise presents marks of degradation, where
the country is composed of that rock.         I noticed in some
districts the roads mended entirely with quartz, (No. 24 ) ;
 the brilliant white appearance of which, after a shower, had
a very curious effect.       I could not comprehend by what
industry    the  accumulated   heaps of this substance were ob
tained : at last I perceived that they were gathered from
the adjoining fields, and in some places picked from the
surface of a common, by means of a hoe or mattock.
That fragments of quartz should occur so unmixed with
any others, is only to be accounted for by supposing that
they formed the quartz veins in the killas, which, from
superior tenacity, resisted decomposition, while the softer
                                                        *  parts

           Remarks on the Transition Rocks             of Werner.           93
parts of the rock, yielding to the action of the weather,
 were reduced and carried away.
     We thus rind, that the granite of Cornwall possesses the
 eharacters ascribed by Werner to that of the highest anti
quity. Some inferences may likewise be drawn, in corro
boration of its title to be classed with rocks of this descrip
tion, from the nature of the metallic veins by which it is
traversed.
    In the German account of the relative ages of metals,
tin is the third, and wolfram the fourth in order of anti
quity*.       If veins containing these metals be considered in
other countries as indicative of rocks of the oldest primitive
formation, the same application must be made to those of
Britain.
    I  may now ask, If this be not the oldest granite, where
 are   we to find it? as it appears to me impossible that any
 substance can more decidedly concur with definition,                        liv
 the Alps, Dr. Berber must have learnt what primitive gra
 nite meant; yet not a doubt escapes him, of the Cornish
 being any thing else.           Distinctions either do or <lo not
 exist; if they do, character must be attended to; if they
 (Jo not, it is quite unnecessary to add the terms Secondary
 and Tertiary to a substance popsessing every attribute of a
 primary variety, merely because the structure of an ad
joining rock does not accord with a specific theory.
    Grauwacke, or, as i shall in future call it, Killas, I have
before noticed, is a rock composed of fragments more or
less comminuted, which must have existed in another state
before they assumed their present arrangement.                          Along;
with the strata formed of these, beds of limestone are
found, containing indications of organic remains.                       These
are not confined solely to the limestone, they occur also in
the killas ; a fact which may he witnessed at any time,
either in the neighbourhood of Conistonf, or on the right
bank of the Blackwater, a little below Fermoy, in the county
»f Cork, (Nos. G6, 67.) The formation of this class of
rocks was therefore subsequent to the formation of living
animals, whose existence is supposed to be proved by the
occurrence of organic remains in the composition of the
rock.
    In Cornwall, in Westmoreland, in Galloway, and in the.
   *  Jameson's Mineralogy, vol- iii. p. 275.
   f Since I read this papcrvI wrote to a friend at Ccniston, requesting that a
few of thete specimens, well characterized, might he sent me : some of which
are deposited, alony with the rest, in the cabinet of the Society, (No. 64,

  $4         Remarks on the Transition Rocks              of Werner.
  counties     of Down and Derr\% this rock lies directly bit
  granite,   —a  circumstance which we should at first sight be
   inclined to con°ider as indicating its subsequent formation.
* This
           thought, however, vanishes the moment we contem
    plate the veins of granite by which it is traversed.       Of
    these there are many examples; but the most striking are
   at the Louran in Galloway, and at St. Michael's Mount in
   Cornwall.
       It is many years since Sir James Hall laid before this So
   ciety an account of his observations on the granite district
   of Galloway', of which the Louran forms a part ; and to
   the persevering activity of that gentleman We ire indebted
   for the display of one of the most interesting exhibitions
   of granite veins that exists. The peculiarities observable
   in Galloway were first pointed out to me by him ; and as he
  has so lately favoured the Society with a particular account
  of them, it leaves me nothing to say regarding that quarter.
       At St. Michael's Mount, the shooting of the veins from
   the great mass of granite is also most strikingly exempli
   fied.    They were here first noticed by Professor Playfair,
   who compares them, most aptly, to the ramifications of the
  Vegetable root*; for, indeed, nothing can be more illustra
  tive of the phenomenon as it is here exhibited.
      It is to be observed that granite veins, particularly when
  extremely minute, usually differ in texture from the mass
  to which they belong.      While the little p?ak of St. Mi
  chael's Mount maintains a similarity of character with all
  the rest of the Cornish granite, not only in point of internal
  structure, but with respect to the tin and copper veins
  which traverse       it,
                        as well as       by
                                      the massive blocks, hewn
  by   the corroding hand of time, which ornament its surn-
  riiit the veins that set off from
       ;                                 gradually become finer
                                              it
  as they recede, but still preserve the perfect character of
  the rock.
    The importance deservedly attached      Dr. Hutlon to
                                                        by
 the phenomena of granite veins, gave  rise  to  variety of         a
 hypotheses among those who were inclined to consider this
 lock as the original deposite, who have accounted for their
 formation in different ways.
   It  was first stated, that they were formed of newer gra-
 site, and,    properly examined, would be found to cut the
               if
 old granite as well as the rock which rested on it.
    This opinion was once very strenuously supported in this
 country but as facts would not bear
           ;                                out,   was aban-
                                                   it          it
               • Illustrations of the Huttonian           p.                   .-
                                                Theory,        311!.       *
                                                                        doned.

           Remarks on the Transition Rocks oj Werner.                   03
doned.       I find, however, in    a recent publication, something
similar to it maintained by De Luc, who asserts that the
veins at St. Michael's Mount are not granite, but merely
quartz, which traverses the granite as well as the stratified
rock. I cannot comprehend how Dc Luc could have been
so much deceived at this place; as simple inspection of the
smallest specimen will prove that he was mistaken.
     It was next said, that the veins in question were not true
 veins, but such as are termed Cotemporaneous.                     To sup
 port which, it was boldly asserted, that they never extended
 beyond the limits of such rocks as were composed of the
 same materials, gneiss and mica-slate.
      I trust it is now distinctly shown, that they do extend
 beyond these limits, and likewise that they traverse rocks
 from which by no method of reasoning it can be supposed
 that they could possibly be formed by secretion.
      The last opinion is that which has recently been brought
  forward by Dr. Berger*.             After describing the granite
  veins of St. Michael's Mount, he proceeds to say, that they
  are simply elevations on the plane of the granite existing
  previous to its being covered by the stratified rock ; that
  the spaces between them were filled up as the grauwacke
  was deposited ; and hence the abrasion of the surface
  brought to light a section which has merely an appearance
   of veins.
       Were the devotion of Dr. Berger to his master less con
   spicuous in his geological disquisitions, I should be in
   clined, on the above statement, to call his character as ai»
   observer in question, having passed over in silence the de
   tached masses of killas, which he could not fail to observe
   included in the granite, and which the above hypothesis is
   as far from accounting for as either of those mentioned
   before.
       I have only a few specimens (Nos. 39, 40, 41.) to lay
    before the Society from the veins of St. Michael's Mount ;
    but they are equally interesting and satisfactory.                   One
    exhibits a portion of the killas bounded on each side by
    granite j another, a portion of two granite veins travers
    ing killas; and the third, a mass of killas included in the
    granite.
        Simple inspection is sufficient, in the first place, to show
    that the opinion of De Luc is groundless with respect to
    the substance of these veins.          One of the specimens also
     contains two small veins of quartz, which are of the kind
     called Cotemporaneous ; these keep the direction of the
              * Transactions of the Geological Society, vol. i. p. 147.
                                                                        seams
                                                                              I

    96       Remarks  on the Transition Rocks  of tVerner.
    seams of the stratified rock, and are cut off by the gramte
    in the same line without any interruption.
       To the opinion of Dr. Beiger they also offer some reply.
    If the graowacke had been deposited on the granite in the'
    way he supposes, it is natural to conclude, that it would
    have been arranged in lines parallel to the sides of the ele
   vations, somewhat similar to the coating of bark on the
   trunk of a tree : but in place of this, the seams of the killas-
   are set at an angle of about 30° to the planes of intersection
   with the granite; consequently, if deposited from a super
   natant fluid, thev have assumed a very different position
   from that which either mechanical or crystalline influence
   would have induced.
      The hypothesis suggested to Dr. Hutton by the appear
   ance of these veins, meets every difficulty : they conveyed
   to him evidence of being derived from a source of the
   greatest violence ; and also that nothing but liquid matter
   injected from below, could have created the disturbance
  among the stratified rocks, so conspicuous when in contact
  with -granite.    As it is a self-evident position, that a rock
  which is cut by a true vein, must have existed in a solid
  slate previous to the formation of that vein ; so is it equally
  obvious, that if the vein can be traced into an adjoining
  mass, of which it is found to be a part, that mass must
  stand in the same relation, in point of period, to the rock
  which contains the vein, as the vein itself does : as also,
  that if pieces of one rock be found imbedded in another,
 the including rock must have been of subsequent forma
 tion to the included. No theory, however, but that of Dr.
 Hutton can account for these appearances: to nothing but
 force can the position be attributed which the stratified
 rocks have assumed in the vicinity of the unstratified ; and
 nothing but matter injected in a liquid state, could posst-
 blv have formed the shoots which traverse from the great
 mass of granite perforating the stratified rock, and at the
 same time envelop detached fragments of that rock.           As
 the idea of violence in these operations has been so fre
 quently combated, I cannot refrain from noticing here, a
 very striking mark of it I met with at Coul in Ross-shire,
 when visiting Sir George Mackenzie.         There the strata of
gneiss are much disturbed by the invasion of granite veins;
near which, on the outside curvatures of some of them I
perceived rents-similar to what we might expect on bending
a flattened mass of clay nearly deprived of moisture,            f
am fortunately     enabled to present to the Society specimens
illustrative of this interesting fact (Nos. 68, 6'>.)

           Remarks on the Transition Rocks    of Werner.      gj
     In the theory of Dr. Ho Hon, we find also some grounds
  to account for the diminution of grain in the substance of
 the veins.     The same cause to which, in a former paper,     I
  attributed the gradation in the texture of greenstone, may
  be supposed to have acted here.      It does not, however, ob
  serve an equal constancy, some veins of granite being as
  coarse-grained as the mass to which they belong.
      In a former part of this paper, I had occasion to notice
  an alteration which appears to take place in the texture of
  killas, when in the vicinity of granite.    This circumstance
  was so remarkable in Galloway, at the Louran and other
  places, that 1 took the strata so situated for mica-slate, al
  though I had observed no line of separation between it and
  the killas. I was forcibly struck with this at the moment j
  but having then no time to follow it up, I was obliged t.rt
  leave the country without any particular examination.        It
  will be observed, by the specimens from St. Michael's
  Mount, that the killas there assumes the appearance of fine
  grained gneiss.     At Wasseldale Crag, between Kendal and
  Shap, I noticed a rock, in the immediate vicinity of granite,
  quite similar j and I am told that the texture of the strata,
  near the granite of the mountains of Morne, is altogether
  the same.
      This alteration is always of a gradual nature; and is so
  imperceptible, that it affords a good example of what might
  be understood by the German term Passage, or transition
  from one species to another : this Passage, even admitting
  the substance altered, is of too limited a nature to consti
  tute a distinct and totally different rock.
     This alteration, if traced with attention, may lead to some
  very important results; but, without entering upon it at
  present, I shall content myself with recommending it to
 the notice of geologists, some of whom may consider it of
  too minute a nature to deserve attention. They may, how
 ever, rest assured, that it is only by an accurate examina
  tion, and a faithful detail of such objects, that we can hope
 to arrive ultimately at truth, the only solid basis of philo
  sophic inquiry.
     I  may be accused of generalising too much in the fore
 going statement,      on grounds so limited : it must be re
  membered, however, that t have purposely confined my
  self to the examples of the relations which exist within my
  own knowledge, between the transition rocks and granite.
 The same phaenomena are familiar, where gneiss and mica-
 slate come in contact with that rock ; but as these strata
jtre considered to be of a very different age, the facts which
.    Vol. 43. No. 184. August 1813.             G        I might

98        Remarks on the Transition Rocks      of Werner.^
I   might have cited, had my object been to prove the age of
granite with respect to all other rocks, were unnecessary,'
when my purpose was to point out the relative ages of killas
and granite.
     From what I have said, T consider myself warranted in
finishing this paper with the following conclusions:
     The Killas of Cornwall belongs to the Transition serie*
 of Wernes.
     The Granite of Cornwall is possessed of every character
 by which the Oldest varieties are distinguished.
     That Granite, the nucleus round which Werner conceives
 all other rocks were deposited, is in some cases actually of
 a later date than the Transition series, which comprehends
 strata containing shells ; and that its subsequent formation
 is clearly evinced by the appearances at St. Michael's
 Mount.
       Hence,    that the distinction    of Transition    rocks is
 grounded     on false conclusions.
     And finally, That Werner must make very material           al
 terations on his present system, if he wishes to accommo
 date it to the phaenomena so commonly presented in nature.
                              APPENDIX.
     On   a former    occasion, I stated as  mv opinion, that all
  geological papers ought      to be accompanied with specimens
 of the rocks of which they treated. This is a condition
  not always to be complied with, unless the intention to
  write precedes the examination, when a collection may
  purposely be made ; but when the idea suggests itself after
  one is far removed from the district, it amounts nearly t6
  an impossibility.       In the present instance, although I be
  possessed   of  all  the  specimens necessary, thev belong to a
  series which I formed for other purposes.          Rather, how
  ever, than mutilate this, I have thought it better to present
  the whole to the Society, in whose possession I shall have
  an opportunity of referring to them at any time ; and as they
  have signified their acceptance, it is necessary to add to my
  paper the following hrief list of the minerals I collected,
  which are marked and numbered, as picked up on my route,
  commencing in Somersetshire, where the Transition rocks
  first made their appearance, and ending at Ilfracombe, after
  traversing Devon and Cornwall in different directions.
     After leaving Bristol, on the road to Exeter, we traverse
  the limestone ridge of Mendip ; to the south of which
  there is an extensive plain, stretching to beyond Taunton,
                                                '            -whose

         Remarks oruthe Transition Rocks      of Werner.     99
     whose uniformity is occasionally interrupted by small
     isolated hills, like islands in a lake.  These are pro
     bably formed of Transition rocks, although on the
     plain itself, where the soil is laid open, which is prin
     cipally composed of limestone debris, horizontal strata
     of the same substance were exposed to view. Ap
     proaching Taunton, the road leads over some of these
No. hills, and here it was that I met with strata highly in-
1,2. clined, very similar in colour and aspect to some va
      rieties of tandstone, but considerably more refractory
     under the hammer, indicating, I suspect, the com
      mencement of the Transition series.
 3. Vesicular Trap.          I found this on the road near the
         house of Sir Thomas Acland, a few miles north of
         Exeter. I saw none of this in situ, though very
         commonly in the buildings in and about Exeter.
 4. On quitting Exeter for Moreton, the road is extremely
         hilly, rising and descending over abrupt kriolls al
         most all the way; these are principally formed of a
          soft decomposing rock, in thin strata, breaking in
          rhomboidal fragments, and very similar to the slaty
        clay of Werner.
5}6,7. After passing Teign Bridge, this substance assumes a
        greater degree of consistence, and occurs in strata
        nearly vertical, some of which are coarser in the
        grain than others.       These were extremely difficult
        to break, and presented a close smooth fracture, ap
        proaching to conchoidal.
 8. The Teign is the eastern boundary of Dartmoor, and
        within a few hundred yards of      it,and immediately
        beyond   the  stratified  rock last mentioned, Granite
         occurs, containing very large crystals of felspar,
         which continues to within    a    short distance of Ta
         vistock, situated on the Tavy, which bounds Dart
         moor on the west side.
       Here, as on the banks of the Teign, the Killas rests
          upon the Granite. At Wheal Friendship, a mine
          at that time under the management         of Mr. John
          Taylor, (to whose intelligence  I   am deeply indebted
          for great share of the information
            a                                    I    obtained in
          the country,)
                      I     selected the following specimens, as
          illustrative of the Cornish terms, which certainly
          afford the best explanation that can be given, of    a
          language entirely peculiar.
  y.   Killas,  by   comparison with the Grauwacke Slate of
          Freyberg.  I   find this to be quite as similar as any
                                   Gs                         two
                                      i

100      Remarks on the Transition Rocks     of Werner.
        two specimens from the same quarry could be ex
        pected to be.
10.   Elvan,   as pointed out at Wheal Friendship.        This  I
        took for coarse-grained Grauwacke ; it was very dif
        ficult to break, and a very small proportion of it ex
        posed to view.     I could not, therefore, observe its
        connection with the surrounding rocks ; but, from
        more minute examination, I suspect it may belong
        to a bed of Greenstone.
11.   Capel, a veinstone or Salland, composed of Quartz
        penetrated by Chlorite.
IS. A Bunch of ore is here exhibited by a portion of Cop-
        per pyrites, in a vein of Quartz, which represents
    -
 .
        the lode.     When found in this way in a mine, it is
        termed a Bunch of Metal.
13. A heave to the right, the Killas is here traversed in
        different directions by Ouartz veins ; that marked
        A represents a lode, intercepted and heaved to the
        right by B, a cross course.      When the lode is cut
        in a very oblique direction, it is said to be counted.
14. A Horse, when a lode is divided, and joins again, it i»
        said to take horse, and the included mass in this spe
        cimen is called the Horse of Killas, &c.
\5.   A  Squat, when the lode suddenly enlarges, it is called
        a Squat ; and the metal it contains a Squat of Ore.
        —By means of this vocabulary, I very soon became
        familiar with many of the commonest mining terms
        in the country.
      In order to form a junction between the Tavistock
        Canal and the Tamer, it became necessary to drive
        a tunnel, for a mile and a half, through a hill called
        Morwel Down, which promises to be a source of
        interest to the geologist.     In forming this tunnel,
        several powerful veins of clay porphyry have been
        penetrated, the substance of which is in some places
$fos. much disintegrated, in others firm and compact;
16-19- veins supposed to correspond have since been ob
        served on the surface.
SO. In the tunnel, the Clay Porphyry alternates several
        times with the Killas, which is here of a light-gray
         colour, and a soft friable texture.
      In the course of this undertaking, two workable me
         tallic veins have been intersected : no traces of either
        had been found on the summit of the hill, although
        diligently examined.
g 1 . Passing the Tamer, we enter Cornwall, and at Gunnis-
                                                             kke

          Remarks on the Transition Rocks        vf Werntr.       Mil
          lake is a mine of Copper in Granite ; and a little
          beyond, at Drakewalls, there is another of'Tiu in
No.       Killas.
22.    Tin-vein in Granite, from Carclaze, near St. Austle.
23. Killas found on the road from St. Austle to Carclaze;
          this I consider a very perfect specimen of Grau-
           wacke.
24.    Mass of white Quartz, of which the roads are formed.
25.    Mixture of crystallized Quartz and Wolfram, covered
          with a coating of Bitumen, found in Poldice mine
   x
          near'   Redruth, at the depth of 106 fathoms, in
           Granite.
t6. Arsenical Pyrites, mixed with acicular, dark, greenish-
          gray crystals, supposed to he actinolite, from Bla-
          nev's Shaft, a branch of Wheal Unity.
27- Granite, Cairn Brae.
28. From a vein which traverses the north-east side of
          Cairn Brae : on the spot it appeared to me to be
          Clay-Porphyry; in hand specimens it resembles fine
          grained Granite.
29. Vein-stone of Quartz, impregnated with red Oxide of
           Iron, and containing white Steatite, from Tincroft.
30. From the high-road near Tincroft.                This is a very
           tough   rock,   and  very fine-grained  : it appears to be
          a variety of Greenstone similar to N». 10.
81. Killas, marked with dark-coloured spots, from the side
           of the road to Cambourn, a little westward of the
          last.
82.    Killas of a light-gray colour, from St. Anns.
33.    From Beacon Hill, a conglomerate formed of the de
          bris of Granite, very similar to some varieties of
           Sandstone.
34, 35. Granite from the Land's End.
36,37. Homblend-rock from Botallock, a curious, little, but
           valuable mine, on the north side of the peninsula,
           near the extremity.
39.    Cockle,    massive Tourmaline, from the same place.
39-41. Specimens from the junction of the Granite and
           Killas,  at St. Michael's Mount.
.42,43. From the shore        near Penzance    : these  I consider to
           he  Killas of a very tough and compact variety, they
           are found very near Granite, or some similar rock,
           which presented something so peculiar in the aspect,
           that I cannot help recommending it to the attention
           of geologists.
     .                             G3                             No.

 W2         'Remarks on the Transition Rocks  of Wernk.
 No.                                                   .<
 — 46. Serpentine?    from the Lizard.
 47.  Hornblend-rock,      which forms the basis on which the
          light-houses of the Lizard stand.
 48. Clay-porphyry, near Trewithtn.
 49. Granite, with a vein of Tin, St. Stephen's.
 50. Conglomerate of Quartz and granular Talc, from the
          same place.
 51, 52. Phosphate of Lime and crystallized Talc, in Granular
          Talc, from Stoney Gwins.
.53. Killas from a quarry between Bodmin and the race
          course of that town. This substance is very soft,
          but well adapted for building, from the peculiar fa
          cility with which it is quarried; the stratification
          being horizontal, and the cross rents perpendicular,
          and so regular, the quarry presents a very symmetri
          cal appearance.
 54,55. Granite, coarse-grained, near Bodmin.
 56. Fine-grained Killas, near Launcestown.
 57. About seven miles from Launcestown, on the road to
          Oakhampton, I found a quarry containing schistose
          and amorphous Killas interstratified, the last ot which
          I  believe to be as perfect Grauwacke as any in the
          district of Lammermuir.
 58. Greenstone, Hatherleigh.
 59. Variety of Trap from Cleave.
 60,61. Killas from llfracombe, alluded to in page 22.
      Specimens quoted, but not    from tlie same Country.
 62,63. Fine-grained Grauwacke, from Peeblesshire, in all
            respects similar to the Killas of Cornwall.     Note,
            p. 23.
 64,65. Shells in Killas, from Cortiston.      Note, p. 93.
 66,67. Same from Fermoy, county of Cork, p. 93.
 68,69. Gneiss from Coul, p. 96.
     70. Transition Limestone from Rae Quarry, containing
            shells, p. 18.
                                                    XVIII.    Oh-

                           [  103     ]
XVIII.     Observations, in Objection to some new Arrange
   ments, and Simplifications of the Strata of England, pro
   posed by Mr. Bakewell. — A Defence of the Reality
   and Circumstances stated, respecting three great Faults
   or Dislocations of the Strata in and near Derbyshire.—
   On Mr. Silver wood's intended Section of all the Der
   byshire Strata. — On Mr. Hall's Survey and Models of
   the high Peak of Derbyshire. — The Slate of Charnwood
   Forest ?wt strati/ied,&c. Ztfc.   By Mr. Jon n Fa rev Sen.
                        To  Mr.  Tilloch.
Sir, — In    my first letter (of the 16th inst. p. 53) I replied
to Mr. BakewelPs observations, in Your xhh volume, p. 45,
and in his ". Introduction to Geology," respecting Geolo
gical Maps of England, and Limestone Rocks resting on
Slate, I proceed now to notice what he has said in p. 46,
and in his Geology pages 212 and 283, in objection to the
existence of two of the principal Faults or dislocations of
the Strata in and near Derbyshire, which I discovered du
ring my Survey of that district in the years 1807 and 8, and
have described them in my Derbyshire Report, vol. i. 146
and 165, and have shown them in the Map p. 97, and iu
 that which accompanied a paper in the Phil. Trans. for
 1811, and your xxxixth volume, p. 26.
    In your 46th and 47th pages, Mr. B. had contrived to
mix his observations on these two faults together, and so to
 multiply questions to me and suggestions of his own, that
 I was quite unable to fathom his meaning, until I came
 to read his Geology, when these mysteries were partly
cleared up, by the discovery, that almost throughout his
 Geology Mr. B. rejects my term Limestone Shale or great
 Shale, for the vast stratum between the 1st Lime and 1st
 Grit, of Derbyshire, and he substitutes for it " Savdstoue,'*
 see p. 48 and (No. 5) fig. 1 in Plate II, p. 93, p. 135, p. 226
 and (No. 4) fig. 5, in Plate II ; on other occasions " Shale
 Sandstone," p. 141 ; and on others, "Shale Grit," p. 270,
 p. 271, p- 272, and p 273. The word Shale rarely finding
 a place in his Geology, either here, or in mentioning Coal-
 measures, except when adjectively applied to the term Sand
 stone.                                                 "
          In his Lectures, he is made to describe it as a dark
 reddish-lrown Shale," in your xxxix'h volume, p. 469.
    I next discovered, that instead of the term Red Marl,
 for the well known, bright red marley strata, often irregular
 ly streaked with light blue earth, (occasionally imbe"dding
                              G4                          masses

104    Mr. Farey's        Reply to      Mr,Bakewell — Faults in Derlys.
masses       of Gypsum, Rock-salt, Gritstone, Slate, &c.) Mr.
B.   has    chosen, after the manner or' the Anglo- Wernerians
(which      he often affects so much to despise),                to substitute the
term   "    Sandstone," pp. 134, 136, 17'*N, 196, 267, 268,
            red
873 and 274 ; and "Sandstone," pp. 285 and 286. So care
ful does Mr. B. seem, against the use of the term Marl
for these strata,' that except when used for marling in Lan
cashire, p. 196, or occurring as the covering of Gvpsum,
pp. 173, 175 and 176, it scarcely occurs ; even in describing
the Cheshire Salt strata, " argillaceous stone" is substituted
for   it,   p.
           137.     In your xxxixth volume, p. 470, your re
porter has made Mr. B. speak more diffidentlv, on the iden
tity of this " dark-brown Shale" with the Cheshire " red
sand    rock."
     In this manner, having obtained   common term (sand-
                                                    a
stonel for strata so dissimilar and distant in the series as
Red Marl and Limestone Shale, as " simple arrangement    a
suited to the present state of our (his) knowledge" (p. x),
Mr.   B piainlv insinuates, at pages 134 and 135, (hat these,
the Red Marl and the great Shale and 1st Grit, form one
and the same stratum, and              136 thus expresses him
                                          in   p.
self, "    the identity of the red sandstone and the Grit and
            if
Shale be admitted,        greater similarity will be established
                               a
between the lower series of the strata in England, with
those in various parts. of Germany from whence Werner
has formed his arrangement
                                "
   Here then       discovered at once the reason, for Mr. B's
                      I
anxiety to disprove the existence of my great Dei           shire          by
Fault, and his facilities for so doing, at least in those parts
between AHestry and Wooton, and VV of Ramsor, (see
the Map at       97 of my Report, wherein
                  p.                            have shown, as
                                                             I
the result of very laborious and careful examination of all
                      a
the surface, that Red Marl occupies the south side and
Lirnestone-shale the north side of this precise Line, of the
Fault, where Gravel does not conceal this line: — but, an
swers Mr. B., since in tr.-y language ihese strata are the
same, your Fault        unnecessary and " imaginary."
                          is
   That     do not misrepresent Mr. B.
            I                                            in
                                              these inferences,
.will more clearly appear, from          212 of his Geology,
                                                    p.
wherein he refers to the Gravel Rock north of the Fault at
Nottingham, calling
                            " Sand Rock," and to the Strata at
                               it
Ruddington Hill, and         the intervening vale south of th«
                                   in
fault, and conceals the fact (if he knew it?) that these
Strata south of the Fault are Red Marl and not Gravel or
&and Rock       as might from his description be supposed
                  :                                                             ;

Mr. Farey's             Reply to   Mr.   Bakewell — Fault in Dertys.      103
and the strata being with bim, all alike in kind (I will
advert to their inclinations presently),   my Fault is again
unnecessary, lo account for their being of different kinds.
   Mr. B. seems, on the same principle, to have been very
cautious against mentioning anything about vthe sudden
termination of the Yorkshire and Derbyshire Coal-Jield*
against Red Marl, from Wollaton to Bredsall, as I have
shown       and merely says at p. 267, " Coal strata terminate
                 it,
a few miles north east of Derby:" well knowing, that no
Anglo-Wernerian or Bakewellian confounding of names and
terms, could enable him to persuade his practical readers,
that Red-Marl and Coal-measures are identical.      And so of
the 4th Limestone Rock of the Weaver Hills, abutting on
the same Marl.
    Tt  true that Mr. B. p. 176, doubts the identity of this)
            is
Marl carried forwards into Cheshire, as] have stated, in
confirmation of this great Fault, Rep.     147 — and why
                                                    i.
because Mr. Holland found " no Shells" (p. 176) in the
                                                           :                ?
Marl covering the Gypsum in Cheshire, (p. 138), and he
 (Mr. B. p. V}b) saw several shells and other organic re
mains, in the" Marl and gravel" covering the Chellaston
Gypsum.       Had, however, Mr. B. been sufficiently versed
in the first and most important principle of the Smithian
School, for accurately discriminating betiveen the alluvium,
and the strata (Rep.     109), and had imbibed none of the
                                   i.
Anglo-Wernerian    errors alluded to in page 134 of my Re
port, he would have avoided this mistake, and seen, as had            I
stated, Rep.    136 and 149, that all the extraneous fossils
                        i.
which he mentions at Chellaston, are lodged in alluvial
Clay, similar to that of Bedfordshire, and that the Red
Marl holds no reliquia there, or in any other known situa
tion.    twice visited the Chellaston Pits, once in company
                I
with Mr. B's Friend whom he mentions or alludes to,                        I.
believe, pages 8<J and 282, &c. and each time made
                             1                          col           a
lection of the Reliquia which Mr. B. mentions, and others^
from the alluvial covering of the Gvpsum and Marl.
   Mr. B. asks of me        46, what the great Derbyshire
                                        p.
    * In several instances Mr.      Bmentions or intimates that Coal-fields are
« ait
       off" by Red Sandstone. &c. pages 134, 273, 267, 268 and 142, but hai
nowhere attempted the definition of this term which       is  so variously and,
loosely applied by great numbers of practical Men, as well as by himself     :
and in p. 'i74, he    equally silent on the meaning of his expression "excludes
                         is
the Coal."      beg to say, that
                    1               Iknow, either in theory or practice, of no
cutting off, or abrupt termination to any regular strata, but particularly
Coal-measures, except by BaSseting, or Faults and Dykes; and know, that
Coal-seams, &c. frequently basset or terminate suddenly against Gravel or
other heterogeneous matters, lieing on the surface, or in Faults which inter-
"
Met the strata.
        .   -                      -
                                                                          .-.
                                                                        T?o.,l*

     106    Mr. Farey's Reply        to Mr. Bakewell — Faults in            Derby's.
    Fault is filled with ? : I answer, clay principally, which he
     himself states, p. 208, to be commonly the case in Derby
     shire and its vicinity, and which I had previously stated
     Rep. i. 500 and 501 ; and in the latter case, had answered
     another of his questions, viz. as to, where I had actually
   found the fault ?: in my List of Springs, which follows the
     pages above quoted, he will find several other well known
     points, exactly ascertained, where the Red Marl abuts
     against other strata, far removed in the Series, and in dif
    ferent degrees; in some of these, in Quarndon village in
     particular, Rep. i. 505, Mr. B. may see this junction on
   -the W side of the Hollow Road, without further trouble,
     and may measure " its exact breadth," and may also analyse
     its " mineral matter," if he thinks they will repay him the
     trouble    : —I   have been otherwise employed.
         When Mr. B. asked in your 46th                page
                                                               " how      the  lime-
     stone has passed over or under this fault, so as to appear
     again with veins of Lead Ore* at Breedon?," I never could
  -
     have imagined, until I read pages 284 and 275 of his Geo
     logy, that Mr. B. was here alluding, to an identity between
  . the mountain Limestone of the Peak
                                                       of Derbyshire and the
  . Limestones of Breedon,              Ticknall, Cloudsh'ul and Grace
     Dieu ! It is true, that in page 286, Mr. B. represents the
     Shale Limestone near Ashburne, to be the same as at Wild,
     or Wold Parkf, Breedon, Cloudshill and Grace Dieu!
     In a note hereon Mr. Bakewell says, that this shale
     limestone is occasionallv imbedded in the thick shale (see
     Rep. i. 229 and 232) which covers the                   "  lower beds," (I
     suppose he meant upper beds) of metalliferous Limestone;
     but this shale having previously been assimilated with the
     Red Marl, as observed above, we see again, how my al-
     ledged Fault appears to Mr. B. to be unnecessary and
  -  "   imaginary." — But surely Mr. B. has Friends in Derby
     shire and elsewhere, who will, ere long, tell him, that the
  .facts of the Derbyshire strata, differ most essentially, from
     this very    "  simple arrangement" of his.
          Where the numerous Faults are situated, on the western
     side of Derbyshire adjoining Cheshire, and part of Stafford
     shire, which Mr. B. alludes to at bottom of page 46, he has
     nowhere told us; in his Geology, p. 211, he seems to
     represent the same, as occurring between Yorkshire, Lan-
        • I confess that I never before heard of "veins of Lead Ore at Breedon,"
     and if Mr. B. could establish the fact. I should still maintain, as I have done
     at p. 427, vol. irxil. that such arc not sufficient marks of the identitv of
'
     strata.
        + As I suppose, merely on account of their contortions, Rep. i. 231 and
     158.
>> .      *                                                                 cashire,

                   Mr.   Fareyys Reply to         Mr. Bakewell.                   107
 cashire, and Cheshire ; but after all I suspect, that he al-
 luded'to those Faults which I have hinted at in Rep. 1J3, as
 being beyond the limits of my Derbyshire Survev, and there
 fore I had not attempted to trace them : and I am well con
 tent, to leave Mr. B. in the enjoyment of his opinion, that
.no connection between such Faults can be traced, " over
 a considerable         tract of country," until those more inter
 ested than either of us, shall see it right to employ some one,
 who has studied the demonstrable principles of fractured,
 dislocated and denudated stratified masses, and carefully
 observed the practical and perfectly corresponding effects of
 Faults, on Coal-Pits, Mines, Quarries, &c. as ] have done,
 during several years, and have disinterestedly laid the re
 sults of my investigation and experience before the public,
 in the Derby Report i. p. 117, &c*
      Any one who shall have followed me in these studies
 and observations,           would be unlikely to imagine, as Mr.
 B. appears to do at pages 212 and 213, that Faults which
 greatly derange the strata, could be accompanied by const-
 deralle tills of the strata, either towards or from the Fault;
  but would know both theoretically and practically, that the
  greatest Faults, as to rise or derangement, are least visible,
  by tilts of the strata, except such as are rapidly increasing,
  when the tilts will be seen along or parallel to the line- of
  Fault, instead of across it.
      Such observers would also know, practically, that what                           I
  have mentioned, Rep. i. 123 and 124, as to Faults not
  showing themselves by inequalities on the surface, except
  in. some rare instances, is perfectly correct ; and as indeed
 Mr. B. has tacitly admitted (as several others have done
  before him) in his 2d Plate, fig. 2, 3 and 4, where faults
  are represented deranging the strata beneath, but without a
  corresponding step or cliff' appearing on the surface!, and
  yet, his Book may be searched through, without this extra-
  ordinary fact being further adverted to, or recorded, among
  either the explained or the unexplained                        phaenomena of
     * In somelearned Lectures
                                    lately read before the Geolngicel Societv, (while
  my Papers and Maps mentioned in a former Note, were in its possession),
  on the principles and circumstances attending Stratification, I have heard.
  that these investigations were not once alluded to. or any notice taken of
  Mr. Smith's labours 1 believe, among a very numerous list of quotations, ex
  pressing dmitts and difficulties, principally, as to the laws relating to stratifica
  tion, which many believe and others know, that Mr. Smith and myself,
  Mr. Elias Hall and others have established, and brought into practical use:
  and that an inquiry being afterwards made of the Lecturer, how these,
  omissions happened, he replied, that Mr. F's investigations appeared to him
  unintelligible, and therefore unfit to be referred to in an elementarv course
  •n stratification.

108           Denudation of   the   Earth's Surface.
the earth's surface !    In hke manner Mr. De Luc, when
on his " Geological Travels" in the West of England, had
two instances of this kind pointed out lo him by practical
Men, vol. ii. 218, and vol. iii. 27, but, whether from kis
Theory, offering no ready explanation ,-1 will not inquire,
these important facts are passed by without comment. Mr.
John Williams hints at them in his " Mineral Kingdom,"
ed Edit. i. 96, but goes no further, and I may say I think,
that among. the numerous theoretical writers since 1740,
when by the publication of Mr.Jobn Hutchinson's works
 (written at the beginning of the century) for the first time
probably, was pointed out (vol. xii. p. 338) this which ought
to be a leading fact, in the formation of any subsequent
Theory or the Earth, none of them have either attempted to
explain it,  nor had their writers 'the candour to notice   it,
                                                            as
a  phenomenon to which their particular Theory would not
apply.
   Similar remarks will nearlv also apply to Denudation, or
the stripping of tracts, on the Earth's surface, both large and
small, hill and dale, of vast loads of their superincumbent
strata, which Dr. William Richardson and myself have
lately investigated, more extensively and minutely, than
formerly was done, see your xxxiiid vol. p. 258, and xxxixth
vol. p. 26;    which vet was distinctly pointed out, in the
above Mr. Hutchinson's works, vol. xii. 261, and was
afterwards more fully treated of         by
                                         his disciple The. Rev.
R. Catcott,   in  1761, in his "Treatise on the Deluge,"
p. 159 and 163, and mentioned           Mr. Whitehurst
                                       by                    his
                                                            in
f* Inquiry" 1st Edit.   p. 156 and 165, see also Derby Report
p. 246.
 I    proceed now to my Zigzag Fault, Rep.        i.   162 and
                                                       p.
 165, whose Jorm some have objected to, without being
aware, that from most or all of its western salient angles,
cross faults go off into the adjoining Coal district, generally
in the direction or nearly, of one of the adjacent sides, and
which cross faults are, in several instances, too well known
to the Coal-masters whose works they intersect.
   Mr. Bakewell    inyourxhh vol. p. 46, and in his Geology,
p.  283 Note, has carefully avoided entering at all into the
evidence, of  a demonstrative kind, or the facts capable of
 that kind of proof, which    I  originally offered, respecting
the existence and course of this Fault through Derbyshire,
particularly with regard to the Gritstone Rocks, Report           i.
 169, and since, respecting others in Yorkshire, still more
decisive, mentioned in your xxxixth volume, p. 101 and
 102, with respect to my' 4th Grit Rock, (of Yorkshire pav-
                                                       ingstone),

Mr.   Farcy's Reply to      Mr.     Bakewell — Faults in Derlys. 109
ingstone), which after an uninterrupted range of basset 94
Miles in length, I have traced ro the zigzag fault at its two
ends, and so of the 3d Coal-Shale and the 3d Grit Rock,
after somewhat         longer     courses,       in succession.       And thus
I am confident of being able, to fill up all the Coal series
of Notts. Derby and York above the 4th Rock, and several
Rocks and Coal-shales below             it,
                                        terminating at each end, at
the very Fault, which Mr. B. has chosen to attack (for
let  it  be remembered,         that my original Letter in your
Magazine had no allusion to Faults)                but unless more
                                                       :
general encouragement,             such
                                  in        serious and public un
                                              a
dertaking, presents itself, than heretofore,           must remain
                                                            it
suspended at least, in favour of private Mineral Surveying,
 and business connected therewith, of which, fortunately,
I   have never been in want, any more than my Friend Mr.
 Smith, during the long period that his truly national under
 taking, has from similar causes, been suspended, but which
is   now in train of almost immediate publication, as men
 tioned in my last.
     Mr. B. has chosen rather, to attempt to bring general
 opinion to bear upon my poor zigzag Fault, and besides
 this, at page 283, says more particularly, "In the above
 examination of the Derbyshire strata, Icannot learn that any
 trace of Mr. Farcy's fault called the zigzag fault, could
 be discovered    ;"    alluding, as appears from the preceding
 page,    to a    "  perpendicular    Section,"* or collection of
 Sinkings and Boreings, applied in succession, from the deep
 to the basset, which was begun several years ago               Mr.         by
 Theodore Silverwood, the very able Coal and Iron Agent,
 at Somercoats Furnace, when             was under the direction of
                                         it
 my    scientific  friend   Mr.  Mushet,   whose Letter in your xhh
 vol. p. 49,    I    am sorry that     Ihave not yet had leisure to
 reply to, as    it   deserves.
   Mr. Silverwood's general Sinking account,    have fre          I
 quently seen, and have indeed  copy of   as far as
                                             a       had   it,              it
 been completed each way from Somejcoats, when last                              I
 was there, and      now appears, from
                      it                    Letter of one of the
                                                       a
 proprietors  to Mr.  B.  that Mr. S.   making progress with
                                                  is
 a vertical Section, of  the Derbyshire strata, which      hope        is
                                                                       I
    * Such documents as these, exhibiting only the thickness of strata, which
if  taken oblique to the plane of the strata (as the boreings or sinkings hap
 pen to be made) should be reduced to the perpendicular thicknesses, at the
 time of planning them in connection,    I  have usually denominated Sinking
 ^counts, or Face views, when they exhibit the faces of Quarries, Mines, Sec.
 in order to distinguish them from vertical Sections, wherein the planes of
 ttrata are seen cut, and their tops and edges on the surjact ire exhibited, in
 MMCMtioa.
                                                                            doing,

1 1T>:   Mr.       Silverwood's           Section   of Derly shire Strata.
                                                                             '
doing, by an actual levelling over the surface, and ascertain
ment   of the top and bottom of each Rock or visible stra
tum,   and  its dip, to be applied to the thicknesses previously
ascertained by sinkings ; a Map of the surface of the strata,
on the same scale as the lengths and depths, will also I hope
be annexed to               it,
                        as is. mentioned    of my Ashover great
Section of        miles in length,
                   7                      my 1st Letter.
                                                    in      Such                 a
Section tcontinued from the top of the lower yellow Lime
to the 4ih Lime would be about             Miles long,
                                                    J    6   com     ifit
menced on      the     of Annesley and terminated
                            S                          in  Bonsai-
dale,    Sof Slaley; through 10 Miles of which distance, a
level pound of the Cromford Canal being at hand, might
greatI   shorten the labour of, as well as give great accuracy
         v
to {he levelling, and the very curious denudation at Golden
Valley (Rep.        164 and xlvi.) and the southern skirt of
                       i.
that at  Crich,  would   be intersected and shown thereby.
 I    sincerely hope that this important work may soon be
completed        Mr. Silverwood and as soon as hear that
                   by                          ;                   I
the eastern part of            finished,
                                    it   is certainly will, at the
                                                     I
first opportunity of travelling that way, avail myself of the
kind invitation        have had from the resident proprietor
                        I
Nathaniel Edwards, Esq. to see Mr. S's Sinking account
and Section      and
                   ;         if
                          possible,   will trace the zigzag fault
                                               I
across it. At the present time,          appears to me, that Mr.
                                                    it
B. has rather expressed his wishes than his knowledge, a3
to Mr. S's decision on my Fault, in his Note from whence
I  have extracted as above.
   At the time that entered on my Survey of the neigh
                                I
bourhood of Greasley in Nottinghamshire, the extended
fracture of the strata which      have since denominated the
                                              I
zigzag fault, was unknown to every one, as           have men    I
tioned, Rep.      Ifl2;
                    i.   was neither surprised or displeased
                                    I
therefore, that the practical Men seemed then averse to
admit        it,
          some perhaps because         was their interest not to
                                                    it
admit, that their Coal had      different place in the series,
                                              a
as to identity with those of other works in more repute with
the buyers, than that which prevailing opinions had pre
viously assigned it.
   On the 13th of October 1808,       had the honour to be
                                                    I
invited  to dine at   Meeting   of
                                a  the Coal-masters  held at
Eastwood, at which 12 or 14 Coal-masters, or their Agents,
from all the principal works around were present; after the
business of the meeting was concluded, and dinner was
over, two or three hours were spent, principally in dis
cussing this novel explanation of the facts of their Coal
strata, and        in
                which  certainly found myself quite alone in.
                                  I
    ,    >
                                                    opinion.
                                    \

  Mr.    Farey's Reply   to   Mr.    Bakewell on the Faults.   lit
opinion.    I had the pleasure however of receiving a most
patient  and  candid hearing, for explaining the grounds and
arguments     advanced   in favour of my positions, and the
opportunity of discovering, that none of them were met by
any materially adverse facts or arguments ; but nearly all
present, contented themselves with referring to the simi
larity in thickness and quality of the Seams of Coal, at
most including their roof and floor, that were contended Xo
be identical, as Mr. B. does at p. 14 8 : and to the fact of
a regular kind of line, in which the works on these seams
stretch across the district, yet very oblique to the edge of
the yellow Lime, Rep. i. 166.
    At that time, I possessed but a few of the actual Si?ikings
of Pits in the neighbourhood, which I have since obtained ;
 and at several works^ such had not even been made or pre
 served, particularly in the two parts of Greasley works,
 which I discovered on inquiry, to be separated by a fault
 ¦aid to derange the Coal (about a yard I think) when that
 part was in work, some years before ; but which almost
 forgotten fault, from its direction and attendant circum
 stances,  Ijudged to be far more considerable in effect (see
 my Note on Mr. B's page 147, in a future Letter), and
 which nothing but a comparison of the actual sinkings of
 the Pits on each side of      it,
                                 could decide.
     Thus precisely stands the question- at present, no facts
 having reached me from the practical men or otherwise,
 but what tend rather to confirm than oppose my explana
 tion and since Mr.B. has resorted to the opinions now, of
     :
 certain of the gentlemen alluded to,          he will candidly
                                              if
 communicate their names, and such facts as they may be
  pleased to intrust him with, in confirmation of their opinion,
  and to avoid misconception,        Ipromise to do the same,
  and perhaps Mr. B. may then discover, that he does not
  now stand in the same triumphant majority, as he would
  have done, before, or nearer to the time that my Report, and
  the principles of  faults therein explained, were submitted
  to the public.
  I     may however,  I    think, fairly now ask of Mr. B. re
  specting  the  gentlemen whose opinions he has advanced
  against me,   Did he before taking such opinion sask each in
  dividual, whether they had attentively read my Report, and
  fairly weighed what had adduced, against their opposing
                      I
facts ?
    Another large and important Fault which       have traced
                                                    I
 in this district, and called the great Limestone Fault, Re
                                                         port

  112     Mr.Farey's Reply        to Mr. Bakewell — Faults in Derlysi
  port i. p. 280, and in your xxxixth vol. p 82; from having
  its route rather more circumstantially described than. the
  other two, mentioned by Mr. B. in your 46th page, appears
  to have escaped his open attack : but on consulting his
  Section of Strata between Sheffield and Castleton in Plate IT,
  it will be seen, that this fault has been denied a place
  therein, at the foot of the Castleton Hills, and in conse
  quence, the first and the fourth Limestones are confounded
 together, and we are told p. 48, " The compact limestone
  (7) here makes its appearance as the base oj Mam Tor, and
  further west the same Limestone forms entire mountains."
      Here again the baneful effects of Mr. B's "simple ar
  rangements/' or rather, his mongrel Wemo-Huttonian
  Theory, are visible, on his statements of Geological facts : it
 bemgnecessary, to that part of his Theory, which assumes the
  Peak Limestone to be identical with those in the south of
  the county and in Leicestershire (as mentioned before in
  this Letter) and that it is also identical with the Yorkshire
 WR, and Lancashire Limestones (as mentioned in my
 1st Letter), that this Peak Limestone should be considered,
 only as one Rock, notwithstanding all Mr. Whitehurst's
 Sections *, and what I and others have done and written
 since, to show the contrary : and at p. 284, he says " the
 beds of basaltic amygdaloid do not extend beyond the Peak
 of Derbyshire :" nor even so far as the northern extremity
     •  I refer here to two Sections which Mr. Whitehurst published in 1778,
 in  his  " Inquiry," in which the three Toadstone Strata are represented, and
 three others in which the two uppermost are represented, and the lower
 strata omitted only for want of room in his plates: in all of which Sec
 tions, the toadstones are represented to preserve their thickness and paral
 lelism, as perfectly as the Limestones.     It may be proper here to mention,
 that this structure of the Peak of Derbyshire. consisting of four Limestone
 Rocks interlaid by three toadstones and these covered by Shale and coarse
 Grit, was well understood long before Mr. Whitehurst wrote (or commenced
his Geological observations I believe) by some of the practical and abie
 Miners and Mine Agents of those days.
    In or very soon after the year 1750, the late Mr. George Tissington of
 Winster, (to whom Mr. W. acknowledges his obligations) , by the assistance
 of Mr. Anthony Tissington, made a Section from Matlock Bank across
 Masson Hill to Ible and Aldwark, of which the latter Gentleman, who it
still living at Bonsai, 1 believe. kindly sent me a copv, through a friend,
about two years ago, which Section is well worthy of being published on
tome future occasion, especially as it will show, that the practical Men of
fhe middle of the last century, who so well explored the district, knew no
mere of the tremendous Jismre accompanying the vale of theDerwent, than
the present Miners do, although the same makes so conspicuous a figure in
three of Mr. Whitehurst's Sec ions near this same spot (sec your xxxist vol.
p. 36, and Report i. 475 note. and 490) and in his theorv of vallevs, which,
with some additional errors combined therewith, is so strenuously insisted
«n by Mr. De Luc to the present day, see Monthly Mag. vol. xxxiii. p. 5 16,
and, vol. xxxv. p. 816.
                                                                            of

       Mr. Hall's   Models   of the Peak in Derbyshire.           1 13
•f its Limestone    tract, he should       have added,   if   there be
 any truth in his Section crossing Castleton.
     Fortunately for truth and Geological Science, there has
 long resided in Castleton, a plain unlettered individual, Mr.
 Elias Hall, who has examined more than half of the Peak
 Limestone district at its northern end, and some of its borders,
 with even more attention to minutiae and accuracy than 1
 could attempt ; and Mr. H's Models, which Mr. B. might
 either have seen at Castleton or in Town (as noticed in my
  1st letter) distinctly show this fault, and Mr. H. could,
 and would have been, and will to future inquirers be ready
 on the spot, to show the complete disagreement of this Sec
 tion of Mr. Bakewell with the facts in Castleton.
     I mention here with great pleasure, to the credit of Mr.
 Hall, and as a willing tribute to candour and truth, that he
 did not blindly adopt any statement of mine, as to the faults
 or the ranges of the four Limestone and three Toadstone
 Strata of the Peak: but wrote me word in December last,
 that he could not trace my great Limestone Fault from
 Castleton further S than Windmill-houses          (Rep. i. 289
 and 290),. and that so much of this course as lay between.
 Pindale and Windmill-houses,       showed a much less degree
 of derangement than I had assigned to         it,
                                               for he found 1st
 Limestone on each side of    it  : and that he could obtain no
 proofs, that the clayey chert rubble on the eastern part of
Tideswell Moor,&c. (Rep.     i.  141), concealed the bassets of
 the 1st and 2d Toadstones,       intheir ranges     across this
                                                     E
Moor, &c. to the great Fault between Windmill-houses and
Litton, whose existence he could not discover (as already
mentioned), but that 1st Lime appeared to occupy all this
district.
    On the receipt of this information, went carefully again
                                           I
through my travelling Notes, made when on this part of
my Survey in July 1808, and pointed out in Letter to     a
Mr. H. that  I     had adopted the parts of my Map between
Castleton and Litton to which he now objected, under                a
choice of difficulties,in  great part arising, from his know
ledge, at that time, on the surface or in the Mines beneath,
of only one Toadstone, across the north-west part of Tides-
well Moor, and thence northward requesting, that he would
                                       ;
now more particularly inquire into all these facts, above
and below ground.        After 3ome weeks spent in this in
vestigation, Mr. H. sent me long letter, accompanied by
                               a
a  sketch Map, showing the range of the 3d Toadstone, not
greatly different to whatI    had laid down, except including
                                               H             my

 i  14        Mr. Hall's    Models  of the Peak in Derbyshire.
  my separate Hummock of 3d Lime at Peak Forest Town
   (Rep. i. 241) as an almost detached peninsula from ths
  main mass in Tideswell, by having on foot traced the in
  distinct Toadstone bassets, across Farms inclosed by high
.walls, where on horseback I had imperfect access, and fully
  verified the same by inquiries of old miners, and actually
 descending into most of the Mines that were open: and
                       '
  that instead of the basset of this Toadstone ranging down
 the S side of Cave Dale, after crossing it at the Basaltic Co
 lumn (Rep. i. 278 N.) as he and I after several hours search
 in 1809, had concluded it to do, Mr. H. now found, that
  after crossing Cave Dale, the 3d Toadstone ranged past (and
 occasioned) the Lady-wells, to the great Fault, NW of
  Pindale.
     That the 2d Toadstone had a range, very distinct, though
 difficult to be traced under the heathy and peatv Soil, across
 Tideswell Moor, and round the west face of Copt Round
 Hill, and that \\ mile north of this, it abuts suddenly ori
  Wet-Rake vein and can nowhere further be traced on the
  surface.        And that the 1st Toadstone basset, had been in
 like manner now traced, generally within half a mile to the
 eastward of the 2d, from about a mile N of Tideswell Town
  (where I had erroneously turned them both eastward) until
-it abuts in like manner on West Rake: and that two of
 those that had been represented tome as chance Toadstones,
 in Maiden Rake, &c. (Rep. i. 2/4) were these regular 1st
 and 2d Toadstones.
     Mr. Hall further stated, (as I before had minuted) that
 Dirtlow and Wet-Rake vein, which connect from Pindale
 to the abovementioned place where the two Toadstones are
 lost, and further west, contain what the Miners call softs or
 heterogeueous wet dirt, among the ore (whence their names),
 and that their cheeks or opposite Rocks were known to be
 different, which induced him to think, that my great Lime
 stone Fault turned nearly at right angles at Pindale, up Dirl-
 low vein, rapidly decreasing in its rise, and that only an
inferior branch of it went forwards to Windmill-houses,' as
 above mentioned.
     The practical Miners about Castleton, and thence to
 Tideswell, have generally acknowledged but one Toadstone or-
 Channel*, and when they have met with more, in working
 the same veins, have called the others Wayboards or Clays
- rH   It is plain that Mr. William Haigh, and others. of  Mr. Whitehurst's
 informants, told him of im\>j me Toadstone, " Inquiry,"   1st Edit. p. tGt,
 4nd Plate VII. and 6hieh led him into a material mistake.

              Mr. Parens   Reply to Mr. Bahewcll.          1 15
(in which state this Proteus-like substance often is found,
Rep. i. 278) this my numerous notes on the sinkings in
these Mines will show, and the circumstance           had de
ceived Mr. H. in 180S, and until the time I am speaking
of, as well a3 myself ; but on descending into and ex
amining all -the accessible parts of Dirtlow, and Wet-Rake
Mines and others near, and closely questioning the old
Miners as to the Mines now inaccessible (nearly all of
which Mr. H. had himself visited repeatedly, to. collect
Specimens for sale in his Shop, years ago), this course of
the great Fault, and the places of the different Limetones
and Toadstones in the skirts of the veins through which
it passed, and in every other, were found to agree perfectly,
      Mr. Hall's Models intended for sale, were accordingly
 coloured to suit this arrangement, the main branch of Fault
 terminating, owing to its decrease, or at least ceasing to
 derange the bassets by its rise, in the 3d Lime, in Wet-
 Rake, SW of Castleton.
      Since the receipt of Mr. H's Models, I have well con
 sidered nearly every part of them, and can say with confi
 dence, that they convey much correct and new informa
 tion, with respect to the ranges of all the principal Mineral
 veins, in particular, which is not anywhere else to be met
 with.     I have been careful to record all the corrections or
 additional facts of the Derbyshire Strata, Mines, See. &c.
 which have reached me from Mr. Hall or any other source,
 and shall always be thankful for such, in case I can ever
 resume my proposed " Mineral History," or that a new
 Edition of my 1st volume of Report should ever be called
 for, in which they might be noticed.
      I am exceeding sorry if I mistook what Mr. B. himself
  said to me, on the only occasion on which we have met,
  the 15th of May 1812, respecting the extent of his coinci
  dence in opinion with Mr. Whitehurst, as to Lava in Der
  byshire ; I had heard or recollected no other statement of
  his on the subject, at the time of writing to you, or cer
  tainly would have guided myself thereby, having no wish
  to misrepresent.
      I must now add, that however little importance Mr. B.
  may have then attached to his volcanic notions, they ap
  pear to me, to form now a very prominent feature in his
  work, and to be carried greatly beyond what the facts of
  the British Islands will warrant, as  I intend to take other
  opportunities of showing.
    *
       I come at length to Mr. B's postscript, p.~47. The
   rather ostentatious mention of my Lord Mcira's Survey here
                               H  2                          (on

   116    Slate,   &c. in      Charhwood    Forest is not stratified.
   (on  a subject     that   I  had not introduced), and in different
   parts  of the Geology,         had given me reason to hope, that I
  should, from a perusal of the whole, add greatly to my stock
  of knowledge, of the interesting district called .Charnwood
  Forest: the first tract which I examined in my Survey,
  containing substances which I bad not anywhere previously
  Seen " in situ," and yet hurried greatly, compared                  with
  any parts of Derbyshire; my expectations have however
  been much disappointed.
     Respecting the stratification of the slate, I had thought _
  that it might have been easy for Mr. B. to have added in''
  this postscript, the range and dip, (as to direction at least)
  of Rocks     "  most distinctly stratified;" but at page 288, of
  the Geology, the contrary of this appears, after an awkward .
  sort of introduction, in the following words: "but I am,
  persuaded that what resembles stratification is the result of
  crystallization on the mountain mass, by which. it has se-.
  parated into thick tables or' plates, that are of limited ex-'
  tent, or wedge-shaped*."             Which nowise differs in mean
 ing, from what I had originally stated, Report i. 155; and
  common candour might have dictated an additional remark
 from Mr. B. or a note, stating, that the observations of a
 previous writer had been too hastily objected to on this
 head.
     As further proofs of Mr. B's confusion on this same
 subject,. it may be proper to notice, that in his postscript he
 says, the stratification of the slate is " in an opposite ai-,
 reclion to the slaty cleavage;" at pace 87' of Geology he
 says :
         "  the slaty laminae make an angle of sixty degrees with'
 the principal seam by wltich the rock is divided ; and yet, at
p. 288, wc read,
                         "   the slaty cleavage of the stone is nearly
at right angles with the direction of the beds." Such are
the consequences, of precipitancy, and the want of a littls
straight-forward candour and liberality, towards others en
gaged in the same pursuit.
    Notwithstanding all that "            I  have been compelled "to
say in this and my 1st Letter, in condemnation of parti
cular parts of Mr. Bakeweli's            "  Introduction to Geology,"
it nevertheless contains much that I wish greatly to recom
mend to the notice of Geological Students, and on that
Sccount     I shall in future Letters send you, a series of Notes,
remarks,      and references in the order of its pages, and am,
                        Sir, your obedient servant,
   Upper Crown-street, Westminster,                  JOhN FaREY Sen.
           21st July,  1813.
         • TaL'A, wedge shaped!      «e Jlr, B's Vocabulary, p. 3J8.
                                                                XIX.  On

                               [    117    ]
       XIX.     On Freezing      of Alcohol,         By Richard
                           Walker,        Esq.
                           To    Mr. Tilloeh.
Sir, —     Bv    inserting the following remarks on
                                                             " Freezing
of Alcohol," in the next number of your Magazine, you
will much oblige                 Your obedient servant,                   .
                                              Richard Walker.
    Having       prepared a comparative       scale of thermometers,
for_general circulation, of        which you did me the favour to
insert a copy in a late number of your Magazine, in
which I have assumed —91° as the greatest degree of arti
ficial cold hitherto produced ; it becomes necessary for
me,     I  think, to make some observations respecting the
Discovery of a New Method of producing Artificial Cold,
by Mr. Hutton, of Edinburgh; from which account we
may be led to conclude that a cold of —110°, or there
about, has been effected.
     Knowing myself the great difficulty of effecting extreme
degrees of cold, I was not a little surprised at the extraor
dinary degree of cold produced bv Professor Leslie by
means of the air- pump.             Consequently the discovery an
nounced by Mr. Hutton, in which the subject of cold is
carried so far beyond what has hitherto been known, na
turally arrested my attention.
     Astomshing as the fact is to myself, not impeaching,
however, in the least, the fidelity with which the author
has related the result        of his process     ; I  shall beg leave to
mention      a circumstance or two, in which scientific men of
eminence have unintentionally delivered as facts, what
 they were afterwards convinced were not so.
     A philosopher of celebrity in Germany, at the time the
congelation of mercury was a novel experiment, published
an account, which was credited, of ar successful experi
 ment, as he believed, in the congelation of mercury ; but
 which, I well knew, could not possibly have been effected
 by the means mentioned.            Some time afterwards I chanced
 to see this gentleman (Professor Blumenbach) : upon men
 tioning the circumstance to him, he candidly declared to
 me, that he had been deceived j and that he had announced
 bis error in print*.
    * It once happened to me, in an
                                    attempt to freeze mercury, tint through
 inadvertency a portion of the freezing mixture came in contact with tne
mercury, in consequence of which the mercury assumed a degree of tenacity
 which Had the appearance of being partially frozen.
                                   H3                               More-

IIS                   On Freezing   of Alcohol.
    Moreover, two other instances have occurred within
my knowledge, of a similar nature ; in one of which,
it was asserted by two French chemists of the first ce
lebrity, (Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin,) that they had
produced an incalculable degree of cold, and had frozen
spirit of wine, by means of muriate of lime and snow.
Now it happened that at that time a paper of mine had
been recently published in the Philosophical       Transac
tions, in which I had demonstrated the extreme limit of
cold which could be produced by the means above men
tioned, and had prosecuted the subject considerably -further,
by having resort to other means, and which degree of cold
.was still measured by a spirit of wine thermometer.     The
other was an experiment of M. Van Mans, in which it was
asserted, that by means of the combined powers of muriate
of lime and caustic potash, a cold of —87° had been pro
duced. I made several attempts, with the almost attention
and patience, to repeat this experiment, but without suc
cess.   It is proper to add that each of these has passed
away,   and  has been no more heard of.
   I beg leave to mention these circumstances, merely as
an apology, or rather as a reason why I shall continue to
mark or notice —91° as the greatest degree of cold yet
known, until various circumstances, apparently to me of
an unsatisfactory nature in the present instance, shall have
been removed.
   The circumstances       Iallude to, as requiring further elu
cidation, in order to remove from my mind all doubt, are
these : First, it is asserted that this new method, with which
we are not made acquainted, possesses the power, in the
author's opinion, of producing        an unlimited degree of gold.
Secondly,   it is vaguely    stated, that the alcohol froze, as wan
believed, at   —  1 ltF,  without noticing any intermediate de
gree decidedly reached before congelation took place, and
that the apparent irregularity in the temperature,            at the
time of freezing, was attributed to the contraction of t lie
alcohol ; whereas it is well known that ivater, and mix
tures of spirit and water, as far as experiments had gone
before, expand or dilate, that    \s,  occupya    larger. space than
before, on freezing.
   Thirdly, from the description given of the alcohol, when
frozen  ; viz. that   it separated into three strata; the upper-.
most of which    is   said to be of an oily nature, and supposed
to be that which communicates the flavour to alcohol: the
lowermost, presumed to be the alcohol, consisting of liquid
                                                          a
nearly tasteless and
                ;          a middle stratum., of which we have
no account whatever.                                             It

             On a Systematic Arrangement             of   Colours.        1 if   -
  , It  is added that this discovery is of great moment, as it .
removes an anomaly, which hiiherto remained, against the.
general law in the congelation of liquids, (alluding no doubt
to ihe congelation or alcohol,) viz. that all liquids become-
solid at a certain temperature.
    That alcoliol itself, at present the measure of low tem
peratures, wou'd become solid as well as other liquids, pro--
vided a sufficient degree of cold were produced, no person,
I should think, ever doubted.                                                  .
    It is a well known fact, respecting the congelation of the
mineral acids, that the most concentrated state of them is
by no means that in which they resist the greatest cold
 without freezing.         It is possible this may be the case with
respect to alcohol, but this does not appear very probable.
     If it be an ascertained fact, that a temperature sufficiently
 cold can be produced by art to fix or freeze alcohol, or
spirit of wine, of any strength, we must in future look for.
 some other measure of low temperatures than liquids ; and
 of course, in such a case, a thermometer of metallic con
 struction would naturally present itself*.
     I have merely made these cursory remarks, being en
 gaged at this time in other pursuits, for the reason assigned
 above    ;  and when the fact is clearly and accurately esta
 blished,    I shail adopt it in the stead of the one I at present
 consider myself bound to adhere to.                   .
                                                                               i
    Oxford, July 6, 1813.                                  RD. WALKER.
     XX.     Oii a Systematic Arrangement                of Colours.     By
                        Thomas Forster, Esq.
                              To  Mr.    Tilloch.
 Sir, Among           the desiderata of philosophy may be included
 the want of a systematic arrangement of colours f, with
 specific names for each, whereby the numerous combina
 tions and shades of colour, which appear on the surfaces of
 bodies, may be expressed with greater precision than they
 can be at present with our imperfect and indefinite names.
 I  was first induced tr» think on this subject from the great
  difficulty that I experienced from time to time in conveying
  on paper an adequate idea of the various and dissimilar tints
    * I allude to the contraction or elongation of metallic wire according to
 changes of temperature.    See a paper on this subject, Phil. Mag. Aug. 1810,
 page 1 19.
    -f In future, perhaps, some theory of smells may be formed by repeated
  experiments with compounds of them.       Something like what Haller is said
 £o have had hi view.
                                     H  4                            displayed

 1 SO       On a Systematic Arrangement          of Colours.
 displayed by the clouds and the haze on different occasions,
 which were occasioned by the refractive powers of the nu-
 biform particles of water, and which I wished to register in
 my Meteorological Journal.           The terms in common use,
 such as red, yellow, blue, green, orange, purple, &c. were
 not sufficiently definite, for of all these there are numerous
 varieties.     That any nomenclature should be constructed
 which shall precisely define every combination and shade of
 colour is almost impossible, since the varieties and approxi
 mations of one' colour towards another are infinite, as they
 depend on the proportions of mixtures, the quantities of
 which we may suppose capable of being varied infinitely;
 but still a more perfect set of names might be arranged
 than has as yet been done.         I am surprised that scientific
 persons, but botanists in particular, have not before this at
 tempted something of the kind.            How different is the red
 of the flower of the peony from that of the papaver rhosas !
 How almost contrasted does the brilliant red of the scarlet
 lychnis appear to the red of the papaver orientale called the
 monk's-hood poppy !          Who is there who cannot discover
 much difference in the colours of the flowers of the spring
 crocus, of the field ranunculus, and of the evening prim
 rose, and are not these termed vellow flowers ?             What di
stinction between the blue of the sonchus caeruleus from
 that of the field hyacinth 1
      The colour we call green has nearly as many varieties :
 we hear of grass-green,        apple-green, &c. but these terms
do not express the numerous kinds of green observable in
different leaves and other natural productions.             The word
brown appears still more various ; it seems to have become
the common name for all unknown and mixed corruptions
of colour*.
    To rectify ihe present imperfect descriptions of flowers,
and other natural and artificial productions, by a more ac
curate nomenclature for colours, is a desirable object ; but
what is the best mode of forming such a nomenclature be
comes a different question.
     If the colours of many wild flowers could be relied on as
standards, from not being found to vary much in different
situations and at different periods, we might have a no«
menclature by relerence to them : but this would be objec
tionable, in as much as one principal use of the specific
names being that of enabling botanists to describe the tints
   * In superadding the terms pink, lake, scarlet, orange, Sec. we have
not done much towards a perfect nomenclature, as there are varieties inde
scribable by these names.
                                                                        of

               Mr.   BukewelVs Reply to     Mr.  Farey.      121
ef flowers,     they must in this case describe the colour of
many by reference to that of others, which must be pre
sumed to be known. In this case, therefore, the nomencla
ture could only have reference to well known plants, and
would be quite useless in' countries where the said plants
were not either indigenous or commonly cultivated.
  , As all the numerous tints in nature may be said to con
sist in the combinations and shades of the primitive colours;
that i3, in the proportions of the various mixtures, and the
intensity produced by the degree of light ; the most ac
curate method would he to investigate these said propor
tions, and make a nomenclature which should have re
ference to them : but as this would be a work of great la
bour, it would be advisable if we could construct some
more easy and familiar nomenclature.             I merely suggest
these hints at present, which I hope may be improved upon
in future.
                               Yours, &c.
   Clapton, June 30, 1813.                   ThOMAS FoRSTEE.
XXI. Mr. Bakewell            in Reply to Mr. Farey, on the Great
                           Derbyshire Fatdt.
                            To Mr.  Tilloch. -
Sir, —In      the Philosophical Magazine for July 1812, some
queries   were   addressed by me to Mr. John Farey, respecting
what he has denominated the great Derbyshire Fault, re
questing him to favour the public with some proofs of its
existence.      The last number of your Magazine contains a
letter from Mr. F. purporting to be a reply to mine, but
omitting entirely the proofs which he was requested to pro
duce.     I therefore take the liberty of refreshing his me^
tnory, with a second request to have a short and intelligible
answer to these queries, as they regard the determination of
a most important question in the Geology of England.
That your readers may have a more distinct view of thef
subject, I shall briefly observe, that by the "great Derby
shire fault" is meant a rent or fracture of the earth's sur
face, which has torn the island from Nottingham to near
Macclesfield in Cheshire ; and from thence in a line north
wards into Yorkshire or Lancashire.             According to Mr,
Farey, the discoverer of this fault, the strata on the north
side of it are elevated from a vast depth, and the strata on
the south terminate against this rent or fault, or are cut off
by it. To use a familiar illustration of faults given by Dr.
                                                            KidH

  122            Mr.   BuketuelVs    Reply    to Mr. Farey
 Kicid in his Mineralogy, the strata on each side of the faulf
 may be supposed to resemble a house, of which one half of
 the foundations have sunk down, and brought the garrets
on that side to the same level with the ground floor.                  > .
      Mr.  Farey has gravely asserted that such a fault extends
 in   the direction    I have stated, and he has in various ways '
 introduced it to the public as a discovery made during his
 survey of Derbyshire.          The question at issue between Mr.
 Farey and the public, is of considerable importance as a1
 subject of natural history, and as forming an important
 feature in the geology of England ; for it must be remem
 bered that Mr. F. has not offered this great fault to the
 public as a conjecture, but described it as an existing fact,
 in a work published by the authority of the Board of Agri
 culture.     If  a rent of such vast magnitude exist in our island,
 if the strata have been thrown up on one side, or depressed
 on the other, many hundred yards along a line of more
 than 100 miles, the proofs of this great convulsion must
be too clear to admit of any doubt ; at least we might ex
 pect that these proofs could be discerned by oihers as well
as by Mr. Farey, if they had any existence beyond the li
mits of his own mind. Mr. Farey, who has written so
much and so seriously respecting the " great Derbyshire
 fault," who has traced its course with such minuteness in
 his Map of Derbyshire, cannot require more than twelve
months to answer the queries in your Magazine of July
 1612 — ** Where can this ' great fault' be seen in situ in
 any part of its course from Nottingham                     to Ashburn ?
 What is the breadth of the great fault ? Is it merely a slip
of the strata, or is it a dyke filled with mineral matter ?
 If   the latter, what substances is it filled with?"
     These are plain questions ; and if the " great fault have
                                                                    "
any real existence, the answers may be compressed in a
single page. I think Mr. Farey owes to the public, to the
Board of Agriculture, and to himself, such an answer.
There is no necessity for many words, or much extraneous
discussion, which can only serve to conceal the subject from
our view. If Mr. Farey cannot give such an answer, he
will of course candidly acknowledge that he has been too
hasty in his conclusions. I believe this will be found the
 easiest and the safest mode of reply*.              From the examina
tion of that part of England which I have again made, so
    • Thin is the more necessary, as I perceive that the Rev. Mr. Townsend,
In   a work entitled  The Character of Moses vindicated as an Historian, has
actually described the great fault, on the authority of Mr. Farey, as tome-,
thing really exi«ing.
   *   ,                                                                 far

                   on the Great Derbyshire         Fault.                 123
far From the existence of such a fault appearing, I think
there are demonstrative proofs to the contiary, in some of
the situations where Mr. Farey has traced               it,
                                                    particularly at
Nottingham.        According to Mr. F.        ranges directly along
                                              it
the south side of that town, and,         understand him rightly,
                                         if
                                         I
the sand rock which rises from the vale of Trent owes its
elevation to this fault. But, as     I have stated in the chapter
on Faults     in my
                     *
                      Introduction   to Geology,' " so far from
any dislocation of the strata being perceptible, the bed*
 «f the sand rock at Nottingham are nearly horizontally
 divided    by  seams which contain rounded pebbles.            The
 strata at Ruddington Hills on the opposite side of the vale
 are but little inclined, the strata in the vale are nearly ho
 rizontal wherever wells or excavations have been made.
 No disturbing force appears to have changed their positioa
 since their formation."
     Mr. Farey has accused me of great eagerness in attacking
 *' his faults." So far from this being the case         for long
                                                              ;   a
 time after the publication of this great discovery,            sus
                                                                  I
  pended    my   opinion  untilI   had   an  opportunity  of  re-ex--
  amining my native county, where Mr. F3rey has been
  pleased to trace it.     Having fully satisfied myself of its
  non-entity, having had an opportunity of conversing with
  many intelligent gentlemen in its vicinity, who like myself
  could discover no trace of its existence,         certainly had
                                                       I                    a
  right  to  express  my   own   opinion respecting it.        could
                                                                  f
  scarcely avoid the subject    when   delivering Lecture on the
                                                        a
  Geology of England at the Russell Institution last year,
  and again in my Introduction to Geology recently pub-
  lished;   but  I am not conscious of having discovered any
  eagerness   to  attack  or oppose Mr. Farey        opinions, and
                                                         's
I    am inclined to believe, that those who honour that work
  with their perusal will be at      a loss to discover what cause
 of offence I have given.    If the discovery of truth were, as
    ought to be, the sole object of pursuit in such discussions,
it it
    would be best attained      by calm investigation of facts.
                                     a
 The question may be compressed in           small space, and
                                                   a                       I
 am particularly desirous that     may
                                     it  not  be involved in ex
 traneous inquiries, and buried under      multitude of words.
                                               a
 Dean Swift has com pared, certain writers to narrow-necked
 bottles, " The less they have in them, the more noise thev
 make in pouring      out;" and he who would avoid such
                         it                                                     a
 comparison wou'd do well to compress his ideas into con              a
 cise and intelligible form, when ihey relate to subjects
 which can only be expected to interest       limited number of
                                                    a
                                                              "
 readers.
                                                                          Mr;

    } £4          Hit: Bahewell's Reply to Mr. Farey
       Mr. Farcy in his last letter has favoured the public with
   Jiis travels by night and by day, and has informed us where
   he was well entertained; and where he was involved in"adis-
   jnal thick    fi>ff>" w ith other subjects of equal interest.          Mr.
   F. seems however to have returned from his journey out of
  temper with the Scotch Geologists, with the Geological
  Society, and with me. This is the more to be regretted, as
  the mode of travelling which Mr. Farey says he prefers, is
  more likely to improve the temper and appetite, than to
  add to our geological knowledge.               The examination of a.
  country from the          " top
                                  "  or the     <c
                                                   window of a stager
  coach," is much more suited to mislead the judgement
  than to convey accurate information ; for the colour of
  rocks, which is almost all that can be seen in this mode of
  examining nature, is the most fallacious of all characters.
  The same rock often presents every variety of tint by ex
  posure to the atmosphere, and will be red or yellow in pro
  portion to the oxidation of the iron it contains. 1 con*
  tess I do not set a high value on this kind of * stage-coach
  geology:' it may account, however, for some extraordinary
  descriptions which have of late years been given to the
  public, about yellow limestone, red marie, &c.
       Air. Farey persists in objecting to the identity of the lime,
 etone of Craven in Yorkshire, with that of the High Peak in
 Derbyshire*, though I believe he has never seen the former
  except at a distance : but their identity has not been, and I
  am inclined to think cannot be, denied by those who have
 examined both.           Their geological relations on the eastern
  side are precisely the same ; they are hoth covered with si
 milar strata, and present the same external characters. The
 limestone which Mr. Farey saw in another district near
 Kendal, alternating with graywacke or coarse slate, cannot
 prove or disprove the question ; and I may still repeat that
 Mr. Farey- has no reason to advance to disprove their
 identity, but his " imaginarv great fault," of which I think
 he will find it difficult to offer any direct proof.
       In the observations which Air. Farey has been pleased
 to make on the Geological Alap of England in my Introduc
 tion to Geology, he seems to forget, what I have expressly
 stated, " that I propose only to trace an outline of the Geo
 logy of England, and the leading features of its physical
 structure and mineral geography.              I wish the description,
     * Mr. Farey seems compelled reluctantly to admit that the upper lime*
 stone strata may be the same in Qnv en and in Derbyshire; " I rather be
lieve the top does rise from under shale grit and mill-stone grit,"— which is
 ail I contend fof.
                                                                         and

                    tn the Great Derly shire Fault.                                 1   23*
and the map which accompanies                          it,   to be considered           as
presenting only       rapid sketch of the more important
                         a
characters, without any attempt at minute accuracy of de
tail, which would be more likely to fatigue attention than
to excite or gratify general curiosity."
   There are three distinct modes of forming     geological           a
map the one proposes to trace every stratum as
        :                                                 rises to        it
the surface, and to delineate its boundaries and termination.
This can only be applied to small districts or estates. The
second traces the situation, the different orders of rock, and
the more remarkable strata or mineral repositories: this may
be applied to larger districts.     The third mode delineate^
the situation of the different classes of rock, and presents
only the leading features of the mineral geography, without
attempting minute accuracy of detail this          suited to con
                                                       :        is
vey, in    concise form,
            a                view of the most important geo
                                     a
logical characters of     kingdom.      Such     the Map of theis
United States, given          by a
                           M. Maclure       the Journal de Phy
                                                        in
sique   ;and this    what
                     is        have attempted in the Map of
                                  I
England to which Mr. Farey alludes.             The upper cal
careous strata, comprising calcareous sandstones and*chalk,
occupy the eastern side of England        the western termina
                                                       ;
tion of these strata     traced in
                             is       waving line from Dor
                                                  a
setshire to near Scarborough.      In some situations the cal
careous strata mav extend        few miles beyond the line, or
                                         a
terminate    few miles east of
                a                      but such minuteness of
                                             it
                                              :
delineation was unattainable on the scale in which                              it      is
given.    The next great division includes the lower secon
dary strata, which contain in various parts ironstone, rock-
salt, and coal, but without any delineation of the particular
coal-fields, the most remarkable of them being described
in the work.    These strata are terminated       the alpine         by
district on the western side of England, containing metallic
ores.
     Mr. Farey observes, that the inhabitants of Exeter would
be obliged   to me to find the characteristic minerals of the
middle district,     "
                     iron-stone, rock-salt, and coal." But
Mr. F. can scarcely be so unacquainted with coal strata, as
not to know that they exist only in detached patches         the               in
secondary districts to which coal       peculiar, and
                                                  is  many   ex
tensive districts of lower secondary strata contain no beds*
of workable coal. But         not the less true that such strata
                                  it
                                  is
are the proper repositories of coal.     That these strata ex
tend into Devonshire,     well known.
                                  is    Vide Dr. Berger,
Mr. Townsend, and others.                  .
 Any   one who reads  Mr.  Farey's paper might suppose
                                                                                that

126           Description     of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.
that    I  had held out the expectation of finding coal to the
inhabitants of Exeter.           I have not even distantly alluded to
the subject.        In  every   district,   the lowest rock which rises
to the surface       in  different    parts may be considered as the
fundamental rock, giving the true geological character to
that district, although this fundamental rock may be co
vered in many parts with rocks of another class.
     The district which Cuvier has described round Paris, is
 considered properly as a chalk district, though the chalk is
 covered in most parts by strata of a subsequent formation.
 Thus also in the alpine districts of England, which                       I  have
 delineated, the sides of the primary or transition rocks are
 in some parts covered with coal strata: but this cannot
 change the geological character of the country, or invali
 date the propriety of the terms primary or transition rocks,
 as applied to them in tracing on a great scale the geological
 features of the country.
                                      Yours,    See.
     .Whitby, July IS, 1813.                                 R. BaKEWELL.
 XXI f.      Description of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid at the Bot~
      torn of a Volcano of Mount Idienne, situated in the Pro
      vince of Bagnia-Fangni, in the Eastern Part
           Java.     By    M.   Leschunault,            Naturalist
                                                                  if  the Island
                                                                       and Cir~
      of
      cumnaingator      in  the  Employment of           the  French    Govern-
      vient*.
  The province         of Bagnia-Vangni is the most eastern district
  in the island of Java; it is separated from the island of
  Bali by a sireight about two leagues broad: its territory is
  formed of the declivity of Mount Idienne, which com
  mands it on the west, and the immense base of which is
  covered with lofty forests.              This country is one of the
  finest and most fertile in Java, but it is also the most insa
  lubrious.       Within these forty years only it has been under
  the subjection of the Dutch : formerly it was governed by
  its own prince, who was driven from his throne by the
  Dutch, and died in retirement at Bali. Some time after
  the submission of this province, the inhabitants revolted
  on account of certain exactions imposed upon them by the
  Dutch ; but they were soon conquered and dispersed : their
  persecutors, however, almost all died of a contagious disease,
      * FromAnnnles rlu Museum
                                rCHisloire Naturellr, ix AnrJe, torn. xviii. p. 425. f-
      4 The annexation of Java to the British empire will, it is presumed, render
  this memoir doubly interesting to the English reader at present — Enrt'.
                                                                                 aod

          Description       of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.         12   J
ami the result of the war was the almost total annihilation
ofthe population of the province.
    Bagnia-Vangni is entirely isolated from all the other in
habited parts of the island of Java: in order to arrive at it
from Pannaroukan, we must traverse a forest twenty-four
leagues in length, by a single foot-path two feet broad.
Upon the whole route there are only two small villages
with ten or twelve houses in each : these serve for halting-
places for travellers, who are lodged in miserable cara-
vanseras kept up at the expense of the chiefs of these vil
lages. We also meet with the traces of some other smaller
villages or dessas ; but the inhabitants have been forced to
abandon them on account of the tigers, which not only
 carry off their cattle but attack the villagers themselves.
    The isolated situation of Bagnia-Vangni, and the difficulty
of quinine; it clandestinely, (for the tigers render it unsafe for
single individuals to travel through it,) induced the Dutch
 East India Company to make it a place of exile for Indian
 malefactors; who are there employed in the cultivation of
 pepper and coffee.     The latter production is superior to that
 of any other part of Java.
    During a residence of two months in this country I vi
 sited Mount Idienne.      The object of my journey was not
 only to examine the volcano at the summit of this moun
 tain, one of the highest in Java, but also to explain the
 phaenomena exhibited by a river a few leagues from-Panna-
 roukan.     The waters of this river are generally whitish ;
 in this state they have no bad taste, and arc not hurtful to
 animals or to vegetation: but suddenly the white colour
 disappears; the colour becomes yellowish and dull, the
                                                                          .
taste very acid, and then these waters are      fatal to all ani
mals who drink of them, and destroy the vegetation with
which they come in contact.        This phenomenon is inter
mittent, but it has  neither  stated period nor fixed duration.
It is extremely prejudicial to the land on the banks of the
river, as it cannot be cultivated with success.      When I set
out from Samarang to visit the eastern part of the island,
M. Englehard, governor of Java, directed me to make in
quiries into these changes in the waters of the white river,
with a view to discover some remedy.         I wrote to him on
the SOth of September 1805 the following letter, which
contains my observations,      and the description of the vol
cano changed into soll'aterra, to which this phenomenon
may ' be referred.
Mir   _i-..> .    .-.   >                  " 30th September 180/
     Within   these* fcty' clays   I   have returned   from my visit

    128             Description     of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.
   to Mount Idienne.                I   have enjoyed the mo3t imposing
   spectacle       in  nature,    not     that beneficent nature which be
  stows upon mankind abundance, happiness, and repose, but
   that frightful nature which exhibits the images of disorder
   and destruction, and is constantly preparing inflammable
   substances with which to cover and desolate a fertile
  country.           However desirous I may be to communicate a
  part     of   the   sensations which I experienced, my pen is in
  adequate to the task, and I must therefore confine myself
  to a dry detail of facts.
        ** The
                   object of my journey was to inquire into the causes
  of the change of colour, and the nature of the wateVs of the
  White River*, and also to examine the volcano situated at
  the south-west flank of the upper part of Mount Idienne.
  M. Vikerman, since he became military commandant of
  Bagnia- Vangni, had always intended to visit this volcano,
  from which the Dutch East India Company had frequently
  procured sulphur for the manufacture of their gunpowder:
  but the Japanese spoke with horror of the difficulty and
  danger of the attempt ; every journey to the summit of the
  mountain had been disastrous to men and animals.
       "M. Vikerman and his son-in-law M. Lisnets, M.Lois
  the pilot of the harbour, M. Hawersten and myself set out
 on horseback in the morning of the 18th of September
  1805.           We were accompanied             by the  Patif  and the    In-
 guebeyf of Bagnia- Vangni, and a great number of Japanese
 and slaves, as well for our own personal convenience as
 for the transfer of the baggage and provisions.                   We halted
 and spent the night at Bantyar, a village only three leagues
 from Bagnia- Vangni, and situated on the lowermost skirts
 of Mount Idienne. Towards this village the declivity is
 gentle: we pass through a fertile well watered country
 covered with forests, in the midst of which there are some
 small villages.
       " On the 1 0th we set out from Bantyar, and arrived in
 the evening at Ohonponoph, a %'alley which connects
Mount Idienne\\ with Mount Rante, and forming a halting-
place for those who visit Mount Idienne: it is about six
leagues from Bantyar.                 On this route we meet, one league
from Bantyar, a village newly established, and called Li-
tienrie : it is inhabited by some of the malefactors exiled
     * In   Japanese Songi pouli.
    f    Pati is the Japanese title of thaintendaot of the province. .
                                                                    ' * '
    $ Inguebey,      chief of a district.
     (| The name of Marapi (fiery mountain) was formerlv given to Mount
Wienne. The latter appellation is taken from a district situated on its western.
«ide,and formerly inhabited.
                                                                             by

                Description   of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.                    1   59
by the Dutch       to Bagnia-Vangni    for the cultivation of
coffee         pepper plantations: the latter have obtained
               and
their personal liberty in consequence of their good conduct.
A short distance from this place we cross the rivers Serant,
Bone d'ko*, and Pakis \. The latter is almost entirely dry
at this season of the year. The banks of all these rivers
are rugged, and in the rainy monsoons they form im
petuous torrents.
     From the village of Litienne to the river Pakis the
country presents a vast forest of bamboos ; from thence to
Ohonponoph the bamboo does not grow, nor do we meet
with any rivers or springs, but we pass through deep valleys
formed by the torrents which issue through them in tho
rainy season. The higher we rise, the more rapid the
slope becomes.       This part of the mountain is shaded by
 trees of considerable height, and a great variety of vege
 tables, among which we meet with the fern tree (Pakis
galar) in abundance, the cabbage palm tree (Junar), and
 the small kind of wild beetel root called by the Javauese
'Lindpidji.      Under this covering of vegetables we may as
 certain the quality of the primitive soil, because the surface
 is nothing hut a thick stratum of the remains of vegetables.
The rays of the sun never penetrate these thick forests, but
'we breathe a cold and humid air in ihem which afffcts the
 chest much.       The trunks of the trees are covered with
 mosses, mushrooms, epidendron and parasite ferns: the
 Vegetables when trodden down soon putrefy, in conse
 quence of the humidity of the ground.
      In the valley of Ohonponoph we find only some rare
 and isolated clumps of trees ; among which we may re
 mark, the Casuarina equisetifolia, and a new kind of oak.
 The soil is every where covered with a very long grass,
  which serves as food to the numerous herds of deer which
  people the adjoining forests, and as thatch for the cottages,
  in which we took up our quarters.       The valley is of mo
  derate extent; towards the east it skirts the country which
  extends to the streight of Bali, and towards the west, that
  tvhich extends to the mountains of Kuendan : on the south
  it is bounded by Mount Rante, and on the north by Mount
  Idienne. When the sky is clear and serene, we breathe a
  dry and mild air; but in general the vapours which rise
  during the day return at night, and form a cold, thick and
  damp fog, which is very dangerous.        It was a fog of this
   description accompanied by rain, which in a single night a
. .      * Bone d' ha is'the Japanese name of the Ai tocarpus integrifolia*        -„
           Pakis signifies in Japanese and Malayan, Fern.
         -f-
  Vol.42. No. 184. August 1813.                          I                        few

   130       Deswipiion of   a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.
   few years ago killed a man and upwards of fifty horses,
   which had been sent to transport the sulphur that had
   been extracted from the solfuterra.
      We slept at Ohonponoph, and next day, on the 20th of
  September, M. Vikerman and myself set out to visit the
   west side of the mountains.       The object of this journey
   was to examine the White River, and the causes of the
   changes it undergoes.     I shall give an account of the result
  of my observations, as well from my own inspection as
  from the information which I received from the Pati of
  Bagnia- Vangni, who in his younger days had traversed all
  these mountains, when the company was at war with the
  inhabitants of this province.
     To elucidate my narrative, I have sketched a map of
  the country (Plate II.) from the summit of Mount Selonpn,
 from which I had a view of the whole. This map may
 not be perfectly accurate as to the geographical positions,
 but it will be sufficient to serve as a guide to the perusal of
 my narrative.
     The White River (in Javanese, Songi pouti) takes its
 source at Mount Rao : its course is rapid, and it flows
 northward parallel to the mountains of Kuendan, leaving in
 the west the mountain Soukat ; the mountains of Kuendan
 have at first their direction from south to north, but they
 afterwards turn to the east, leaving a passage to the waters
 of the White River which continues to run northward, and
 washes the country situated between Pannaroukan and
 Sombraron.       Its waters from their source have a milky
 colour, but it is only visible when they are in a large mass ;
 for, if we put some into a glass, they appear perfectly trans
 parent and limpid;        they are insipid to the taste:       the
Javanese assert, that in this state they greatly fertilize the
 country through which they        pass.   The country adjoiuing
 the source   of this river was formerly peopled   ; hut it is now
absolutely deserted, from the same causes which have de
populated the greater part of Bagnia- Vangni.
     The waters of the White River, on leaving Mount Rao,
flow over a white clay which communicates its colour to
them: the changes which they undergo arise from another
river which joins them about three leagues from their
source.     This river is called by the Javanese, Songi pouti ;
its waters saturated with a great quantity of sulphuric acid
are pungent and caustic; they issue from Mount Idienne,
and have their source in the volcanic gulph of this moun
tain, as will be seen in the subsequent part of my narrative.
This sulphuric river, when it is not increased by the rains
                                                             which

             Description  of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.         131
  *hich   frequently fall in these mountains,is very inconsider
  able: in this state it is gradually absorbed by the sandy soil
  over which it flows, and disappears entirely about half a
  league before arriving at the White River, which then pre
  serves its,priinitive colour and taste to its mouth ; but if
  the sulphuric river is swelled by the rains, the ground then
  not being capable of absorbing all its waters, it discharges
  itself into the White River at the place where the latter
  intersects the mountains of Kuendan, and communicates all
  its noxious qualities: the sulphuric acid, combining with
  the particles of argil which the waters of the White River
  contain, unites with them and changes their colour; and
  being then charged with an acid, they kill all the fish at
  their mouth, giving violent colics to those who drink of
  them, besides destroying all the vegetation on their banks.
      Such are the phenomena which the waters of the White
  River exhibit : it is very unlucky that this river is spoiled
  by the sulphurous waters of Songi pouti, since, as I have
  already observed, it waters a very large tract of country
 which would otherwise be very fertile: it would perhaps
 be easy, however, to turn the course of the waters of Songi
 pouti, by opening a passage for them between the moun
 tains of Kuendan and Radienpo; or to separate their bed
 from that of the White River at the place where they join
 it. I descended into the bed of the Songi pouti, and I
 walked over more than a quarter of a league : the waters
 were low at this period, and I do not think the whole mass
 united exceeded eighteen inches in breadth by as many in
 depth.     In the largest hollows the river is not more than
 twenty-five feet broad and two feet deep.      Ft is easy to see
 the places which the waters have reached by the traces of
 corrosion which thev have left on the rocks and on the soil,
 and the want of vegetation, which has been burnt up
 wherever they have been.
     The back part of these mountains, from Ohonponoph to
 about half a league fro:u the banks of the White River, it
 dry and hilly, composed of innumerable volcanic "dejec
 tions forming a coarse sand.         The soil is almost every
where covered with a very tall ajassy plant of the genus
 Saccharum, called by the Javanese Allan.        We meet with
trees in the valleys only, these places serving as so many
retreats for a great number of tigers and numerous herds
of deer. The banks of the White River near its source are
fertile, and traces of cultivation are to be met with.
     In the evening, a short time after our return to Ohonpo
noph, the valley was covered with the noxious fog above
                                I 3                       alluded

  132      Report    of the National      Vaccine Establishment.
  alluded to : it had a fetid smell, and was so thick that we
  Could not see a fire twenty-five paces off : fortunately for us,
  a violent east wind, which arose about nine o'clock in the
  evening, speedilv cleared the atmosphere of these malig
  nant vapours, which, if they are not mortal, at least occa
  sion long and obstinate fevers.
     On the 21«t early in the morning we set out on foot to
  Tisit the volcano : the road which leads to it is extremely
  steep, and fatiguing on account of a very fine grass, which
  covers the soil, and renders it very slippery ; and in order to
  make any progress it is necessary at every step to lay hold
  of the shrubs which we meet with. The Casuanna equi-
-
  setifolia, which the Javanese call Semara>\% almost the only
  large tree which is seen on this side of the mountain: the
  wind rustling through its long filiform leaves produces a
  eontinual and sharp hissing noise; this tree is straight and
  tapering: it has the appearance of the fir-tree, but its heavy
'
  and brittle wood does not admit of its being applied to the
  same use*.
     After two hours walking, we arrived at the summit of
  the crater.      Before reaching this height we had already
  met with here and there a great quantity of sulphur in
  dirty greenish lumps like scoriae : they seem to have been.
  thrown out of the volcano during some eruption.
                                 [To be continued.]
    XXIII.      Report    of   the National Vaccine Establishment.
                          Dated 22d Jpril, 1813.
                             [Continued from p. 34.]
            To the Right Hon. Lord Viscount Sidmoulh.
                    rr\                        Leicester Square, May 24, 1813.
  My Lord, — JL         he Board of the National Vaccine Esta
  blishment have received the enclosed papers since they had
   the honour of communicating to your Lordship their Re
   port of the state of vaccination during the year 1812 : and
   they take the liberty of recommending, that, when they
   shall have been submitted to the Honourable the House of
   Commons, they should be printed, and subjoined as a se
   cond Appendix to their Report now, by the order of the
   House, in :he press. These papers contain a valuable testi
   mony of the rapid progress which, in one of our Eastern
     * These trees when
                          transplanted into the plain have no longer the same
  appearance:   they are shorter than those which grow on the mountains, and
  their tops are more loaded with branches.
                                                              Governments,

                                                           133
       Report of the National   Vaccine Establishment.
Governments, has been made by vaccination in the years
 1810 and 1811: and the Board of the National Vaccine
Establishment is of opinion, that the prudent and. judicious
conduct of the Medical Board of Madras, in re-establishing
theSmall-Pox Hospital for the reception of persons casually
attacked with the disorder, may be a useful lesson of in
struction to the inhabitants of other countries, to provide
places of seclusion for people affected with the disease, in
order to prevent the propagation of its infection.
   James HERVEr, Register.            Fr. Milman,    President.
Extract Judicial Letter from Fort St. George, dated 2Qth
                       February 1812.
                           Para. 101.
   As we have no doubt it will be satisfactory to your ho
nourable Court to be informed of the successful progress
of Vaccination in   the territories under this presidency, we
beg leave to refer von for information on this point, to a
general Abstract Return furnished by the Superintendent,
for the year 1810-1 1.
    102. We have the satisfaction at the same time of in
forming your honourable Court, that measures have been
taken for introducing the cow-pox into the territories of the
Rajah of Coorg, and the island of Java.
   104. We are concerned to state to your honourableCourt,
that notwithstanding the successful diffusion of vaccina
tion, we have been obliged, as a measure of precaution, to
re-establish the Small-pox Hospital at the Presidency, in
consequence of the appearance of that disease ; and al
though the number of patients in the Hospital be small^ it
has been judged advisable to continue the Establishment,
in order that the few who may be infected should instantly
be removed thither, to prevent infection.     The disease has
within a very recent period become more prevalent in the
neighbourhood of the capital at Pulicat, and in the Jagheer:
we have therefore authorized, in compliance with the re
commendation of the Medical Board, an additional num
ber of native vaccinators, and permitted the sub-assistant
surgeon at Pulicat, to draw the allowances of a local super
intendent of vaccination.
                             13                     fROGRESS

 Hi               Report    of the National                       Fttecine Establishment.
                        PROGRESS OP VACCINATION IN                                    INDIA.
 distract from the Returns of Patients successfully vaccinated
   at        the   Presidencij, and different Out Stations, during the
    Years          18 10    and 1811.
              Cart and Sex of Patients duly Vaccinated.
                                                                                          Total
              /
                                                                                       Vaccinated.
              Christians.               Hindoos.                  Musselmen.
                                                                                                            Gratfd
                                                                                                            Total.
             Males Femal.          Males. Femal               Males. Femal            Males. Females
 1810.
                                                                                                            12,279
Jan. -            S09      240          5,879      4,69i'             74'      40f     6,935      5,33R|
Feb. -            393      SOI          6,356      4,99.r             833      47£     7,542      5,76fl|   13,311
March             469      349          6,882      5,552]             904      48f     8,255      6,38'     14,642
                                                                      855                         5,289     12,577
April             819      589          5,614      4,191                       50h|    7,288
                                                                      784      54f     5,807      4,616      10,423
May -             366      389          4,75       3,57 9|
                                                                                                             2,322
June -            581      441          5,732j     4,517              634      597     6,967      5,355     i
                                                                                                  5,280     13,355
July -            705      490          5,8221     4,272|         1,548        518!    8,075
                           657          5,138      3,647              625      S76!    6,670      4,680     11,350
August            907
                                                                                                            12,669
Sept. -                                                               815              7,362      5,307
                           649                     4,185|                      4'
                  646                   5,901
Oct. -                     657          5,705'     4,65'              674      515     7,347      5,829     13,176
                  968
                                                                                                            12,330
Not.-             879      711          5,530|     4,2171             613      386     7,016      5,314|
Dec. -            750      633          5,830      4,484              536      404     7,116      5,521     12,637
 Total       7,746       0,106         69,146i 52,988             9,588      5,49.1   86,380    64,685 151,065
 1811.
Jan. -            984      685          5,560      4,471              574|
                                                                               44:     7,118      5,598 18,716
Feb.-             894      681          5,iS9|     4,301              650i     445|    6,683      5,425 12,108
March             541      5s7          5,266      4,419)             839      46i     6,646      5,470 IS. 1)6
April             SU       672          5,810      4,483[             682      49;     7,103      5,648l 12,751
May -             498      577         11,94.5     4,3 19f            716      877    13,154      5,773 18,947
June    .         590      433          6.557      4,36               760|     561     7,907      5,345 13,852
July    -         734      523          5,051       3,9121            967      537     6,7521     4,972 11.724
                  708      530          5,465      4,0      10|       879|     5541    7,052!     5,09l] 12,146
August|
                                                                                                         13,240
Sept. -           679      491          5,993      '4,6721            869'     53R|    7,54       5,699|
                                                                                           1
Oct. -            818      690          5,378       4,230l        1.035'       49:     7,226      5,412l 12,6*8
Nov. -            709      535          4,726       3,708)            835'     53!     6,270!     4,775[ 11,045
Dec.     -        781      544          5,085       4,1051            890'     5331    6,766;     5,182 11,948
Total         S,55if     6,738         71,970! 50,99.1!           9,696      6,464i   90,218    64,393 154,611
Grand                    12,844        4 1,1 46                              11.9551 176,598 129,078p05,676
Total ||l6,29«                    Jl              10S,979J19,284
 Fort St. George, Medic?t Board Office,                       ?
                                                                      (Signed) Wm. HoKSMAN,
          15th february 1812.                       >             S                     Sup. Gen. Vac. Ia.
                                                 (True Copy.)
                                                          (Signed)                    Wm.Horsman,
                                                                                         Sec. Med. Board.
                                             (A     true Copy.)
                                                                      (Signed)        Frkd. Gahagan,
                                                                                            Sec. to   Got.
                                                                                                XXIV. An

                                  [         135   ]              .
XXIV. An Attempt              to determine the definite and simple Pro
     portions, in      which, the constituent Parts
                                                      of unorganic Sub
     stances are united with each other. By Jacob                    Berze-
     Lies, Professor of Medicine and Pharmacy, and                   M.R.A.
     Stockholm.
     ,   .                   (Continued from p. 44.)
                              XVIII.          Lime.
In   the description of my earlier experiments on the de
composition of the alkalis, 1 have shown that in such de
compositions the magnitude of the effect depends entirely
tipon that of the electricity discharged, and I have described
 the most effectual arrangement of the apparatus.             In the
 decomposition of the alkaline earths the case is totally dif
 ferent.   The solutions in water can never be so much con
 centrated as those of the alkalis ; the quantity of the earth
 which comes at each instant within the compass of the
 operation of the battery is consequently very small in pro
 portion to that of the water, and the greatest part of the
 power of the battery is employed on the water.              While
 therefore in the analysis of potass or soda we are obliged,
in order to diminish the intensity of the discharge, to ex
 tend the surface of the quicksilver, in that of the earths
 we are obliged to confine            it,
                                 in order to increase the inten
 sity of the operation, since only so much of            as it    leftis
 after the decomposition of the water can operate on the
earths.    On this account     very slight addition of muriatic
                                   a
acid     favourable to their decomposition; while,
         is                                                     if
                                                               largera
quantity were added, the force of the battery would be con
sumed in the useless separation of the earth from the acid,
leaving the intimate composition of the earth unaltered.
Hence also we see why the pcoper earths are wholly inca
pable of being decomposed            the electric column.
                                             by                   As
soon as the first powerful action of the battery has sub
sided,     operates very little on the earths, and decomposes
              it
the water only.
    The decomposition of lime effected in little glass dish,
                                        I              a
into which     poured some quicksilver, and on
                   I                                        thin
                                                            it   a         li
quid paste of newly slaked lime.         An iron wire formed                 a
connection between the quicksilver and the negative pole
of the column, and from its positive pole          wire of platina
                                                       a
was introduced into the lime liquor.        If this substance was
too thick, the gas which was formed raised             up, so that
                                                           it
it  no longer touched the conductor.
    The amalgam of calcium does not differ in its appearand:
from pure quicksilver     but;    has little fluidity, and
                                       it                       duc- is
                                        1    4                             tile,

133                  On definite Proportions.
tile, like an amalgam of platina.         In the air it instantly
blackens, and becomes covered with a thick crust.          When
it is saturated, it stiffens after some time into a black porous
mass, from which some globules of quicksilver may be
pressed out; the. remainder is a combination of the prot
oxide of mercury with lime, resembling the brown crust
which forms on the residuum left after the distillation of
the amalgam of potassium, and the lime may be dissolved
out of it by water, without a trace of further oxidation, the
protoxide only remaining. That in these experiments the
quicksilver should be oxidated together with the calcium
and potassium, would not have been expected : but this
circumstance must evidently be attributed to the want of a
substance with which the newly oxidated basis may enter
into combination ; and this substance is here, in the ab
sence of water, the protoxide of mercury, which on the
contrary is not formed when the base is oxidated in water.
    If  we distil the amalgam of calcium in a small apparatus
filled with hydrogen gas, we obtain after a low red heat a
metal with a silvery lustre, which when cold is very brittle,
and contains much quicksilver.             This metal does not
blacken in the air, but becomes covered with a white crust
of caustic lime, which at last retains a globule of quick
silver in the middle.       If we throw the amalgam into water,
lime is formed, with an evolution of hydrogen gas free
from smell.       If we drop muriatic acid or sal ammoniac
into the water, the evolution of gas is increased, and the
hydrogen assumes a strong disagreeable smell, as when iron
or zinc is dissolved in muriatic acid.       I have observed no
smell in hydrogen gas, even when it is evolved with great
violence from the distilled amalgam of calcium ; the acid
must consequently         cooperate in the production of the
smell ; but    how    does   this happen ? To assume, that the
calcium is dissolved in hydrogen, seems not to be sufficient
for the explanaiion, since the smell ought in this case to be
more perceptible without the addition of the acid.         Wheu
the water is saturated with lime, the evolution of gas is al
most entirely interrupted, until more water is added.
    The experiments for the determination of the quantity of
oxygen in lime are still less to be depended on than those
which I have related with regard to the fixed alkalis, and
 for the same reason, that I have always had only very mi
 nute quantities of the base to operate upon.
     1.) An amalgam of calcium weighing 58 -2 gramme*
lost in water -06 gr. To the solution carbonate of am
 monia was added, and a precipitate of -MS grammes of car
                                                           bonate

                   On defimte Proportions.                   137
bonate of lime was obtained.   So that 56*4 parts of lime
being contained in 100 of the carbonate; the -145 gr. cor
respond to '0818 of pure lime, which, according to this
experiment, must consist of 73f per cent, of the base and
S6| of oxygen.
      2. ) An amalgam of 53-533 gr. gave off -037 of calcium
to the water, and from this water I obtained with the car
bonate of ammonia -09 of carbonate of lime.            This give*
for lime 73 parts of the base and 27 of oxygen.
      3. ) An amalgam of 56*65 gr. which, in order to expel
all possible moisture, had been heated in an air-tight vessel,
and then hastily passed through a capillary funnel, fur
nished to the water 0435 of calcium.           The lime water was
 saturated with sulphuric acid, and evaporated and ignited
 in a golden crucible.      It afforded - 148 of gypsum, in which
 -0622 of lime is contained.        According to this experiment,
 lime consists of 70 parts of base and 30 of oxygen.
      Calculations conducted on the same principle with those
 by which the composition of the alkalis has been> deter
  mined, give for that of lime a result not materially at va
  riance with these experiments.       We have seen, in treating
  of the sulphuric acid,      III. A.) that dry gypsum is com
  posed of about 58 parts of sulphuric acid and 42 of lime,
  or that 1Q0 parts of sulphuric acid saturate 72-41 of lime.
 If    these now contain 20-29 parts of oxygen, they give for
   100 parts of lime 28 of oxygen.
       In order topalculate the composition of lime from its com
   bination with the muriatic acid, I analysed the muriate cflime.-
       a ) Ten grammes of carbonate of lime were dissolved in
   muriatic acid in a glass flask, then dritd and ignited until'
   they were fused.      The fused salt weighed 10-96 gr. Bat
   ten gr. of carbonate of lime contain 5-6l of lime; conse
   quently 100 parts of fused muriate of lime consist of 48*51
   of acid and 51*46 of lime.                             t
       b.) Some muriate of lime, which had been fused in a
   platina crucible, and weightd 3-01 gr., was dissolved in
   water.     The solution was not perfectly clear) biff- was ren
   dered so by a single small drop of very weak nitric acid.
   The precipitate by nitrate of silver weighed 7-75 gr. when
   fused.     This answers to 1 -449 gr. of muriatic acid, whence
    the muriate contains 48-1 of acid and iVQ of lime.
        This agrees pretty well with what has been already re
    lated ; for we know, front the experiments described in the
    analysis of sal ammoniac, with what force the muriate of
    lime retains its water, and on this the greater proportion of
    muriatic acid found iti   the former experiments may possibly
                                                          depend.

 158                  On definite Proportions.
depend.     I therefore consider the experiment on the preci
 pitation as the most to be depended on, and according to
 this the muriate of lime consists of
           Muriatic acid            46-1         100-0
           Lime                     51 -9        107-9
    If we examine   this result by calculation according to the-
 quantity of baryta and lime, by which 100 parts of sul
phuric acid are saturated, and the quantity of baryta re
quired to neutralise 100 parts of muriatic acid, we have
t94 : 72-i I =288-6 : 107-72.       Here then the calculation
 pretty nearly agrees  with  the experiment.
    If now in these 107-9 parts of lime 30-49 of oxygen are
 contained, lime must contain 28*267 per cent, of oxygen.
This being supposed correct, we have for lime
           Calcium                71 733         100-0
           Oxygen                 28*267          39'4
              XIX. Barvta.        Muriatic Acid.
    The foregoing experiments agreeing pretty well with the
results of calculation, 1 believe that I may take for granted
that hereafter calculations alone will be sufficient, when
they are founded     on   the results  of correct  experiments.
Thus, for example, in the case of baryta, the composition
of which may be pretty easily calculated ; since 100 parts
of sulphuric acid suppose in 194 of baryta 20-29 of oxy
gen, baryta must consist of 10-46 oxygen and 89'5* bary-
tium ; or since 100 parts of muriatic acid suppose in 288 4
of baryta 30-49 of oxygen, baryta must consist of 10'575
oxygen and 89 435 barytium.         The difference of these two
results shows that' the analyses are not yet arrived at a suf
ficient degree of perfection, but it may be hoped that in
future this perfection will be more easily obtained.      In the
great number of analytical experiments which I have been
obliged to employ, in order to obtain some connected re
sults, no man will be surprised if I have not always suc
ceeded in determining every figure of the numbers con
cerned with perfect accuracy.
    May we not expect that the same proportions, which we
have found to prevail in whole orders of compounds, must
always subsist between the same substances, even in com
plicated mixtures, and in bodies of different natures ?         I
conjecture that this   question, after many repetitions of ex
periments, will be     answered in the affirmative, although
there may be some      partial exceptions ; as we have already
seen in the analyses   of the subsulphate and the sulphate of
the oxide of iron,     where the original proportions of the
                                                         sulphur

                                  On definite Proportions                                13f
sulphur and iron were modified by those of the oxygen.
aml iron, and underwent a change which I attempted to ex
plain.   It is besides more than probable, that          for ex              if,
ample, 100 parts of muriatic acid constantly require 50'49
of oxygen       the salts into which they enter, they do the
                   in
same in all other definite combinations        so that 100 parte ;
of muriati acid take up the same quantity of oxygen in.
oxymuriatic acid gas, in the water chemically combined
-with dry muriatic acid gas, in the alcohol forming muriatic
ether,     all animal substances with which the acid
          in                                                 ca                     is
pable of forming distinct combinations, and so forth. With
respect to the oxymuriatic acid gas,      has long been known.
                                                         it
that in     low temperature
                                                                                          a by
           a                         aimpletely condensed
                                              it   is
metals, so as to form      salt, in which the metal exists as
                                     a
protoxide as   ;     also proved
                        it   is                    by
                                     Davy's excellent experi
ments, that the driest muriatic acid gas contains       definite             a
quantity of water, which, when         treated with potassium,
                                                   it   i?
produces so much potass as to saturate the acid.            We
therefore assume, upon good grounds, that          the oxymu         in
riatic acid, as in salts, 100 parts of -muriatic acid are com
bined with 30*49 of oxygen, and hence that the oxymu*
riatic acid gas consists of
            Muriatic acid           76*63      100 00
               Oxygen                              23-37             30*49
  And     ifwater contains IS per cent, of hydrogen, 100
parts of dry muriatic acid must take up 34-54 of water, or
muriatic acid gas must                    contain somewhat            more         than   a
quarter   of water.
.XX. Combinations of Hvdrogen with Oxtgen and
                   Sulphur.
  Eiot and Arago having determined, by weighing oxygen
and hydrogen, that water consists of 11*7 of hydrogen and
83-3 oxygen,       thought
                    I          necessary to examine
                                         it            experi                by
ments this result, which differs from the numbers commonly
adopted.     If the experiments which       have been able toI
make are not so fully sufficient for the purpose as     at first             I
flattered myself, they may still deserve to be related, since
their results cannot very materially differ from the truth.
 I    made use of distilled zinc, which dissolved in sulphuric
                                                         I
or muriatic acid, and suffering the hydrogen to escape by
a  tube filled with muriate of lime,       observed the weight
                                                             I
lost by  the apparatus.        have not however been able to
                                      I
obtain the zinc perfectly free from sulphur and lead, nor
was the loss of weight precisely the same in different ex
periments...        ,
                                                                                   a.) Te»

    140                On definite Proportions.
  -
       a.) Ten grammes of distilled zinc were dissolved in riitrtc
    acid, and dried and ignited in a platina crucible; the resi
   due was 12-44 gr. of gray ish oxide of zinc.
       #.) Ten grammes of the same zinc, dissolved in nitric
   acid in a glass flask, dried and ignited, gave again 12-44 of
   oxide.    This oxide of zinc, therefore, if we neglect the im
   purities, conslits of
              Zinc                   80-39        100-0
              Oxygen                 i9-61         24-4
  -
       c.) Twenty  grammes    of the same  zinc were dissolved fa
   sulphuric acid ; the apparatus lost -65 gr.
      d. ) On repeating the experiment, the loss was -62 gr.
      e. ) With diluted muriatic acid, -68 gr.
      According to experiment c), 48'8 parts of oxygen answer
  to 6*5 of hydrogen, and water consists of 1 1*754 hydrogen
  and 88*246 oxygen.
        In experiment e), on the contrary, according to
  which 48*8 parts of oxygen Were combined with 6*8 of
  hydrogen, we have 12-23 of hydrogen and 68-77 of oxygen
  for the composition of water. The first of these experi
 ments agreeing best with the statical experiment of Biot
 and Arago, I shall consider it as the most correct.       Water
 does not therefore consist, as has generally been assumed, '
  of 15 parts hydrogen and 85 oxygen, but of                       .
            Hydrogen... 11*754          10O-00      13-32
            Oxygen          88*246      750-77     100-00
      In an analysis of sulphureted hydrogen gas 1 had found,
 from some less accurate data, the quantity of sulphur 94-2
 to 5*8 of hydrogen ; the calculation, corrected by the pro
 portions determined in this essay, gave 93-06 of sulphur to
 6 94 of hvdrogen.        In order to examine the accuracy of
 this result, I dissolved in muriatic acid five grammes of
 sulphuret of iron
                      " at a minimum," which I had obtained
 by igniting in a glass retort the artificial sulphuret at a
 maximum, and conducted the gas which escaped through
 caustic potass.     The gas was completely absorbed, without
leaving the slightest portion of hydrogen gas. When the
 solution was filtered, I found -28 gr. of sulphur remaining.
      Five more grammes of the same sulphuret were changed
into red oxide of iron, and gave 4-3 gr. answering to 2-98
of iron. Consequently this sulphuret of iron contained
2*02 gr. of sulphur, of which 1*74 were consumed in form*
ing the sulphureted hydrogen gas: 58*4 parts of the sul
phur thus employed answering to 100 of the iron dissolved;
supposing at least the superfluous undissolved sulphur to
have been perfectly free from hydrogen and from water,
                                                            after

                    On definite Proportions.                141
after being dried with proper precautions to avoid its dis
sipation: and this proportion of sulphur and iron is the
same, with the exception of a small fraction, as that which
is required for the sulphuret at a mir imum.           This ex
periment therefore demonstrates, that the quantities of sul
phur and oxygen, which saturate 100 pans of iron, are
in the same proportion as the quantities whii-h saturate 100
parts of hydrogen.       But if 100 parts of iron take up 29*5
of oxygen, and if it is confirmed that 11-754 of hydrogen
 and 68*246 of oxygen constitute water, the 29-5 parts of
 oxygen imply that 100 parts of iron will set at liberty 3-929
 of hydrogen, which take up the quantity of sulphur united
 with iron at a minimum, that is, according to the experi
 ments before related, from 58-75 to 59 parts per cent. But
 3-929 : 59 = 100 : 1501*54 ; and 100 parts of hytlrogen
 must take up 1501-54 of sulphur;            which is twice as
 much as the quantity of oxygen that we suppose required
 by 100 parts of hydrogen.      Hence sulphureted hydrogen gas
 must consist of 6-244 parts of hydrogen and 93-756 of
 sulphur.
     These proportions, determinable by calculations, must be
 capable of being inverted in every possible way, if they are
 to be of any value. The number of analyses is still too
 small for universal application; and they must be diversi
 fied in various directions, in order to give sufficient oppor
  tunity for more accurate tests. I will however adduce one
 example from the analyses related in this essay.
      Iron and hydrogen, saturating 100 parts of sulphur,
  must be in the same proportion as when they saturate 100
  parts of oxygen.      According to the determinations given
  in the former part of this essay, 100 pans of sulphur are
  saturated by 170-2 of iron, and by 6*66 of hydrogen ; and
   100 parts of oxygen, saturated with iron at a maximum, or
  in the form of a protoxide, take up 339 parts.
      Now, 170-2 : 6*66 = 339 : 13-265 ; whence 100 parts of
  oxygen should combine with 13-265 of hydrogen.             Ao
  cording to the result of the experiment above related, that
  is, 1 1*754 hydrogen to 88*246 oxygen, 100 parts of oxygen
   must be saturated by 13-32 of hydrogen.
      These computations may however happen to agree, even
   although the numbers may be erroneous, supposing the
  error to arise from a cause which is common to several
  analyses.    I shall therefore consider this calculation of the
   composition of water and of [sulphureted Sw.] hydrogen
   gas as a proof of the truth of the law of nature which 1 have
   laid down, without insisting on the perfect accuracy of

 148                  Imperial Institute      of France*
 the determinations,     even within ] per cent, or perhaps
 more.
    It will hereafter be interesting to observe how far the ideas
 of the very ingenious Mr. Davy on the constitution of ni
 trogen, and the many degrees of oxidation of its pure base,
 will agree with these laws of nature.
                                 [To be continued ]
                XXV.    Proceedings      of Learned Societies.
 IMPERIAL INSTITUTE          OF FRANCE FOR THE YEAR 1812,
                       PRAWN UP BY M. CUVIER.
                           [Concluded from p. 76.]
            Zoology, Anatomy, and Animal Physiology.
M      .   DE   Montegre,
                      French physician, having discovered
                             a
 in himselfdisposition to throw up the contents of the
                  a
stomach  without inconvenience, conceived the idea of
making use of the circumstance in order to elucidate se
veral particulars       of the received doctrines on the subject of
digestion.   When he resorted to this practice wtth an
empty stomach, .he obtained a remarkable quantity of a
                                                             '
liquid which he regards as a true gastric juice, and which
he examined with reference to its chemical quantities, as
well as with respect to its action on alimentary substances.
   M. de Montegre found this liquid to be very similar to
 saliva, but its action appeared to be very different from that
 described by Spallanzani.     On exposing it to a temperature
 similar to that of the human body, in phials placed under
 the arm-pits, he saw it putrefy, exactly like saliva.       This
juice only   arrested the process of putrefaction  in  other sub
 stances when it was naturally acid ; but by adding a little
 acetic acid to the saliva it acquired the same property.
 Besides, this acidity is not essential; and when M. de
 Montegre swallowed a sufficient quantity of magnesia to
 absorb     it,
            digestion went on as usual.     Acidity was repro
 duced in      short time; — even when M. de Montegre en
                  a
veloped with magnesia the food which he was eating,                    it
soon became acid again.
   These experiments repeated      great number of times, and
                                         a
with every proper precaution, induced the author to con
clude that the gastric juice differs little  at all from saliva;
                                                      if
thatit   cannot stop putrefaction, nor produce digestion,             in
dependently of the vital action of the stomach       and finally,
                                                           ;
that the acidity therein manifested, as well as that which             is
                                                               undergone

                 Imperial Institute   of France.                143
Undergone by the food at the time of digestion, is an effect
of the stomachic action.
   It is greatly to be desired that M. de Montegre should
continue his interesting inquiries, and make some upon the
gastric juice of the animals employed by Spallanzani, in
order that we may know precisely what to think of a
doctrine which seems for a long time to have obtained
general consent.
   In order to secure to some authors the date at least of
their observations, we shall subjoin a mere sketch of some
memoirs which have been presented to the Class, but we
must delay until next year our opinion of their merits.
   M. de Blainville has described in detail the forms of the
articulation of the fore arm with the arm in different ani
mals, and determined the motion which each of these
forms occasions, principally with respect to the greater or
less facility of moving the hand.       This work upon an im
portant   point of the mechanism     of  animals is not without
interest to their classification, since a greater or less facility
in the rotation of the fore arm as more or less influencing
their address, ought to enter considerably into their degree
of general perfection, and consequently their natural affi
nities.
,  The same anatomist has also presented a memoir on the
form of the sternum in birds.     As this bone, or rather this
great  osseous surface, resulting (as M. Gcoffroy has shown)
from the union of five diffeient bones, furnishes a point of
attachment for the principal muscles of the wings ; the more
solid and extensive it  is,the more    furnishes these muscle*
                                      it
with vigorous point d'appui, and the more
     a                                                [ought to
                                                       it
contribute to render the wing strong.        It ought therefore
to have an influence over the whole ceconomy of birds, and
give useful indications as to their classification.
    M. de Blainville draws these indications from the ragged
or simply membranous places, more or less extensive, which
fill the place of the osseous substances in        a part of the
sternum.     He adds to this the consideration of the fork,
and of some proximate organs, and in most cases he finds
a  great similarity between the dispositions of these parts
and the natural families.      Nevertheless,    there also exist
exceptions so manifest, that we cannot entirely adhere to
this new classification.
    {if. Marcel de Serves, of Montpelier, has compiled largea
work on the anatomy of insects, and particularly on that
of their intestinal canal, which he has described at great
length in considerable number of species. His object was to
         a
                                                       determine

144                       Galvanic Battery.
determine the functions peculiar to the various parts of tins
canal, and its appendages ; and iw addition to his dissections
he made some ingenious experiments on living individuals.
Upon injecting coloured liquids into the cavity of the peri
tonaeum, they were absorbed by the long and slender vessels
which always adhere to some portion of the intestinal
canal ; which goes far towards showing that the use of these
vessels is to secrete from the common mass of the humours,
digesiive liquors, and to throw them into the canal.          An
attentive examination      of certain pouches which have been
considered in some genera as stomachs, in others as c ce
 cums, and the certainty that the food does not enter into
them at all, but that they are found, on the contrary, full of
biliary humour, induced M. de Serves to think that they
 were reservoirs of this humour.
       He thereby deprives grasshoppers and other analogous
 genera of the quality of ruminating animals, which they
 had been called; and in fact he ascertained that these in
 sects do not return their food to the mouth, but that they
 merely emit under certain circumstances that biliary juice
 which they possess in great abundance.           This memoir
 contains many other curious observations on the forms of
 the intestinal canal, the proportions of its parts, and their
 connection with the habitudes of insects.      We shall speak
 «f it more in detail next year.
     M. Dutrachet, a physician at Chateau-Rcnaud, has made
 a remarkable observation       on the gestation of the viper.
 He asserts that the small vipers have their umbilical vessels
 distributed not only over the yolk of the egg, in which
 they are originally inclosed, but (that a part of these vessels
 is also distributed over the internal surface of the oviduct,
 and there forms a net which may be regarded as a real -
 placenta.     The vipers participate therefore in the mode of
 the nutrition of the fetus peculiar to the mammiferse, and
 which has been hitherto regarded as exclusive, with respect
 to all the oviparous classes.
          XXVI.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous  Articles.
                        GALVANIC BATTERY.
 J. G. Children, Esq.        has constructed  a Galvanic battery
 of gigantic size.     Jt consists of twenty pair of copper   and
 zinc plates,    each plate six feet long and two feet eight
 inches    broad.   Each pair is joined at top by' ribbons of
  .. .  .                                 -                 lead;

                      Prixe Question. — Chalyleate Spa.        143
lead   and has a separate wooden cell. They are suspended
         5
from             of wood, and having counterpoises are easily
             a beam
raised or let down into their cells.       The power of this bat
tery  was  tried  on  the   2d  of  last  month.   The cells were
filled with water 60 parts, and a mixture of sulphuric and
nitric acid one part, which was gradually increased till the
quantity of acid was doubled.            Conductors of lead con-     v
veyed the electricity to an adjoining shade in which the
experiments      were made.      The power of the battery was
great.   It  ignited six  feet in  length of thick platinum wire,
but could not ignite an equal length of smaller platinum
wire. Platinum was fused with great facility. Iridium was
fused into a globule, and proved to be a brittle metal.      The
ore of iridium- and osmium was likewise fused, but not
perfectly. Charcoal kept in a white heat in oxymuriatic
acid gas and in phosgene gas produced no change on them.
Tungsten was no way changed by this powerful battery,
nor was uranium.
                             PRIZE OUESTION.
     The Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh has proposed
as the   subject of the Prize Essay for 1815, the following
question :
     "Is azote gas absorbed in the lungs during respiration ?
If  it is not, whence do herbivorous animals derive their
azote }"
    A set of books, or a medal of the value of five guineas,
will be awarded to the author of the best Dissertation; and
members honorary, ordinary, and extraordinary of the So
ciety alone are invited to become candidates.    The Disser
tations to be in English, French, or Latin, and to be de
livered to the Secretary on or before the 1st of December
 1814.   The prize to be adjudged in February following.
To each Dissertation a motto to be prefixed, and a sealed
packet must accompany              it,
                              containing the author's name
and address.   The unsuccessful Dissertations to be returned,
jf   required.
  A   strongly saline aperient and chalybeate spa has been
discovered at Melksham, Wilts; which has been analysed
and brought forward        Dr. Gibbes of Bath.
                              by                   contains
                                                          It
nearly seventy grains of saline ingredients in  pint, which
                                                     a
are chiefly the muriates of soda and magnesia.     The in
fusion of galls strikes   purple in the water when fresh at
                             a
the spring.    In doses similar to the Chelthenham and
Leamington waters,      act3 on the bowels gently, safely.
                            it
   Vol. 42. No. 184. August 1813.                K      but

146             Cairns on the Island of   Little Cumtray.
but decidedly ; and it is found that this aperient effect i<
not attended with the debility which usually results from
othercathartics. It has produced the happiest effects in many
bilious and scorbutic habits, and many cases have occurred
of a perfect cure of such complaints. It produces no
heaviness on the stomach, and it in no way whatever dis
agrees with the constitution.   Without being disagreeable
to the taste, it acts on the bowels in even less quantities
than other waters of the same description.
    Some    remains of a Roman building and other Roman
'antiquities were elately discovered at Wraxetall Wood, in
 the parish of Ditteredge, near Bath.        Some labourers, in
 grubbing up a part of a coppice, discovered, among other
 things, fragments of seven or eight columns nearly of the
 Tuscan order, small pieces of fresco paintings of Roman
 brick, small aqueducts, scarified tilts, and other indications
 of baths and sudatories, places that appeared to have had
 intense heat in them, in horizontal flues ; a stone tablet,
 with a groove round the edge of        for preparing the sacri
                                          it,
 fice; another stone tablet, with an oval basin cut into                  it,
 which appeared to have borne the utmost effects of ordinary
 fire; charcoal, and bones of various animals; urns, ba
 sins, and other utensils of red and black pottery        vessel
                                                               :   a
 of glass,  a specimen of flat window glass,     brass fabulum
                                                      a
 and dome, small brass coins, together with the stones, &c.
with which the building had been roofed. The columns
 were preserved, the altars, flues, glass, pottery, 8cc. were
 deranged and dispersed       by
                              the labourers, and the greatest
 part of  the coins were thrown   away.
    Mr. Weir, of Kirkball,         near Ardrossan, having stated to
'
the Earl  of Eglinton the extraordinary variation or the com
pass  at    certain spot near some cairns of stones at Shin-
            a
niewilly,  on  the island of Little Cumbray; and as there                  is
a   tradition     Dane was buried in his armour at Shinnie-
                 that   a
willy, immediately opposite to the Largs, where     famous     a
battle was fought; the Earl of Eglinton, the proprietor, or
dered   number of workmen from Ardr6s?an to the island,
        a
 to open the cairns, under the superintendence of trusty per
sons.    The workmen, acting upon the suggestions of Mr.
Weir, when near the centre of the first cairn opened, and
not above two feet btlow the level of the ground, discovered
a  circular piece of hollowed iron much corroded     the hol  ;
low part three inches and half a    diameter, and two inches
                                        in
in depth, having rim all round three quarters of an inch
                        a
                                                 .'       -   -'
                                                                       broad,

     Grecian Antiquities lately discovered in Franee,'&c.    147
 broad, and with the remains of nails or rivets on the
 rim.                                                           -
    About two feet from this they discovered pieces of iron,
 apparently part of a sword or dagger.     The workmen here
 desisted, in order that Lord Eglinton might witness the po
 sitions of these relics, and give further instructions. On.
 the 6th instant his Lordship, accompanied by a number of
 gentlemen, and in presence of several scientific individuals,
 visited the place, and ordered the workmen to proceed ; when
 a great number of fragments of iron were discovered, the
 greater part of which were double-headed or riveted nails
 measuring about one inch from head to head.        The work
men having nearly cleared another cairn, a large flag stone
 was discovered, below which was found an aperture or.
 coffin, 26 inches long, 16 broad, and )8 deep, formed of
four stones, and lying NE and SW.           In this hollow was
 an empty urn, but which appeared to have at one time
 contained ashes; and near to the urn were some small hu
man bones: the roots of the teeth were decayed, but the
enamelled part in most perfect preservation.        In another
cairn an urn was discovered of a handsome shape, and orna
mented on the exterior; but it was unfortunately broken in
the attempt to extricate it from the loose stones with which
it was environed.
     The men were then directed to return to the cairn
first opened, and on digging to the depth of nearly ten
feet, came to a large flag stone, which covered a coffin
three feet six inches long,         26 inches wide, and 26
inches deep, formed of four stones lying east and west.
In the north-east corner stood an earthen urn much or
namented, and containing black earth or ashes ; in the
South-east corner a human scull.        There were likewise a
few decayed bones.      There are several cairns yet to open ;
but. whether    any more of them will be opened, depends
upon the opinion of those competent to judge from the
contents of the others, whether it be an object worthy of
further research.                                           . .
    A few months since, as a labourer was tilling a field in
the vicinity of Bourdeaux, the ploughshare struck against
something hard.      On examining the spot, he found that it
was a brick which had been partly detached from what
seemed to be the outside of a vault.    He took up the brick,
and perceived that his conjectures were well founded, and
immediately informed the owner of the estate of his dis
covery.    Workmen were employed to effect -an opening
                               K 2                     through

148       Excavations among the Ruins   of Pompeii.
through the top, and a square burying-place was found,
which contained two coffins made of the finest marble of
Paris, and lying along side each other.     On opening them,
the well preserved bodies of a man and a woman appeared,
which must have lain there nearly two thousand years, as
the inscription in Greek characters on the marble an
nounced that they were the bodies of a Grecian prince and
his wife, who in former ages had formed a settlement on
these coasts, beyond the pillars of Hercules.      These anti
quated remains of frail mortality were committed to their
parent dust ; but the coffins, which are of the most exquisite
workmanship, were shown for the gratification of the cu
rious. The French Government having heard of this dis
covery offered 20,000 franks (5000i. sterling) to its pos
sessor, intending to remove the marble sarcophagi to the
Imperial Museum; but he refused the sum.
    The excavations among the ruins of Pompeii continue
to be prosecuted with much industry, and a great number of
workmen have been constantly employed within the last IS
months. On the 21st of November last several skeletons
were found of inhabitants who had endeavoued to escape,
perhaps after having ineffectually tried various ways of ex
tricating themselves, for the ashes around them were ten
feet deep ; some of them had gold rings on their fingers,
one of which resembles a serpent coiled up, and several
bad ear-rings with two pendents terminated by a pearl.
There are similar sets of ear-rings in the cabinet of the
Bibliotheque Impiriale: they were found in an excavation
made by order of General Championnet.           It would seem
as if all these skeletons belonged to one family: the bones
of an infant so small that it could scarcely have seen the
light, or perhaps it was still unborn, induce a belief that
in this family there was an unfortunate mother who was
flying with her child from the effects of the eruption. A
slave seems to have been charged with the family treasure
contained in a cloth folded several times around it : the
external surface is calcined, but the interior bands are still
entire. Its contents were about 300 pieces of silver coin,
and eight of gold.
    Pompeii affords a mine which will long supply ample
funds of instruction and amusement to the learned.        It is
intended to clear away the rubbish from around the walls
in the first instance; and when these are well defined, the
different streets and squares will be traced, and the houses
ftnd buildings more easily examined ; the excavations around
  .                                                        the
                                          -

                        Cassegrane Telescope.                149 .
the walls have been, as might be expected, unproductive;
but this is not the case with those which were made at the
same time in the Via Comularis leading from Naples to
Pompeii.        Several monuments are already described, sueh
as the tombs of the family of Arria; the hemicycle, or semi*
circular bench, of a form so elegant that the priestest
Mammia had established it to serve as a resting-place to the
inhabitants of Pompeii near the place which a decree of
the Decurii had appointed for her sepulture.      Within these
few months four tombs have been discovered ; two of thero
are of a remarkable form, and placed within separate in*
closures: the first is decorated with bas-reliefs which re
present the games of the Gladiators, and the hunting-
matches which were exhibited 10 the populace in the amphi
theatre to render the funeral of the defunct more magni
ficent. The bas-relief in which the Gladiators are represented
also exhibits inscriptions traced with a pencil in a black
colour. Time and the action of heat have obliterated a
great part; but what remains still furnishes us with some
additional particulars as to the Gladiators. This tomb it
square, and the roof is in steps like that of king Mausolus*
Probably the statue which must have terminated this py
ramid will be found. The second tomb is round, like
those of Cecilia Metella, near Rome, and Manutius Piancus
at Gaeta.      The bas-reliefs which adorn the wall of the in-
closure consist of mystic allegories relative to the state of
souls after death, which announces that he who was buried
within it studied sacred mysteries,        and the dogmas of
some philosophical sect.       The third form is a cippus, but
of a very agreeable form : it covered the remains of a
priestess of Ceres.      A fourth tomb has been discovered,
nut it has not yet been entirely cleared.        M. Cattel, of
Berlin, a distinguished artist, who travelled with M. Millin,
the learned editor of the Magazin Encyclopcdique, through
Italy and part of Greece, has made drawings of these
tombs; and M. Millin has undertaken to publish a descrip
tion of them in his valuable work.        M. Millin is still ab
sent   on  his travels through various parts ot Europe.
     .   .           CASSEGRANE    TELESCOPE.
   A paper on this instrument, presented by Major Kater,
was lately read in the Royal Society, which seemed to prove
that light possesses some properties which have not yet
been attended to.       This'subject being curious, the follow
ing information on the subject will prove acceptable to
 scientific men :
                                 K3                 «*
                                                       Although

   \50                    Gqssegrane Telescope.
      i
        " Although    it has long been remarked, that the Galilean
   telescope gives a clearer and better defined image than those
   jn which convex eye-glasses are employed, the cause seems
   jiever to have been suspected, but was always attributed to
   the thinness of the eye-glass, and not to ibejorm, which is
  .similar to the Cassegranian.         If fhis hypothesis, founded
   on the result of the experiments, be correct, the loss of
   light in the Gregorian telescope originates in the rays of
   light reflected from the surfaces of the concave specula
   meeting in their respective foci ; and being thus condensed
   and concentrated, the particles of light do really obstruct
   and impede each other : thus a great part is dissipated and
   lost, thereby occasioning that dimness so remarkable in
   the Gregorian telescope when compared with one on the
   Cassegranian principle of the same aperture.           IntheCas*
    segranian    form,    the  above inconvenience    is avoided,  the
   convex small mirror being placed within the cone           of  rays
   reflected from the large speculum, in proportion to their
   focal length ; adding this important advantage, they are
   capable of being made less than half the length of the Gre
   gorian.      The manner in which the quantity of light was
                as follows : — An annulus was put in the end of
'
   proved    is
   the Cassegranian tube, on which annulus concentric circles
   were drawn at the distance of one-tenth of an inch from
   each other ; a printed card placed at the distance of thirty-
   six yards ; the concentric circles were then cut one by one
   away till the letters on the card appeared equally bright in the
    Cassegranian as in the Gregorian telescope of the same di
   mensions which was placed by its side: the apertures were
    then carefully measured, and it was found that -in the Casse
   granian telescope two inches and seven-tenths gave as
   bright an image as the Gregorian, the aperture of which was
   three inches and eight-tenths.          These specula were both
    cast at the same time, and the polish was equally good in
   one as in the other. . Still,       it appeared a circumstance
   of such an extraordinary nature, that Major Kater (who
   was present at all the experiments) and myself almost
    doubted the evidence of our senses, till another trial com
    pletely convinced us of the fact.       Two telescopes were or
   dered of the same dimensions', one Greaorian, the other
    Cassegranian.       I took every possible care in the construc
    tion of each ; and atter having completed them, the experi
    ment was tried exactly as before, and to our complete sa
    tisfaction the result was exactly the same.         Other experi
    ments, the last of which was made this morning, furnish
                                                               proofs

                         Lectures.  — Patents .                    131
proofs   of the superior excellence of the Cassegranian          tele
scope.      I am, sir, your obedient servant,
   Ipswich, July 15, 1813.                   ThOS. CfltCKMORK.
                               LECTURES.
    Dr. Roget      will commence       his  Autumnal     Course of
Lectures on the Practice of Physic, at the Theatre of Ana-r
tomy,Great Windmill Street, on the first Monday in October.
    Theatre of Anatomy, Bart let l's Court, Holborn.           —  Mr,
John Taunton, F.A.S. Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons of London, Surgeon to the City and Finsbury
Dispensaries, City of London Truss Society, &c. will com
mence a Course of Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, Pa
thology, and Surgery, on Saturday, October the 2d, 181.3,
at Eight o'clock in the Evening precisely.          To be continued
every Tuesday, Thursday,          and Saturday,  at  the same hour.
     In this  Course   a view will  be taken  of the structure and
 ceconomy of the living body ; and the causes, symptoms,
 nature, and treatment of surgical diseases, with the mode
 of performing the different surgical operations, will be con
sidered ; forming a complete course of anatomical and phy
 siological instruction for the medical or surgical student,
 the artist, the professional or private gentleman,
     An ample field for professional edification will also be
 afforded by the opportunity which pupils may have of at
tending the clinical and other practice of both the City and
                                                               .
 Finsbury Dispensaries.                                    :>.
     Further particulars may be had, on applying to               Mr.
 Taunton, Greville Street, Hatton Garden.
     The Autumnal Course of Ltctures on Anatomy, Phy
 siology and Surgery will be commenced by Mr. Brookes,
 at the Theatre of Anatomy, Blenheim Street, Great Marl
 borough Street, on Friday the First of October.
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     To William Stocker, of Martock, in the county of So
 merset, gunsmith,         for his cock made of metal and wood,
 for drawing liquor from casks, which produces a stop su
 perior to that which is effected by common cocks, and pre
 vents the liquor from coming in contact with the metals,
 except when the liquor is in the act of being drawn, and is
 running from the cask. — 25th May 1813. — 2 months.
     To John Mander, chemist; Aaron Manby, ironmaster ;
 and Joseph Vernon, furnaceman \ all of the parish of Wol-
                                  K4                    verhampton,

\&9            List of Patents for   new Inventions.
 verbampton, in the county of Stafford, for their methods of
making the cinders, scoria, slag, or by whatever name the
 refuse produced in the smelting or refining of iron may be
 called, into forms that may be used for any purpose to
 which brick, quarry, tile, slate or stone now are or may be
 applied.— 3 1 st May. — 6 months.
    To Charles Broderip, of Great Portland Street, in the
 county of Middlesex, gentleman, for his improved mode of
 raising and lowering vessels from one level to another level
 of navigable waters. — 31st May. — 6 months.
    To James Oli pliant, of Cockspur Street, Charing Cross,
 iii the county of Middlesex, hat manufacturer, for his me
 thod of making or manufacturing military caps. — 31st of
 May.— -2 months.
    To Thomas Grant, of Biddeford, in the county of De
 von, esq. for his certain ingredients by the use and admix
 ture of which, with oil, in the preparing and making of
 paint, a considerable consumption of oil and also much
 expense are saved. — 31 st May. — 2 months.
    To Charles Wyatt, of Bedford Row, in the county of
 Middlesex, merchant,' for his method of casing or facing
 brick and other buildings with stone. — 5th June. — 2 mon.
    To Richard Witty, of the town of Kingston upon Hull,
 gentleman, for his additional improvements in or on steam
 engines, and likewise his tools useful in making certain
 parts of the same. — 5th June. — 6 months.
     To Charles Goodwin, of Finsbury Terrace, in the county
 of Middlesex, factor, for his improved socket for a candle
 stick, consisting of a spring or springs, by which any candle,
 rush-light or taper, without any paper or other thing being
 put round     it,
                 may be fixed and secured in such socket, and
 which socket       adapted for the use of any description of
                     is
 candlestick, chandelier, lustre, branch lamp or lanthern   ;
 and hath also       self-extinguisher to be fixed to the same,
                     a
by   which the light may be extinguished at any time.— 26th
June.— months.
          2
    To William Cooke, of Greenwich in the county of Kent,
 esq. for his certain improvements in the art of making and
 working ploughs of any kind or description. — 15th June.
t-2 months.
    To Thomas Todd, of the city of Bristol, organ-builder,
for machine on an improved construction for the purpose
      a
of separating corn, grain and seeds from the straws. — 29th
June,— months.
          6
    To John Curr, of Belle Vue House, in the parish of
Sheffield,     the county of York, gentleman, for bis me
              in

                List of Patents for  new Inventions.       1 33
thods of applying flat ropes to horse-gins and perpendicular
drum shafts of steam-engines for drawing coals, minerals,
or water out of mines, whereby the horses' labour is greatly
diminished, and flat ropes working on horse-gins and
steam-engines      constructed    with the said perpendicular
drum shafts are preserved from material injury. — 29th
June — 2 months.
     To James Penny, of Low Nuthwaite, in the parish of
Coulton, in thecountv or Lancaster, mechanic, and Joseph
 Kendall, of Cockers Shell, in the parish of Ulverston, in
 the said county, turner, for their new and improved princi
 ple or plan for the making of pill- and other small boxes.—
 S9th June. — 6 months.
      To Charles VVilks, of Ballincolly, in the county of Cork,
 esq. for certain improvements 011 naves of wheels for car
 riages, and for centres of wheels for carriages, and for cen
 tres for wheels of machinery for various purposes. — 29th
 June.— 2 months.
      To John Ambrose Stickell, of Little Park Place, Lam
 beth, gentleman, for his alarm and machinery for the dis
 covery and detection of depredators in a house or premises.
 —1st July. — 6 months.
      To Edward Thoinason, of Birmingham, (manufacturer,)
  in the county of Warwick, for various improvements in the
  construction of whips. — 3d July. — i months.
      To Robert Adams, of Holborn, in the county of Middle
  sex, shoe-maker, for his method of preparing blacking,
  wherebv a higher polish is given and the leather better pre-
  eerved. — 7th July. — 2 months.
      To John Millard, of Cheapside, in the city of London,
   linen-draper, for his method of manufacturing cotton wool
  free from mixture into cloth for the purpose of regulating;
  perspiration. — 14th July. — 2 months.
      To John Clark, of Bridgewater, in the county of Somer
   set, grocer, for his method of making or constructing beds,
   pillows, hammocks, cushions, and various other articles of
   that kind. — 14th July. — 6 months.
      To Alexander Moody, of Long Lane, Southwark, in the
   county of Surry, tanner, for his method of tanning or
   dressing white, buff', or losh leather. —14th July. — 6 mon.
      To William Godfrey Kneller, of Croydon, in the county
   of Surry, chemist, for his method of manufacturing verdigrit
   of the same quality as is known in commerce bv the name
   of French verdigris. — 14th July. — 2 months.
      To George Ferguson, and Joseph Ashton, of Carlisle,
   »n fhc county of Cumberland, batters, for their improved
   >                                                        light

  154          List of Patents for new Inventions.
 light elastic water proof hat, commonly called a beaver.—
  14th July. — 2 months.
     To Robert Pretyman, of Ipswich, in the county of Suf
 folk, esq. for his improvement in the pan, touch-hole and
 pan cover of a gun lock. — i9th July. — 6 months.
   i
     To John Lewis, of Llanelly, in the county of Carmar
 then, assayer of metals, for his improvements in the art of
 smelting copper ore. — 23d July. — 6 months.
     To Charles James Mason, of Lane Delph, near New
castle under Lyne, in the county of Stafford, potter, for his
process for the improvement of the manufacture of English-
 porcelain. — 23d July. — 2 months.
     To Frederick Koenig, of Castle Street, Finsbury Square,
in the county of Middlesex, printer, for certain additional
improvements       on his methods of printing by means of
 machinery. — 23d July. — 6 months. ,
     To Richard Perring, of the Dock-yard, in the parish of
 Stoke Damarel, in the county of Devon, for his -anchor
 made on new principles, which consists first, in continuing
the grain of the iron from the shank into the arm similar to
 the shape of a knee or arm of a tree, whereby the necessity
 of effecting a junction at the crowns, as at present welded,
is superseded ; secondly, in carrying a piece of iron across
 the crown from the centre of each arm, making thereby a
 perfect truss, which when welded resembles the form of a
truss beam ; thirdly, in forming both the shank and arms
of flat bars placed so as .to act edgewise on the line of re
sistance when the anchor is in the ground ; and fourthly,
in forming the largest part of the shank one- third down
from the crown in a line across from toe to toe of the
arms. — 23d July. — 2 months.
     To Joseph Hamilton, of the city of Dublin, gentleman,
for his new applications of earths and other materials to
useful purposes. — 31st July. — 6 months.
     To William Horrocks, of Stockport, in the county of
 Chester, cotton manufacturer,     for further improvements to
a machine for weaving of cotton and other goods by hand,
 »team, water, or other power. — 31st July. — 2 months.
     To John Casson, of Liverpool, in the county palatine of
Lancaster, professor of music, for his machine which he
calls a Panagram, by which the blind can be taught to read
the languages, music, arithmetic, &c. by the touch or
feeling. — 9th August. — 2 months.
     To George Scott, of Alnwick, in the county of North
 umberland, whitesmith, for his machine for the purpose of
 cutting out men and women's wearing apparel and various
 other articles and things. — 9th August.— 6 months.        To

                    Meteorological Observations*             155
    To Edward Heard, of the parish of St. Luke, in the
county of Middlesex, chemist, for having discovered certain
processes for the manufacturing of glass. — 9th August.-—
6 months.
    To Robert Westfield, of St. James's Street, Clerkenwell,
and county of Middlesex, watchmaker, for certain improve
ments in horizontal watches. — 9th August. — 2 months.
    To John Hancock, of Reading, in the county of Berks,
gentleman, for improvements in the construction of car
riages, and in the application of a material hitherto unused
in the construction thereof. — 25th August. — 6 months.
    To John Naish, of the city of Bath, gentleman, for his
method of making moveable characters for composing
names and profession*. — 25th August. — 6 months.
    To Thomas Yate Hunt, of the Bratles, in the county of
Stafford, steel manufacturer,       for his improved back for
 scythes,    reaping-hooks, straw knives, and hay knives.—
 25th Aug. — 2 months.
    Meteorological Observations made at Capton in Hackney,
                from June 11 to July 16, 1813.
    June   ]\. — Fair  dav, with heavy clouds at times; cirri,
 qamuli, &c.       This morning early it was remarkably clear;
 but at night the moon was hazy.
     June 12. — Clouded over with nimbiform clouds in the
 morning, which occasionailv poured small rain ; the after
 noon became extremely clear, and the western horizon after
 sun-set was a bright and clear golden colour.
     June 13. — Clouded early, afterwards it became fine ; but
 there was much cloud all day, and a little gentle shower in
 the evening.      Night clear, with light cirri; some of which
 formed so rapidly as to be mistaken for the shootings of the
 aurora borealis.     Wind SVV.
     June 14. — Overcast, with a gentle wind from SVV, and
 misty atmosphere below ; small rain fell at times, particularly
 in the evening, whe'n it increased, and came in gentle
  showers.
      June 15. — Intervals of fair weather and of gentle showers ;
  the rain came down very hard towards evening, but the
 night was clear, except some cirrostratus and some few
 other flimsy clouds.      Thermometer 72.
     June   16. — Fair, with heavy clouds at times. Therm. 68.
  Wind westerly.
     June 17. — Fair morning; flimsy clouds ; showery after
 noon. Barometer rising at night. Therm, at 1 1 P.M. 48°.
                                                             June

                      Meteorological Observations
     June 18. — Cold north-east wind with heavy clouds, and
  tome rain early; afterwards when it cleared, there was cu~
  mulostratus of great magnitude and extensive continuity,
  and in the evening confluent cumuli and cirrus.                    The un
  der fringes of the clouds represented a brilliant golden hue
  about sunset.       The wind attained a gentle gale till mid
  night ; and the moon rose from spreading sheets of cloud.
  The thermometer at midnight 44°. The barometer 30. 20,
  and rising; and the air getting drier according to a hy
  grometer    *.
      June  1Q. — Cloudy       morning; in the afternoon the clouds
  showed a tendency to large confluent cirrocumulus in a calm
  air above; the night became clear. Cool westerly wind.
     June 20. — Clear morning, afterwards much cumulus and
  cumulostratus ; a cloudy night, with a cool northerly wind
  which had blown all day.
     June 21. — Reddish north-eastern horizon before sunrise,
 very clear morning; afterwards cumuli; in the evening
 elevated cirri in streaks appeared coloured of a reddish lake
 by the setting sun ; lower down cirrostrati stretched along,
  and, breaking outiinto rows of cirrocumulus, appeared dark
 coloured. Air cool, and wind northerly.
     June 22. — Fair early; heavy cumuloslrati ; and occa
 sionally nimbi and showers, with wind from north-east.
 The barometer sinking, but still high ; about 30. 30.
     June 23. — Clear with NE wind; afterwards cumuli ra
 pidly forming and evaporating, with fibrous cirri changing
 into small-grained flimsy rows of cirrocumulus ; beautiful
 appearance and changings of cirrus, first in a m'stlike then
 in a fibrous form, then it became cirrocumulus.                       Much
 irregular   cirrocumulus      and    some    cirrostratus   at night.
    June 24. — A great deal of nimbus continually forming and.
obscuring the sky, with occasional imbres ; the air rather
cool for June: and the evening became clearer, and the
 wind    NE.
    June 25. — Clear day, with cumuli, which were more
flimsy, extensive,        and confluent       in the morning, and fewer
in number and more insulated in the afternoon.                           The
thermometer       was about 65° at         its highest.     The barometer
30.30. Wind E. The evening was quite clear, a pale
pink blush above the very clear golden tint after the set
sun.     The same pink fringe very faint appeared also in the.
opposite horizon.
   * The bat (vespertilio
                           marina) was flying about at midnight. I have ge
nerally noticed that this animal   is more frequent in spring and autumn than
during the middle of summer.
                                                                        Jun»

                made at Oxford and at Southampton.                    157
     June 26. — Clouded over early     ; afterwards when       it cleared
up there was much cumulus, but the nimbiform appearances
went off ; the evening became clear ; wind NE.
     June 27. — Fair day ; cirri fibrous and stretched in fili
form bundles chiefly in direction from NE to SW.                  Cumuli
sailed along below, afterwards freckled cirrocumulus. Wind
in unequal but gentle gusts.         Therm. up at 70°.
     June 28. — Wind easterly and variable, chiefly cloudy,
with features of various modifications mixed in a darker
and cloudy sky, and showing the materials for showers,
which afterwards came down with calm wind.                        In the
evening there came a thunder shower from the east, fol
lowed by lightning through the night. Therm, in midday,
66°, at 1 1 P.M. 56°. The barometer fell to 29. 95.
     June 29. — Very muggy, warm morning; the sun's light
being pale from the mistiness of the air.                    I discerned
through-the        mist  cumulostratus   of   that    rocklike  and pe
culiar look which precedes          thunder      showers; also some
features of cirrocumulus; the blackness came on and
threatened rain ; but it was one o'clock before it fell, when
a hard thunder shower came up with the wind from the
westward.         The streams of rain were at first very large and
separate, but became smaller as the storm advanced.                   The
thermometer,        which  before  was   72°,   fell   to and  remained
during the storm at about 65°.              It became fair at times,
 but the night was rainy.
     June 30. — Hard rain almost all day, without cessation.
 Therm, about 52° at 3 P.M.           Barom. 29. 72. Wind SW.
     July 1. — Wind SW. Showery all day, at night smaller
and more gentle rain. Therm. 11 PiM. 53°.
 Meteorological Observations        made at Oxford,         from July    2
                           to July  5, 1813.
   ,           —
      July 2. Fair morning, with cumuli;             clouded   afternoon
 with    a little rain.
      July  3.— .-Clear and clouded at times, cumulostratus, &c.
      July 4. — Clear morning, with only cumuli; in the evening
 there were cirri, cumulostratus,        and some features of thi
  other modifications; fine coloured sunset.
      July 5. — Clear, with cumuli in the morning ; in the even
 ing were cirri, and the sun set in clouds.
 Meteorological Observations         made at Southampton,            from
                        July  6 to July   8, 1813.
      July  6. — Clear, with much cirrus, cumulus, &c; in the
 eyening, sky full of large fibrous cirri; some crossing each
                                                                     other

  158                  Meteorological Observations
 other looked like great crosses in the sky : their different
 direction really arose from difference of altitude, which not
 being discerned readily from below gave the phenomenon
 the look of a cross.
      July 1. — Fine day, cumuli, cirri, &e. ; fine golden'
 colour at sunset from the refraction by the fringes of cu-
 mulostratus, the groundwork or mist colour being yellow*.
    July 8. — Fair, with various clouds ; fine sunset.
     July 9. — A storm in the morning, afterwards fair day
 with cumuli and cirri, and calm air.
 Meteorological Observations made at Clapton in Hackney,
                  from July 10 to July 23, 1813.
                —
     July 10. Fair, with various clouds.
    July    11. — Fair,    with much cumulus and cirrus.
    July    12. — Fair and     hot; the cirrus appeared early scat
 tered about; there were cumuli, &c. through the day.                    At
midday, thermometer 78°.
     July 13. — The different modifications appeared : a warm
 day. Therm, midday about 7i°.
     July '14. — Warm south-westerly wind with clouded sky,
 and gentle and frequent showers of calm small rain. Ther
mometer at 11 P.M. 5£>°.
    July 15. — Rain more or less all day; it began about nine
in the morning, got harder about two, with a change of
 wind from southerly to NW. and held up for a short time
in the evening.
    July l6f- — Clear early, flocky cumuli then appeared,
becoming cumulostratus, mklike and dense, with west wind;
a cirrostratus which I perceived in the NE. before sunrise,
indicated that the then change to clearness was not to be
of long continuance. During the day, slight nimbi formed,
and poured a little rain.          Alter four P.M. I observed tu-
berculated rocklike cumuli rather low down, while some
what higher up a sort of cloud more confused and mistlike/
but dense in the middle, and with cirrous edges, appeared,
as a sort of nascent nimbus, whose actions were as yet
faint; much of this kind of cloud prevailed, and some of
   * The scudlike cumuli which 8oated along in the under current appeared
lower than they generally do further from the sea, in inland counties.
   t The general appeai auce of the weather renders it probable that the
vulgar superstition about St. Swithin may be strengthened again this year,
by a long continuance of rainy weather. 'This popular belief* that a rainj
15th of July is followed by thirty-nine more rainy days, has been so of tea
verified in my memory, that I am induced to think there may be some na
tural causes why rainy weather about this time of year should be of long du
ration.  The number of forty days and the fable about St. Swithin are, of
course, only vulgar additions of ignorance and credulity.

                           made at Clapton.                      159
the nimbi pouring drops were not very dense. There were
also large rocklike cumuloslrali with cirrostrati on their
summits. Starlight evening.          I observed a falling star in
the SW about 10 P.M.              Jn the twinkling of a star of
about 30° altitude in the SW, I noticed the alternate ap
pearance of deep red and of the common brass-coloured light;
and this red as occasioned by refraction of our atmosphere;
and if so, why was it only alternately and for about a se
cond of time of this colour?
   July 17. — Fair morning with cumuli; afterwards large
cumulosirati with misty atmosphere obscured the sky after
noon, with slight 7iimbi and showers.            The night was
clear, and the moon rose bright and well defined.             Wind
 westerly.    Thermometer      11  P.M. 51°.   Barometer    rising.
    July 18i — Fair day ; cumulus, cnmulostratns, and cirrus
 above, of flimsy and of fibrous kind; fine clear night; haze-
 over the set sun pale yellowish.       Wind westerly.
    July 10 Before sunrise, about four o'clock this morn
 ing, 1 observed a long band of cloud of a sort of loose cir
 rous texture, the fibres whereof were stretched at right an
 gles to the direction of the band ; the said band was about
 35° of elevation, and extended from NW to SE across
 theN and E. It refracted a reddish brown colourinclining
 here and there to lake, or to yellowish.       At the same time
 low down in the NE horizon cirrostrati stretched along in
 the same direction refracted a reddish and a golden colour.
 Cumuli and cumulostratus through the day increased, and
 obscured the welkin ; showers came on about noon ; during
 afternoon it cleared, and broken features of the different
 modi ficatiops appeared of nimbiform figures; mistlikecirraj;
 low down dense black cumulostratus, cirroslratus,?x.c.
    July 20. — Wind got to east ; cirri aloft, while cumuli
 large and rocklike, also cumulostratus, sail along below ; in
 the evening fine erubescence above the set sun ; cirri refract
 also a crimson light; cloudy with rain late at night, and
 very warm, with falling barometer.
    July 21. — Clouded morning, with NE wind and small
 rain ; in the afternoon the clouds cleared off for a short
 time, reddish haze. Thermometer 1 1 P.M. 58.
     July 22. — Cloudy morning; after it cleared up,           I  ob
 served    a tendency in     the  higher clouds  to  cirrocumulut,
 while large cumuli, &c. rolled on below in the SW wind.
     July 23. — Showery weather; thunder about four o'clock.
   Clapton, July 24, 18tf.                   THOMAS FoRSTER.
                                                        ItfETEORO

100                                                             Meteorology,
                                             METEOROLOGICAL TABLE,
                       Br Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                      For August 1813.
                                                                                               j!
                           Thermometer.                                                    5- u      .
                                                                                           Q'-S «
                                                                         Height of
 Divs of                                                                                   SJ
                                                                                           %
                       o'Clock,
                                                                                                    £
                                                                         the Barom.                         Weath
                                  Morning.
                                              Noon.   o'clock   Night.
 Month.
                                                                          Inches.
                       8                               1
                                                       1                                   Q   C    IB
  July    27           62                    73        60                29'92                 66        Fair
          28           63                    77        62                30-23                 78        Fair
          29           63                    77        66                  -22                 72        Fair
         30            66                    7S        66                29 95                 78        Fair
         31            64                    74        66                30-02                 75        Fair
August      1          69                    75        62                  -09                 CO        Cloudy
                       62                    73        61                29-96                 56        Cloudy
           6 5 4 3 2
                       66                    70        62                  '97                 50        Showery
                       60                    69        58                  -86                 51        Showery
                       59                    68        55                  -55              46           Showery
                       60                    67        61                  -80              40           Cloudy
                       60                    74        60                30-01              66           Fair
           8 7                                                                              60
                       61                    74        61                29-99                           Cloudy
           9           60                    75        62                30-08              66           Fair
          10           62                    77        63                   -18                72        Fair
          U            63                    77        64                  -18                 70        Fair
          12           66                    83        65                    08                82        Fair
          13           63                    68        57                   -01                66        Fair
          14           60                    69        60                29 96                 65        Fair
          15           64                    70        55                   -95                60        Fair
          16           60                    69        60                   -90                57        Fair
         1.71          61                    70        58                   .89                57        Cloudy     .
         18            60                    69        55                   -95                56        Fair
         19            58                    68        54                30-27                 50        Fair
         SO            56                    65        52                  -26                 57        Fair
         CI            52                    60        54                  -10                 40        Cloudy
         22            55                    57        50                29- 70                36        Showery
         23            56                                                3010                  56        Fair
                                                                                                                        .
                                             65        54
          24.          54                    66        53                   -32                58        Fair
         25            54                    65        54                   -32                65        Fair
         26            56                    65        55                   -30                64        Fair
                KB.                The         Barometer's                height   is   taken at one o'clock.

                           C
                                161   ]
     XXVlL      On Electricity.     By Ez. Walker, Esq.
                        To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,    A fter all the hypotheses that have been invented to
explain the phenomena of electricity, philosophers'still en
 tertain various opinions respecting the electric fluid.  Some
maintain that the spark is produced by two fluids passing
through each other in contrary directions, forming a double
cm rent 5 but others are of opinion, that it consists of only
one divided into two parts, which they call positive and
negative electricity ; whilst others even hesitate to admit
the existence of the electric fluid, as completely established.
    As many of the phenomena of nature are produced by
electrical energy, and as no conclusion drawn from doubt
ful principles can be admitted in philosophy, it seems in
dispensably necessary, that this disputed point should be
determined by clear and satisfactory experiments.
    When a card is perforated by an electric spark, it is well
known that a bur is raised on each side. This experiment
 has often been advanced as a proof that two positive powers
pass through the card in contrary directions ; but this con
clusion is too hypothetical to be admitted as a physical
truth, and every other experiment that has yet been made
to investigate this point, is equally uncertain.
    As many of the effects of electricity are strictly mechani
cal ; the following expeiiments demonstrate, on that prin
ciple, that the electric spark consists of two forces passing.
through each otbtr in contrary directions.
    Experiment 1. Let a piece of tin -foil, about two inches
long and an inch broad, ba laid between two cards, with
their ends fixed together with gum-water or varnish ; and
let ABCi) (fig. 2. Plate II.) represent those cards when,
laid on a table, cp a piece of wire laid upon the cards, and.
n h another piece of wire laid under them ; the distance he
between the ends of the wires being; about an inch.
   A charge from a large Leyden jar being passed through
the wires, a perforation was made in the top card at e, with
art indent downwards, in the tin-foil and bottom card, un
der that point.    The under card was also perforated at the
end of the wire h, and at that point the tin-fuil and upper
card were indented vpivards.
    This experiment was repeated many times, without any
variation in the phenomena, except that one end of the
tin-foil was sometimes perforated.
   Now it is evident from this experiment, that the power
Vol.42. No. 1S5. Sept. 1813.               h              from

162                           On   Electricity.
from the inside of the jar passed from p to n, because an
indent was made downwards at the point e; and it is also
evident, that the power from the outside of the jar passed
in the direction from n to p, as an indent was made up
wards at the point h.    Hence we may fairly conclude, that
the electric spark consists not of one power only, but of
two distinct positive powers acting in contrary directions
and towards each other.
   Experiment 2.     I placed a single cafd upon a table,
with a piece of wire upon it and another piece under      so   it,
that their ends were one above the other; then two other
cards were taken, and      piece of tin-foil placed upon the
                               a
centre of each.    One of these cards was placed under the
bottom wire, with the tin-foil upwards, and the other was
placed upon the top wire, the tin-foil being downwards.
   An electric charge being passed through the two wires
produced the same phenomena as those before mentioned;
the middle card was perforated, the tin-foil Upon the under
card was indented downwards, but that upon the upper was
indented upwards.
 I   communicated these experiments to Mr. Murray, phi
losophical lecturer, requesting him to repeat them, and the
following     extracted from his answer, dated Swaffham,
              is
17th July, 1813
   " took single card," says Mr. Murray, " and placed
                        :
         1        a
one wire above it and another below, with the ends one
above the other," &c. and proceeded as you direct: the
result proved your conclusion to be correct, for the tin
foil both above and below the perforation was indented and
in  contrary directions.
    " The theory of 'two powers moving contrariwise re
ceives validity from the following experiment.      The cards
and tin-foil slips being used as before,    placed two points
                                                  I
below instead        one, with one alwe
                       of                   two corresponding
                                                  ;
indents were made on the tin-foil upwards and only one
downwards.        reversed the experiment, and the two points
                   I
being above the card, there appeared two indents down
wards and only one upwards.
     "
     I   repeated these with uniform phaenomena and un
varying results.
   "You will think,
*
                           doubt not, with me, that the last
                            I
mode  of conducting the experiment places the subject in             a
point of view, beyond   doubt of the conclusion we have
                               a
mutually-drawn.
             (<
             I        am, dear sir, with great respect, &c.
                                                      "J. MURRAIN'   .

                             On Electricity.                           163
    By comparing the indents made in the tin-foil, it ap
 pears that the two      forces acting in contrary directions are
 nearly equal ; but as no satisfactory conclusion could be
 drawn from these phaenomena, I contrived an electrometer,
 by which these forces are compared to a3 great a degree of
 precision as the nature of the subject seems to require.
    In fig. 3. Plate II. ABCD is a card placed in a vertical
  position upon a stand ; EF, two thiri pieces of mahogany
 which slide upon the card, by means of slits cut in their!
 with a fine saw.
    px and nx two pieces of wire sliding through E and F;
px is placed on one side of the card and nx on the other,
 their ends being opposite to ons another at the point x..
    G, a piece of wood fixed upon the top of the card, from
 which two pendulums of equal dimensions. and weight are
 suspended at I, on opposite sides of the card, having the
 centres of their bobs covering the points of the wires at x.
 One of these pendulums ax is suspended on this side of
 the card, upon the pin b ; but the other, being on the other
 side of the card, is not seen in the figure.             The pendulum
 rods are made of very thin slips of mahogany, and the bobs
 of card paper.                                                     .    .
                                                                           -
    When the instrument Is adjusted, the ends of the wjr«»
 are placed exactly between the two centres of the bobs at x,
 where a small circular opening is made, between the ends
of the two pieces of wood, to give free passage to-tbe elec
 tric fluid.
    When a charge from a coated surface is passed through
 the wires, the card is perforated, and the pendulum* are
 thrown off in contrary directions ; and, as far as I am able
to judge by inspection, to equal distances from the perpen
dicular*.
    Hence it appears an established law of nature, that all
electrical phenomena are produced, by two distinct powers
acting in contrary directions, and with equal energy.
    And these invisible agents seem to exist in every particJe
of matter, either in a state of. rest or a sta'e of action; ac
cording to their different modifications.                But till that law
which governs these modifications shall be perfectly un
derstood, we must be content with observing effects, with
out knowing their causes.
. To be continued in my next communication.
                T am, dear sir, your obedient servant,
   Lynn, August 4, 1813.                                 £z. Wa LKER.
   * As the wires nxp and the
                                 point of suspension of the pendulums   arc
adjustable, the same sard id ay serve for many' experiments.
.                               La                        XXVIII. Mr.

                               C   16*     v )
 XXVIIT. Mr. Fakev's            Reply to     Mr. Eakewgll's Letter
    in our last Number, &c. viz.             on   tlie great Derbyshire
    Fault. — Mr. B's Lectures. — Stage-coach Geology. — The
    great Southern Denudation. — Limestone resting               on Slate.
    -*-The great Limestone Fault, &c.
                          To    Mr.   Tilloch.
 Sib,— -Herewith I have sent the third* of six letters
 addressed to you, containing my reply to Mr. Bakewell,
 and Notes on his Geology, which were written in July last,
 according to their dates, but which Letters I shall continue
 sending singly, as your work proceeds, in order that I may
 interline on their opposite blank pages, such further re
 ferences or remarks as may from time to time occur to me.
      Mr. Bakewell's second letter, inserted at page 121,
 seems to call for several remarks, which had better he made
 here, than by the interlineations above alluded to*
    The conclusion of my first Letter (p. 59) sufficiently in
 dicated, that a full answer to Mr. B. on the great Derbyshire
Fault and other points at issue, was in train, to hare
spared him the trouble of a repetition of his Queries so
vauntingly addressed to me in your work. On the prin
cipal subject of which queries, I had certainly no need of
twelve months (p. 122) to answer Mr. B., by .saying, in
four words, Read the Derby. Report, as I might have done,
because there, very clear answers to his queries were already
printed, see p. 100 herein.
    Those who have examined my Map, Plate I. in your
xxxixth vol. or my Report, vol. i. must be fully aware,
that I have spoken of three great faults, by the names of
the " Derbyshire," the        "  Limestone," and the " Zigzag"
Faults ; yet Mr. B. so often speaks of them in the singular
(p. 123, 1. 22 and 23, &c.) and confounds his objections to
them together, that all the attention which I had been able
to bestow on his letter and book, was not sufficient to
guard me from errors, in p. 103, lines 17 and 25-, in men
tioning two faults instead of three, and in page 112, in
saying, that one of them," the great Limestone fault," had
escaped Mr. B's open attack ; because I now discover, that
he alluded to this Fault in vol. xl. near the bottom of p. 45
 (although not before named), and near the bottom of p. 124
herein.
   * Want of room obliges me. to defer till next number the Letter referred
to by Mr. Farey, commencing the terie« of N*tis on Mr. Bakewell's Geo
logy—A. T.

         Mr.     Farey's Reply         to   Mr, Bakewell's Letter.               163
   In p. 121, as well as in p. 2i2 of his Geology, Mr. B.
has pretended to repeat my description of     the great Der   "
byshire Fault,"  without having had the candour to acknow
ledge, that I had not spoken positively of      except from       it,
Nottingham to near Cheadle, had represented       principally        it
by   a dotted instead of      full line on my Maps, and
                                      a
had spoken respecting these parts, rather in the form of
queries toother observers, proposed,    hope, with that mo
                                                     I
desty which becomes           sincere inquirer after truth, not
                                  a
withstanding Mr. B's unhandsome insinuations to the con
trary, at the bottom of p. 123.
    Another material feature of my description, of the part
of this fault which        had fully examined, viz. that its rise
                              I
.is represented to commence or to be imperceptible near Not
 tingham (Red Marl being there On both sides) and to increase
westward on its north side to Ramsor in Staffordshire (see
my Map, (p. 97, and p. 165, &c. of Report i.), these have
 been wholly overlooked          Mr. B. (see p. 122) although,
                                      by                                :
if   two Observers, who could distinguish gravel from strata,
 were to set out from near Nottingham and proceed for
 Ramsor, one might keep along upon the same (nearly level)
 Red Marl strata on the south side of this Fault, and the
 other might proceed on its north side, continually passing
on to lower strata, viz. first NW to near Annesley, to the
 top of the lower yellow lime Rock, then turning WNW,
 along Mr. Silverwood's probable lineof section, which          to               is
shaw     " al! the known Derbyshire   strata" (see    10) to near  p.   1
 Slaley, on the top of the 4th LimestoneRock, and thence, first
 W and then SW, over the edges of the beds of this Rock
 in succession, perhaps 300 yards deep in                      it,
                                                   to the corner
 of the fault near Ramsor when by only few steps across
                                      ;                    a
 the same, he might join his companion, on the very stra
 tum on which they both set out
     Instead of "
                                                 !
                      calm investigation" of these simple and
                      a
 important facts, Mr. B. has chosen to introduce the figura
 tive expressions "      rent or fracture of the earth's surface
                            a
 which has torn the island," (p. 121), " rent of such vasta
magnitude,"           (p.     122),    "a     rent   of   the island,"          (Geo.
p. 213), &c.
 I     have neither gravely" or otherwise " asserted, that
                            "
such fault
       a          "
              as Mr. B. has quoted from Dr. Kidd (p. 122)
extends in the direction mentioned, but the contrary of
this, see p. 107 and 108; because the Doctor's broken
House, having nothing above its garrets but the roof and
atmosphere, could not do otherwise than form        step or                 a
diff     by   the side   of the fracture     :   and I    lament to be called
                                            L  3                                      on

  166        Mr.     Farey's Reply       to Mr. BakewelVs Letter.
  on here to add, that such a familiar and simple illustration
  as this, is so defective, as to be unworthy of the science,
  and of the pages wherein Mr. B. has placed it.
     Mr'. B. says at p. 123, speaking of Nottingham, that he
 understands me to maintain, that " the sand rock which
  rises from the vale of the Trent, owes its elevation to this
  fault," (see also p. 212, of his Geology), whereas no in
  ference more contrary to all that I have said, could have
  been made: — in Rep. i. 132, I have mentioned Nottingham
 to be seated on Gravel Rock or concreted Gravel (the u sand
  rock"of Mr. B.) lieing on the horizontal Red Marl, here but
 little if at all deranged by the fault, as above mentioned herein;
 in Rep. i. 4tia, I have represented the vale of the Trent to be
 excavated in this Red Marl, and at p. 132, I have spoken
 of the probability, that the parts torn from the southern
 end of the forest mass of Gravel (not by the fault, but by
 the external force which excavated the valley) have been
 scattered up this valley, across Derbyshire, into Stafford
  shire.
     Is it not rather extraordinary, under this mistaken im
 pression hy Mr. B. that Nottingham, at the commencement
 of the Fault, should be the only place which he is able to
 refer to? (p. 123), as having been explored ly him, in
 search of a phsenomenon, stretching across all Derbyshire,
 and of which he says, p. 122, that I had traced its course
 with such minuteness, in my Map of Derbyshire !
     Mr. B. has no right to dictate to me the number of words
 or of pages, in which I shall reply to his attacks on my
 Geological facts and deductions,                   which notwithstanding
 what he has said in p. 123, commenced in his Lectures at
 Manchester, if not earlier, as appears from the Letter of a
 friend in that Town, now before me, dated November 8,
 181 1 (not five months after my first volume appeared) ; and
 From various other quarters in the mean time, have I been
informed, that, what Mr. B. conceived to be " faults" in
my work, he held up thus unfairly, in caricature, to the
censure of incompetent judges, as a great part of his au
diences necessarily must be, while a great portion of the
facts published by me, were detailed by him, as the results
purely of his own investigations *.
     That these were the features of Mr. B's unfair verbal
    * Mr.   E*« " Advertisement"    stitched in your 183d Number, intimates,
that  the facts illustrative of the principles laid down in his " Introduction to
Geology," are exclusively
                               " drawn from different parts of England and
Wales, which tht author has examined, " and " the most .important observa
tions and recent discoveries of eminent Gtolugists on the Continent !"
                                                                   proceedings

         Mr.   Farey's Reply   to   Mr. Bakewell's Letter.              1 67
  proceedings towards me, few will hereafter doubt, I think,
  who have impartially read his Geology and my Notes
  thereon, which through your kindness shall appear, as fast
  as is consistent    with the claims of your other Correspon
 dents ; and although Mr. B. will doubtless accuse me, of
 introducing much therein that is extraneous, I have reason
 to hope, that new facts, and references to published and
 perhaps forgotten ones, with inferences drawn therefrom,
 bearing on the points under discussion, will not be deemed
 impertinent by you, sir, or by a large portion of your readers.
    That Mr. B. who so rarely in his Geology or his Letters,
 distinguishes those local Geological observations which he
 has himself made from those which he ha-* borrowed from
 others, and still more rarely has marked the situations with
 precision; should deem it impertinent in me (p. 121), to
 have distinguished those places which I had seen in my
 late excursion, from those which I had not seen, and which
 I otherwise might have been supposed to be equally ac
 quainted with, I am not at all surprised : but that in his
 sneers at my " stage-coach Geology," as he is pleased to
 term it,  he should say, that from the top of         coach, "the
                                                       a
 colour of rocks" "      is  almost all that can be seen,"      is
                                                                very
 extraordinary, and will stand against him, as shall show be
                                                  I
 low, as proof, of his small acquaintance with the Smithiafi
        a
 principles of Mineral Surveying (see       p.    105), high as his
 pretensions   stand   on this head,  Geo. p.   361.
    Mr. B. has not the claim of originality            this sneer at
                                                       in
(<
    stage-coach Geology;" for       a similar one appeared in the
Edinburgh Review, several months ago, in             Review of the
                                                       a
celebrated Survey of the Environs of Paris, of which            pre
                                                                a
liminary Abstract   is    insertedin  your xxxvth volume,        36,
                                                                p.
and whereon several remarks of mine are made, at page 13.           1
In these remarks (note on p. 130),         I     mentioned having
made and circulated among my friends,            in.1806,   qSection
of the Strata between London and Brighton, in order to
show the leading facts of the Great Southern Denudation,
which   I'  had discovered in the preceding year (Rep.                  i.
117   N),  and   to obtain their corrections and further obser
vations.
    From that anxiety which   I     then felt, and trust thatj          al
ways shall feel, to show as clearly as possible, the grounds
on which my Geological deductions have been founded,                    I
mentioned in the Title thereon, the different journeys »' on
stage coaches," which    I      had made along this. line, while
collecting   and   revising my materials.      One of (.hese copies
  -                           L4                            happening

168      Mr.  Farey's Reply   to  Mr. Bakewell's Letter.
happening to have fallen under the notice of a learned
Hutlonian Illustrator, he (as I have been told by a friend),
in the anonvmous Review above mentioned, after having
bestowed extravagant encomiums on a Section across part
of the Basin of Paris (as it has improperly been called)
which is nevertheless much confused, and so distorted,, as to
be of little or no use for explaining the district, owing to
a scale for heights, 35 times as large as the scale for lengths,
having been used in constructing it ! and not being co
loured, although intended so to be, took occasion to cen
sure this Section of mine, across the south part of England,
merely because of its " stage-coach observations ;" ! forV
getting, that he was unnecessarily comparing the elaborate
production of two or more pensioned individuals of a,
foreign Court, splendidly published    at public expense, with
the professedly first and rough sketch (gratuitously circu
lated) of an individual made at his own cost : and forgetting
also, that before publicly and unneces«arily disparaging the
 productions of a country-man, in favour of those ot fo
reigners, it was incumbent on him to have shown, that the
former were incorrect, and not calculated to answer their
intended purpose : a task in which he might perhaps have
felt somewhat puzzled : however, I venture here to invite
him, and all other contemners of " stage-coach Geology,
to make the trial, and publish their observations.
   But to return to Mr. B. — I beg to assure him, that the
colour of Rocks has been among the least important of
my ?( stage-coach observations," although it may have
happened, that I have written a good deal " about yellow
Limestone and Red Marl," (p. 124) : and that I and others
of the Smithian School, can see also, " in this mode of
examining nature," the form, not only of individual Rocks
and Hills, but of the Country; the surface soil, whether
composed in general of alluvium foreign to the district,
or of the rubble and decomposed substance of the strata
beneath; in which discriminations, the kind and state of
the spontaneous and cultivated vegetable productions, are
important helps : in short, from the combination of a com
petent knowledge of rural affairs in general, with practical
Mining knowledge, we are able to discern the positions and
successions of the strata, except in rare instances, even in
thus hastily crossing a district.
   The travelling Notes, for instance, which I made on first
crossing from London to Brighton, fully agree with, and
are almost    sufficient for' making the Section, which re-.
                                                          suited

        Mr. Fatey's Reply     to Mr. Bakewell's Letter.      169
suited   from collating the separate Notes, made in four or
five subsequent journeys, some by the other Roads, and for
correctly describing the positions. of the strata and leading
geological features of the district (without pretending that
it is accurate in all respects); although previous to this jour
ney, I had been given to understand, that the district was
differently constructed in every respect. Mr. Smith not
having then examined much of the two most south-easteru
counties of England, but trusting too much to the infor
mation of others, had concluded, and delineated on his
Map (a copy of part of which I possess, made in 1801), the
North and South Downs of chalk, extending from Dover
to Guilford and Farnham, and thence near to Petersfield and
Lewes to Beachy-Head, as parts of an tipper rock of chalk,
situated above the London Clay ; but my " stage-coach
observations," when a mere tyro in Mineral Surveying,
were sufficient to show at once, the true structure of this
 curious part of our island,
     Fn my Paper, so unhandsomely treated by certain leading
persons in the Geological Society (p. 55 Note),      I  was de
 sirous of explaining as fully and clearly as possible, the
principles and practice of this important art, of the use and
 value of which, I desire no better test, than the oppor
 tunity, to make a sufficient number of "stage-coach"
journeys in suitable weather, across a district (anywhere
 situated) either before or after an elaborate Mineral or
 Geological Survey of the same has been made by others.
 in order to show, whether the true and useful Geological
 features of a country, can by this means be obtained, or
 not.
     We will then, if the parties please, descend to apply
 the same principles, (and quickly too', by adequate assist
 ance) to the tracing of every characteristic or ' useful stra
 tum, and to the filling up, of a Mineral Map of the surface,
 however large, notwithstanding that Mr. B. says positively,
 {it p. 125, that
                   " this can only be opp ied to small districts
 or estates," (see also p. 255 Geo.) — The other two "modes
 of forming a Geological Map," mentioned by Mr. B.              I
  will gladly leave in his quiet possession, and that of his
  geognostic associates.
     Mr. B. says, p. 124, that I persist   " in objecting to the
  identity of the limestone of Craven in Yorkshire, with that
  of the High Peak in Derbyshire;" forgetting, that more
  than 15 months ago (vol. xxxix. p. 427) I stated my
  grounds of dissent from his opinion, and requested that he
  would inform u§, whether the succession upwards, from
                                                            what

  .170      Mr. Farey's Reply     to Mr. Bakeivell's Letter.
   what he calls the 4th Limestone, is the same, or at all
   allied, to that 1 have described in Derbyshire ? but above
   all, whether he was able to detect, all or any considerable
   proportion of the species of shells and other Reliqilia in
   the Yorkshire Limestone, that the late Mr. William Martin
   has figured and described in bis * Petrificata Derbiensia ?' ;
   and that to this call he has remained silent, although in the
   interval he has published two Letters, and a work of 362
   pages, expressly on the subject of English Geolugv.
       To undefined or fanciful " Geological relations " (p. 1 24),
   as well as to the opinions of any Men, whose grounds for
    the same are not fullv known, I pay little or no respect
    (wishing that my opinion, under the same circumstances,
    should receive none), but that a position so supported,
    " may still safely be doubted," p. 59, I must again repeat.
       It may be useful here, to contrast Mr. B's Geognostio
                             ,c
   rule (p. 126 herein).        In every district, the lowest rock
   which rises to the su'face in different parts, may be consi
   dered as the fundamental rock, giving the true geological
   character to that district," with his application of the same, in
   maintaining, that Slate is the fundamental rock of Burnsal,
   vol. xl. p. 46, and also of the whole Peak of Derbyshire,
    &c. (by inference, although some parts of the 4th Lime
   stone Rock are more than 80 mites distant from the Slate
   of Ingleborough), because the same^slate) appears(in Chapel-
   le-dale) at the ba«e of Ingleborough (distant 21 miles) and
   in Swaledale, (Ivy Bridge, the nearest place in which Dale, to
   Burnsal, is distant 22 miles) see Get), p. 279 ; yet when
   I  have suggested, that the limestone covering Slate (p. 59),
   between Lancaster and Kendal, may be the same as that
    which covers slate in Ingleborough mountain (distant only
    13 milts), Mr. B. objects, and says (p, 124), that these are
   different districts, and cannot prove or disprove the ques
   tion, as to the identity of the Limestones and their sub
   jacent Slates : and yet in Mr. B's Geology, p. 281, we had
   been told, that the Derbyshire Limestone extends into Lan
   cashire, and rests upon slate ! I still repeat, this may fairly
   be doubted, " which is all I contend for," and hope that
   the doubt may soon be cleared up, by precise facts.
       Mr. B. p. 124, speaking of the great Limestone Fault,
    under the title of my " imaginary great fault," says, " of
    which I think he will find it difficult to offer any direct
   proof."     If, in addition to the many facts stated in my Re
   port,  and through Mr. Hall, p. ] 13, it be thought, that I have
^  offered no direct proof, as to its course on the S side of
  -Ga&leton, I can fortunately now offer an. «dditional one, on
                                                                 the

                        Gn definite Proportions,                 171
the SW side of that Town. Mr. H. has informed me,
that some time ago he was visited by James Meadows, Esq.
of Piccadilly, in Manchester (the very able Agent for the
Peak-Forest and several others of the Canals near Man
chester), who previous to purchasing one of his Models,
had Mr. Hall out with him, to explain the leading features
of the strata of the district, and that in this excursion, they
came to the large Lime Quarries (called Black-hole, ge
nerally) at the head of the Peak-Forest Rail-way (Rep. i.
988, 299, and 409), and that here the Quarriers had worked
up to, and cut passages through the fault-stuff, leaving three
great pillars standing, against which the 3d Toadstone had
abutted, and that Mr. M. was so struck with the import
ance of preserving these, as monuments of the existence of
this great Limestone Fault, that he gave directions, that
the masses of fault-stuff above mentioned, should on no
account be disturbed : — here therefore, Mr. B. may again
he gratified, by measuring, analysing, &c. whenever it suits
 him,   see p.  jq6.
    Mr. B's   want of candour in quoting passages, which he
marks with inverted commas, in several places, will be
seen, particularly^!! p. 124, where he wishes improperly to
accuse me, of overlooking the" outline" character of his
                                        "
Geological Map, see p. 56 ; and he has for this purpose, in
 terpolated the word only before           to trace an outline," &c
in quoting from his Geology, p. 255, and in the middle
 of the continuation of this same extract, has omitted the
 words,   "  which were it attainable, 'he. although they are
 material words, as referring to Mr. B's assertion, of the im
practicability of making accurate Maps of large districts,
 on which point I have already spoken in this Letter,
             And am, sir,
                         Your obedient servant,
   Westminster, Sept. 2, 1813.                    JOHN FAREY sen.
 XXIX. An Attempt         to determine the definite and simple   Pro
    portions, in which the constituent Parts of utiorganic Sub
    stances are united with each other.          By Jacob Berze-
    lius, Professor of Medicine and Pharmacy, and M.R.A.
                                                                     '
    Stockholm.                                                     ,
                          (Continued from p. 142.)
     XXL Addition, relative to Organic                  Bodies.
                                to Gilbert in Manuscript.]
 I have
            [Communicated                                          ,
            expressed a conjecture in this essay, that certain
 bodies   may    be' capable of lower degrees of oxidation,
                                                                 than

J 7*                       On definite Proportions.
than those which have hitherto been considered as com
binations with oxygen at a minimum ; sulphur, for in
stance, and iron.   With respect to the latter, in particular,
I have conjectured that iron may exist in organic bodies in
such a lower degree of oxidation.     The products of organic
nature will not, at first sight, agree with the laws to which
I have been led for the composition of unorganized bodies!
it was therefore my intention to undertake, in a future
essay, the examination of organic bodies, and to begin with
the simplest, the oils and the vegetable acids.        But the
more I have employed myself in these experiments, the
more I have been convinced, that the chemical data re
lating to organic bodies are not yet numerous enough, and,
with very few exceptions, not sufficiently accurate.     I shall
therefore content myself with showing in what manner, by
investigations of inorganic nature, we may gradually arrive
at results which are to be expected in organized bodies.
   We will begin with the lower degree of oxidation of
sulphur, which has been mentioned as a conjecture, and
endeavour to determine            it,   by
                                 calculation, from the analysis
of    sulphureted    hydrogen,          according    to the analogy      of the
combinations of carbon with oxygen and with hydrogen,
which we must therefore examine more particularly in the,
first place,
                      1.) Carbon and Oxygen.
   According   to  Allen   and Pepys, 100 cubic inches of car
bonic  acid  gas weigh 47'26 grains, and 100 cubic inches^
of oxygen gas 33*82 grains; the carbonic acid gas confain-
ing also an equal bulk, that is, 33-82 grains of oxygen,
and consequently 13-44 of carbon: according to their di
rect experiments,     100 parts of carbonic acid consist of
2S-4S parts or carbon (from graphite or plumbago); and
according to the statical experiment, of
           Carbon                 28'43~        100 000
           Oxygen                 71*563       251*636
   According to Gay- Lussac's experiments, 100 cubic inches
of gaseous carbonic oxide condense 50 cubic inches of
oxygen, giving 100 of carbonic acid,                        If
                                                    we substitute
weight  for measures,     we  find     the   in
                                           gaseous oxide   com       a
bination of carbon with half as much oxygen as in carbonic
acid gas, and   itconsists of
          Carbon      .
                      . .    . 44*283
                              :   .             100-000
          Oxygen                 55717          125-818
                     2.)    Carbon and Hydrogen.
     Thomson asserts, in his analysis               of   the combustible    gas
                                                                         which

                              Ott definite Proportions.                       173
Which        is   during the distillation of turf, that loo
                   forftied
cubic         of carbureted hydrogen gas detonate. com
         inchefs
pletely with 200 of .oxygen, and afford 100 cubic inches of
carbonic acid.   Consequently they must contain 13-44
grains of carbon, and hydrogen enough to saturate 33-82
                    100 cubic inches) or oxygen,         that   is,
grains       (=                                                       (XX)   4-505
grains.  Hence we. obtain for carbureted hydrogen
          Carbon             74-SQ6         298*335
          Hydrogen           25-104         100-000
   In the same place we     are informed                  by
                                               Thomson, that
J00 cubic inches of olefiant gas require for their combustion
300 of oxygen gas, and afford 200 of carbonic acid gas.
Consequently 100 parts of hydrogen are here combined
with   double proportion of carbon, and this gas consists
         a
of       Carbon              100 0000        596 67
           Hydrogen....        16*7597          100-00
    Itappears therefore that 100 parts of carbon take up at
a  minimum 16*76 of hydrogen, and 125-818 of oxygen.
Now we learn from the analysis of sulphureted hydrogen,
that 100 parts of sulphur combine with 6-66 of hydrogen,
and 16*7597      125-818 = 6*66 49-997.
                        :                  :   Hence sulphur in
its lowest degree of oxidation ought to contain exactly 50
of oxygen to 100 of sulphur and this just half as much
                                           :         is
oxygen, as, according to my investigations, forms the sul
phurous acid with 100 parts of sulphur for             have found
                                                         :       I
 (XIII)  that  the sulphuric  acid  consists   very nearly of 40
 parts of sulphur and 60 oxygen,       and    the sulphurous of
equal parts of these substances.      With such an oxide of
 sulphur we are not acquainted, unless         exists in the sul
                                                     it
 phureted muriatic acid discovered                  by
                                             Thomson.         have       I
 carefully  considered   the  experiments      which    Thomson,
 Berthollet, and Bucholz have performed with this substance,
 and they seem to me to show uniformly no traces either of
 oxymuriatic acid, or of sulphurous acid.            can therefore
                                                                It
 only be supposed, that all the sulphur         united with oxy
                                                     is
 gen, and that this new body         consequently nothing else
                                               is
 but a  combination of the muriatic acid with an oxide of
 sulphur. If we mix       with water, the muriatic acid follows
                                it
a  stronger affinity, and the oxide of sulphur, being detached
 from        it,
              separated into sulphur and sulphurous acid, as
                   is
 the protoxide of copper              is
                               separated      the action of some
                                                     by
 of the acids.
    Berthollet the younger combined with 30 grammes of
 sulphur as much oxymuriatic acid gas as they were able to
 condense, and obtained 91-15 gr. of this combination.
 Consequently 100 parts of sulphur had taken up 204 of
                                                                      oxymuriatic

tf4                  On definite Proportions.
oxymuriatic acid, in which, according to the computation.*
in section   XX, there were 47*67 of oxygen ; and this ia
nearly half  of the oxygen contained in the sulphurous acid*
    Buebolz and Geblen endeavoured to saturate the sul-
phureted muriatic acid with sulphur, and employed 111
parts of oxymuriatic acid to 100 of sulphur.         This is about
half as much acid as Berthollet had made to unite with the
sulphur, and we here see a combination of sulphur with only
half as much oxygen as it took up in Berthollet's experi
ment. If we now suppose that a slight inaccuracy in find
ing the point of saturation or the weight had occurred in
these experiments, and that in the one 100 parts of sulphur
had taken up 214 of oxymuriatic acid, instead of 204, in
the other 107, instead of       HI;     we shall here have two
 combinations, the last of which is a muriate of the prot
oxide of sulphur, the first a muriate of the oxide, in which
 the sulphur is united to twice as much oxygen and acid as
in the former, in the same manner as has been shown to
happen in the metallic sails.        This sort of combination
resembles in this case a fully saturated compound of the
arsenious acid, or of the oxide of chromium, with (he mu
riatic acid : it is by no means neutral, as a salt, but its
composition is analogous to that of a salt.          If this view
of the subject is correct, the lowest degree of oxidation of
the sulphur, as in Bucholz's experiment, is a union of 100
parts of sulphur with 25 of oxvgen; and the following de
grees of oxidation are multiples by 2, 4, and 6, passing
over the odd numbers 3 and 5.          I here beg leave expressly
to remark, that I wish the results of this mode of reasoning
to be considered merely as grounds for future investigation:
and I imagine that such proportions as can only exist in
triple or multiple compounds, will not be found the least
important.
   Perhaps it is on account    of the existence of such com
binations, that we find multiples by       \\;  so that these may
always suppose    a lower degree  of  oxidation,   with respect to
which they   are multiples by   6 or  12 :  and thus  it may here
after be demonstrated, that these gradations always ascend
by the even numbers, 2, 4, 6, 8, and perhaps more.            If wc
take a vegetable body, for example, we find in it carbon,
hydrogen, and oxygen, but the latter in so small a propor
tion, that it seldom corresponds to the lowest known de
gree of oxidation of either of the two former ; they must
consequently be capable of still lower degrees of oxidation.
This gives us, for example, reason to inquire if the gaseous
oxide of carbon and carbonic acid are not, with respect to
                                                         oxidation,

                       On definite Proportions                       1 75
oxidation,' merely multiples of the lowest degree of oxida
tion by 2 and 4, so that, in this lowest degree, 100 parts of
carbon may be united only with 62-9 of oxygen.                    In the
same manner we may expect, from the proportions deter
mined for carbon and hydrogen, that 100 parts of hydro
gen may be saturated at a minimum by 74-584 of carbon,
and that the observed proportions are multiples of this by
4 and 8. We want therefore, in these combinations, be
sides the lowest degree of saturation, also the multiples by
2 and 6, which we are to look for in the composition of
organized bodies.       I have attempted, in various ways, to
separate, by means of the electrical column, the combusti
ble base or radical of the vegetable acids from the oxygen ;
but I have never been able to succeed.             I was induced to
perform    these experiments by       the   reduction    of ammonia,
the base of which I thtn considered as consisting of hydro*
gen and nitrogen, and as standing in the same relation to
the metals as the combustible radical of the vegetable acid
bears to sulphur or phosphorus.          Perhaps all these are com*
binations which cannot exist independently.              Probably also
hydrogen     is capable    of lower    degrees    of  oxidation     than,
that in which it constitutes      water,  which in this case must
correspond lo divisions or submultiples by 8, 6, 4, or 2.               If
in the analysis of such bodies it happens, for example, that
carbon and hydrogen are united with oxygen in a proportion
which does not agree with the numbers appropriate to those
substances, we may attempt to divide the oxygen between
both the others ; and if we obtain, in this manner, propor
tions which can be reconciled with the general theory, we
may be permitted to consider the body as composed of two
different oxides.     I shall here only adduce the example of
the subsulphate of the oxide of iron, which, though very
regularly constituted, contains for each 100 parts of iron,
 22 parts of sulphur ; a number of which the quantity of
 sulphur primarily combining with the iron is no integer
 multiple. We shall learn from this and other similar cir
 cumstances to understand how Nature, with all her sim
 plicity, can still be so astonishingly diversified.
                         SUPPLEMENT*.
    The possibility of determining          the proportions of the
component parts       of  chemical compounds by computation
 being once established, it becomes of importance to provide
          • From the German  Original in Gilbert's Ann. 1811. vi.
                                                                   a very

  It6                    On definite Proportions,
 a very correct basis for such computations ; and I have cte>
 termined to repeat some of my former experiments with?
 such accuracy as to entitle their results to the name of
 Normal Analyses. Such however have been the difficulties'
 which I have had to encounter, that I cannot vet venture to
 bring forward any of my analyses as perfectly entitled to
 this denomination.
     [The experiments on the stilphuret of lead, the oxides of
 lead, and the sulphuric acid, . which were performed with
 this view, have been already extracted from this communi
                                            .
 cation. Gilbert."}
    Having inferred from my analyses that the acid of sul
 phates and sulphites always contained either two or three
 times as much oxygen as the base of these salts, I have been
 induced to inquire if something of the same kind was not
 also observable in other salts.          The results of my investi
 gation   have   confirmed     thfs  conjecture, and I have deduced
 from it a   law  which     I shall  partly demonstrate in this paper,
 and partly apply as already established.            The law may be
 thus expressed :
    In all neutral salts, the quantity of oxygen, which the
acid contains, is an integer multiple of the quantity of oxy
 gen in the base.        Or, a little more generally, and, I believe,
 not less correctly    :  When two oxygenized substances saturate
 each other, the oxygen is alidays so proportioned, that its-
 quantity in the substance which in the circle of the electrical
 column is attracted to the positive pole, is an integer multi
ple of its quantity in the other substance, which tends to-
wards the negative pole.
 1.   Correction   of the analysis of the muriate of silver, and
                   of some others depending       on  it.
    I trust  that  I have demonstrated the        superior accuracy of
my analysis of the muriate of silver by the agreement of
all my experiments with each other.              But since it depends
on   a number    of  processes    in  which   complete correctness was-
unattainable,     I still entertained some doubt on the subject.
Among many unsuccessful attempts to ascertain with greater
accuracy the composition of the muriate of the protoxide
of silver, I find only one which affords a tolerably satisfac
tory result.      I prepared some pure sulphate of silver, and
from this determined the constituent parts of the protoxide.
When these were known, the quantity of muriatic acid in
the muriate of the protoxide was easily deduced from them;
and this determination led to a number of corrections, which
I  shall here detail.
                                                               -StLVEIt

                     On definite Proportions.                     177
                  Silver.    Sulphuret    of Silver.
    &.  I obtained, from 2-605 grammes of very pure lami
nated silver, which were heated to complete ignition with
an equal quantity of pure sulphur in a small glass flask,
2'993 gr. of sulphuret.        Consequently 100 parts of stiver
had taken up 14-894 of sulphur.
    h. Treating in the same way 10 gr. of pure filings of
silver, I obtained 1 1*49 gr. of sulphuret. The coincidence
being so complete, any further repetition was unnecessary.
Consequently the sulphuret of silver consists of
            Sulphur     12-968         14-9       100 00
            Silver..   87-032        1000        671*14
                       Protoxide of Silver.
    Hence we may calculate the composition of the protoxide
of silver, by comparison with that of the sulphuret and of
the protoxide of lead.      The former consists of too parts of
lead with 15-42 of sulphur, the latter with 77 of oxvgen ;
and 15*42 : 7*7= 14-9 : 7-44.        Consequently the protoxide
of silver consists of
            Silver..  93-075        lOO^OO        1313-86
            Oxygen      6'925          7'44         100-00
    In all probability. however, the quantity of oxvgen is
here made a little too great.       By other calculations 1 have
found that its least possib!e amount must be 7'3576 per
cent, instead of 7-44.        This uncertainty affects in some
measure the calculations for the muriates, but not for the
alkalis and earths.
               Muriate of  the  Protoxide   of Silver.
    I have already shown that 10<> parts of pure silver afford
 132'7 or 132-75 ot muriate of the protoxide.            According
to the first of my former experiments, on which I shall now
proceed to calculate, i07'44 parts of protoxide of silver take
up 2526 of muriatic acid: according to the last, 2531.
Consequently the muriate of the protoxide of silver is thus
composed     :
                             Experiment              Experiment
                          r-
                                         1.                     '2.
                                  ^         i     r~                ->
    Muriatic acid ... . 19035        K O-OO        19-066, 100 00
    Protoxide of silver 80 965 425-35              80 934    444 49
    According to the first experiment, 100 parts of muriatic
a-citl saturate a quantity of the protoxide of silver,        which
contains 29 454 parts of oxvgen; according to the second,
59-395 only.
    Vol. 42. No. 185. Sept. 1813.             M          Mubiatb

178                     On definite Proportions.
          Muriate of the Protoxide of Lead..
   Some muriate of the protoxide of lead, which had been
several  times dissolved and crystallized, was thoroughly
dried, and 40 grammes of it were ignited and melted in a
small glass dish.    A little of the salt evaporated, but the
whole had only lost -65 in weight. This salt appears, there
fore, to contain no water chemically combined with        and     it,
the reason that    it  decrepitates on the first application of
heat can only be the presence of moisture, which               me is
chanically inclosed in the larger crystals.         Indeed all the
water which   is   the cause of the decrepitation of salts must
be in  this state  ; for when we take small crystals, for in
stance, of sulphate of potass or of common salt, they com
pletely retain their form and transparency           ; and      that
                                                                  if
which escapes were water of crystallization,             would na
                                                         it
turally be first separated at the surface of the crystals, and
that which comes from the interior parts would find room
to pass through the pores left in the superficial ones.
   a. Ten grammes of very finely powdered muriate of the
protoxide of lead, which had been fused, were dissolved in
nitric acid, and the nitrate of the protoxide of ailver was
added in order to obtain            precipitate.   The clear liquor
                                 in a
was evaporated to dryness           glass dish, with the assistance
                                     a
of gentle heat, and the dry mass was again dissolved in
   a
water,     [fenceI   obtained    little more muriate of the prot
                                 a
oxide of silver, which had been retained             bythe uncom-
bined acid.       The muriate of silver, washed and dried,
weighed    10*32   gr., corresponding        to 1*0644    of muriatic
acid.                                                         f
  I.  Ten other grammes of the same muriate of the prot
oxide of lead were dissolved in nitric acid, and sulphuric
acid was added in greater quantity than was necessary for
the precipitation of the lead       the solution was then care
                                     ;
fully evaporated.     As     cooled, notwithstanding the ex
                            it
cess of sulphuric acid, some crystals of the muriate were
deposited.     The saline mass, when perfectly dried, and
heated so   as  to expel   apart of the superfluous sulphuric
acid, was well washed, and the sulphate of the protoxide
of lead being placed on          filter, some more water was
                                 a
poured on it.     From this fluid      little more sulphate was
                                         a
separated   by   means of caustic ammonia. The whole sul
phate collected, and well ignited, weighed 10'92 gr. and
these contained, according to the preceding determination,
8'0387 of the protoxide.      Consequently the muriate of the
                                                              protoxide

                      On definite Proportions.                         179
protoxide of       lead consists,       according to      these   experi
ments, of
                              Experiment  1.              Experiment 2.
                                    -A                                    ,
                            /                  N      I
    Muriatic acid .. . 19-644          100-00        19 6124      100 00
    Protoxide of lead 80-356           409 06       80-3876       409'88
    These results show, that the two analyses, on which the
calculation is grounded, approach near to the true propor
tions, but do not perfectly coincide with thein. It appears
that too parts of the muriatic acid took up as much of the
protoxide of lead as contained 29*3062 parts of oxygen ;
so that here is a small variation from the quantity of oxy
gen found in the oxide of silver; but the difference, ia
comparison with the usual accuracy of analytical determi
nations,   is of little importance.
    Several attempts to drive off' the muriatic acid of the
muriate of the protoxide in a platina crucible, by means of
concentrated or diluted sulphuric acid, with the assistance
of heat, produced, without exception, only a partial de
composition.
                 Barvta . Muriate of Barytu.
    In my former investigations I had found that 10 grammes
of carbonate of baryta afforded 10 ,56 of muriate, and that
these formed with nitrate of silver 14-55 of muriate of the
protoxide of silver. Hence the muriate of baryta consists
.of            Muriatic acid       26*2272         100-00
               Baryta              73-7728         281*284
                        Carbonate      of Baryta.
    Since 10 grammes of carbonate of baryta contain                      as
 much earth as 10-56 of muriate, it must consist of
               Carbonic acid 22-096                100-00
               Baryta                77*904        352-57
                         Sulphate     of Barytu.
    According to the experiments of Bucholz, 84 parts of
ignited muriate of baryta afford 94-5 of sulphate: hence
 this salt should consist of 34-424 of acid and 65-576 of
baryta : according to mine, 100 parts of carbonate of baryta
afford 118*6 to 118'9 of sulphate j consequently the sul
phate of baryta consists of
                              Experiment  1.             Experiment 2.
                          i
                               ——            >
                                                 1      /      *.
                                                                     i
     Sulphuric acid       34-314       100-000          34-48     100
     Baryta                 65686      191-427          65-52     190
    If there is any essential error in these determinations, it
must at least affect them all in the same proportion.                For,
                                  M2                                     if

1   80                   On definite Proportions.
if we calculate, for example, the composition of the mu
riate     lead from that of the sulphate of baryta, of the
          of
sulphate of the protoxide of lead, and of the muriate of
barvta, we have the following proportion : 191*427 : 279=
281*284 : 409 96, while the [second]      experiment  gave
409-83.
                                     Baryta.
   Since 281*284 parts of baryta and 425*35 of oxide of
silver each saturate 100 parts of muriatic acid, they must
contain equal quantities of oxygen; whence we have the
following proportions for baryta :
                 Barium....           100*000
                                      89*529
           Oxygen              ...
                           10*471      11*696
     If
     we compute from the composition of the sulphate, the
oxygen of baryta appears to be 10*422 to 10*5 per cent.
                    Potass.Muriate of Potass.
  Ten grammes of pure muriate of potass, dissolved in
.water, afforded, on the addition of nitrate of silver, 19*21
of fused muriate of the protoxide of silver, containing
3*65662 gr. of muriatic acid.    Hence the muriate of poiass
consists of
             Muriatic acid 36*566        100 0000
                Potass                63-434         173*4766
                           Sulphate     of Potass.
   Bncholz found that 300 grains of sulphate of potass con
tained three 'grains of water, and afforded with a salt of
baryta 400 grains of sulphate of baryta.    The sulphate of
potass consists  therefore of
          Sulphuric acid . . 46*214       100*000
          Potass         ..,  53-786      116*385
                               Potass.
. I have       found by direct experiments
                                        on the composition
of potass,  that *32 gramme    of potassium afford *608 of
muriate of potass.   Now this contains, according to the
corrected analysis of the muriate of silver, *38568 gr. of
pure potass ; consequently 32 parts of potassium had taken
up 6*568 of oxygen.     Potass consists therefore of 32*97
of potassium and 17*03 of oxygen. But                    if,
                                                according to
the preceding calculation, 173*4766 parts of potass contain
29 454 of oxygen, this alkali consists of
             Potassium.. 83 022         100-000
                 Oxygen....16*978       20450
Calculating from the sulphate, potass consists of 82-865 of
                                                  potassium

                     On definite Proportions.                      181
potassium and 17-135 of oxygen; so that                  these experi
ments agree tolerably well with each other.
                    Soda.       Muriate of Soda.
    Five grammes of ignited muriate of soda afforded 12-23
of fused muriate of the protoxide of silver, which contain.
2-32798 gr. of muriatifc acid.             The muriate of soda con
sists therefore   of
            Muriatic acid     . .     46*5596       100-000
            Soda                      53-4404        114-778
                         Sulphate       of Soda.
    Five grammes of ignited sulphate of soda afforded 8*2 of
sulphate of baryta, corresponding to 2-813748 gr. of sul
phuric acid.      Consequently sulphate of soda consists of
              Sulphuric acid          56*275       100-000
              Soda                    43-725         77-699
                                    Soda.
    I have   found that -439 gr. of sodium afford 1*118 of
muriate of soda, containing -59746 of pure soda: hence
 100 parts of soda consist of 73-5 of sodium, and 26 5 of
oxygen.      But if 114-778 parts of soda contain 29-454 of
 oxygen, soda must consist of
                   Sodium       74*3353          10000
                   Oxygen 25-6617                 34-52
     If we calculate from the sulphate, 77*699 parts of soda
 must contain 19-95 of oxygen, and soda must consist of
 74-35 of sodium and 25-676 oxygen: and since these re
 sults agree so completely with each other, it is not impTor
 bable that there was an error in the direct experiment.
                     Lime.        Muriate of Lime.
     I obtained from 3*01 gr. of ignited muriate of lime 7'73
 of fused muriate of the protoxide of silver.              Consequently
 the muriate of lime consists of
                 Muriatic acid         48*883       100-0
                 Lime                  51-117       104-6
     Hence lime must consist of
                  Calcium....           71*84       100 0
                 Oxygen    . . .' . .   28*10        3.9-2
               Ammonia.           Muriate of Ammonia.
      I thought it necessary to repeat once more my former
  analysis  of this substance, and I obtained from 10 grammes
  of well dried muriate of ammonia 26*72 of fused muriate
  of the protoxide of silver, answering to 50*86 parts of mu
  riatic acid for 100 of sal ammoniac.             If these were united
                                     M3                           .with

1   8*      Description   of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.
with 31*95 " gr." [parts] of caustic ammonia, the muriafti
of ammonia consists of
          Muriatic acid 61-0554        100 0000
          Ammonia         38*9446       62 8195
                              Ammonia.
     If
      now 62-8195 parts of ammonia contain 29-454 of
oxygen, ammonia must consist of
           Ammonium       53-1133       100-0000
           Oxygen        46-8867         88'2768
   The phenomena of the decomposition of ammoniacal
«as by potassium appear to demonstrate that ammonia con
tains no compound basis.     In this case, hydrogen and ni
trogen must be oxides of the same simple substance,
                                                      — an
opinion first advanced by Davy, but against which some
celebrated chemists have adduced a variety of indirect ex
periments.   I shall insist a Tittle on this subject, which is-
of so much importance in the theory of chemistry, having
previously adverted to another which is intimately con
nected/with it.
                            [To   be continued.]
XXX.       Description of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid at the Bot
     tom of a Volcano of Mount Idienne, situated in the Pro
     vince of Bagnia- Vangni, in the Eastern Part of the Island,
     of Java. By M. Leschenauxt, Naturalist and Cir
     cumnavigator in the Employment of the French Govern
     ment ,
                        [Concluded from p. 152.]
The     volcano   is-situated     the south-west side of the sum
                                  in
mit of Mount Idienne, which in this place             perpendicu
                                                           is
larly cut, leaving between         and the gulf
                                  it                space about
                                                       a                    a
quarter of   a   league in extent.     This perpendicular section
indicates   that a   part  of the  summit   has been detached               by
the effort which took place at the opening of the volcano                   y
but the chief eruption seems to have taken place at the
 west and north-west parts, for towards the east and south
 we see no considerable traces of it.
    The aperture of the volcano          oval, having its greatest
                                         is
 diameter directed from NE to SE.              reckon its circum
                                                   I
 ference taken from the summit to be about half            league,  a
 its greatest diameter 500 toises, and its depth from the
 highest point about 600 feet.        The bottom of the gulf i»
 about 250 toises broad, in its greatest diameter           lake of
                                                                :   a
 about 200 toises long, the water of which           warm, and of
                                                       is
                                                                a   greenish-.

             Description of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.-                183
a greenish-white, and charged with a quantity of the acid
which escapes from the sulphur in combustion, occupies
the lowest part on the south-west : from the surface a,
slight smoke rises.         In the other part, which is about 25 or
30 feet high above the lake, are the smoking vents.
    The sides of the volcano present nothing but white rocks
cut into the form of needles ; or rough, calcined, and re
duced      by the effect of fire to the state of lime : in some
places    they are covered with a greenish efflorescence.
    Towards the west and north- west, the edge of the vol
cano is abrupt : its upper part is formed of thin layers of
ashes or puzzolano, successively reddish, brown, while and
yellowish : towards the east and south-east it inclines in a
slope tolerably rapid to the half of its depth.            Towards the
south-west there is a section not very broad : it is by this
aperture that the waters of the lake are discharged, which
afterwards form the sulphuric river.               At the summit of
the crater, in the south-east part, we find ochrey, red and
yellow earths. The slope which I have mentioned, si
tuated towards the east and south-east, is furrowed by the
rain waters covered with volcanic tufa, sulphur, and various
kinds of lava in pieces of middling thickness.
    The trees adjoining the crater are small-sized, and a great
number of them are withered.               Nevertheless in the inside
of the gulf, and even notwithstanding the sulphuric ex
 halations, vegetation is not entirely extinguished : from the
 cleft in the rocks there issues a kind of fern, small and
 coriaceous, and a shrub of the arbutus kind, called by the
 Javanese Roukom* : but what surprised me much was to
 find the excrements of tigers at the very edges of the cra
 ter; for in this place the air is extremely cool in conse
 quence of its elevation.
    Such are the observations which I made on the summit
 of the crater. We were very much fatigued, and we
 stopped some time to take rest and nourishment.                  During
 this time, the Javanese who accompanied us prepared and
 fastened the bamboo steps by means of which we were to
  descend to the bottom of the volcano.
     The place by which we descend is at the NNE : a part
  of the road is sloping: afterwards we are obliged to make
  use of ladders, which are attached to the rocks, sometimes
  perpendicular, sometimes inclined, according to the ground.
  This plan is dangerous : I should have preferred descending
    * I found the same
                         plant when I made an excursion two years ago to
  examine another volcano situated at the summit of the Mar-api, or burning
  mountain, in the vicinity qf Sourakarta.
           -                         M4                                  by

1  84      Description  of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.
by means    of ropes with knots fixed to the summit of the
precipice, because all the rocks, being calcined and reduced
to the state of lime, are not to be trusted.   If one of these
rocks was to he detached by the weight of the persons upon
the ladders, it would roll down to the bottom of the gulf,
sweeping every thing before it.      In our case however all
necessary precautions were taken, and we arrived without
any accident at the bottom of the volcano, in the part
where the smoking vents are situated.
    This was the first time that     I saw so near me thos«
frightful laboratories in which nature prepares the revolu
tions which change the surface of the habitable globe.        I
cannot tell you which sentiment most prevailed, that of
terror or admiration : whatever be the courage with which
men are armed, they are actuated by the intimate and na
tural sentiment of their preservation when every thing
around them threatens them.        Rocks suspended over our
heads, and which seemed continually falling under our
feet ; the shaking and heat of boiling substances, from which
we were separated only by a crust of hard ashes; the
hissing of these substances, similar to the noise of breakers
at sea ; an inflamed and pungent air which we breathed,
all contributed to astonish and stupefy my senses.      When
the tranquillity necessary to observation returned, I ad
vanced from the side of the volcanic issues which give
passage to the smoke: they are four in number, and all are
 situated in the eastern part of the volcano.     The aperture
 which we first meet with is the largest; it is a perfectly
 round hole, about seven feet in diameter ; beside this
 there is another which imperfectly resembles a grotto, from
 the bottom of which a thick smoke issues : these two
 apertures are surrounded to some distance by an efflores
 cence of sulphur resembling gold dust: the sides of the
 apertures are fringed* with very brilliant small crystals of
 sulphur. We may approach close to these two apertures.
 M. Vikerman and M. Lisnet, being ignorant how dangerous
 and pungent sulphurous vapours are, were hold enough to
 enter the grotto which precedes the second aperture; they
 were seized by the exhalations, and had barely time to
 retire: but they might have been suffocated before it was
 possible to give them any assistance.      Amid the vapours
 which surrounded us, our hands and faces appeared of a
 blood red.
     The other two mouths to the eastward of the latter are
 both adjoining to and placed against the eastern flank of
  the volcano.   They appear to be over the most ardent fire ;
                              -  -                          for

             Description of  a  Lake  of Sulphuric Acid.          1 83
for in    this place the subterraneous bellowing is much more
considerable, and one or them every ten seconds throws ta
the distance of eight or ten feet pieces of melted sub
stances as large as a man's fist.         When these dejections
take place, they occasion a hissing like that of the air
which      escapes  from   a fire-engine  ;  the intervals   between
 the dejections are very regular.        These substancss in the
dark appear as if inflamed ; but in the day-time they have
 the appearance of lumps of mud, which flatten in the act
 of falling. { was very desirous of procuring a specimen of
jthese substances as soon as thrown out ; but, both on ac
 count of their situation and the heat of the ground, it is
 impossible to approach nearer than 15 feet. All this part
 of   the bottom of the volcano also presents other small aper
 tures ; the smoke issues from all the fissures of the crust
 upon which we tread ; and even upon making an opening
  with a spade, the smoke immediately escapes.           The nature
  of this place indicates that it is subject to daily revolutions;
  masses of rocks more or less calcined, masses of ashes
  more or less hardened, are heaped up without regularity,
  and present the image of disorder.         The ground on which
  we tread is formed of a succession of layers of white puz-
  zolano containing globules of black glass in the form of
  tears.     We meet with abundance of pieces of lava and of
  black glass of different forms and sizes, and sulphur of
  different degrees of purity. We also find alum and vitriol
  formed in some stones.
      The Javanese say that the vents two years ago were to
  the westward of those which now exist ; we still see traces
  of them there: they are extinguished, and form pits of 25
  or 30 feet in depth.      Formerly, also, a person might have
  reached the edge of the lake of sulphuric acid without dif
  ficulty ; but at present all the banks are rugged : it is at
   tainable, and that with great difficulty, at one side only,
 .where a Javanese drew up, by means of a bamboo, a speci
   men of the water at my desire.           The place from which
  sulphur was extracted two years ago is covered with water.
      Our excursion was near being attended by a tragical
   event. M. Lisnet, having approached too close to the edge
   of the lake, threw down a portion of the crumbled ashes
   upon which he stood ; he was carried down some way ; and
   but for a rock which luckily arrested his progress, he would
   have perished by a miserable death in the lake.
      We remained about an hour and a quarter at the bottom
   of the volcano.       I  have drawn an interior view of it
   (Plate   IIJ  which  will show better than my description the
                                                           disposition,

  1 86        Description   of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.
 disposition of this     place.   We breathe at the bottom       of
 the gulf a suffocating and acrid air, which severely affects
 the eyes, lips, and inside of the lungs and nostrils : the
 seams of our shoes were burned by the heat of the ground.
 When we were ready to quit the volcano, there was de
 tached from the upper and western part a mass of earth
 several fathoms downwards, which rolled with great noise in
 to the sulphuric lake, where it caused a long and noisy bub
 bling, which made me think the water was very deep. We
 also remarked the vestiges of several very recent eruptions.
     I regretted much that I had no thermometer with me,
 to ascertain the degrees of heat of the waters of the lake, the
 vapours issuing from the volcanic issues, and also of the
 air which we breathe in these places.
     I consider the height of Mount Idienne as at least 100O
toises above the level of the sea.       This estimate is founded
upon the following reasoning: I reckon this height, upon
the idea that from Bagnia-Vangni             there are about ten
leagues of continual, and in some places very rapid slope.
     We returned in the evening to Ohonponoph, where we
arrived worn out with fatigue.          M. Vikerman assured me
that he would rather give in his resignation, than force any
man under him to visit this place in quest of sulphur.            I
am ignorant of the advantages which the Company derive
from the sulphur brought from this volcano ; but it is likely
that they have been deceived by the report of persons who
set no value on the lives of their fellow-creatures, or who
-were interested in leading them into error.         After having
visited this place, I am convinced that no man of common
humanity would encourage such speculations.              My nar
rative shows how dangerous the descent into the volcano
is, and how unhealthy it is to gather the sulphur.              It
ought    also to be recollected,  that these unfortunate Javanese
are obliged, before they can reach the volcano, to traverse
ten leagues from Bagnia-Vangni through a desert country
swarming with tigers; that when they arrive at Ohon
ponoph, their resting-place, they must bring the water which
they want from a great distance ; that they are exposed in
this place, almost without clothing, to a cold to which they
are not accustomed, and which is even accompanied            with
humid and deleterious vapours, which may kill them on the
spot, or at least occasion obstinate diseases. M. Vikerman
and myself were of a vigorous habit of body, and every thing
which could facilitate our descent into the volcano was em
ployed : when we came out, however, we were ready to faint.
     When the eastern part of Mount Idienne shall be peo
                                                             pled,

               Description       of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.           187
pled, which will certainly happen, because the soil                 is very
fertile, the drainings which are going on will banish the
insalubrity, which I ascribe entirely to the exhalations from
putrid vegetables which rise from these vast and humid
forests.    In this event, interest alone will induce the inha
bitants around to extract the sulphur Irom the volcano ; and
a great portion of the sulphuric lake might even be drawn
 off by rectifying and separating the different acids contained
in   the water.
   The Javanese have no tradition of recent eruptions from
this volcano : the convulsions, as 1 have already remarked,
have    probably been rnore considerable to the westward.
We    find at Parassane, upon the road from Bognia-Vdngiri
to Batiol-mali, about a league and a half from the sea, and
to the northward of Mount Idienne, volcanic rocks which
appear to me to have been a half-melted lava, containing
several pumice or vitrified stones, which form a kind of
pudding stone with it. These rocks appear to me to form
part of a torrent of lava which has descended from the
volcano, and which by subsequent deposits lias been in a
great measure covered.
    The Javanese say that thirteen years ago there was an
eruption which issued with great noise from the east side
of the summit of Mount Idienne. By an interior com
motion, but without any fire or smoke, there was detached
a great number of rocks, which rolled down to the sea, car
 rying all before them.    A part of this eruption stopped on
 the sea-shore at the place called Klala, about a league to
 the northward of Bagnia- Vangni : here there was a moving
 morass, which rendered the road very difficult. The eruption
 overwhelmed           it,
                    rendered    stationary, and cooped up its
                                      it
 waters       bed which they formed to the northward of the
              in   a
 place where they formerly were.
     A lake of sulphuric .acid of such an extent, found at
  the bottom of    Solfoterra, being
                       a                new fact -in geology,
                                               a                          I
  brought   with  me  to France    bottle  full of the water of
                                           a
  this lake, and M. Vanquelin was kind enough to make the
 following analysis          :
    1. The liquor has an acid and              at the   same time   a   bitter
 taste.
   2. Its specific gravity   to that of water as 1*118
                                     is                   to.           is
 1000     :marks in the areometer eight degrees.
              it
   3. When evaporated, vapours of muriatic acid and of
 sulphurous acid anse the liquor takes
                                 :        yellow colour, and
                                                    a
 deposits some particles of sulphur.
   4. Upon cooling, this liquor deposited crystals of sul
                                                       phate

1 88         Description    of a Lake of Sulphuric Acid.
phate of lime : when the evaporation was pushed further*
the same liquor furnished crystals of alum.
    5. The crystals of alum when separated, and the liquor
when concentrated still further, gave simple sulphate of
alumine.
    6.  When, by successive crystallizations, the sulphate                  of
lime and alum were separated, the remaining liquor, or
mother-water, decomposed by the ammonia, formed a pre
cipitate which was composed of iron and alumine.
    7. The liquor thus decomposed by ammonia, when eva
porated, and the residue calcined, gave me but very little
sulphate of potash, without any thing else.
    8. These experiments prove that the acid liquor in ques
tion is composed of,
    1. Sulphuric acid.
    2. Muriatic acid. ,
    3. Sulphurous acid.
    4. Simple sulphate of alumine.
    5. A small quantity of common alum.
    6. Sulphate of lime.
    7. Sulphate of iron.
     8. Some particles of sulphur.
    The sulphuric acid is more abundant than the other sub
 stances : next comes the muriatic acid : the simple sulphate
 of alumine, the sulphate of iron, and the other substances,
 are but in very small proportions.
                    .   Description of the Plates.
 Plate I.      Sketch of the country in the vicinity of the
           volcano.
     A.   Place where the river disappears.
     B. Mouth of the volcano.
 Plate II. Interior view of the Solfaterra.
     1. Lake of sulphuric acid.
     2. Section by which the water is discharged which forms
           the river So?igi Pahete.
     3. Part of the volcano where the volcanic vents are.
     4. Old volcanic vents now extinguished.
     5. 5. Volcanic apertures vomiting smoke and fused sub
            stances.
     6. Place at which       I descended into the volcano.
     7.    The only place where water can be drawn from                    the
            lake.
    %• In our last Number correct the following errata, occasioned by ty
  pographical mistakes in the original: page 130, line 28, read Sombrarm;
  and in ps 130, L. 41, p. 131, 1 18, 1. 22, and 1. 25, read Songi Pahete.
                                                                 XXXI.     In.

                                [   189    ]
   XXXI..      Inquiry     concerning Magnesian Limestones   in
         Somersetshire,     Shropshire, and Nottinghamshire.
                             To   Mr.  Tilloch.
Sir, — Observing             that Inquiries are often made and
answered      in your instructive pages, as to the localities of
British Minerals, I beg to extract a passage from Sir
H. Davy's " Elements of Agricultural Chemistry," viz.
"    Magnesian limestones (which, as he has just before said,
effervesce slowly in diluted nitric acid, or aqua fortis, and
in so doing render the acid milky), are usually coloured
brown or pale yellow. They are found in Somersetshire,
Leicesterhire, Derbvshire, Shropshire, Durham, and York
shire. I have never met with any in other counties in Eng
 land: but they abound in many parts of Ireland, particu
larly near Belfast."
     I should take it a great favour to be informed by any of
 your Correspondent?,          of the names and situations of as
 many Quarries         or Rocks, having the above characters, in
 either Somersetshire or in Shropshire P as they are able,
 and whether Sir Humphry is correct in implying that
 Magnesian Limestones are confined to the abovementioned
 six English counties ? — As to Nottinghamshire, either Sir
 Humphry must be wrong, or Mr. Farey, in his Derbyshire
  Report, vol. i. p. 156, and in his Map, p. 97. It may be
  proper to mention, that Mr. Lowe in his Nottingham Re
 port, p. 104, quotes the authority of Mr. Sikes, an agricul
  tural chemist, for the Limestones in question containing
  more siliceous earth than those from near Newark or the
  Peak of Derbyshire, and which is supposed to occasion
  those Nottingham Limes to be " weak," " hungry," &c.
  and very inferior for agricultural purposes to more pure'
  Limestones.           I am
                              Your obedient servant,
  September  1,  1813.                             An INQUIRER.
      P. S. Happening since the above was written to turn to
  your fifth volume, p. 213, &c. I find that Mr. Tennant
  expressly mentions and gives the analysis of Magnesian
  Limestone near Worksop in Nottingliamshire, and also in
   Northumbcrla?id at page 214; query, at what places, if
   any, besides the continuation of the Durham Rock across
   the mouth of the Tyne f
                                                      XXXII.    On

                             E    190    ]
XXXIT.     On a new detonating        Compound, in a helter        from
   Sir Humphry Davv, LL.D. F.R.S. to the Right Hon.
   Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S.*
Mv Dear Sir, 1 think             it right to communicate to you,
and through you to the Royal Society, such circumstances
as have come to my knowledge           respecting a new and a very
extraordinary detonating compound.               I am anxious that
those circumstances should be made public as speedily as
possible, because experiments upon the substance may be
connected with very dangerous results ; and because I have
already mentioned the mode of preparing it to many of
my chemical friends, to whom my experience may be use
ful in saving them from danger;
   About the end of September, I received a letter from a
philosophical gentleman at Paris, on some subjects of
science, which contained the following paragraph :
    44
       Vbus avez sans doute appris, Monsieur, la decouverte
qn'on a faite a Paris il y a pres d'un an, d'une combinaison
tie gaz azote et de chlorine, qui a l'appaience d'une huile
plus pesante que l'eau, et qui detonne avec toute la violence
des metaux fulminans a la simple chaleur de la main, ce
qui a prive d'un ceil et d'un doigt l'auteur de cette decou-.
verte.   Cette detonnaiion a lieu par la simple separation
des deux gnz, comme celle de la combinaison d'oxigene et
tie chlorine ; il y a egalement beaucoup de lurniere et de la
chaleur produites dans cette detonnation, ou un liquide se
decompose en deux gaz'."
   The letter contained no account of the mode of prepara
tion of this substance, nor any other details respecting it.
    So curious and important a result could not fail to in
terest me, particularly as I have long been engaged in ex
periments on the action of azote and chlorine, without
gaining any decided proofs of their power of combining
with each other.         I perused with avidity the different
French chemical and physical journals, especially Les An—
nalrs de Chimie and Le Journal de Vhysique, of which the
complete series of last year have arrived in this country, in
hopes of discovering some detail respecting the preparation
of this sub tance ; but in vain. 1 was unable to find any
thing relative to it in these publications, or in the NLoniteur.
    It was evident from the notice, that it could not be-
formed in any operations in which heat is concerned;                   I
therefore thought of attempting to combine azote and
         * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1813,
                                                         part i.
                                                                chlorine

                 On a neiv detonating Compound.              1 9i
chlorine under circumstances which 1 had never tried be
fore, that of presenting them to each other artificially
cooled, the azote being in a nascent state. For this pur
pose I made a solution of ammonia, cooled it by a mixture
of ice and muriate of lime, and slowly passed into it
chlorine, cooled by the same means.            There was imme
diately a violent action, accompanied by fumes of a pecu
liarly disagreeable smell ; at the same time a yellow sub
stance was seen to form in minute films on the surface of
the liquor; but it was evanescent, and immediately resolved
itself into gas. I was preparing to repeat the experiment,
substituting the prussiate of ammonia and other ammonia-
cal compounds, in which less heat might be produced by
the action of the chlorine, than in the pure solution of the
gas, when my friend Mr. J. G. Children put me in mind
of a circumstance of which he had written to me an ac
 count, in the end of July, which promised to elucidate the
 inquiry, viz. that Mr. James Burton, jun. in exposing
 chlorine to a solution of nitrate of ammonia, had observed
 the formation of a yellow oil, which he had not been able
 to collect so as to examine its properties, as it was ra
 pidly dissipated by exposure to the atmosphere.      Mr. Chil
 dren had tried the same experiment with similar results.
     I immediately exposed a phial, containing about six cu
 bical inches of chlorine, to a saturated solution of nitrate
 of ammonia, at the temperature of about 50° in common
 day- light.    A diminution of the gas speedily took place;
 in a few minutes a film, which had the appearance of oil,
 was seen on the surface of the fluid ; by shaking the phial
 it collected in small globules, and fell to the bottom.        I
 took out one of the globules, and exposed it in contact
 with water to a gentle heat : long before the water began
 to boil, it exploded with a very brilliant light, but without
 any violence of sound.
     I immediately proposed to Mr. Children, that we should
  institute a scries of experiments upon its preparation and
 its properties.    We consequently     commenced    the opera
 tions, the results of which f shall describe.     We were as
  sisted in our labours, which were carried on in Mr. Chil
  dren's laboratory at Tunbridge, by Mr. Warburton.
      It was found that the solution of oxalate of ammonia, or
  a very weak solution of pure ammonia, answered the pur
  pose as well as the solution of nitrate of ammonia.     It was
  formed most rapidly in the solution of ammonia, but it
  was    white and clouded ;  and though less evanescent than
  in the strung solution   I first used, it was far from being
                                                               as

 192                  On a new detonating Compound.
as permanent      in the solutions of nitrate and oxalate.
                      as
The solution of prussiate of ammonia acted on by chlorine,
afforded none of the peculiar oil ; but produced white
fumes, and became of a bright green colour.    An attempt
was made to procure the substance in large quantities, by
passing chlorine into Wolfe's bottles containing the dif
ferent solutions : but a single trial proved the danger of this
mode of operating ; the compound had scarcely begun to
form, when, by the action of some ammoniacal vapour on
chlorine, heat was produced, which occasioned a violent
explosion, and the whole apparatus was destroyed.
    I shall now describe the properties of the new substance.
Its colour is very nearly that of olive oil, and it is as trans
parent, and more perfectly liquid.        I have not been able
to ascertain its specific gravity with accuracy, but it is pro
bably above \'6.     Its smell is very nauseous, strongly re
sembling that of the combination of carbonic oxide and
chlorine, discovered by my brother; and its effect on the
eyes is peculiarly pungent and distressing.       A little of it
was introduced under water into the receiver of an air
pump, and the receiver exhausted ; it became an elastic
flind, and in its gaseous atate was rapidly absorbed or de
composed by the water.       When warm water was poured
 into a glass containing              expanded into       globule of
                                      it,                    a
                                      it
elastic fluid, of an orange colour, which diminished as              it
 passed through the water.
  I   attempted to collect the products of the explosion of
 the new substance,            applying the heat of
                                 by                      spirit-lamp
                                                             a
 to a   globule of         it,
                           confined         curved glass tube over
                                            in   a
water:      little gas was at first extricated
            a                                       but long before
                                                         ;
 the water had attained the temperature of ebullition,           avio
 lent flash of light was perceived, with          sharp report
                                                         a       ; the
 tube and glass were broken into small fragments, and                I
received     asevere wound in the transparent cornea of the
eye, which has produced             considerable inflammation of
                                      a
the eye, and obliges me to make this communication by
an amanuensis.          This experiment proves what extreme
caution       necessary in operating on this substance, for the
            I is
quantity     used   was scarcely as large as grain of mustard seed.
                                                     a
  A   smali globule of         thrown into
                                 it              glass of olive oil,
                                                     a
produced        most violent explosion
                a                            and the glass, though,
                                                 ;
strong, was broken into fragments.             Similar effects were
produced         its action on oil of turpentine and naphtha.
                 by
When    it   was thrown into ether, there was            verv slight
                                                             a
ac'tion ;  gas  was   disengaged   in  small quantities. and     sub
                                                                 a
stance like wax was formed, which had lost the character

               On a new detonating   Compound.             1   93
istic   properties of the new body.       On alcohol it acted
slowly, lost its colour, and    became  a while  oily substance,
without explosive powers.         When a - particle of it was
touched under water by a particle of phosphorus, a brilliant
light was perceived under the water, and permanent gas
was disengaged, having the characters of azote.
    When quantities larger than a grain of mustard seed
were used for the contact with phosphorus, the explosion
was alwavs so violent as to break the vessel in which the
experiment was made.         The new body, when acted upon
under water by mercury, afforded a substance having the
appearance of corrosive sublimate, and gas was disengaged.
 On tin foil and zinc it exerted no action ; it had no action
 on sulphur, nor on resin.       In their alcoholic solutions it
 disappeared as in pure alcohol.        It detonated most vio
 lently when thrown into a solution of phosphorus in ether,
 or in alcohol.     Phosphorus introduced into eiher, into
 which a globule of the substance had been put immediately
 before, produced no effect.       In muriatic acid it gave off
 gas rapidly,   and disappeared   without explosion. On dilute
 sulphuric acid it exerted no violent action. It immediately
 disappeared without explosion        in Libavius's liquor, to
 which it imparted a yellow tinge.
     It seems probable, from the general tenor of these facts,
 that the new substance is a compound of azote and chlo
 rine ; the same as, or analogous to, that mentioned in the
 letter from Paris.     It is easy to explain its production in
  our experiments: the hydrogen of the ammonia mav be
  conceived to combine with one portion of the chlorine to
  form muriatic acid, and the azote to unite with another
  portion of chlorine to form the new 'compound. The heat
  and light produced during its expansion into gaseous mat
  ter, supposing it to be composed of azote and chlorine, is
  without any parallel instance, in our present collection of
  chemical facts ; the decomposition of euchlorine, which
  has been compared to   it,   is merely an expansion of matter
  already gaseous.    The heat and light produced bv its rare
faction,  in  .consequence of decomposition, depend, pro
bably,  on  the  same cause as that which produces the flash
of light in the discharge of the air gun.
   The mechanical force of this compound         indetonation,
seems to be superior to that of any other known, not even
excepting the ammoniacal fulminating silver.         The velo
city of its action appears to be likewise greater.
  j  am, my dear sir, with great respect, very sincerelv yours,
                                                      H. Davt.
 Vol. 42. No. 1S5. Sept. 1813.         N       XXXIII. Par-

                          [   »94   ]
XXXIII.     Particulars of the successful Treatment of a Can
   of Hydrophobia; with Observations, &c.             By Ricb
    Winne, Apothecary, Shrewsbury.
On     the  morning of January the 22d, 1S13, a strange
pointer  bitch  was observed by a young woman on the road
leading from Monkmoor to Shrewsbury.              She thought
there was something uncommon in her look ; and having
a mastiff dog along with her, which was in the habit of
attacking every dog she set him at, she immediately en
deavoured to put them to fight, purposely that the road
might be free for her escape. The mastiff, instead of ad
vancing, instantly slunk behind, and seemed much fright
ened.    The pointer then flew at the female, and tore her
cloak ; she did not receive any further injury. The bitch
proceeded, and was met by a man driving cows, by one of
which she was attacked, and in the encounter the cow was
bitten in the leg ; but upon its being washed and examined,
the owner could not perceive that the skin was broken.
The pointer next entered a house, and bit a kitten, which
was destroyed j — from thence she went to Emstrey (about
two miles distant), and, without the least provocation, bit
a grevhound, which was likewise killed ; she then pro
ceeded to Chilton, about a mile further.      A little beyond,
on the road, she attacked a chiid who was carrying a bas
ket of meat ; the meat was thrown down, but was not
noticed by the bitch.    She repeatedly flew at the child, and
tore her bonnet and cloihes, but did not inflict any wound.
The child, alarmed, ran forward to Atcham, which is but
a short distance, and seeing the dog coming that way, she
cried .out for help.   A man unloading coal was going to
her assistance, when the bitch, without barking, or giving
any other warning, rushed under the waggon and attacked
him ; she flew two or three times at his face, and, when he
was endeavouring to protect himself, she bit him in the
left band.    She then crossed the road, and attacked and
bit a dog,   which   was destroyed.    She was pursued about
half a mile, and was shot bv a keeper belonging to the
Right Honourable Lord Berwick.
    Abraham Cook, setat. 38, the person who was bitten by
the pointer bitch, is of middle stature, of florid complexion,
at times suffers from dyspepsia, and after great exertion,
or excess in drinking, has been subject to fainting fits. In
about an hour after he was bitten in the hand, he was per
suaded by his friends to walk to Shrewsbury; and the
bitten part wa^s excised by Mr. Thomas Sutton, surgeon.

     Successful Treatment        of a Case of Hydrophobia.               1   95
The wound soon healed, and he continued in good health
and spirits, always making light of the accident, until
Friday the 5th of February, on the morning of which
day he first began to complain of an uneasiness and
soreness in that part of the hand where he had received
the injury.   On Saturdav, and Sunday, it became gra
dually worse j and on Monday morning, after an al
most sleepless night, he arose with increased pain and
soreness in his hand,      attended with head-ache,      sick
ness, and great oppression at the pit of his stomach ; his
breathing   was difficult;   and his bowels were costive.
Notwithstanding,   he  wept   to his work, but very soon be-
.caaie much worse.    He was prevailed upon to drink some
 warm beer, and was immediately seized with violent and
excessive vomitings of green bile.      He with difficulty re
turned to his home, and on his way was much distressed,
as he believed the people      who were parsing by were deter
mined    to ride  over  him ; and   he felt chilled, and very un
comfortable, at the appearance of the river, which he passed
.over.    His wife seeing him so         ill
                                         (without having any su
spicion of the nature of the disease) pressed him to drink
some water   ;   he showed   a  great dread of        and could pot
                                                      it,
he prevailed upon to drink any, assigning, as the reason of
 his objection, the pain and vomiting he experienced after
 swallowing the beer.         She then procured some surfeit
 water, to which he made the same objection              she pressed
                                                            ;
it  to his mouth, b.ut his looks so terrified her she cannot
 recollect whether any was swallowed;             there was,
                                                 if             mustit
 have been a   very  small quantity.    All  the  symptoms    rapidly
 increased: his eyes were inflamed, and staring; his face
 was likewise inflamed, and his features were contorted, and
 indicated the greatest distress and anxiety               was with
                                                           :   it
difficulty he was detained in his bed, and he appeared to be
 watching, and anxious to escape some object that occa
 sioned his distress.     At this time (about one o'clock P.M.)
I   was passing through the village, and was desired to visit
 him.  I    found him in the situation related.            In    verya
  short time afterwards, his left hand, arm, and his head were
 .convulsed.   I   pressed him to drink some water, but could
  not prevail;   and although I    did not observe any additional
 horror at the moment    I     offered     it,
                                            still     was evident he
                                                      it
 1was so much convulsed as not to he able to drink.
     Being convinced in my own mind of the nature of the
  disease,
         I    was anxious for the advice and assistance of my
  much-esteemed friend, Mr. Thomas Sutton              yet
                                                       ;     was also
                                                                I
 rflware that no time should be lost, and that the delay of an
                                 N   3                                   hou.r

 1 96   Successful Treatment   of a Case of Hydropholid.
hour might hazard the life of our patient.      The pulse was
from 70 to 80 beats in a minute, varying in strength and
regularity.
    I had recourse to the abstraction of twenty ounces of
blood, taken from a large orifice, and the time of taking it
did not exceed six minutes.      He fainted, and remained for
an hour with scarcely a perceptible pulse ; and it was evi
dent the whole time, his disease was abating.       His coun
tenance became more composed, and much paler ; his eyes
were less inflamed ; the convulsions ceased ; and when re
covering from his faintness, his first request was that he
might be allowed to drink some water; and when it was
brought to him he" seemed much to enjoy it. I now left
him ; desiring, if any return of his disease took place,      I
might be immediately acquainted with it. I sent him pills,
containing, to each dose, one grain of opium, three grains
of the submuriate of mercury, and one grain of James's
powder, which were directed to be taken every three hours.
    The pulse, on Monday afternoon, after the bleeding, and
after the faintness had subsided, was reduced to 55 beats in
the minute, and was regular.        [The same alteration took
place  after the second  bleeding, and did not exceed 60 du
ring the remainder of his illness.]
    On Tuesday morning, at seven o'clock,       I again visited
him; when I was informed that between four and five
o'clock the preceding afternoon his bowels had been freely
opened, and previous to his taking any medicine.          They
had not again been moved, nor had he any feeling as though
they were, likely.    He had drunk coffee, and balm tea, in
the night; but he had an aversion to them; it still hurt
him to swallow. He had made a sufficient quantity of
water, which was high-coloured, but without sediment.
He had slept a little, at intervals, but was much distressed
by dreams of hearses, and various accidents, but all of
which he said had not troubled him half so much as when
he yesterday thought he was pursued in his room by a dog.
He seemed agitated, and said he was dreadfully ill, and
should never sleep again.     There were convulsive startings
in his hand, wrist, and shoulders.      He told me he thought
there was something alive in his wrist.     He refused to take
either coffee or water.      His countenance was composed
and thoughtful ; he said his neighbours had been making
a noise on purpose all night, and every thing went through
his brains.    He started at the slightest sound, or motion ;
and his sense of hearing was morbidly acute.        The pulse
was full, but unequal, beating about 80 strokes in the mi
                                                         nutes;

         Successful Treatment      of a  Case  of Hydrophobia.       1 97
nute   ;  his countenance      was rather flushed.       I    considered
it necessary to      repeat the bleeding*, and when about ten
ounces were taken, he fainted ; his pulse was again scarcely
to be felt.     He continued in this state for about half an
hour, and he was perfectly composed and free from con
vulsion.
    I visited him again that afternoon, about five o'clock.
His wife, about three o'clock, for a moment observed a
twitching in his shoulders; hf had regularly taken the sub-
muriate of mercury, opium, and James's powder, but his
bowels had not been again relieved.             The part of his hand
of which he had complained was still sore upon pressure j
and he was directed every eight hours to rub in one drachm
of the strong mercurial ointment, and to continue the
pills. He still complained of pain about the middle of the
chest, particularly when he swallowed liquids; and in con
sequence had not taken much food ; what he had swal
lowed was chiefly broth, pudding, and coffee.
    On Wednesday I saw him comfortable, excepting that
his bowels continued costive ; he had a strong opening
 mixture sent him, and after taking of it twice, the purpose
 was effected.      He regularly, until this time, continued the
 pills, with the submuriate of mercury, &c. when it was
 thought advisable, as he had passed healthy bile, not to
repeat them oftener than once in six hours.
     On Thursday morning, when I visited him, he was
 comfortable, and had passed a good night ; his mouth was
becoming sore, and heated. In the evening I was sent for
to him ; he had been sitting up for some time, and had
 been much fatigued, and fainted.               When I arrived, his
 wife said she was sorry I had been troubled to come again
 that day, as ihe fit was nothing like what I had seen be
 fore, and was not more than such as he had been accus
 tomed to when he had been drinking hard, or was much
 tired; and that it was against ber consent that the messen
 ger came.       He had recovered by the time I reached his
 house, and I was satisfied from appearances she was right ;
 and I left him without any apprehension.
     Since that time he has not experienced one untoward
 symptom. The medicines were continued for nine days,
 the mouth remained sore for nearly three weeks.
    I here wish to mention, that immediately on my return
 from Atcham on Monday, the 8th, the first afternoon                     I
 visited the patient, I called              Mr. Thomas Sutton, and
          .11'     .   .1 . L
                            the earliest opportunity of observing
 requested him     to  take
              * The blood in neither instance appeared buffy.
                                   N3                                  the

  1 §8   Successful Treatment    of a Case of Hydrophobia.
  the case, and begged that he would have the kindness to*
  Suggest any thing that he thought likely to be of service.
  He and Mr. Sutton, as well as others of the profession*
  have been present.
                            Observations.
     in our   observations,   we are naturally led, first, to in
 vestigate the disease as it appeared in the dbg : secondly*
 the injury which followed the wound she inflicted in the
 hand of Abraham Cook : and, lastly, the result of the treat
 ment that was in consequence adopted.
     She is described, as not being known bv any One ; her
 eyes were heavy, and had a glassy appearance.         There was
 a flow of frothy saliva from her mouth ; her belly was re
 markably gaunt, and the dogs she worried, although larger,
 and superior in strength, were at once frightened and dis
 mayed.      Her mode of attack was sudden, and without
 warning, for in no one instance was she heard to bark : all
 of which symptoms are related by authors as appertaining
 to canine madness.
     The illness of Abraham Cook commenced oh the 5th of
 February, fourteen days after the accident.        He then first
 perceived an uneasy sensatiori in the part that was bitten.
 On the 6th, it gradually became more painful.       On the 7th,
 he hid violent head-ache, vomitings, and pain at the pit of
 his stomach : his bowels were tonfined.        When he drank
 some beer, it aggravated his sufferings.     He suspected peo
 ple were determined purposely to ride over him ; and his
 wretchedness was greatly increased by the chilliness he ex
 perienced as he passed over the river ; and afterwards,
 when he reached his home, he refused to take any liquid,
as his pains and sufferings were so great immediately after
he had drunk the beer.         At last ^ by persuasion, he made
the attempt, and the consequence was immediate convul
sions.    When he was put to bed, it was with difficulty he
was detained there.       His convulsions increased, his fea
tures became more distorted, his eyes were suffused with
blood, and he appeared anxiously endeavouring to escape
some ideal object ; and such was the situation in which he
was found by the writer.         He was again pressed to take
some water; and although his sufferings did not at the mo
ment appear to be increased, still, as far as be was able, he
persisted in refusing, and it was evident he could not drink.
From the symptoms, and from the rapid increase of the
disease, it was considered necessary immediately to adopt
some decisive measures} and the writer having read the
                                                      successful

        Successful Treatment    of a Case of Hydrophobia.    1 99
  successful   treatment of hydrophobia, and the interesting.
  communications related by Mr. Tymon and Dr. Shoolbred
  in the East Indies, he was determined without further loss
  of time to pursue to the utmost the means that had been
  attended with such unusual success.         Twenty ounces of
  blood were taken from the arm in six minutes. Hfe fainted ;
  and the pulse could scarcely be felt for one hour. His
  convulsions abated ; his countenance had nearly lost all
  expression of distress; and, when he recovered, his first
  request was to be allowed to indulge in that which the bare
  idea of, but one hour before, seemed to be a source of the
  greatest suffering.   He drank some water, and was greatly
  refreshed by it.    At this period, no medicine whatever had
  been taken, nor for the space of two hours afterwards, and
  during the whole time he was comfortable, and his bowels
  were relieved.     He now commenced taking every three
  hours large doses of opium, &c. but, instead of his con
  tinuing to enjoy ease and comfort, or f urther relief from
  his bowels, his night was restless, and in the morning there
  appeared to be some reasons for apprehending a recurrence
 of the disease. Bleeding was again had recourse to, with
  similar success, excepting that the same effect was not pro
 duced upon the bowels, which possibly were rendered more
 difficult of action from the use of the opium, but which
  was afterwards effected by opening medicine.         From this
 time no further symptom worthy of mention occurred, and
 the patient perfectly recovered.
     It might here be remarked, that although hydrophobia
 in its very far advanced stages is generally described with
 more force and violence of symptoms,        yet it is presumed
 that the patient's symptoms and sufferings were decidedly
 in consequence of that disease.
     Particular attention is requested to the immediate altera
 tion which took place in the disease, after the abstraction
 of blood, and before any other remedy had been exhibited.
 With the testimony and assurance of Dr. Shoolbred, the
 writer felt sanguine in the result ; and from his own ex
 perience of the success of rapid bleedings in diseases most
 resembling hydrophobia, he believes, if adopted in any
stage of the disease where bleeding is admissible, and in
 the manner and to the extent required, it will be attended
 with as great a share of success as is usual in other diseases
 imminent in danger.
     In confirmation that the success will depend upon the
manner, and the extent, in which the operation is per
formed, the writer avails himself of the acknowledged high
                               N  4                         and

200          Successful Treatment           of a   Case   of Hydrophobia.
-and ableauthority of Dr. Christopher Robert Pemberton,
who, when writing upon the subject of venesection in in-
flammaiory diseases, expresses hjmself in the following
language         :
     "
     Physicians have been struck at all times with the effect
produced by taking the blood from a large orifice in in -
flammatory diseases, and it is certainly a matter which
cannot be too strongly urged as an indispensable point in
practice ; especially as the generality of writers do not seem
to have instituted any defined plan to regulate and secure
the effectual performance of this operation.     I wish, there
fore, to press, in the strongest terms, the absolute necessity                          ,
of attending lo that circumstance, which the following.
observations may perhaps tend to elucidate.
     "It is true, that from a small orifice the same quantity
of blood may be taken as from a large one ; but the time
of its flowing is so long, that the topical inflammation,
which demands for its relief a sudden effect upon the sy
stem, is not in the least influenced by            though the geit,
neral strength       much weakened
                          is              which    ;an occurrence is
of aril others to be avoided in          disease that requires re
                                                   a
peated evacuations.
    " As consider this matter of great consequence, shall
             I                                                              I
endeavour to point out         method,  a     which     plan, of a
                                                       by              a
more defined nature than that hitherto adopted, may be
given for drawing blood in inflammatory diseases.
     "At present we are contented to order that the hlood
should be> taken from         large or from
                                        a       small orifice, than
                                                            a
which nothing surely can be more vague or' undefined.
The plan, which propose, refers to the length
                           I                                 time in       of
taking away the blood, which may be measured, and not
the size of the orifice, which cannot.
     "
     I   find from numerous experiments, made at my desire
for this purpose               by
                       different surgeons, that when the orifice
is  such as lo permit eight ounces of blood to flow in three
minutes, that then        patient under acute inflammation will
                                    a
receive every benefit which         expected from the remedy.
                                            is
If   it flows in     longer time, he will receive less benefit
                          a                                                         ;
and, under certain circumstances,       no benefit at all, or evea
an absolute injury.
     "   can suppose
         1               case of peripneumony, wherein
                                a                                pa             a
 tient shall have just general strength enough to carry on
 respiration         by
                  the assistance of the voluntary muscles, and
 that eight ounces of blood shall be taken from very small             a
orifice,      which the change will be so gradual, in conse
              by
 quence of the time required for the blood to flow, that no
                                                                           alteration

       Successful Treatment      of a Case of Hydrophobia.     201
alteration whatever      will be made in the disease; but yet the
general strength       shall  he so diminished, that death may
ensue.      On the other hand, had the same quantity of blood
been taken from a large orifice, that then the disease would
have felt the remedy, and respiration would have gone on
with less exertion of the remaining general strength, in
consequence of the lungs being relieved by this sudden de
pletion.
    "  The great consequence, therefore, attached to the mode
ip which blood is drawn
                                (as on this life or death may often.
depend), imperiously demands of every physician to im
press upon the mind of his patient the importance of the
operation, and the absolute necessity of hiiving it performed
by a person fully skilled in his profession.
     " I should not omit- to mention, that there may now and
jhen occur a case, where the vein may not only be particu
larly small, but likewise be deeply seated, and covered with
 fat.   Here, although the orifice may be sufficiently large,
 yet a portion of fat may obtrude so as to interrupt the
 stream of blood.         I would in such case recommend the?
 surgeon     to dilate  the  external orifice, or even make a fresh
 orifice, rather than persist in his endeavours to obtain the
 quantity required in this" gradual way."
     It has repeatedly happened to the writer to meet with
 those    diseases, wherein       it seemed unavoidably neces
 sary to call to his aid the above strong and competent
 measures ; and when he has been closely observing the
 state of the pulse during the operation, he has found that
 perhaps for about thirty or more pulsations (varying ac
 cording to the strength and constitution of the patient) be
 fore the faintness supervenes, there is a perceptible increase
 of power, and great throbbing in the action of the heart, —
 the heart seeming to struggle against being reduced to a
  state of subjection : this particular action of the heart is
  generally succeeded by diminished power in the circulation,
  and by which he' is assured the disease " has felt the re
  medy."       He likewise wishes to add, that when the in
  creased action of the heart begins to take place, the patient
  is generally very urgent that the bleeding might be discon
  tinued ; but it is absolutely necessary, in the writer's opi
  nion, in extreme cases, to proceed the one step further,
  namely, until faintness is produced.          He prefers any other
  position for the patient to be placed in during the operation
  to one that is recumbent.
      Before' these observations are concluded, it might be
                                                                 well

    302          Experiments on capillary Syphons
   well to refer to the case of a Serjeant Clarke, related by
   Mr. Bellingen, Assistant-surgeon of the 1st Foot, and dated
   Trichinopoly, February 26th, 1813, and inserted in the
   Times paper, August 27th, under the title " Hydrophobia."
   It is there considered " a case which appears to contradict
   this fortunate and promising one" (alluding to the success
   ful case published by Dr. Shoolbred);     In this instance, on
   the 23d February, at nine o'clock, a large orifice was opened
   in the patient's arm, and about 40 ounces of blood were
   taken.    The patient complained of excessive languor, but
   did not faint, yet some of the symptoms were diminished.
   At four o'clock bleeding was tried again ; he struggled so
   much during, the operation that the quantity could not be
   exactly ascertained, but it might be from 16 to 18 ounces.
  The pulse, after this bleeding, fell so low as to be scarcely
  discernible near the wrist, and towards the close he vomited
   a quantity of ropy phlegm mixed with frothy saliva.         He
  continued to struggle violently for some time, then fell
  quiet for a few minutes, and expired about a quarter before
  five.
      After a few further remarks, Mr. Bellingen concludes,
  "  that blood-letting in this case had a timely trial."     But
  it must be recollected, that in the first instance (although
  the quantity of blood taken was forty ounces) the patient
  only complained of excessive languor, but did not faint.
 During the second bleeding, the pulse was scarcely dis
 cernible, but this was not three quarters of an hour before
  the patient died.
     Without wishing to show any disrespect to the opinion
 of Mr. Bellingen, might it not be inferred, that the first
 bleeding was incomplete ? — for although the 40 ounces were
 taken, his patient did not faint — -and that he was weakened,
 and the disease too far advanced for the second bleeding
 to have a chance of success ?
 XXXIV.      Experiments on capillar!/ Syphons with electrified
                     and with heated Liquids.
                         To  Mr. Tilloch,
Sir, — 'In    repeating the well known experiment of causing
 water to flow in a constant stream from a capillary sy
 phon, by means of the electric fluid, it struck me that this
effect might be produced also by means of heat, because
in many instances the electric fluid so nearly resembles it.
                                                   I accordingly

            with electrified and with heated Liquids.               203
I  accordingly filled a metallic cup with cold water, and
Suspended it from a stand, placing in it a thermometer,
and a capillary syphon, from which the water dropped at
the rate of three drops in two minutes.                On placing an
Argand lamp under the cup, the drops, in a short time,
succeeded each other somewhat faster than before, and
when the water reached the boiling point, they amounted
to three in one minute, or rather more.              The bore of this
syphon    was   very  small,  and  elliptical equal, perhaps, to a
                                              ;
cylindrical one     of  l-50th  of  an inch in diameter.        I after
wards repeated the experiment,             with a syphon having a
much larger bore, about 1-1 8th' of an inch in diameter,
from which the water issued at the rate of 150 drops in a
minute, when the thermometer stood in it at 60°. The
cup was now suspended as before over an Argand lamp.
As soon as the water became warm the drops fell much
faster;    at 110° of the thermometer            they could scarcely
be counted, and at 130° a constant stream was produced,
which continued to increase in quantity* verv slowly, till
the water began to boil, when it ceased to increase.                 As
the water cooledi the same phenomena took place in an
inverse order.
    Whether the effect was produced by electricity or heali
when the large syphon was used, the appearances were verv
nearly the same.        The only difference was, that the elec
trical fluid scattered the water as it issued from the syphon,
rather more than the heat did.
    I confess that 1 am at a loss what to deduce from these
experiments, though they certainly seem to indicate a near
connection between heat and electricity.                 I should be
obliged   to  some   of   vour correspondents       for their thoughts
on this subject, if they think the experiment worth notice.
    Is the electric fluid only a peculiar modification of heat ?
or, Is  heat a   modification of electricity     ?
    When the above experiment             is effected by    electricity,
Does it act on the water in the form of heat, by rendering
it more fluid ? And when the experiment is effected by
heat, Does this cause the water to flow faster by rendering
it more fluid ?
    I am aware that if the electrical fluid acts on the water
in the form of heat, thus rendering it more fluid, no heat
becomes     sensible ; and this circumstance          seems to prove,
that the    heat and electricity produce the effect, above de
scribed,    in different ways.     Then, I would ask how the
effect is  produced ?
   If,  sir, the experiment which        I  have described is new,
                                                                    and

204      On a Substance from the             Elm Tree, called Ulmin.
and you think it worth making public, I shall thank you
to insert what I have written in your valuable Magazine.
                        1 am, sir, yours, &c.
  Leskeard, Sept. IT, 1813.                   CoRNUBIENSIS.
   *#* The coincidence of effect noticed by our Correspon
dent does not necessarily indicate identity of cause.   An
electrified body has a disposition to give off its charge ; and
moveable matter, forming the electrified body, or in con
tact with       will be disposed to go off in small portions,
                it,
each of them performing the office of        carrier to remove
                                                    a
part  of  the electric charge, as in  the  familiar  experiment
with light bodies thrown on       charged plate.
                                        a           In this way
we may conceive motion to be given to the electrified water
in the capillary tube, tending to throw      off.   it
   The similar effect produced                by
                                       heat may be accounted
for from the increased tenuity of the liquid, and the en
larged aperture of the capillary tube, by the action of the
heat, both tending to increase the discharge. — T.
XXXV.           On  Substance from the Elm Tree, called Ulmin.
                      a
                By James Smithson, Esq. F.R.S.*                     i
  1.    The     substance now denominated Ulmin was first
made     known          the celebrated Mr. Klaproth, to whom
                          by
nearly every department of chemistry              under numerous
                                                     is
and great obligations              f.
   Ulmin has been ranked             Dr. Thomson, in his System
                                        by
of Chemistry, as           distinct vegetable principle, on the
                               a
ground    of its  possessing qualities totally peculiar and ex
traordinary.          It said, that though in its original state
                           is
easily soluble in water and wholly insoluble in alcohol and
ether,    It changes, when nitric or oxymuriatic acid                    is
poured into its solution, into       resinous substance no longer
                                        a
soluble in water, but soluble in alcohol         and this singular
                                                    ;
alteration      attributed to the union to
               is                              of small portion
                                                   it     a
of oxygen which          has acquired from these acids
                           it                                 Being
possessed of some of this substance which had been sent
to me some years ago from Palermo,                  by
                                                 the same person
from whom Mr. Klaproth had received                      it,
                                                       became in
                                                           I
duced,     bythe foregoing account, to pay attention to                  it,
and have observed facts which appear to warrant            differenta
etiology   of  its phenomena,      and opinion  of its nature, from
what has been given of them.
      * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1813, part     i.
  f     Dr. Thomson's Syst, of Ch«m. vol. iv. p. 6S6. Fourth edition.
                                                                        The

       On a Sulstance from the Elm Tree, called Ulmin.           205
     The ulmin made use of in the following experiments,
had been freed from the fragments of bark by solution in
water and filtration, and recovered in a dry /-state by the
evaporation of the solution on a water bath.
      2. In lumps, ulmin appears black ; but in thin pieces it
 is seen to be transparent, and of a deep red colour.
      In a dilute state, solution of ulmin is yellow; in a con
 centrated one, dark red, and not unlike blood.
      When solution of ulmin dries, either spontaneously or
 by being heated, the ulmin divides into long narrow strips
 disposed in rays to the centre, which curl up and detach
  themselves from the vessel, and the fluid part seems to draw
  together, and becomes remarkably protuberant.              Solution
  of ulmin slowly and feebly restores the colour of turnsol
  paper reddened by an acid.
      3. Dilute nitric acid being poured into a solution of
  ulmin, a copious precipitate immedately formed.                 The
  mixture was thrown on a filter.           The matter which has
  been considered as a resin remained on the paper, and a
  clear yellow liquor came through.               This yellow solu
  tion, on evaporation,        produced    a  number     of prismatic
   crystals looking   like nitrate   of potash.   They were tinged
   yellow by some of the resin.          This mixture, heated in a
   gold dish, deflagrated with violence, and a large quantity
   of fixed alkali remained.
       Dilute muriatic acid caused an exactly similar precipita
   tion in solution of ulmin to nitric acid, and the precipitate
-
   was the same resin-like substance.        The filtered liquor af
   forded a quantity of saline matter, which, after being freed
   by ignition from a portion of dissolved resin, shot into
   pure white cubes of muriate of potash, as appeared by de
    composing them by nitric acid.
       Sulphuric, phosphoric, oxalic, tartaric, and citric acids
    occasioned a similar precipitation in solution of ulmin.
       Distilled vinegar produced no turbidness in it ; and the
   mixture being exhaled to dryness, at a gentle heat, was
    found to be again wholly soluble in water.           But when the
    mixture was made to boil, some decomposition took place.
    On adding muriatic acid to a mixture of solution of ulmin
    and distilled vinegar, a precipitate was produced, as in a
    mere solution in water.
       The nitric and muriatic acids received a small quantity
    of lime and iron from the ulmin, and        I  believe also a little
    magnesia ; but these can be considered only as foreign ad
    mixtures.
        4. To acquire   an idea  of the quantity of potash in ulmin,
                                                                   four

 £06      On a Substance from the     Elm Tree, called Ulmin.
 four grains of ulmin were decomposed by nitric acid,
'They afforded 2-4 grains of resin-like matter. The nitrate
 of potash obtained was heated to deflagration, in small
quantities at a time, in a platina crucible to free it from
 resin.    The alkali produced was supersaturated with nitric
acid, dried, and slightly fused.    It then weighed 1*2 grains.
If  we admit half of nitrate of potash to be alkali, this will
denote        of potash in ulmin.
    Five grains of ulmin were decomposed by muriatic acid.
The resinous matter weighed 3-3 grains, and the muriate
of potash, after being ignited, dissolved away from the
charcoal, dried, and again made red hot, weighed ) -4 grain.
If  we suppose 2-3ds of muriate of potash to be alkali, this
will indicate TyT of potash in ulmin.
   Two grains of ulmin were made red hot in a gold cruci
ble.    It then weighed only 1*05 grain.     The form of the
flakes was in no degree altered ; but they had acquired the
blue and yellow colours of heated steel, of which they had
likewise the metallic aspect and lustre, and could difficultly,
if at all, have been distinguished by the eye from heate4
steel-filings, or fragments of slender watch-springs. Water
immediately destroyed their metallic appearance.
   Muriatic acid, poured on, caused a strong effervescence,
and formed muriate of potash, which, freed from all char
coal, and made red hot, weighed 0- 6 grain, corresponding
to        of potash in ulmin.
. These experiments assign about l-5th for the quantity of
potash in ulmin ; but as it is impossible to operate, on so
small a scale, on such substances without loss, it is pro
bable that it even exceeds this proportion.
   5. The substance separated from ulmin by acids has the
following qualities   :
   It is very glossy, and has a resinous appearance.
   In lumps it appears black ; but in minute fragments it is
found to be transparent, and of a garnet-red colour.
     It
      burns with flame, and is reduced to white ashes.
     Alcohol dissolves    it,
                         but only in very small quantity.
   Water likewise dissolves      but also only in very small
                                it,
quantity. Acids cause precipitate
                            a           this solution, though.
                                          in
this rtsin-like matter appears neither to contain any alkali,
nor to retain any of the acid     means of which
                                 by                   was ob
                                                      it
tained.
   Its solution in water seems to redden turnsol paper.
   Neither ammonia, nor carbonate of soda, promotes its
solution in cold water.
   Do adding small quantity of potash to water in which
               a
                                                                it

    On a Substance from                 the   Elm Tree, called Ulmin.            207
it lies, it dissolves immediatelv and abundantly.   This so
lution has all the qualities of a solution of ulmin, and, on
exhalation,         leaves a matter    precisely like which cracks    it,
and separates           from the glass, and does not grow moist in
the air, &c.
   Hence    appears that ulmin
               it                  not     simple vegetable
                                                   is             a
principle of anomalous qualities, but     combination with       a
potash of red, or more properly
               a                       high yellow matter,a
which,     not of
              if      peculiar genus, seems rather more
                               a
related to the extractives than to the resins.
                                    English Ulmin.
I   collected,           from       an elm tree in Kensington gardens,             a
email quantity           of   a    black shining substance which looked
like ulmin.
    It was readily soluble in water, and the solution was
in colour and appearance exactly similar to            solution of          a
ulmin.
   This solution, exhaled to dry state on water-bath, left
                                              a                       a
a matter exactly like ulmin, and which cracked and di
vided as ulmin dots, when dried         the same manner.
                                                      in                           It
did not, however, rise up from the watch-glass in long
strips, like the Sicilian kind but this may have been owing
                                              ;
partly to its small quantity, which occasioned        to be spread          it
very  thin  on the  watch-glass, and  partly   to its containing                       a
considerable excess of alkali     for     differed also from the
                                              ;
                                                            it
 Palermo ulmin                by
                       becoming soft                     in
                                          the air, and its solu
tion strongly restored the blue colour of reddened turnsol
paper.
    Nitric acid, added to                a    filtered    solution of this ulmin,
immediately             caused     a   precipitate in      it,
                                         and the filtered solu
tion, on evaporation, afforded numerous crystals of nitrate,
of potash.
   This English ulmin made         considerable effervescence
                                                  a
with acetous acid, which the Palermo ulmin had not been
observed to do.    This acetous solution,      which the acid         in
was     excess, was exhaled dry, and repeatedly washed with
         in
spirit of wine. No part of the brown matter dissolved.
Water dissolved this brown residuum readilv and entirely.
This solution did not sensibly restore the blue colour of
reddened tyrnsol paper.     Exhaled to dry state, the matter  a
left did not separate from the watch-glass quite as freely as
Palermo ulmin, which had been treated with acetous acid                                ;
but  it seemed no longer to grow moist in the air.       Redis-
solved     water, and nitric acid added, the mixture became
              in
thick from          a   copious precipitate.
                                                                                  The

  208                    On the Duration       of
     The spirit of wine contained        a    quantity of   acetate  of
  potash.
     The excess of alkali, in this English ulmin, may be
  owing to the tree from which it was collected having been
  affected with the disease which produces the alkaline ulcer
  to which the elm is subject.
                        Sap  of the Elm    Tree.
     Thinking that the production of ulmin by the plant
 might not be the consequence of disease, and that it might
 exist in the healthy sap, a bit of elm twig, gathered in the
 beginning of last July, was cut into thin slices and boiled
 in water. It afforded a brown solution, like a solution of
 ulmin.      Exhaled to dryness, this solution left a dark-brown
 substance, in appearance similar to ulmin ; but on adding
.water to this dry mass, a large quantity of brown glutinous
 matter remained insoluble.         The mixture being thrown on
  a filter, a clear yellow liquor passed, which may have con
 tained ulmin ; but the quantity was too small to admit of
 satisfactory conclusions.
     Perhaps older wood, the juice of which was more per
 fected, would afford other results, since ulmin appears to be
 the product of old trees ; but the inquiry, being merely
 collateral to the object I had originally in view, was not
 persevered in.
 XXXVI.       On  the  Duration of the germinative         Faculty   of
                Seeds.   By M. Saint Hilaire *.
 It    is tolerably well ascertained that the seeds of. some
 species of plants preserve their germinative faculty for se
 veral years, that great numbers lose it at the end of a few
 months, and that it is even necessary to sow some kinds
immediately after their maturity.                  But we have too
scanty materials on which to found any opinion upon
the species, genera or families which enjoy for a longer or
shorter time this faculty, or which lose it speedily.              Ex
perienced gardeners       have   nevertheless      certain data  upon
this subject, and the following may be regarded as perhaps
the most satisfactory :
    "The seeds," says M. Dumont de Courset, " of the la-
biated umbelliferous plants, and of those which contain a
nucleus or a kernel, in general all the aromatics, asteriae,
irides, fraxinellae, aconita, dauphinellse, and of those of a
great many bulbous plants, and most of the large trees, rise
                    * Mag.
                           Encvcl. May 18 11 , p. 89.
                                                                much

                the germinative  Faculty of  Seeds.          209
  much more certainly, when sown immediately, or a short
  time after their maturity, than in spring: several, however,
  sprout also in the latter season, but they will not if kept
  much longer. The inodorous seeds, the grasses, a great
  part of the cruciferous and the leguminous plants, those of
  the cucurbitaceons and of the cold and milky plants, those
  which are contained in cones or capsules, or surrounded
  with a succulent pulp, preserve their germinative and sound
 .quality from two to eight years.
     " Others, and these are but few in number, keep still
 longer, and it is a kind of phaenomenon when we see the
 seeds of the sensitive plant and Goyava germinating at the
 expiration of twenty or thirty years."
     Thus, according to M. Dumont de Courset, twenty or
 thirty years would be the longest term for the duration of
 this faculty. But in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. xlij,
 Mr. Martin Triewalds relates that some melon seedg found
 in 1762, in the collection of Lord Mortimer, with an en
 velope dated 1 700, were sown, and gave flowers and very
 good fruit. In the xliiid volume of the same work, Mr. Roger
 Gale informs Mr. Collinson that several melon seeds kept
 for thirty-three years also bore excellent flowers and fruits.
      To the above 1 shall add what has been communicated.
 to me by M. Desfontaines,       In arranging the seeds of the
 Museum of Natural History he found a haricot (French
 bean) which belonged to the Herbarium of Tournefort, and
  when sown it gave flow.ers and fruit. Besides, we know from
 Linnaeus,' that the seeds of the leguminous plants preserve
 their germinative power for a long time.      This variation in
 the duration of this faculty has not escaped the notice of
botanists : but they haye not yet elucidated, by experiments
repeated upon all the families and upon a great number of
genera, this phaenomenon in vegetation, nor .determined
month after mouth, and year by year,. the species of seeds
 which successively lose their germinative faculty, as well
as those which preserve it for a long time.         It was with
this view that I attempted a tedious experiment, of which
 the following is the result.
    Forty-five years ago Bernard de Jussieu made a collection
of the seeds of all the families, and of a great number of
the genera.      This collection still exists with M- Antony
Laurence de Jussieu, who kindly permitted me to take
what I pleased.     The seeds are all inclosed in small boxes,
and wrapped in a paper upon which Bernard de Jussieu
has written their names.       I mention these circumstances,
to show how old they were, and because it is necessary to
    Vol. 42. No. 185. Sept. 1813.            Q             know

9 10 On the Duration     of the germinative Faculty of Seeds.
know how these seeds have been preserved, because by
taking particular care they might be preserved still longer
from the contact of the air.
    At the beginning of May 1809, T sowed on a common
bed 350 species of seeds of all families and of a great num
ber of genera.      I shall not minutely enter into the particu
lars required for this experiment,        which lasted eighteen
months, but shall give the results of my observations.
    The following in the first place are the names of the
feeds which came up.
    Cannacorus.
    Cannacorus Americanus minor
                                       \ Canna Linn.
    Asphodelus albus.
    Ceyba viticis folio, caudice aculeato.    Bombax 1.
    Phaseoltis semine tamarindi.
    Anagyris fetida.
    Galega frutescens, flore purpureo, foliis sericeis.
    Ptelea trifoliata.
    Paliurus aculeatus.
    Geanothus Americanus.
    Making in all    ten species.  As the second year since the
 sowing    has not passed, it is possible that some  of the seeds
 will still come up during the second or third year.      Among
 these ten species, we ought to remark the two cannse and
 the asphodeii, the seeds of which are furnished with a large
 perisperma, which does not seem to have injured their
 preservation : for we generally observe that the seeds
 furnished with a perisperma, like those of the umbelliferous
 plants, the rubiacese, &c. speedily lose their germinative fa
 culty.
     Jn making this experiment,        I observed that in many
 seeds   the embryo was preserved in a good state, that it
  swelled like that of new seeds at the moment of germina
 tion, when the humidity and heat are first developed ; but
 that it perished some time afterwards, because the cotyle
 dons being obliterated could not transmit to it the juices
 necessary to its development.
     In order to establish a point of comparison between
  these old seeds and fresh ones, I sowed upon the same bed
  about 300 species of seeds gathered the preceding year for
  the Museum of Natural History, and chosen as much as
  possible from among the same genera as the old.           Being
  desirous of knowing the period which both kinds took to
  come up, I made a note of it in my register.         I observed
  that the old seeds, which ought to have germinated within
  the year, took less time to do so t^an the new ones ; and
                                                              that,

    On the Stale in which Alcohol exists in fermented Liquors* 211
    that two old species, the paliurus and the ceanothus, which
    germinate onlv during tht second and third years in the
    sowings annually made at the Museum, rose at the end of a
    few days.    Dots not this prove that many perennials, like
    the paliurus, ceanothus, &c. do not come up until the se
    cond or third vear, because the embryo has not yet attained
    its necessary degree of maturity ? or that the juices con
    tained in the coiyledons are not sufficiently elaborated, —
    rather than admit, as has been done generally, that the en
    velopes of the seeds are too hard, and cannot be pierced
    by the embryo until two or three years expire ?        This
    opinion appears to me so much the more erroneous, as, in
    most fruits or seeds the valves or envelope open naturally,
    and without any' effort : it can only be admitted in a very
    small number of circumstances ; and 1 shall add in favour
    of mine, a fact which was related to me by M. Thouin the
    elder, the accuracy of which is well known, namely, that
    gardeners always prefer for melon beds, such seeds as have
    been two or three years gathered, to those of the preceding
    year.
    XXXVII         . Additional Remarks on the State in which Alcohol
        exists    in fermented Liquors.     By William Thomas
        Brande, Esq. F.R.S.*
    The     experiments and observations contained in this paper
    are intended as supplementary to a communication on the
    same subject, which the Royal Society has done me the
    honour to insert in the Philosophical Transactions for the
    hear 181 1 t-
       On that occasion, I endeavoured to refute the commonly
    received opinion respecting the production of alcohol du
    ring the distillation of fermented liquors, by showing that
    the results of the process are not affected by a variation of
    temperature equal to twenty degrees of Fahrenheit's scale;
    that   is,that    similar quantity of alcohol
                       a                             afforded is             by
    distilling wine at 180P and at 200\
     I   also conceived that any new arrangement of the ulti
    mate elements of the wine, which could have given rise to
    the formation of alcohol, would have been attended with
    other symptoms of decomposition, that carbon would have
,   been deposited, or carbonic acid evolved, which        the ex       in
    periments alluded to was not the case. Upon such grounds
    I ventured to conclude, that the relative quantity of alcohol
                 * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1813,
                                                                 part   i.
            f      Philosophical Transactions, page 337.
                                        0  2                                 iq.

            Additional Remarks        on the   Stale in which
in wines might be estimated by submitting them to                  a care
ful distillation, and by ascertaining the specific gravity of
the distilled liquor with the precautions which I have for
merly described.
   This conclusion may be objected to, by supposing that
the lowest temperature, at which the distillations were
performed, was sufficient for the formation of alcohol from
the elements existing in the wine ; but it is not easy to
conceive how this should happen, without some of those
other changes which I have just noticed.
    It has been stated, in my former paper, that the separa
tion of alcohol from wine, by the addition of subcarbonate
of potash, is prevented by the combination of the alkaline
salt with the colouring-extractive, and acid contained in
the liquor.     I have also shortly noticed some unsuccessful
attempts to separate these substances by other means than
distillation.
    In prosecuting the inquiry, this difficulty has been sur
mounted, and I shall proceed to show that alcohol may be
separated from wine without the intervention of heat, and
that the proportion thus afforded is equal to that yielded by
distillation.
    When the acetate*, or subacetatet of lead, or the sub-
nitrate of tin   Jare added to wine, a dense insoluble preci
pitate is quickly formed, consisting of a combination of the
metallic oxide with the acid and colouring-ext-ractive    mat
ter of the wine ; and when this is separated by filtration, a
colourless fluid is obtained, containing alcohol, water, aud
a portion of the acid of the metallic salt, provided the latter
has not been added in excess, in which case a part remains
undecomposed.
   The acetate of lead and the subnitrate of tin produce the
desired effect of separating the colouring and acid matters,
in the greater number of instances ; but they are less rapid
and perfect in their action, and not so generally applicable
as the subacetate of lead §, which is the substance that I
commonly employed.
  The following experiment            was made with a view to as
certain the effect    of this salt.
  •
     Sugar of lead.
  -(-Formed by boiling two parts of sugar of lead with one of finely pow.
dered litharge, in six parts of water.  The solution should be preserved in
well closed phials, as
                     it   is rapidly decomposed by attracting carbonic acid
from the 3tmosphere.     Even while hot, a portion of carbonate of lead  it
formed in it.
    Prepared by dissolving protoxide of tin in cold dilute nitric acid.v
 § \ The effect of this salt upon colouring matter was first pointed out to
me by Mr. E. M. Noble, of Chelsea.
                                                                 Twenty

                  Alcohol exists in fermented Liquors.                    Si  3
      Twenty measures of alcohol, specific gravity ,82500,
   were mixed with eighty measures of distilled water coloured
   with logwood, and rendered slightly acid by supertartrate
  of potash. Four measures of a concentrated solution of
  the subacetale of lead were added to this mixture, and the
  whole poured upon a filter. A precipitate was thus col
  lected of a deep purple colour, which appeared to consist
  of oxide of lead combined with tartaric acid and the co
  louring-extractive matter.
     The filtered liquor was perfectly transparent and colour
  less, and afforded, on the addition of subcarbonate of pot
  ash, 19,5 measures of alcohol*. ,
     Finding that the separation of alcohol by subcarbonate
  of potash from mixtures of spirit and water was nearly
 complete, and that colouring-extractive matter and tartaric
  acid might be removed from such mixtures by the subace-
 tate of lead, I proceeded to examine wine by such modes of
  analysis.
     The following results were obtained by these and other
 comparative experiments.             -
      1. One part by measure of a concentrated solution of
 subacetate of lead was added to eight measures of common
 port wine : the mixture having been agitated for a few
  minutes, was poured upon a filter. — The filtrated liquor
  was perfectly colourless, and the addition of dry subcar
  bonate of potash effected a rapid separation of alcohol f.
     One hundred measures of the wine thus treated afforded
  22,5 measures of alcohol.
     2. Eight ounces of the wine employed in the last experi-
    * Pure subcarbonate of potash, obtained by igniting the carbonate, wat
 employed in these experiments.      I found that about 19,5 parts of alcohol
 were separated in the course of four hours, by the addition of 50 parts of
 the subcarbonate to a mixture of 20 parts of alcohol by measure with 80
of distilled water, and that no further separation took place. The alcohol
 is always slightly alkaline, probably from containing a small portion of the
solution of the subcarbonate, or of pu>e soda ; but as this did not interfere
 with the object of the experiment, it was not particularly attended to.
    When the subcarbonate was added to a mixture of four parts by measure
of alcohol with 9.6 of water, no separation was effected. — A mixture con
 taining 8 per cent. of alcohol afforded about 7 parts — one containing 16
per cent. about 15,5, and where'the proportion of alcohol exceeded i6 per
cent. the quantity, indicated by the action of the subcarbonate, was always
within 0,5 per cent. of the real proportion contained in the mixture.      So.
that in the examination of wines containing less thau 12 per cent. of alco
hol, the method described in the text is somewhat exceptionable.         The
above experiments were made in glass tubes varying in diameter from 0,5
inch to 2 inches, and accurately graduated into 100 parts.
    + When any excess of the subacetate had been employed, a portion of
carbonate of lead was thrown down ; but this did not interfere w^th the
iubsequeut separation of the alcohol.
                                    O   3                              ment

814 On the State in which Alcohol exists in fermented Liquors*
tnent   were .distilled    in glass vessels, as described in my
former paper. — The specific gravity of the distilled liquor
at the temperature of GO0 was 0,97530, which indicates
23,30     per cent. by measure       of alcohol of the specific gra
                                           ^
vity of ,8250.
    3. Eight ounces of the same wine were introduced into
a retort placed in a sand heat, and the process of distillation
was stopped when six ounces had passed Over into the re
ceiver.     After the vessels were completely cooled, the por
tion in the receiver was added to the residuum in the retort.
The specific gravity of this mixture (ascertained with pro
per precautions)        was ,9884, that of the original wine
 =0,9883 *.
    When care was taken to prevent the escape of vapour,
no change of specific gravity was produced in the wine by
three repetitions of the above process.
    Similar experiments were repeated upon Madeira, sherry ^
claret, and vin de grave, wines differine; in the relative
 proportions of alcohol, colouring matter, and acid which
 they contain, and the results were as decisive ; so that I
 Conceive it is amply proved, by experimental evidence, that
 no alcohol is formed during the distillation of wines, and
 that the whole quantity found, after distillation, pre-existed
 in the fermented liquor.
    It has been frequently asserted, that a mixture of alcohol
 and water, in the proportions I have stated them to exist in
 wine, would be much more effectual in producing intoxi
 cation, and the general bad effects of spirituous liquors,
 than a similar quantity of the wine itself.          But this is true
 to a very limited extent only: when brandy is added to
water, it is some time before the two liquids perfectly com
bine, and with alcohol this is more remarkably the case ;
and these mixtures are warmer to the taste, and more
heating, if taken in this state of imperfect union, than
 when sufficient       time has been allowed for their perfect
 mutual penetration.
    I  have also ascertained that distilled port wine tastes
 stronger, and is more heating than the wine in its original
 state, and that these qualities are impaired, and the wine
 reduced nearly to its original flavour, by the addition of its
 acid and extractive matter.          With claret, and some other
 wines, containing less alcohol and more acid than pott,
these circumstances are more readily perceived ; and lastly,
if the residuum afforded by the distillation of 100 parts of
   * This
           experiment was suggested in the Edinburgh Review for Novem
 ber 1SU.
                                                                  port

                On   Electricity by Position or Induction.                   2 15
port wine be added to 22 parts of alcohol and 88 of water
(in a state of perfect combination), the mixture is precisely
analogous in its intoxicating effects to port wine of an
equal strength.
     In the table annexed to my former paper, it appears that
the average quantity of alcohol contained in port wine
amounts to 23,48 per cent. ; but two of the wines there
alluded to are stronger than any I have since met with, and
were at that time sent to me as " remarkably strong and old
port." 1 have lately examined a number of specimens of
the better kinds of port wine in common use, and the re
sults of these experiments lead me to place the average
strength of 22 per cent. of alcohol by measure.
     A port wine procured for me bv Dr. Baillie, and to which
 no brandy had been added, afforded 21,40 per cent, of al
 cohol : another specimen of a similar description, put into
 mj hands by an Oporto merchant, contained only 19 per
 cent. ; it is the weakest port wine I have met with.
      The other results given in the table agree perfectly with
 those of subsequent and more extended experiments.
 XXXVIII.           On Electricity      by Position or Induction.              By
                             Ez. Walker, Esq.
                                To   Mr. Tilloch.
 Dear Str, — In my               paper on Mr. Bennet's Electrometer,
  I asserted that electricity by position or induction * does
 not vanish as soon as the electric is removed, though Pro
 fessor Robison and other writers on electricity are of a
 contrary opinion.
      The Professor observes, that             "  the mechanical phaeno-
 mena of electricity may be expressed in a few simple pro
 positions. The most general fact that we know, and from
  which all the rest inav be deduced, is the following.
      " If    any body A. is electrified         by any means w hatever,
  and if another body B
                                   "
                                      (supported by an insulating si and)
 " is brought into its neighbourhood, the last becomes elec
  trified by position.
       " The mere vicinity of the electric renders the conductor
  electric, and the electricity ceases on removing the excited
  surface     f."
      • "  It will be convenient," says Dr. Robison, "to distinguish this last elec
   trical state by a particular name. We will call it Electricitv tv position. or
   Induced Electricitv.   It is induced by position with regard to the perma
  nently electrical body.' — Encycl. Sup. vol. i. p. 568.
      f Encycl. Brit. Sup. toI. i. p. 571.
                                        0  4                                   But

§16         On Electricity   ly Position or Induction.
   But the Professor's experiments do not appear to hav*
been    made with all that circumspection which is necessary
to investigate a " general fact." Indeed, it will be easily
conceived, by those who are acquainted with the philoso
phical labours of Dr, Robison, that he must have taken
many of his propositions on the authority of others j for it
seems impossible, that all the facts which appear in his
writings should have been verified by himself.
   From the following experiments, which were often re
peated with much care, it appears that a conductor electri
fied by position retains the electric fluid a long time after
the excited surface is removed.
   Experiment 1 .—A conductor AB, consisting of a brass
rod twelve inches long, with a ball of the same metal fixed
upon each end, was placed upon an insulating stand. A
glass tubci being excited by rubbing it with silk, wis
brought near the end A, but not within the striking di-^
stance.    The pith- ball electrometers, which were suspended
from the ends of the conductor, diverged, and on examina
tion the end A contained the resinous electricity, and the
end 15 the vitreous.
   The tube being removed, the balls at B collapsed and
immediately diverged again with resinous electricity, the
end A continuing in the same state ; and when the air
was favourable for the experiment* the conductor showed
signs of resinous electricity for more than an hour after.
   Explanation.     The conductor in its natural state con
tained the two electric fluids in such intimate Union as to
exhibit no marks of their existence.       But when the excited
tube was brought near A, it attracted the resinous electri
city towards that end o'f the conductor, and repelled the
vitreous towards the other end.
   Now it may be easily understood, that the sartae power
which repels the vitreous electricity towards B, will, at the
same i\mt, force Some part of it out of the conductor at
that end into the air, and consequently          the conductor
AB will contain less vitreous electricity than resinous; and
when the excited surface is removed from the neighbour
hood of the conductor, the resinous electricity will pre
vail, which will not vanish when the excited surface is re
moved.
   As the particles of the same fluid repel one another, the
charge of a conductor is continually dissipating, till all
electrical signs vanish ; and it will be easily conceived that
this dissipation will increase as the fluid is condensed :
therefore an increase in the electrical energy applied at A

                      Travels in North America.                 217
will increase the condensation         and dissipation  of the fluid
at the other end.
    These facts explain the properties of Mr. Bennet's elec
trometer in a very clear and .satisfactory manner.
    When the' glass of that instrument is about four or five
inches in diameter, and the gold-leaves cut so short as not
to touch its interior surface, it will appear evident, to those
who are at all acquainted with electrical experiments, that
the cap and gold-leaves form an insulated conductor, simi
lar to the conductor described in the preceding experiment,
and the gold-leaves        will exhibit the same phenomena as
the pith balls suspended from the conductor at the end B.
    For a more particular account of Mr. Bennet's Electro
meter, see Phil. Mag. vol. xli. page 415.
    The following experiment shows in a very clear and de
 cided manner, that when an excited surface is brought near
 one end of an insulated conductor, electricity of the same
kind as that of the excited surface is repelled from the
other end.
    Two insulated conductors, AB and CD, were placed in a
 fight line, with their ends nearlv in contact 5 and a glass
 tube excited by a silk rubber being brought near the end
 A, but not within the striking distance, the ends A and
 C became negative, B and D positive.
     But when the conductor AB was removed to some di
  stance from CD, and the tube at the same instant removed
 from the vicinity of both ; the two conductors became per
 manently electrified, — AB was negative and CD positive,
 because the excited surface had attracted the negative fluid
 out of CD into AB, and repelled the positive out of AB
 into CD ; and moreover, some part of the positive had
 been repelled into the air from the end D; for the con
 ductors became negative, when brought again into con
  tact.
    Lynn,  Sept. 8, 1813.                            Ez. WalKEK.
 XXXIX. Aii          Account of a Journey by the Gentlemen at
               to the  Neu> York Fur Company,
     tached.                                        from the Pacific
     Ocean to the Missouri, as collected from the Gentlemen
     themselves.
  On     the 29th of June 1812 Mr. Robert Steuart, one of the
  partners of the Pacific Fur Companv, with two French
  men, Messrs. Ramsey Crooks, and Robert M'Clellan, left
  the Pacific Ocean with dispatches for New York.
     After ascending the Columbia river ninety miles, John
                                                                Day,

   218               Travels in North America.
   Day, one of   the hunters, became perfectly insane, and was
   sent  back to the main establishment   under the charge of
   some Indians: the remaining six pursued their voyage up
  wards of 900 miles, when thev happily met with Mr. Joseph
  Miller, on his way to the mouth of the Columbia : he had
  been considerably to the south and east among the nations
   called Blackarms and Arapahavs, by the latter of whom he
  was robbed ; in consequence of which he suffered almost
  every privation human nature is capable of, and was in a
  state of starvation and almost nudity when the party met
  him.
      Thev now had fifteen horses, and pursued their journey
  for the Atlantic world, without any uncommon accident,
   until within about 200 miles of the Rocky Mountains,
  where they unfortunately met with a party of the Crow
  Indians, who behaved with the most unbounded insolence,
  and were solelv prevented from cutting off the partv by ob
  serving them well armed and constantly on their guard.
  They however pursued on their track six days, and finally
  stole everv horse belonging to the party.
     Some idea of the situation of those men may be con
  ceived, when we take into consideration      that they were
  now on foot and had a journey of 2000 miles before them,
  1500 of which entirely unknown, as they intended and pro--
  secuted it considerably south of Messrs. Lewis and Clark's
  route: the impossibility of carrving any quantity of pro
 visions on their backs, in addition to their ammunition and
 bedding, will occur at first view.     The danger to be ap
 prehended from starvation was imminent.
     They however put the best face upon their prospects,
 and pursued their route towards the Rocky Mountains at
 the head waters of the Colorado or Spanish River, and
 stood their course E.S.E. until they struck the head waters
of the great river Platte, which they undeviatinglv followed
 to its mouth. — It may here be observed, that this river for
 about 300 miles is navigable for a barge ; from thence to
 the Otto village, within 45 miles of its entrance into the
 Missouri, it is a mere bed of sand, without water sufficient
to float a skin canoe.
     From the Otto village to St. Louis the party performed
their voyage in a canoe furnished them by the natives, and
arrived here in perfect health on the 30th of last month.
Our travellers did not hear of the war with England until
they came to the Ottos : these people told them that the
Shawanoe       Prophet had sent them a wampum, inviting
them to join in the war against the Americans ; that they
                                                     answered

                    Travels in North America.
answered    the messenger, that they could make more by
trapping beaver than making war asainst the Americans.
    After crossing the hills (Rocky Mountains) they happily
fell in with a small party of Snake Indians, from whom
thev purchased a horse, who relieved them from any further
carriage of food, and this faithful four- footed companion
performed that service to the Otto village.       They wintered
on the river Platte about f>OU miles from its mouth.
     By information received from these gentlemen, it appears
that a journey across the continent of North America
might be performed with a waggon, there being no obstruct
tion in the whole route that any person would dare' to call
a mountain, in addition to its being much the most direct
 and short one to go from this place to the mouth of the
 Columbia river.       Any future party who may undertake
 this journey, and are tolerably acquainted with the different
 places where it would be necessary to lay up a small stock
 of provisions, would not be impeded, as in all probability
 they would not meet with an Indian to interrupt their pro
 gress ; although on the other route more north there are
 almost insurmountable barriers.
     Messrs. Hunt, Crooks,      Miller, M'Clellan, M'Kenzie,
 and about 60 men, who left St. Louis in the beginning of
 March 1611 for the Pacific Ocean, reached the Aricoras
 village on the 13th day of June; where meeting with some
  American hunters who had been the preceding year on the
  waters of the Columbia with Mr. Henry, and who gave
  an account of the route by which they passed being far
  preferable (in point of procuring with facility an abun
  dant supply of food at all times, as well as for avoiding even
  the probability of seeing their enemies the Black Feet), to
  the track of captains Lewis and Clark ; the gentlemen
  of the expedition at once abandoned their former ideas of
  passing by the falls of the Missouri, and made the neces
  sary arrangements for commencing their journey over land
  from this place.
      Eighty horses were purchased and equipped by the 17th
  of July, and on the day following they departed from the
  Aricoras, sixty persons in number, all on foot except the
   partners of the company.     In this situation they proceeded
  for five days, having crossed in that time two considerable
   streams which joined the Missouri below the Aricoras ;
   when finding an inland tribe of Indians calling themselves
   Shawhays, but known among the whites by the appellation
  of Cheyennes, they procured from these people an accession
   of forty horses, which enabled the gentlemen to furnish a
                                                          a horse

  2120             Travels in North America.
  horse for every two men.       Steering about W.S.W. they
  passed the small branches of Big River, the Little Missouri
  above its forks, and several of the tributary streams of
  Powder River, one of which followed up they found a band
  of the Absaroka or Crow nation encamped on its banks,
  at the foot of the Big Horn mountain.
     For ammunition and some small articles they exchanged       .
  all their lame for sound horses with these savages ; but
  although this band has been allowed, by every one who
 knows them, to be by far the best behaved of their tribe,
  it was only by that unalterable determination of the gentle
  men to avoid jeopardizing the safety of the party without
  at the same moment submitting to intentional insults, that
  they left this camp (not possessing a greater force than the
 whites) without coming to blows.
      The distance from the Aricoras to this mountain is
  about 450 miles over an extremely rugged tract, by no
  means furnishing a sufficient supply of water; but during
  the twenty-eight days they were getting to the base of the
 mountain, they were only in a very few instances without
 abundance of buffalo meat.
     Three days took them over to the plains of Mad River
 (the name given to theBigHorn above this mountain), which
 following for a number of days, they left it where it was
 reduced to thirty yards in width, and the same evening
 reached the banks of the Colorado or Spanish River.       Find
 ing flocks of buffaloes at the end of the third day's travel on
 this stream, the party passed a week in drying buffalo meat
 for the residue of the voyage, as in all probability those
 were the last animals of the kind they would meet with.
 From this camp, in one day, they crossed the dividing
 mountain and pitched their tents on Hoback's Fork of Mad
 River, where it was near 150 feet broad ; and in eight days
more, having passed several stupendous ridges, they en
 camped in the vicinity of the establishment made by Mr.
Henry in the fall of 1810, on a fork about 70 yards wide
bearing the name of that-gentleman ; having travelled from
the main Missouri about ooo miles in 54 days.
     Here abandoning their horses, the party constructed
canoes and descended the Snake or Ky-eye-nem River (made
by the junction of Mad River, south of Henry's Fork) 400
miles, in the course of which they were obliged by the in
tervention of impassable rapids to make a number of port
ages, till at length they found the river confined between
gloomy precipices at least 200 feet perpendicular, whose
banks for the most. part were washed by this turbulent
                                                       stream,

                    Travels in North America.
stream, which for 30 miles was a continual succession of
falls, cascades and rapids.     Mr. Crooks's canoe had split
and upset in the middle of a rapid, by which one man was
drowned, named Antonie Clappin, and that gentleman
saved himself only by extreme exertion in swimming.
From the repeated losses by the upsetting of canoes their
stock of provisions was now reduced to a bare sufficiency
for five days, totally ignorant of the country wher« they
were, and unsuccessful in meeting any of the natives from
whom they could hope for information.
    Unable to proceed by water, Messrs. M'Kenzie, M'Clel-
lan and Reed set out in different directions inclining down
the river, for the purpose of finding Indians and buying
horses. Mr.Crooks, with a few men, returned toHenry's Fork
for those they had left, while Mr. Hunt remained with the
main body of the men in trapping beaver for their support.
Mr. C. finding the distance much greater by land than they
had contemplated, returned at the end of three days, where
 waiting five more expecting relief from below, the near ap
proach of winter made them determine on depositing all
superfluous articles and proceeding on foot. Accordingly
on the 10th of November Messrs. Hunt and Crooks set
out each with 18 men, one party on the north and the
other on the south side of the river.
   Mr. Hunt was fortunate in finding Indians with abun
dance of salmon and some horses ; but Mr. Crooks saw
but few, and in general too miserably poor to afford his
party much assistance.     Thirteen days travel brought the
latter to a high range of mountains through which the
river forced a passage; and the bank being their only guide,
they still, by climbing over points of rocky ridges projecting
into the stream, kept as near it as possible, till in the evening
of the 3d of December impassable precipices of immense
height put an end to all hopes of following the margin of
this watercourse, which here was not more than 40 yards
wide, ran with incredible velocity, and was withal so foam-
ingly tumultuous, that even had the opposite hank been fit
for their purpose, an attempt at rafting would have been
perfect madness, as they could only have the inducement of
ending in a watery grave a series of hardships and privations,
to which the most hardy and determined of the human
race must have found himself inadequate.        They attempted.
to climb the mountains, still bent on pushing on ; but after
ascending for half a day, they discovered to their sorrow-
that they were not half way to the summit, and the snow
already too deep for men in their emaciated state to pro
                                                       '
ceed further.                                             .    Re-

                     Travels in North America.
     Regaining the river bank, they returned up, and on the third
   day met with Mr. Hunt and party with one horse proceed
  ing downwards. A canoe was soon made of a horse's hide,
   and in it was transported what meat they could spare to Mr.
   Crooks's starving followers, who, for the first 18 days after
   leaving the place of deposit, had subsisted on half a meal in
  twenty-four hours, and in the last nine days had eaten only
  one beaver, a dog, a few wild cherries, and old mockasin
  soles, having travelled during these twenty-seven days at least
  5.50 miles.   For the next four days, both parties continued
  on up the river without any other support than what little
  rose-buds and cherries they could find : but here they luckily
  fell in with some Snake Indians, from whom thev got five
  horses, giving them three guns and some other articles for
  the same.    Starvation had bereft J. B. Provest of his senses
  entirely; and on seeing the horse-flesh on the opposite
  Shore, he was so agitated in crossing in a skin canoe that he
  upset it and was unfortunately drowned.       From hence Mr.
  Hunt went on to a camp of Shoshonies about 90 miles
  above, where procuring a few horses and a guide he set out
  for the main Columbia, across the mountains to the south
  west, leaving the river where it entered the range, and on
 it Mr. Crooks and five men unable to travel.
      Mr. H. lost a Canadian named Carriere by starvation,
  before he met the Shy-ey-to-ga Indians in the Columbia
 plains ; from whom getting a supply of provisions, he soon
 reached the main river, which he descended in canoes, and
 arrived without any further loss at Astoria in the month of
 February.
      Messrs. M'Kenzie, M'Clellan and Reed had united their
 parties on the Snake river mountains, through which they
 travelled twenty- one days to the Mulpot River, subsisting
 on an allowance by no means adequate to the toils they
underwent daily; and to the smallness of their number
 (which was in all eleven) they attribute their success in
getting with life to where they found some wild horses.
They soon after reached the fork called by captains Lewis
and Clarke, Kooikooske; went down Lewis's partly, and
the Columbia wholly by water, without any misfortune
except the upsetting in a rapid of Mr. M'Clellan's canoe;
and although it happened on the first day of the year, yet
by great exertion they clung to the canoe till the others
came to their assistance.       Making their escape with the
loss of some rifles, they reached Astoria early in January.
     Three of the five men who remained with Mr. Crooks,
afraid of perishing by want, left him in February on a small
                                                           river

                 Observations on the Stratification   of Slate.    223
    river on the road by which Mr. Hunt had passed in quest
    of Indians, and have not since been heard of. Mr. C. had
    followed Mr. H's track in the snow for seven days : but
    coming to a low prairie, he lost every appearance of the
    trace, and was compelled to pass the remaining part of win
    ter in the mountains, subsisting sometimes on beaver and
    horse meat, and their skins, and at others on their success
    in finding roots.  Finally, on the last of March, the other
    only Canadian, being unable to proceed, was left with a
    lodge of ihoshonies;    and Mr. C. with John Day, finding
    the snow sufficiently diminished, undertook from Indian
    information to cross the last ridge, which they happily ef
    fected, and reached the banks of the Columbia by the mid
    dle of April, where, in the beginning of May, they fell in
     with Messrs. Steuart, having been a few days before strip
     ped of every thing they possessed by a band of villains near
     the falls. On the 10th of May they arrived safe at Astoria,
     the principal establishment of the Pacific Fur Company,
     within 14 miles of Cape Disappointment.
    XL.   Observations on the Strat ification    of Slate.    By Mr.
                         William Creighton.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
    Sir, — In     vour last number,  page 116, Mr. Farey accuse*
    Mr. Bakewell of      inaccuracy in describing the stratification
    of slate, the peculiarities of which can scarcely have escaped
    observation ; but I am induced to offer a few remarks there
    upon, as the work of Mr. Jameson the geognost is imper
    fect, and Mr. Bakewell's Introduction to Geology not sa
    tisfactory on this subject, with which Mr. Farey seems
     unacquainted.
        The laminae. of argillaceous schistus are not only found
     perpendicular to the stratification, but form various angles
-    with  it, which arises from the strata being thrown into
     waves having different w idths and steepness of sides, with
    a  considerable proportionate    length: the schistus of these
     strata has its laminae perpendicular or nearly 30 to the hori
     zon, and      the same direction as the length of the waves
                  in                                                     :
    it  has therefore    diversitv of angles to the stratification
                         a                                               :
     and as the perpendicular depths continue the same, the
     transverse thickness 13 greatest at the top and hollow of the
     waves, gradually becoming more or less thin on the sides,
     according to their declivity when strata of grau- wacke
                                      :                               al
     ternate, the thickness of them      nearly uniform, in which
                                          is
                                                                  respecj    ,

                             Ionian Islands.
 respect the granular differs from the schistose part of the
 rock. The whole mass seems originally formed. in a hori
 zontal position, and while soft to have been forced into un*
 delations : the grau-wacke is merely bent ; but the schistus,
being crystallized in perpendicular plates capable of sliding
 on each other, has accommodated itself to the situation de
scribed above.
     Part of the north side of Charnwood Forest appears to         .
be one side of a large wave, ranging with its strata of
 schistus not far from east and west ; but whether the sum
 mit and southern declivity are to be found, I know not..
 Westmoreland and the south of Scotland afford examples
 of this stratification ; but the best I have observed are at
 Brayhead near Dublin, the schistus rocks at Cork, and the
 mountains between that place and Killarney, the directions
 of their waves and laminae of the schistose part being uni
 formly about N 70° E.
    The south-east boundary of the Grampian mountains
 has the argillaceous schistus parallel to its stratification,
 and to the adjacent micaceous strata, in a direction nearly
 N 55° E ; but that this parallelism is uniformly the case
 with primary schistus, and distinguishes it from secondary
 or transition rocks, I am not prepared to consider as cor
 rect, though inclined to entertain such opinion.
                       I am, sir, yours, &c.
   Soho near Birmingham,                      Wm. CrEIGHTON.
       Sept. 20, 1813.
          XLI.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                            IONIAN ISLANDS.
The       extensive works going on at Corfu by order of the
 French Government have led to the discovery cf various in^
 teresting articles.
     It had been long since known that an ancient city was
situated in that part of the island which extends between
 one of its old harbours and the sea at the foot of the. small
 hill St. Pantaleon.       It is here we find the temple of Palea?
.polis (the    ancient    city) changed into a church, as is an
nounced by an inscription on the cornice of the gateway.
 Hitherto, however, we have had no precise ideas of its ex«
tent, topography, or name.
    The remains of ancient aqueducts, the great quantity of
 ruins, inscriptions, and ancient columns, along the sea-
coast to the point of Aperama, far from the position of
Paleapolis, induce a belief that the city extended th.at length.,
                                                               and

                          Ionian Islands.                       225'
and excite an idea very similar to that whwh the ancients
have transmitted to us on the subject.          At all events, it
enables us more accurately to ascertain the boundaries of
the ancient city.
    At three different points within the inclosure of the an
cient city there are remains of a stone- aqueduct.             Thi3
aqueduct was, in the lower parts, sustained by artades, a.
great part of which we still see at the level of the ground
to an extent of 7 or 800 metres.         The piles are 1 metre
80 centimetres long, by 1 metre 40 centimetres in thick
ness.     The aperture of the arcades is 3 metres 60 centi
metres.     This aqueduct drew its waters from a ridge ter
minated by Mount St. Helena.            Subsequent excavations
Kave exposed the springs and reservoirs from which the
water was obtained.
     A short distance from the place where this aqueduct was
 discovered, a circular water pipe of baked earth was found.
The slope directed towards the convent of St. Theodore has
 been levelled in the part exposed.      It is 4 centimetres by
6 metres and 40 centimetres long.
     In the environs were found large quantities of stones for
 building, but in such a stale of confusion that nothing
 could be traced of their former condition.           A note was
 taken of their position, however,         that their destination
 might be traced from other circumstances.           Many brick3
 and other articles of baked earth were found at the same
 time.
     On digging more to the eastward, a conduit- pipe was
 discovered cut into the tufa, and which seemed to be of
 considerable length.      This conduit was two feet wide and
 liearly six feet high. It seemed to have been made with
 the pickaxe, and might probably have been constructed to
                                                                     1
 collect the waters of filtration, and furnish an artificial spring,
     These monuments      announce that what. the ancients have
 told us of the magnificence of the works of this city is
 not exaggerated. As to the waters, Homer informs us that
  there were two fountains constantly spouting water, one
 of which wa;ered the gardens of Alcinous and- the other
  flowed through canals under the windows of the palace,
  forming afterwards a large basin for the use of the citizens.
      Near the salt pits, and still within the limits of the an
  cient city, several tombs have been found, of which the best
  preserved is formed of large square bricks 44 centimetres
  in extent.    According to what we can learn, three or four
  were placed on each side, as many abovej and one at
  each end.-
      Vol.42, No. 185. Sept. 1813.               P             Vases

SS6                       Ionian Islands.
    Vases    of baked earth, lachrymals, and small copper uten
sils,   are found    daily. We know that the art of making
earthenware had been wonderfully perfected in this country ;
and if we may-judge by the number of the objects and the
details .which have been given of them, we shall find that
the ancients have not exaggerated.       Great attention has
been paid to the upper parts of the small lamps, upon which
are represented in has relief erotic scenes of very fine exe
cution.
   Fragments of columns and several capitals of the Doric
order have been found, and particularly some shafts of
finely fluted columns.       One of these shafts is 1 metre
 10 centimetres in diameter, another 87 centimetres : some
elegant small heads have also been found, a statue of a
female wiih very elegant drapery, and several other figures in
marble : a leaden bow very well preserved, and two weights
of an oval form and of less diameter than an egg, with
the inscription KAAISTPATOT.          These were probably the
balls which served for the sling of some hero among the
Corcyrans.
    In another place further off', a stone arch has been dis
covered with several holes on the surface, which seems to
indicate that it was an oven for baking clay. Some are of
opinion, but probably erroneously, that it was a hydraulic
machine.
    In the same environs, at a place called Slraties, there
was found an ancient bronze vase of middling size and
without handles : it contained a large quantity of silver
medals.     The greater part of these medals are in high pre
 servation, they are of Dyrrhachium,      an ancient Corcyran
colony, now called Durazzo, a city on the shores of Epirus.
These medals bear the usual emblem of a cow suckling a
calf, and on the exergue what archaeologists regard as the
gardens of Alcinoiis, with the epigraph ATP and the club.
The only difference which we have to remark,          is,
                                                       that the
cow      turned to the left, instead of being to the right, a*
        is
upon all the medals of this colony. Among these medals,
some have been found belonging to Corinth and Siphnos
with the Sphynx, and belonging to Corcyra with the
diota to the right and the star in the exergue    : other Cor
cyran medals of third rate size have on one side young
Bacchus crowned with ivy, on the other        winged Pegasus,
                                              a
a   laurel on his head, and at his hind feet the prow of     a
ship with the monograms A. K. K. others have the inscrip
                                      :
tion &AAAKPOT and <PIAflNIAAZ others the name of
                                          :
the king of Macedon Demetrius.         At the same spot where

                         Ionian Islands.                       327
 the vase was found, bronze nails were seen with large heads,
 and a small golden calf.
    The monmnents which have been discovered in greatest
 quantity are inscriptions on bricks. Almost all these frag
 ments are of the same form : their colour is generally yel
 lowish, although some are reddish.
    The form of the letters is more or less regular, the or
 dinary dialect is the Doric.     Several decrees of the Senate
 of Cofcyra engraved in brass; and which are still preserved^
 are drawn up in the same dialect.
    Some inscriptions contain the names of magistrates, and
 of other dignitaries, and the different districts of the island j
 discoveries which have been highly useful in elucidating
 the ancient topography.
    The proper name is always preceded by the preposition
 EU1: which announces the title of the Pritannus or
 Archontas.    We read on erne for example ElIIAAKAIOT:
on another ETI1BOIXK.         This name might have been that
 of the son of Lycophron of Dodona, whom the Council
of the Corcyrans admit in the number of th« citizens of
their country, as asserted in the decree engraved in brass,
and preserved at Corfu by the antiquary Victor Gangady.
     EiiianoAAnjopor'. eiiiapistokaeox . asa&po-
4ITAI:     These three monuments are in good preservation.
The last seems to have been dedicated to Venus. The let
ters AS are wanting to complete the name.
    <t>lAflMAA . Eni<PIAflNIAA.        In the Museums of indU
viduals at Corfu, we find a medal in brass exhibiting a head
with a long beard, and crowned with laurel. In the exergue
there is a ship with the word KOPKTPAIIIN QIAflNIAA.
    A still more interesting monument is the following:
iSTONHS. It is the name of a mountain celebrated in
the history of Corcyra.     Thucydidcs informs us that upon
this mountain 500 Corcyrans saved themselves, having
escaped from a massacre occasioned by a civil commotion.
This mountain still preserves its name.
    Another not less important is the following: 4>AAAKP0T.
Strabo thus denominates a promontory of CoTcyra, which
was prohablv barren and devoid of trees.       Besides the above
inscription, are cups, urns, lamps, smajl statues, idols, bas-
reliefs, heads of nymphs, &c.      The Substance of these mo
numents is partlv a pale veilow without varmsh, and some
times a deep yellow with varnish.      The style is various, and
seems to indicate that there were various schools of art in
the ;sland.    Some are in high preservation, others not.
                              P 2                             The

22ff                  Foreign Literature.
The Ionian Academy will no doubt publish more completer
details.                      .
    A sixth volume has appeared at Frankfort of Leonhard'»
Manual of Mineralogy, embellished with geological map?
and drawings.       Among the principal articles contained in
the volume are some miueralogieal observations made by
M. Sehuhz during a journey to the mountain des Geans
in Siberia in 1802 and 1803 : an explanation of the new
 systems of mineralogy of Werner and Tondi, the analysis
of two varieties of porous stones, and a singular variety
of granite found in Saxony. The volume is terminated by
 an account of the principal works which have appeared
during 1812 on mineralogy; and miscellaneous extracts.,
with the editor's correspondence.
    The booksellers Artaria, Belutti and Company of Milan
have recently published a most magnificent work entitled
 "  Storia Naturale delle Simie," i. et Natural History of
 the Ape.     The drawings by Jacob, engraved by Radaz, re
 present an individual of each species, with a description in
Italian, and a German and French translation. The work i»
arranged according to the discoveries and systems of BufFon,
Guvier, Geoffroy, D'Aubenton, Lacepede, LaTreifle, and
Audibert, with observations on the manners, dispositions,
and food of these animals, with the various methods of
ca ching them, and the vise of their flesh in medicine. There
are nearly 100 plates.
    Professor Wedcl-Simonsen of Copenhagen has in the
 press a work upon the Crusades and Pilgrimages undertaken
by the Scandinavians of the middle age.
    The Royal Society of Norway has published at Copen
hagen the first three volumes of Historical and Philosophi
cal Memoirs, by the various Members of that learned body.
    Mr. William' Humboldt,      brother  to the Barorb   of that
name,     has announced   a  work upon the language and man-
lit rs of  the people called            "
                              Basqzies — The first section of
this work," according to the author, " will contain the ob
servations which I took occasion to make, as well in the
Spanish as in the French part of that country.           I shall
give an account of the country, and of its small but in-'
teresiing population.      This sketch will be necessary for the
elucidation of the language, which is intimately -connected
                                                           with

                         foreign Literature.                     229
will) the manners        and local peculiarities.    It is, Desides^
instructive    and  novel   to be  made   acquainted with an active
nation full of talents and courage, which, situated at once
among the mountains and on the shores of the sea, unite*
the agitated life of the mariner to the peaceful life of the
shepherd.       We there find traits of characters which are
not generally to be found. In order to render -this part 'of
my work. as interesting as the objects require which I have
 to describe, I have given it the form of a journal.
     "   The secpnd part will contain an analysis of the Basque
dialect, accompanied by fragments of works of various
ages from the most distant period. This analysis will be fol*
 lowed by a parallel between the Basque and other languages,
 in order to assign to the former the rank which it ought to
occupy in the various ramifications of the human languages.
     "   In the third part, I shall communicate my researches
on the history of the language and of the nation. This part
 will contain the result of my own opinions', but I trust that
<he parts which shall have preceded it will throw enough
 of light on it to enable every reader to decide upon the ;u>
cnracy of my observations."
     M. Rudolphi      has recently published at Berlin a collection
of    Memoirs on Natural History in general and Anthropo
 logy. This volume is preceded by a Life of Dr. Pallas, in
 which we find several peculiarities little known as to this
 celebrated naturalist, and a notice of his last work, Flora
 Rossica, which is still unpublished.         The subjects treated of
 in the Memoirs which follow are : 1st. A new system of
 division of animals by the nerves and brain, proposed by
 the author.       2d. The relations of beauty between the two
  sexes, a dissertation more ingenious than remarkable for
  solid reasoning; and lastly, The multiplication of organized
  bodies upon the earth.          In this last work, the author un
  dertakes to combat the opinion hazarded by Lmnseus, — .
  "  that men, animals and plants issued from one and the
  same country' to spread themselves over the surface of the
 (earth."
     M. Tennemann, whose excellent History of Philosophy
  is already well known, has given an abridgement of his
  work in German, to serve as a class book for students,            It
  has appeard under this title : Grundriss der Geschickte der
   Philosophic,. \. e. Foundations for the History of Philosophy.
'Th.e author.has exhibited in -a clear and accurate view this
   vast and interesting history. His abridgement will be a sure
 jguide for. those who wish to devote their attention to the
  ..   .                           P-3                          study

                                                    t
S30                   Foreign Literature.
study of the various systems of philosophy, and to invest!-?
gate their concatenation,   successive developments. and, in.
shortrto dive into one of the most important blanches of
the history of the human mind. M. Tennemann has added
to this small Treatise a very complete bibliographical notice
of works relative to the history of philosophy. He ha*
also accompanied it with convenient chronological tables,
but not so perfect as those of Eberhardt, the latter having
taken care in respect of his tables to in'roduce the principal
epochs of the political history.    The relation established in
this way clearly shows the reciprocal influence ot events
upon philosophy, and vice versa. M. Tennemann has ex
cluded Oriental philosophy from his work ; but it never
theless appears to be important to discover the origin of the
Systems     alreadv known, by consulting the mythology
and fictions of the East, from which they took their origin.
He divides his work into three parts : the first is dedicated
to ancient philosophy, the second to that of the middle
age, and the third to modern philosophy.        The first sec
tion is subdivided into three periods.
    1st. From Thales to Socrates: 2d, from Socrates to the
 termination of ^he disputes between the followers of Zeno
 and of the Academy : and, 3d, from the latter period,
when the sceptic ^Enesidemus appeared, to Nicolas of
 Damas, 500 years after the birth of Christ.     Each of these
 periods comprehends     under different sections every thing
which relates to each school.     The history of the philoso
 phy of the middle age comprehends the period from the
 ninth to the sixteenth century. This part is treated in a
 very abridged form, < but the author nevertheless subdivides,
 it imp periods.     The first comprehends the history of
 Realism to the eleventh century : afterwards come the dis
 putes of the Realists and the Nominalists from Roscellin
 to Albert the Great; then comes the epoch of the triumph
 of Realism, and the union of the doctrine of the Church
 with the philosophy of Aristotle, from Albert the Great to
 Occam. The second period extends from the renewal of
 the disputes of the Realists and the Nominalists, provoked
 by Occam, and which secured the victory of the Nominalists,
 towards. the sixteenth century.   M. Tennemann divides the
history of modern philosophy into three periods: the first
 extends from the sixteenth to the seventeenth century. Du
 ring this time the o!d svstems were modified and combined
 indifferent ways; the second extends to the end of the
 eighieenth century.     New systems arise out of the ruins of
 the old. Bacon and Descartes are the first on the philosq

              -5
                   Geology   of Norway    and Lapland.               23 1
phical arena: Kant terminates this period : the third extends
from the philosophy of Koenigsberg to our own times.
     On the Geology of Norway and Lapland, extracted from
L.    Von Buch's Travels* in that Country.                By Profesor
Jameson of Edinburgh.
    This philosopher, a native of Prussia, although a pupil
of Werner, has submitted the theories of his master to
his own reason and observation, and presented the public
with a more impartial, complete and interesting view of the
geology and mineralogy of the countries in which he has
sojonrned, than any other traveller of the Wernerian school.
Professor Jameson gives the following summary of his
geological       tesearches:
     "  I.Norway       and Lapland are principally composed of
primitive       and transition rocks ; flcetz rocks occur very
 rarely, and alluvial rocks are uncommon.
     " 2. Granite, contrary to the general belief of mineralo
gists, is a rare rock in Norway and Lapland, it even occurs
but seldom in Sweden, and it is to be considered as one of
the least frequent of the primitive rocks in Scandinavia.
     " 3. The granite frequently alternates with gneiss.
     ** 4. A newer
                       granite sometimes occurs resting on mica-
slate, as at Forvig ; or connected with clay-slate and diall
lage rock, as in the island of Mageroe.
     "  5. Besides the gneiss, which is associated with the
oldest granite, there is another of newer formation, which
 rests upon mica- slate.
     "  6. Gneiss appears to be by far the most frequent and
abundant rock in Scandinavia, all the other primitive rocks
appearing in some degree subordinate to it.
     " 7. In the island of Mageroe and in other quarters of
Norway there appears a species of simple aggregated moun-
tain*rock, composed of compact felspar and diallage. This
rock is the Gabbro of the Italians, and appears in Norway
to be connected with clay-slate.
     " 8. All the magnetic iron-stone of Scandinavia occurs
in beds in gneiss, and not in veins, as has often been main
 tained by mineralogists.
     "  9. The class of transition rocks in Norway contains
besides graywacke, alum-slate, clay-slate, limestone, and
other rocks well known to mineralogists as members of
 that class, the following rocks : (a) granite, which some-
    * Travels through
                        Norway and Lapland during the years 1805, 7 and 8.
By I.. Von Buch. Translated from the German by J. Black, with Notes and
illustrations by Professor Jameson. 4to. 1813.
                                   P4/                              time*

                      Aeronauts. — Lectures.
                 '
232
times contains hornblende ; (b) syenite, which contains La-f
brador felspar and numerous crystals of the gem named
zircon; (c) porphyry; (d) amygdaloid; (e) basalt; and
(_/) sand-stone.        .'
     "  10. The transition limestone of Norway is sometimes
granular foliated, like that which occurs in primitive
country, and contains much tremolite."
     M.Von Buch found that in the red sandstone of Silesia
fine beds of coal exist, a fact worthy the attention of En
glish coal-miners, who consider it madness to seek for coal
in districts composed of red sandstone. The author has
 also ascertained with some probability, that the detached
 masses of granite found in Pomerania, Mecklenburg, and
Brandenburg, which perplexed M. de Luc and other geo
logists so much to account for their present position, have
 been    torn from the northern mountains from Schoneti
 through Smoland in Sweden rather than from those of
 Saxony or Silesia. Smoland is desolated by these hlocks of
 granite. This inference is strengthened by the circumstance
 t)i' their being found on the small islands in the Baltic, in
 Femoe as well as in Zealand.
     M.  Degen     took an aerial flight in Paris on the 15th of
 August.      He ascended in a balloon about three in the after
 noon, from a platform raised on the middle of the Seine,
 between the fridge of Concord and the Bridge Roval. As
 sisted by his wings, he moved horizontally from the plat
 form to the Bridge Royal, when he rose nearlv perpendicu
 lar to the height of 5 100 feet, following the direction of the
 Seine through Paris, lest he should experience any accident,
 and was successful in guiding the balloon by means of his
 wings against the wind, which was very strong. Through
 out he evinced much coolness and courage.         At six o'clock
 he descended in the plain of St. Maude; at eight he re
  turned to Paris.
      On the 8th of September, Mr. Sadler junior ascended
  from Cheltenham, and in about an hour and a half after,
  descended at Cbadlington near Chipping Norton.
                             LECTURES.
      Medical and Chemical Lectures.       St. George's Hospital,
  and George Street, Hanover Square. — These Lectures will
  commence as usual the first week of October, viz. on the
 Materia Medica and Practice of Physic in the Morning,
  from Eight till a Quarter after Nine ; and on Chemistry
  from a Quarter after Nine till Ten.        By George Pearson,

                              Lectures.                      £33
M.D. F.R.S. Senior Physician        to St. George's Hospital, of
the    Medico-chirurgical   Imperial   Academy of St. Peters-
burgh;     of the College  of  Physicians, &c. &c.
    Pathological Demonstrations and Lectures will also be
given, on Cases in St. George's Hospital, by Richard Har
rison, M.D, of St. John's College, Oxford.
    The Winter Course of Lectures at St. Thomas's and
Guy's Hospitals will commence the beginning of Octo
 ber; viz.
     At St. Thomas's, Anatomy and the Operations of Sur
 gery, by Mr. A. Cooper and Mr. Henry Cline ; Principles
 and Practice .of Surgery,. by Mr. Cooper.
     At Guy's, Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Babington and
 Dr. Curry. — Chemistry, by Dr. Babington, Dr. Marcet,
 and Mr. Allen. — Experimental Philosophy, by Mr. Allen.
-—Theory of Medicine, and Materia Medica, by Dr. Curry
 and Dr. Cholmeley.- — Midwifery, and Diseases of Womeii
 and Children, by Dr. Haighton. — Physiology, or Laws of
 the Animal CEconomy, by Dr. Haighton. — Structure and
 Diseases of the Teeth, by Mr. Fox.
     N. B. These several Lectures are so arranged, that no
 two of them interfere in the hours of attendance ; and the
 whole 'is calculated to form a Complete Course of Medical
 apd Chirurgical Instruction.       Terms and other Particulars
 may    be learnt at the respective Hospitals.
     Middlesex Hospital. — The Autumnal Course of Lectures
 on Midwifery,, read by Dr. Merriman, Physician-Accou
 cheur to this Hospital and to the Westminster General
 Dispensary, will commence on Monday October 11, at
 half past 10 o'clock.
    Surry Institution. — The following arrangements have been
  made for Lectures at the Surry Institution, in the ensuing
 Season : Mr. J. Mason Good, on the Philosophy of Phy
  sics, to commence on Friday the 5th of November, and
 to be .continued on each succeeding Friday.         Dr. Thom
  son, on Chemistry, to commence on Tuesday the 9th of
  November, and to be continued on each succeeding Tues
  day.    Mr. Bakewell, on Natural and Experimental Philo
  sophy, will commence early in January 1814, and Dr.
  Crotch, on Music, early in February IS 14.
     Lectures on Chemical Philosophy. By William Thomas
  Brande, F.R.S .Prof. Chcm. R. L — These Lectures com
  mence, at the Theatre of Anatomy, Windmill-Street, on
                                                              the
                       i

*34                          Lectures.
the second Tuesday in October at Nine in the Morning,
and are continued every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday
throughout the Season, terminating in May.
    The Subjects comprehended in the Course are treated of
in the following order.
    Division   I. Of the Powers and Properties   of Matter, and
the general Laws of Chemical Changes.
    II. Of undecompounded Substances,        and   their Mutual
Combinations.
    III.  Vegetable  Chemistry.
    IV. Chemistry of the Animal Kingdom.
    V. Geology.
    In the First Division the principles and objects of Che
mical Science, and the general Laws of Chemical Changes
are explained, and the phaenomena of Attraction and of
Light, Heat, and Electricity developed, and illustrated by.
pumerous experiment*.
    In   the Second    the  undecompounded     bodies   are exa
mined, and the modes of procuring them in a pure form,
 and of ascertaining their chemical characters, exhibited
upon an extended scale. — The Lectures on the Metals in
clude a succinct account of Mineralogy, and of the me
 thods of analysing and assaying Ores. This part of the
 Course will also contain a full examination of Pharmaceu
tical Chemistry : the Chemical Processes of the Pharma
copoeia will be particularly described, and compared with
those adopted bv the Manufacturer.
    The Third and Fourth Divisions relate to Organic Sub«
 stances jrrr-iucluding the Chemical changes induced by Ve
 getation ; the principles of Vegetables; the theory of Fer
 mentation ; and the characters of its products. — The Che
 mical History of Animals is illustrated by an examination
 of their component parts, in health and in disease ; by an
 inquiry into the Chemistry of the Animal Functions, and
 into the application of Chemical principles to the treatment
 of Diseases.
    The Course concludes with an Account of the Structure
of   the Earth, of the changes which it is undergoing, of the
 objects and uses of Geology, and of the principles of Agri-
 cultural Chemistry.
    The applications of Chemistry to the Arts and Manu
 factures,   and to ^economical purposes, are discussed at
 some length in various parts of the Course ; and the most
 important of them are experimentally exhibited.
    further particulars    may be obtained  at  the Theatre in

          Meteorological Observations made at Clapton.                    83$
Windmill-street,          or by applying          to  Mr. Brande      at the
Boyal Institution.
     Mr. Singer       has put      to press     "Elements       of Electric
pity and Electro- Chemistry,                 including Voltaic          Elec
tricity or Galvanism. '-' The new System of Insulation,
discovered some time since by Mr. Singer, and mentioned
»n a former Number of this Magazine,                       will, we under-!-
Stand, be fully described in his worje.
  Meteorological Observations made at Clapton in Hackney,
                 from July 24 to August 16, 1813.
    July   21. — Showery cirrus of confused kind, cirrostralus
and cumuli of rocklike and mountainous appearance as
usual.      Soon after noon 1 observed the cumuli in the SE
of a copper colour } shortly after there formed a thunder
Shower, which came up from the SW ; afterwards it cleared,
with wind in light gales, but the thunder showers came on
again at times.
    July 25.— Rapid showers with west wind ; in the cleaT
intervals I noticed the usual phenomena, cumtili sailing
along, and smaller ones in their vicinity lost, while the
larger were augmented.                 When very large volumes of
cumulus came near they grew darker, drew together, and
 cumulostratus        formed. In a case of this kind about noon,
the cumuli so changing ceased to move on in the direction
of the wind; portions seemed visibly attracted towards the
centre of the mass ; and cumulostratus with its denser struc
ture and continuity of base was the consequence.                   1 noticed
at the same time mistlike cirrus above in small quantity.
Presently all the cumuli which came up put on the cumu-
lostratous appearance, while th<; aforementioned                      denser
mass increased in blackness, and went on to a state of
n>mbus*           In the intervals of the showers the wind blew
rather strong in gales.             Thermometer at middav 70°, at
 11 P.M. 5^°.            Barometer 39.65.— N. B. The showers
fodav were very partial ; there were none at Ewell in
 /Surrv, but a hard storm at Boxhill, six miles distance.
     July 26. — Rapid and frequent showers in strong gales
    * I have been minute in my description of the nimbific processes today,
pot that the appearance his been different from what with some varieties
 Hsu illy goes on in showery weather, but because I take occasional oppor
 tunities of calling the attention of meteorologists to the mode of the opera-
 fious which appear in the production of different phienomeu*.

S3S                  Meteorological Observations
of wind from the westward*. Fine afternoon ; irregular
features of the different modifications, as in all showery.
weather     ;   stars clear, and sky light in the clear intervals by
aight.      Thermometer        11 P.M. 54°.     Barometer risen to
29.82.
     July27- —Warm showery weather still, the early part of
the day was free from rain. The colour of the horizontal
haze above the sunset was pale.            Barometer much risen
during   the   day :  at 10 P.M.  it was 30.10.     Therm, iu the
day   72°,  at  10 at  night 57°.
   July 28. — Fair morning, a shower or two in the middle
of the day; fine warm evening.           The clouds as usual in
showery weather.         The owls hooted by night, which prog
nosticated fine weather.
   July 20. — Fine hot day, without any clouds; the hori
zon in the morning was misty, but it cleared as the day
advanced.       Therm, at        ijs
                                highest was 76°, and was 70° at
6  P.M., with Barometer up at 30.28. Wind SW. The
quantum of evaporation between noon and six o'clock
equalled one-tenth of an inch.
   July 30. — Fine hot day, few small cumuli formed, and
                                       a
also some plain cirrus breaking out into cirrocttmlus            in;
the evening loose and small detached features of this
cloud were in low station, and red with the sinking sun.
                    a
In the south-east long cirrostrati, which had somewhat the
appearance of eels, being near the horizon, threw out          sort
                                                                  a
of eumuloslratus above their upper part, but the whole
subsided at night       ;   caudate meteor appeared about 10
                             a
P.M. Therm. midday 81°, at midnight 64°. Barometer
fallen to 30.02.       Wind SW.
   July 31. — Fair hot day, with varying westerly gales, and
cumuli with some flatter and elevated masses, and also cirri
in fibres in the morning and middle of the day. Maximum
of thermometer 78°. Barometer at the time 30. 14. Eva
poration from six on Thursday evening to two his after      1
noon was one quarter of an inch. As the afternoon ad
vanced cumulostralus formed, and           and
                                           it     sort of confused
                                                   a
large   kind    of cirrocumulus   obscured  the sky, while under
neath  I   saw dark flocky cumulus. The wind fell. Barometer
Stationary.      The evaporation between two and six this
evening only one-fiftieth of an inch.
    * The gale and showers   seemed sometimes to come from SW, at others
W,   and even WNW sometimes       ;they were very hard, and the augmenta
tion of the strength of the streams seemed simultaneous with the change of
their direction.
.                                                               August

               '."''..': .. made at Clapton.                      93 f
     ^August   l. — Fair day;      the different clouds continually-
presented themselves        in various places ; much cumulostratus
at night.       Westerly wind.        -
     Mugusf 2.    —   Clouds and gentle showers early in the day
when it cleared, much cumulus and cumulostratus; cirrit
small loose cirrocumuli, &c. jn the evening. Westerly wind.
     August 3. — Cloudy and gentle shower early ; a gale of,
wind and much confused cumulus and cumulostratus after-.
wards.       Fair afternoon ; in the evening a great deal- of. cm-
tnulostratus, flimsy . transient cirrocumulus : the cumulo
stratus in spread and dense masses above the sunset, and
showing more and more of the yellow haze as it came up
with the wind, with flocky scudlike cumuli sailing rapidly
under, had a fanciful and pretty appearance;                the wind.
blew a gentle gale from SW below.
      August 4.-l Gentle showers, with fair intervals, and fair
afternoon ; all the nimbific processes and indeed all the
-<louds very low.
      August 5. — Clouded, and small rain in gentle showers
early; various' appearance of the modification during the
 clear intervals of the showers in the day ; all the clouds.
however were low in the atmosphere, and the rain was
 formed very near the earth.            I noticed a beautiful contrast.
 of colour in some petroid and dense cumuli in the eastern              .
horizon;       at 7 P.M. some nearer me were deep brown;
 those behind pale blueish.          Windy in gales, with star-light
 and clouds by night; a common meteor, with inclined di
 rection to the S, appeared in the E at about quarter past It
 P.M. Wind westerly.
      August 6. — Rather windy, in gusts as usual, much cw
 mulus and cumulostratus          sometimes amounting to nimbus
 and pouring a shower ; transient irregular features of the
 other modifications at times.           WNW.
                   —
       August 7- Fair warm day ; cumuli frequently became
 cumulostrati, to the formation of which cloud there seemed
 a disposition through the early part of the day : there were
  sfclso light masses which Mr. Howard referred to cirrostratus ;
  which cloud sometimes appears in roundish though flat and
  transparent aggregates ; a reddish blush all around at sun
  set.     Therm, at midnight 54°.          Wind WNW. A very-
  small falling star in the E shooting down towards the S.
  The owls hoot a good deal of late by night.
       August 8. — Cumulostratus through the morning, which
  Was fair 5 a gentle shower of drops about 6 P.M., after
.which the modifications stretched along of indefinite cha
  racter.     Wind SW. The owls hoot by' night,
   j                                                           August

 S3 8        Meteorological Observations made at Clapton,
      August 9. — Clear morning, except rocky cumuli and cii-
  mulostrati, which began to appear earlv, with a north
  breeze, and continued through the day, well defined, and>
  sometimes rocklike ; by night I observed softie flocky clouds.
     August 10.- — Fair morning, the sky thickened, and cu
  muli and cumulostrati      appeared under, and slight rairi
  came on about 2 PM.          In the evening, which was fair^
  eirrocumulus and cirrostratus appeared ; some dark clouds
  of smokelike texture, and whose darkness did not appear
 to arise from the interception of light by the interposition
 of other clouds between them and the sun, took on the
 mottled arrangement like flimsy eirrocumulus.         The cirro-
 cumulus at 1 P.M. covered the sky with the high tem
               1
 perature of 60°, and barometer at 30. 25. Wind southerly.
     August 1 1 . — Fair, warm and close, a great deal of misti
 ness and clouds above with calm air*.          At night about
  J 1 o'clock, being clear, except light flimsy and mottled
 features of cirrostratus approaching to eirrocumulus,      also'
 in some places in cymoid rows, in others fleecy cirri,                   I
 observed brilliant little meteors, which had it not been
 moonlight would have shown a strong light. Thermometer
 as high as 6*1° f.     Barometer 30.20. and sinking.     Wind
 toutherly.
     August 12. — Fair hot day, and almost cloudless in the
 morning, except a few small clouds here and there ; cumuli
 came up with a gentle breeze soon after noon, then various
cirri. Orange haze at sunset ; various features of cirrus^
eirrocumulus and cirrostratus by night, passing gently on
from SW, the way of the wind below.               Thermometer
midday 79°; midnight 50°.
    August 13. — Clear warm morning early, with sheets of
cirrus breaking out into eirrocumulus and cirrostratus ; about
eight it clouded over with a north wind, and rain fell du->
ring the morning, with a cooler airf.          When it cleared
cumuli appeared above, but during the afternoon various*
cirri, cirrostrati, &c. appeared again.
    August 14. — Cumuli and cirri in different stations through
the day. with some cirrostratus at times; sky clouded over.
Fair afternoon ; nocturnal eirrocumulus; warm air.
   * To express my view of today, I say that the air seems to have too
much of the deposited aqueous particles for its electricity to embody and
give form to, iu the production of regular modifications.
  -fi   had been 74 in the day, even when cloudy.
        It
 \   The same disposition of the at -osphere and clouds which appeared
yesterday night continued till eight this morning, which may be regarded as
the period of the change to rain which the clouds of last night prognosti
cated.
                                                                 August

          Meteorological Observations at Tunlridge Wells.                 ffJff
      August 15. — Abundance of cirrus abow, and cumulus
 helow, being a fair day with NVV wind. Max. of therm.
'78°; fair evening, the cirri and tirrostrati coloured with
 crimson about sunset ; light flimsy cirrostratus by moon
 light, and lunar corona.
      August 16.— Fair; various clouds.
    Meteorological Observations made at Tunbridge Wells in
          Kent, from the nth to the 21i< of August 1813.
      August 17. — Fair day ; various clouds of different modi
 fications. Fine sunset.
      August 18. — Cirri, cirrocumuli, &c. cumulostratus, and
 a few drops of water.             The sky had a very green colour
 through the interstices        of  the clouds.      Fine orange horizon
  after sunset.      Wind W.
      August lfi. — Early, cirri becoming cirroslrati and cirro-
  cumuli; little dark cumuli through the day sailed along
  below spreading cumulostratus.              Fair evening. After many
  beautiful changes of cirrus, I at length saw after sunset the
  following phenomena : Long bands of cirrus coloured
  crimson by the set sun were stretched along, and inclined
  downwards at one end towards mountainous and black cu-
  mulostrati coming up slowly from the western horizon, which,
  when they came near threw out long jetties or arms to
  wards it ; the cirri soon changing into a lobated cirrocu-
  mulous .cloud ; the whole passed gently away and broke
   up.     Some small falling stars of the common kind, with
   rapid motion *.
       August 20. — Clear, morning ; the formation and increase
  of diurnal cumuli was conspicuous through the day; about
   two hours after noon cirri began to appear in fibrous streaks.
   Riding over Rusthall Common at night, 1 observed a small
   brilliant meteor starting down, which left a narrow train
   for a second of time ; there was cirrostratus observable at
   the time.
        August 21. —-Fair morning, but cooler than hitherto,
   with northerly wind ; much cirrus and some cirrocumulus
   and cirrostratus in the morning ; cumulostratus                    through
   the day ; cirrostratus the prevailing feature again in the
   evening; star-light at night.
       * The common stelliform kind, and
                                         generally the caudate,. move straigbter
   and quicker than the larger sort of meteors which sometimes happen r and
    which I have called the brilliant meteors. — Refer to your Journal for No
    vember 1811, and to my 'Researches         about Atmospheric Phenomena,"
    p. 88.
       Clapton, Aug. 23,  titi.                       THOMAS FoRSTER.
                                                                  METEORQ

240                           Meteorology.
                    meteorological table,
              By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                        For September 1813.
                                              l  1 -M
                Thermometer.                               -    >
                                                O ^ u
                               .  Height of                       i
   Diys of     °      c    O                    S ->     e
                                 the Barom.                     Weather.
    Month.
              <U+25A1> 6
                  =   o
                      o   y -.9?   Inches.
                                                u ^
                                                u _3
                                                K
                                                        rM
                                                         C
                                                    «
                          "oZ                   tii u,   ^
 -                         -                    Q   C  J.               .
August27       55    63    34     30-29           47       Fair
         28    54    61    52        -29          46       Cloudy
         29    56    62    55        -£0          36       Showery
         30    55    63    54        -28          42       Fair
 .
         31    57    66    55        -16          47       Fair
Sept.      1   56    64    55        -10          46       Fair
           2   57    66    54     29'82           27       Showery
           3   57    68    55        -80          45       Fair
           4   56    66    56        .62            0      Rain
 !         5   58    64    56        -52          40       Stormy
           6   56    62    55        -28          36       Stormy
           7   55    60    50        -49          40       Showery
 -
           8   47    54    46        -62          20       Showery
 .
           9 47      59    55     30-04           46       Fair
         10 48       63    55        -20          49       Fair
         11 56       68    57        -20          57       Fair
         12 60       67    56     29-92           46       Fair
         13 56       65    55     30-02           56       Fair
 -
         14 54       60    50        -11          50       Fair
         15    49    67    57        -26          57       Fair
         16    60    66    60        -29          48       Fair
         17    57    66    56        -28          40       Fair
         18    57    67    58        -20          46       Fair
         19    57    66    55        -08          40       Fair
         20    54    64    56     29-96           41       Fair
 *
         21    55    63    55        -95          42       Fair
         22    55    63    54     30 00           38       Fair
         23    55    60    55     29'98           24       Showery
         24    54    62    53     30-13           42       Fair
   .  -
         25    54    60    52        -09          40       Fair
         26    56    60    51        -08          41       Fair
            N. B. The Barometer's height is taken at one o'clock.

                                t    24!    )
XLIt.     Memoir     on   (lie Usefulness     of Time-Keepers in tht
    Service  of the Naiy ; avd         a Plan for inttoatiditg them
    with the                                  16 ensure their Jcairiuij
               best Prospect      of Success
    at the least Expense. Communicated by Mr. FirminGhr,
    late Assistant Astronomer at the Royal Observatory,
    Greenwich *.
-Notwithstanding               the great advantages derived tt> our
navigation from the improved, and it may be said almost
perfected state of the science of astronomy, aided by equal
improvements in the construction of instruments employed
in its application, by which the determination of the longi*
tude has been reduced to a problem of no difficulty to per
sons possessing even but a moderate acquaintance with thfc
mathematics; yet we still find the method of determining
the situation of a ship at sea by the lunar observations
considered perhaps by the greater part of nautical men &
laborious and difficult undertaking, and, when performed*
subject to many mistakes, — mistakes which the mariner
from his habits of life will be more liable to make than.
most other men.         And although no endeavour should be
-wanting   in  urging   the   necessity towards a perpetual at ten*
tion to the lunar observations ; yet it need not prevent out
having recourse to other means that can in any respect
simplify, or render more easy or certain, the acquirement of
this important object.
    The advantage of time-keepers to navigation is so ge*
nerally felt by commanders of ships destined to long Voy*
ages, that few if any of the commanders cif vessels em*
ployed in the service of the honourable East India Company
do not take out two or more of these machines-.-
    The lunar observations, when taken and reduced with
care, will give the longitude at sea with an Uncertainty
seldom exceeding twenty or thirtv miles, a distance which
perhaps will be allowed in all cases sufficiently exact lot
the practical purposes of the mariner:                and which can
never subject him to dangers he is not prepared to meet.
But it often happens that these most trulv useful observa
tions, from various causes, cannot he put in practice, and
an interval of eight or ten days and sometimes a month.
may elapse before an opportunity shall occur for the ma*
riner to avail himself of their aid t here the use of a good
time-keeper will become highly advantageous,                   The time
   * This memoir was written at the express wish of an individual, and w«  .
presented to the Admiralty, but whether they had ever any intention of in
troducing such a plan tlie.Author <io93 not knoW>                        «
    Vol. 42. No. J 86, Oct. 1813.                     Q                 at

242         On the Usefulness   of Time- Keepers
at the ship being obtained, the time-keeper supplies the)
rest by almost simple inspection.      To the skilful mariner
the time- keeper will prove a great acquisition ; for notwith
standing the best of time-keepers are liable to change in the
rate of their performance, he will however so employ his
time-keeper as to make this variation of but little im
portance, and by a judicious management of his lunar ob
servations, combined with the deductions of his time-keeper,
make each a correction for the other.      And to the less ex
perienced mariner it will afford the means of a check upon
his deductions, derived from the practice of Mercator's
Sailing, or, as it is more commonly called, a Day's Work.
   As time-keepers are now become an almost general arti
cle of our manufactory, and a great many are made by per
sons who are mere copyists of others, working without a
knowledge, simple as it is, of the principles upon which
the greater part of their accuracy depends, it necessarily
happens that we must meet with a number of inferior time
keepers.    In addition to these disadvantages we may also
add that few of the time-keeper makers have the means, after
their machines are made, of ascertaining their rate of per
formance, which must tend in a very considerable degree
to keep up the price of these articles above the standard at
which they would otherwise be sold ; for the labouring
mechanic, finding himself unable to account for the degree
of merit to which his time-keeper is entitled, is obliged to
dispose of it to persons who are better able than himself to
ascertain its value, and to affix a price, which is always re
gulated by the performance of the machine.        With a view
to the removal of this disadvantage to the mechanic, and
giving facility to the introduction of a selection of good
time-keepers into the service of the Navy, and at moderate
prices, the following plan was drawn up. It has for its
object the establishment of an office properly adapted for
the trial of time-keepers.
   To such an office the labouring mechanic would bring
his machine, and be glad to obtain a price forit, which might
amount to  a   few guineas above that which he can obtain in
the trade; and in addition to this advantage, of being bet
ter paid, he would have an opportunity of becoming ac
quainted with its performance   :   a mutual advantage would
 therefore acrue to both parties, viz. to the Government,
in obtaining possession of  a    set of good time-keepers ata
moderate price; and to the mechanic, in being able to find
a  mart for hi3 labour, affording him the means of improve
ment and future success.        Another and very considerable
                                                    advantage

                     in the Service  of the Navy.             243
  advantage would arise to the community by the establish
  ment of an office of this kind, and which, if impartially
  conducted, would in a short time probably defray the ex
  pense of its establishment. This advantage would be 'in
  not only affording Government for the service of the navy a
  valuable set of time-keepers, but the benefit might be equally
  extended to the merchant service, and to individuals in ge
 neral ; for, as the number of time-keepers offered for trial
 would, probably, very much exceed what wa3 wanted in
 the service of Government, the remainder might be offered
 for sale to the public, upon condition of their paying the
 price at first affixed by the maker, and a small sum to the
 office for the previous trial. The time-keepers offered for
 *ale might have a label containing the price and rate of
 going affixed to each, and placed in a convenient situation
 for the purchaser to see ; and when a purchaser had fixed
 upon one which he was desirous to purchase, it might be
delivered to liim upon his paying immediately the price
 affixed upon the label.     A set of time-keepers thus tried by
authority,    would   be bought with avidity by the public, as
by    these  means they would be relieved from those fears
 which are the natural consequence of a purchase from an
 interested individual.
                      The proposed Plan.
     1. That   an office furnished with a transit instrument
and a good clock be established in a convenient situation,
for the reception and trial of time-keepers intended for the
service of the Navy.
                                                                  '
    2. That a sufficient number of observations be made
daily on the sun and stars when the weather will admit, as
shall be necessary for determining the accurate position of
the transit instrument, and for the time and rate of going
of the clock.
    3. That the time-keepers be compared with the clock
every day immediately after the transit of the sun over the
meridian, or as soon after as can be conveniently done ; and
a register, containing the time at comparison both by the
transit clock and time-keeper, be distinctly entered in two
columns, in a book properly prepared for that purpose:
another book to be kept for the register of the temperature
of the atmosphere, which should be noticed at the time of
comparison of the time- keepers, and likewise at eight
o'clock in the morning and at three o'clock in the after
noon of each day.
    4. That some months previous to the time fixed upon
                                 Q  2                        for

S#t            On the Usefulness   of Time- Keepers
for the reception of time- keepers to be tried at this office,
An advertisement be inserted in the public newspapers si
milar to those inserted by the Navy Office and other Boards-,
stating the intention of Government respecting the intro
duction of time-keepers into the service of the Navy, fixing
a day on which such time-keepers         should be received at
the office for trial, from such time-keeper makers as are
disposed to furnish Government with their respective time*
keepers.     And from eaeh maker a certificate should be de
livered under cover, properly sealed, containing the num
bers which distinguish, or are engraved on, each respective
time-keeper, and the price at which the maker is willing
to sell the same ; which certificate should remain unopened
until after the period fixed upon for the trial of each watch,
which should not exceed four, nor be less than two months.
At the end of this time the various papers containing such
prices should be opened, and a comparison made of the
respective merits, with the price of each time-keeper,
whereby the maker may be informed whether his time
 keeper will be purchased or not at the price he has affixed
 to it. That no time-keeper maker be allowed to receive
 any account of the performance of his time-keeper or
 time-keepers that he deposits at the office, till after the pe
 riod of trial be up.     And in order to save trouble, it would
 be adviseable to inform the respective time-keeper makers
 at the time of delivering their watches, when they may
 again apply for their answer, and certificate for the receipt
 of the value of such time keepers as shall have gone suf
  ficiently well to be approved of and purchased by Govern
 ment.      And also that each time-keeper maker should, if
  required, open such time-keeper as he shall dispose of
  to Government, before he receives a certificate of its being
  approved, and order given for payment.
      5. On the reception of the respective time-keepers, an
  entry should immediately be made, containing a description
  of the time-keeper or time-keepers delivered, with the
  names of the persons delivering them, and also of such
  time-keepers as are not approved of ; an entry of the time
  and name of the person to whom delivered ; or a certificate
   from the owner, sent under cover, should be received at
   the time of delivery.                                 i
      6. That when a number of time-keepers, thus tried and
   approved of, are ordered for service, the commander or
   master of such ship or ships as are furnished with them
   should give a certificate of his having such time-keeper in
   his possession, and should hold himself responsible for its
                                                               or

                   in the Service of the Navy.                 SM5
ot their preservation.     That  a book should    be kept properly
prepared, in which       should  be  contained    an entry of the
time when such time-keeper was received on boaTd th«
vessel ; also, a comparison of the time at the ship with that
of the time-keeper every day at noon, when that can be
done, or as soon after as observations can be obtained to de
termine the time at the ship, putting down such observation*
with the particular circumstances under which they were
made, and latitude the ship is in at the time of observation ;
likewise the temperature of the air at that time, and at
 eight o'clock in the morning and three o'clock in the after
noon.
    7. That when the ship is brought into port to be re
paired, or otherwise detained from actual service,              the
time keeper should be returned to the office with the book
containing the register of its performance, in order that the
time- keeper may be cleaned, repaired, or receive further
trial of its rate.
    8. That the office for trying time-keepers be under the
 inspection and control of a commission of gentlemen,
 whose talents and situations enable them to give the best
 effect to this undertaking, such as the First Lord of the
 Admiralty, President of the Royat Society, Astronomer
Royal, &c.
    9. That    a limited number of young gentlemen, officers
 of the   navy, be allowed to attend the office, to see the me
 thod of registering and comparing the time-keepers, and to
occasionally do it themselves in order to learn the method
 of using them.
    10. That the regular set of observations          necessary to
 keep the time of the transit clock, and to ascertain the ad
justment of the transit instrument, be kept in a separate
 book. Some other considerations might be added, but
 these will necessarily arise out of the practice.
    N. B. The books containing the accounts of such watches
 as have been delivered for service, should be accurately ex
 amined when returned to the office, to see if the proper
 use of the time-keeper has been attended to.           When the
 time-keeper is delivered to any officer,     its  variation from
.mean time at Greenwich should be given ; or, what would
 answer still better would be a table of its variation made
out from the previous trial, and might be given for the time
the watch was likely to be in service before a new account
 of its rate could be obtained.
    It may not perhaps bq unnecessary to observe, that an
  .     -
                                Q3                         accurate

 246     Mr.   Farey's Notes on Mr.    BakeweWs    Geology.
 accurate rate of a time-keeper may be always obtained by
 equal altitudes of the sun, with a sextant, by persons who.
 have been properly instructed in the method of taking
 them ; and as frequent opportunities occur for this purpose
 when a ship is lying at anchor, every endeavour should be
 used to put it in practice as often as possible.
XLIII.     Notes and Observations on the Introduction and
    three first Chapters, of Mr. Robert Bakewell's          "In
   troduction to Geology ;" — embracing incidentally, several
   new Points of Geological Investigation and Theory. By\
   Mr. John Farev Sen., Mineral Surveyor.
                         To Mr.   Tilloch.
Sir, —   It is  a remark very commonly and truly made, that
no department of science or literature is so overloaded with;
theoretical works as Geology : " Theories of the Earth,
Geognosies and Elementary Treatises on this subject, in
crease so fast," exclaim some persons, that we ought to set
our faces against their further multiplication.     On due con
sideration however, this will be found a very injudicious
view of the subject, and calculated only to perpetuate errors,
and prevent the slow, but certain approaches, which this
science in common with all others is making, towards..
truth and perfection.                                      *
   On a subject, whose facts are so widely and so deeply
spread, many of which are so very liable to be mistaken,
and whose minute and sufficiently extended examination,
is attended with such a great expense of labour, time, and
money, and after all, whose publication, in this country in
particular, is so little encouraged, and often so difficult to
be procured, even when the observers are willing to give
away all their previous labours, a more rapid progress must
not be expected, than what is now making.
   From two Letters, of the 1 6th and 21st instant, (pp. 53
and 103) which I have found it necessary to address to
you, some persons will perhaps suppose me acting therein,
contrary to the maxims above stated, and as being de
sirous of depreciating Mr. B's Work.          I beg however di
stinctly to state, that this is far from my intentions or
wishes, and that I have yet perused no systematic work on
Geology, which      I think entitled to a general and careful
leading, in any degree compared          with  Mr. Robert Bake-
                                                          well's

           Mr.    Farey's Notes on           Mr.   Bakewell's Geology.           947
     'well's " Introduction to Geology," and which I sincerely
      wish may be read, and studied, by hundreds of persons,
      with no less care and attention than I have bestowed upon
      it. Because I can assure them, that it contains many
      more of the facts concerning our planet, and fewer of the
      absurd and whimsical assertions and theories concerning                     it,
     than any of the numerous systematic works which have
     preceded    in our language, or believe in any other.
                 it                           I
         By producing     work, which on the one hand no where
                                a
     shocks us        by
                    its impiety, in setting up mistaken phseno-
    mena of the Earth and false hypotheses regarding         against it,
    those Revelations which have obtained the assent of the
    largest portions of civilized men      and on the other hand,
                                                   ;
    has excluded those futile and mischievous attempts at sup
    porting Revelations and Miracles, by inapplicable natural
    phsenomena,        supposed present evidences of the Delug$
                           by
    of Noah, in particular on these grounds
                                         ;            consider Mr.
                                                            I
    Bakewell as having performed most important services, to
    Science and to Religion, at the same time. That he has
    done all that might be done, and that doubtless will be done
     by future Geologists, in the support of both or either of
    these, would perhaps be unreasonable to expect.
       Mr. B. has unfortunately shrunk from the labour, of
    making    a  copious alphabetical Index to his volume, but
    which, nevertheless,      so essential to the studying
                                    is                          and        of,
    referring to any work containing numerous details, as this
    does, that    have been induced to make one (and which
                  T
    Mr. B. shall have the use of at any time,         he wishes to
                                                            if
    publish it).     lament
                       I'    also, that  he  has not  followed   the
    very excellent example set him           the late Dr. Richard
                                                       by
    Kirwan, in more generally and expressly quoting his au-
-    thorities.
         Kirwan's     "
                     Geological Essays," was the first professed
     work on Geology which fell into my hands               found
                                                              ;  I               it
     then most importantly useful, by its very numerous re
    ferences to the volumes and pages of previous writers, and
     still on that account,     ought to be recommended to the
                                    it
     perusal and frequent reference, of every English student, as
     well as to future writers, although too many points of
     his theory and inferences, need now to be passed over or
     forgotten.
     I     have thought the pages of Mr. Bakewell's recent work,
     worth marginal References and Memorandums, in pretty
     considerable numbers; and thinking that many of these
     will prove useful to several others of your Geological Readers,
     and perhaps to future writers, when we shall be no more,
                                   g4                         intend
                                                                  I

 i48     Mr.  Farey's Notes  on Mr.   Baketuett's Geology.
  I intend making such Notes and observations of mine, the
  subject of the present and three future Letters.
     Some persons,  I am aware, will say, on their perusal, that
 these references are too much confined to my own writings ;
 if this mi«ht be granted, my apologies would be — 1st, that
 Mr. 15. has in so very disproportionate a degree, adduced the
 facts of a certain district, that I had previously examined,
 and written upon, and has besides introduced a large por
 tion of those inferences which I have drawn, from these
and my other published Observations, and from reading, &c:
 and 3d, that I am most acquainted with these facts, how
 far they are applicable to the points in question, and where
 to find the records of them : — and of such Objectors          I
 would beg also to ask the favour, to imitate my example, and
 give us through the medium of your useful Work, other
 6eries of Notes and Observations on Mr. B's useful pages,
 as a kind i>f teirt, with references to their own or friends'
 or others'' works, interspersed with as many original ard
 precise facts as possible: — The Science will be benefited
by this rivalry, at no very considerable cost.
     Where our references and notes may be found to con
firm Mr. B's statements or inferences, he might feel obliged
to us, and if they should lessen his apparent originality,
for that he would have himself only to blame.        Where re
ferences or notes of this sort, contradict or correct state
ments or opinions in Mr. B's work, impartial men will be
glad of the opportunity thus afforded, of weighing the op
posing evidences, and in many instances, I hope, will make
and communicate new and precise observations, calculated
to set our disputes for ever at rest.
    But I will proceed to my Notes, after mentioning, that      I
liave fixed on those words in Mr. B's sentences, which ap
peared best calculated to show the reason and application of
my Note, or to direct to the passage elsewhere, which is re
ferred to ; and have, after mentioning his page and //ne(always
reckoned from the top line, omitting the running Title)
repeaud the words selected in his page, and added a Mark,
as may be done, by any person, who may think it worth while
to transfer the nhole or any part of my references or Notes
 (or references iherelo) into the pages of their Copy of Mr.
B's Geology.      For my Derbyshire Report I have used only
 the letters Rep., and only P. M. for your work.        Mr. B's.
P/aes sh-ill in like manner be noticed, and where no work
is quoted, by abbreviations of their titles, references to some
pihers of Mr. B's pages are meant,                     .. .>
                                                          Nott*,

              Mri Farey's           Notes en   Mr.       Bakewell's Geology.    249
                                                                                   *
                                         Notes,         &c.
P.   1,       Plate V.       1.   «.— ofCaderldrrs*.— .*See          pages 112, 189,
                      297 and 317.
     ri.      1. 13,       Mr. Michell*. — * See P. M. vol. xxxvi.           p. 102,
                      vol. xxxvii.      p. 175 Note,          and vol. xxxix. p. 94
                      Note.
     vii.       1.    and §, general accuracy*. — *Some rather
                       5
                   material objections have however been raised, to
                   some particular statements by Mr. Whitehurst,
                   P. M. vol. xxxi. p. 36, and Rep. i. 473 N and
                   490, page3 178, and 274, (and P. M. vol. xlii.
                   p. 1 12 Note.)
          1.    18, in Englandf. — Eleven years after Mr. White
                                               f
                   hurst wrote, Mr. John Williams published the
                   results of his considerable experience as a Miner
                   and Collier, and ten years later, Dr. Richard Kir-
                   wan published his Geological Essays, enriched by
                   precise refereqees to almost every preceding Wri
                   ter on the subject.
                   About the year 1794, Mr. William Smith, of
                   Miti'ord near Bath, began his Geological Survey
                      of England,     see P.M. vol. xxxv. p. 114; in
                       1801,      instructed J. Farey, B. Bevan, Rev.
                                   he                                             J.
                      Townsend (" Character of Moses," p. v.), &c. :
                      previous to which, he had circulated Prospectus,
                      for a similar work, only less extensive and com
                      plete than that which is now forthcoming, (p. 59.)
                      He accurately defined the alluvium, discovered the
             extraneous fossils peculiar to most of the English
             strata, &c. &c. Rep. i. 108, and P. M. xxxviii.
             p. 131.
     x. U 9 and 10, elevate the imagination*. —* P. M. xxxvii.
                       p. 443.
     xi.       1.    15, attendant   science*. — * This is a more appro
                       priate expression, of the relation that Mineralogy
          .     .      has to Geology, than Mr. Kirwan's, who says,
                       that the former supplies the alphabet of the latter:
                       — from technical and pedantic Mineralogists, Geo
                       logical investigation has more to fear, than hope,
                       in the present day,  '    see p. xii. and Rep. I. viii.
                        Note.                  .                     ,
      d,       1.    6, as 230 to 229*. — * Probably, as 320 to 319, see
                        P. M. xii. p. 100.
      £,       I..   21,' foundation rock      —   *. M. xl. p. 53, vol. xlii.
                                                         *
                                                        P.
                       ji, 126, and my   3d   Letter,         in
                                                         reply (p. 170.)
                                                                         P.        9,

S8d      Mr.   f'drey's Notes on Mr; BakeivelVs Geology.
P. 9, I. 9,   crystalline  structure*. —* Phil. Trans. 1811, and
             P. M. xxxix. p. 29.
  10, I. 25, alluvial ground *. — *Alderley-edge, see p. 343,
             and Rep. i. 252: and Stapleford Mine, P. M,
             xxxix. p. 478.
  Jl,   1. 10, workable coal*. —
                                     * See the articles Coal and
             Colliery in Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia, and Rep. i.
             116.
       J. 15, subterranean forest f. — f See P. M. iv. p. 287.
            These, and Peat, are common around England,
            Wales and Scotland, &c. where flat Coast are not
            gaining or losing by the waves, see my 1st Letter,
             (p. 58) ; M. de Luc, Geo. Trav. in France, &c.
            vol. i. p. 275, ascribes this fact, in Holland, to
            the sinking of the alluvial lands, but the rise oj the
            Sea, seems its true cause, I think, seep. 324 of his.
            same volume.
  12, 1. 8, east of it*.- — * Lead, Zinc, &c. near Broom-
            head Hall, Rep. i. 254, 270, and 407^; Copper,
            Cobalt, &c. at Stapleford, P. M. xxxix. p. 478,
            and not 498, as printed at p. 58 herein.
      I. 12, metallic ores occur f. — fThe Mendip Mines
            SVV of Bath, seem to me to occur in Lias (as
            Mr. Smith originally concluded, although of late
            he has doubted this, and the Rev. Mr. Townsend
            has represented this Rock as identical with the
            Derbyshire Peak Limestone, &c.) : the Nailsea
            Collieries and those N of them (P. M. xxxviii,
            p. 321), and others probably, S of Glastonbury,
            which Mr. Smith is now exploring, occur in this
            northern horn of the     " Devonian range," in the
            Map, p. 255 (see pages 57 and 125 herein.)
                           ;
      1. 24, to the south-east J. —      J See the articles Coal
           and Colliery in Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia, and P.M.
            xxxix. p. 27.
 13,  1.  6, brine springs*. — * Many such (see p. 139) and
           some having Salt-works on them, occur out of
           the line EE, see Mr. Bailey's Durham Report,
           p. 48, &c.
     1.   9 and 10,    before noticed t- — t Not by the names
           Alpine,   Middle    and Low Districts, but see Phil.
           Trans. 1811, p. 258, and P. M. xxxix. p. 27 and
           426, &c.
 16, 1.1, flat fish*. — * In the Lias Limetone, see p. 237.
     1. 2 and 3, in and under f.—t It is upon all or most
           of the regular beds of Clay, covering Chalk, and
                                                           tipon

     Mr. Fareifs           Notes on   Mr.   Bakewell's Geology.      251
P. 16.          upon  Gravel, between this and Brick-Loam or
               alluvial Clay on the surface, (Mont. Mag. xxxiii.
               p. 514, and page 70 herein), that the Bones of
               large Quadrupeds have been found, in England,
               and in France, see Geol. Trans. i. and P. M.
               xxxviii. p. 143.  At pages 60, 177, 181, 258, 263,
               and 336, other errors or omissions occur on this
               head, see my Notes on pp. 60 and 181.
   17,   1.   23, a cavern*. — * In Ball-eye Mine, Rep. i, 250,
                and 253.
         ]. 24, Gibraltar Rockf-       — t See   page 184.
    9,   1. 1   and 2, ninety-seven       yards*. — * Itwas in Meas-
                ham-fields Coal Pit (Rep. i.        204), near to the
                border of Swepston Parish, at twenty-seven yards
                below the surface, that the Skeleton of a Man
                was. found, in driving an air-gate, a few years
                ago.
         1.4, no appearance existed          f. — fThe old Shaft had
                so effectually been filled up, as to. have escaped
                notice above ground ; but before reaching the
                skeleton, the Coal had proved ochry and tender,
                as if a fault or old hollows were near at hand.
                The Coal in this part, is altogether 12 feet thick,
                the lower 7-§ feet of which is soft and of less value
                than that above, on which accounts the air and
                 water gates, or adits, are usually driven in the
                90ft coal ; the ancient work in which the man
                was found, had perfect coal sufficient above         it,
                                                                    to
                envelope or
                                "imbed" the body, as        mouldered
                                                           it
                or fell in fleaks, before the Bind of the roof fol
                lowed  ;  and to Edward Mammatt, Esq. the Pro
                prietor, who carefully examined the spot, when
                the head only of the skeleton had been disturbed,
                it   appeared quite clear, that the Coal had been
                 disturbed, and had thus fallen upon the Body       in
                                                                     ;
                working    forwards   avery short distance,  under his
                 inspection, red clay became mixed with the loose
                 Coal, and the same increased to the foot of the
                 shaft, that had been filled up therewith no tools
                                                                :
                 were found in the ancient working, from whence
                it  was conjectured, that the unfortunate Man had
                 fallen    by
                            accident into   disused pit.
                                            a                 was per
                                                                It
                  haps, fortunate for science, that Mr. M. so
                  promptly attended, to ascertain the facts regarding
                  this skeleton, and to prevent the workmen from
                                                                 spreading

**2 -Mr. Farey's Notes on Mr. Bdkewell's Geology.
P.  19.       spreading reports, without contradiction, of the
            >
              skeleton being imbedded in undisturbed coal.
              After Mr. B's just remark on this head in p. 18, 1
              lament that in page 162, this supposed complete
              consolidation of loosened Coal, by " pressure and
              time alone," should, as I suppose, be alluded to,
              for supporting a Theory, to which this case ap
              pears to have no just relation.
   36, 1. 18, denominated a bed*. — * An Anglo- Wernerian
              term this (used also at page 52), used in just the re
              verse of its meaning among the practical English
              Cjuarrymen and others; who describe the subdivi
              sions of their Rocks or thick strata, by the term
              beds, Rep. i. 222, 271, &c.
        1. 25, right angles to this f. —   f And level or nearly,
              Rep.   i. 120  Note.
   27> !- '7, the motion of water*.
                                           — * It is probably only
              the Huttonians, who at this day, consider the
              motion of water, as concerned in the formation
              of strata, but such opinion seems devoid of pro
              bability.
   28,   I. )4,  different direction*. — * Denominated Stratulat
              Rep. i. 155, see my Note on page 317-
        1. 21 and 22, remove many difficulties-!-. — fSee P. M.
              xxxviii. p. 357, and Mont. Mag. xxxiii. p. 517,
   99, 1. 1, with stratification*. — * By Mr. Edward Martin,
              at Cribbath,in Phil. Trans. 1806, and in Williams's
              Min. Kin. 2d Ed. ii. p. 296: and by others.
        I. 10, mountain massesf. — fRep.i. 153, Phil. Trans.
               1811, and P. M. xxxvii. p. 441, and vol. xxxix.
              p. ecj and 426.
   30,1. 8, clay*           * Alumina ought now
                                                     always to be
              used, in naming the simple Earth ; Clay being a
              useful name, in very common use, for various
              mixtures of Alumina, Silex, Magnesia, &c. &c.
  40, 1.22, of the science*. — * Read — pf Geological
              Science.
   43,1. 12, generally lie below *. — * Are not the bare or
              denudated tops of large nodular, or imbedded
              masses, often described as foundation rocks? P.M.
              xl. p. 53.
  44, 1. 13, contain pebbles *. — * I believe Mr. W. Smith,
              as a Man practically acquainted with Coal-mines
              and other deep excavations in the Strata, as well
              as with the superficial Gravel and alluvial soils,

     Mr. Farey's      Notes on  Mr.  Bakewelfs   Geology.  tiS
P. 44.     was perfectly right in concluding, 20 years ago,
           that rounded pebbles are never contained in regular
           Strata or found under them, Rep. i. 109 and 134-
               After thoroughly and repeatedly considering
           the nature of the granular siliceous masses, called
           Sandstones and Grit-stones, from the finest, most
           uniform and almost imperceptible grit, (or even
           fine Sand in a stratum), to the irregularly coarse
           Millstone Grit of Derbyshire (Rep. i. 179), the
           still more irregularly coarse grit or puddingstone
           strata of South Wales and the Forest of Dean
           (Rep. i. xiii. and P. M. xl. p. 51), and the vastly
           more compounded and irregular Conglomerate
           or Puddingstone, which forms such stupendous
           strata in the north of Scotland (Will. Min. King
            ed Ed. i. 488), and stretch to the Orkneys: I am
            perfectly satisfied, that all such granular masse*
           m strata, are of cotemporary formation with their
           paste or cement, and are distinguishable (though
            with difficulty sometimes), from rounded pebbles,
            having no real marks of attrition on them, though
            tbey often show on their outsides the effects of
            decomposition, so as tp assume very exactly the
            appearance of worn stones.
                A Theorist, who sees in the same stratum or
            mass of conglomerate, distinct stones of all his
            different classes perhaps, Primitive, Transition,
            and Secondary and even ol the Alluvial of some
            Schools perhaps, will stoutly deny, and even ridi
            cule my position, quoting against me the au
            thority of a List of great Names from Lehman.
            to Werner, &c. — Be it so, such may continue
            to enjoy their theories, and form Societies for
            amusing one another therewith, and I will pursue
            my observations, until 1 meet with facts not ex
            plainable but on their priticiples, and then I will
            not be backward in announcing them, and own*
            ing it.
                Opportunities more proper than this will doubt
            less occur, in going through Mr. B's volume, for
             these remarks, but I wished early to introduce
             them, and can refer back to them here, whan
             necessary.
 44, Plate   I. fig. l. — see pages 44, 47, 83, 165, and 257i-^
             Fig. 2, see page 45.
    45, 1.  14, unconformable and overlying*. — ;* It has been
                                                          hinted

 *54            Mr.       Farey's Notes on             Mr.   Bakewell's Geology.
 P. 45.               hinted to me by a friend, that Mr. B. has some
                      thing yet to learn, of his friends the " Anglo-
                      Germans," respecting the orthodox interpretation
                      of these terms. I have never yet found them ne
                      cessary, in describing any appearances of Nature;
                      Mr. B's 2d figure in plate I. has nothing repre
                      sented in     it,
                                   to me inconsistent, with regular strati
                      fication; which does not absolutely require parallel,
                      but rather continuous masses (Rep.    105 and 117);   i.
                      .what have we here, to prevent us supposing, that
                     his upper or "superincumbent" masses are parts
                      of a stratum, as uniformly thick, and as regularly
                     applied upon No.       as that  1, upon No.   is  (and           2
                                                                                      ?
                     even had once others such upon it,) and that since,
                     or even before       part of this mass was cracked
                                               a
                     into regular columns (see       314), the surface was
                                                              p.
                     denudated, as irregularly as at dd, and that       two               in
                     other parts, the whole of the upper stratum (or
                     strata) was stripped off, without any perceptible
                     excavation into the next inferior stratum.       Such
                     cases are very familiar to me in nature.       Not so
                    I   must confess, the three strata, No.       in fig.        6,            1
                     in this plate, which abut or end against another
                     stratum or the two other strata at the top left-
                                ;
                     hand corner of fig.     in plate III.*
                                                     3
                           If
                           in both these cases, alluvial beds (Rep. 142)              i.
                     are intended to be shown, covering strata, almost
                     every Gravel Pit will prove the possibility and the
                     frequency of such occurrences, and so will Gravel
                     Rocks (Rep.          i.   131 Note).
                       The different           casesof stratula, curved or straight
                      (which last are          very common in the beds of nu
                      merous Coal-measure and other Rocks), appeared
                      to me sufficient, to account for every case that                         I
                      have yet seen, of unconformable stratification.
           1.       17, any conformity       — In its top: see above.
                                                   f.     f
     46,       1.
                     19> and structure*.
                                          —  * Because compact, and not
                      usually divided into beds and blocks, er posts, as
                     is  common with most other Rocks.
               1.   25, almost peculiar*. — *       have yet seen nothing
                                                          I
                      so peculiar in the stratification of Basaltic Rocks,
t                     P. M. xxxiii.     257, and Rep.
                                          p.               279    their sub-
                                                                       i.        :
     * My worthy Friend S. C. Pole, Esq. to whom this Quarry at Wild Park
belonged,   died latelyi   shall therefore take
                                I                   favour of any one, to
                                                              it   a
whom   it may be convenient, to compare the view in this plate with the face
of the Rock,     they will inform me particularly, as to the two horizontal
                      if
strata at the top left-hand corner.
i.         .                                                                          stance.

    Mr.       Farey's Notes on         Mr. BakeweWs Geology.                        855
P. 46.        stance,   in its various           states,   is     far     more      sin
              gular.
  47, !.      16 and 17, elevated them             on one side*.            — * The
              important Geological fact, that such                      elevations of
              pilesof strata, by rents ox faults, very rarely now
              form a cliff or sudden inequality of the surface
          (owing to the sulsequent and general denudation
          thereof, Rep. i. 105, 123, and 124), has not been
          expressly pointed out in Mr. B's volume, although.
          so important a feature of the earth's surface, see
          my 2d Letter, (p. 107), and 3d Letter, (p. 165.)
  48, Plate II. fig. 1, see p. 48, 271 and 273.— fig. 2, see
          p. 145, 1.51, and 209- — fig. 3, see p. 146 and 209.
          — fig. 4, see p. 218. — fig. 5, see p. 226.
  48,1. 7, is built*.— * On the 9th Grit Rock, Rep. i.
          207, Ponds Colliery, whose workings undermine
          the Town and this Rock.
         1. 11   and 12, coarse gritstone          f. — t       1st   Grit, or Mill
               stone Grit, Rep. i. 220.
         1.   17,   stratified sandstone — t Limestone Shale
               (Rep. i. 227): — throughout his work, nearly, Mr.
              B. has altered the established and appropriate
              name of this stratum, and of others also very dif
              ferent from    to " sandstone," see my 2d Letter,
                                 it,
               (p. 103.)
  48,    1.   19, a  cap or covering **. — ** On Whin Bill, Rep.                      i.
               62 and 227, are three caps or Hummocks of 1st
               Grit, the largest being here intended      Mr. B.,         by
              1   suppose    and
                             :         worthy of remark, that the
                                       it   is
               great prevalence of this phaenomenon, of Hum
               mocks, throughout this district (Rep.     225 and        i.
               24 1)   and others in England, Scotland and Ire
              land,    unnoticed in Mr. B's work nor
                       is                                    their    ;        is
              importance pointed out, as certain indications of
              the denudation of vast tracts of intervening strata,
              on Hills as well as in Valleys, see Denudation in
              Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia, P. M. xxxiii. p. 204 and
              260, and xxxvii. p. 44, 8cc. The Rev. A. Cal-
              cott, in 1761, distinctly pointed out this grand
              phoenomenon of the Earth's surface, see his " De
              luge,"     159, &c; Mr. Williams also mentioned
                        p.
              a  particular case of Hummocks, Min. King. 2d
              Edit.    p. 97.
                       i.        M. Hermelius's Maps of Kin-
              necula and other Hills in Sweden, lately copied
              into Dr. Thomson's Travels, show them, &c. —
              yet, who of the modem Theorists has noticed, and
                                                            given

*56       Mr. Farcy's    Notes on Mr.  BakewdVs Geology      t
P. 48.      given any consistent explanation of them?; Mr.
             Allan, in p. 92 of your present volume, ascribej
             the Cornish Hummocks, to decomposition! j see
             my 2d Letter, (p. 108.)               \
        1. 24 and 25, compact      limestone (7)ff. —   ft  It ha*
             already been noticed in my 2d Letter (p. 112),
             that a great fault (Rep. i. 289) is omitted in plate
             II, fig. 1, through No. 7, near to the edge of the
             Shale (5): and that the part of the Limestone
             which underlies the Shale here is 1st Limestone
             (Rep. i. 238 and 271).
   49 1. 2, the same limestone*. — * It is the 4th, and not
             the 1st Limestone, which forms mountains to the
            W and SW of Castleton, see Map at page 97 ©f
            Derb. Rep. i. and p. 280, and my 2d Letter,
            (p. 112.)
        1, 14, different rocks f- — t These effects of Faults are
             shown, Rep. i. 146, 165, 280 and 290 Note, &c.
             Phil. Trans. 1811, and P. M. xxxix. p. 26.
       I.  16,  sinking down-J. — Mr. Whitehurst attempted
                                   J
            to explain the formation of Valleys by fissures and
            subsidences, but his assumptions have been proved
            erroneous, P.M. xxxi. p. 36, and Rep. i. 473 and
            490, and my 2d Letter, (p. 112 N). I have de
            scribed all the principal Valleys in Derbyshire, and
            shown that they are none of them owing to this
            cause, Rep. i. 469, P- M. xxxix. p. !92 and 253,}
            and Mont. Mag. xxxiii. p. 516.       Mountain Tor
            rents, mentioned here and in p. 189, seem per
            fectly inadequate to the widening of the upper part*
            of fissures, into valleys, Rep. i,49l, and xxxiv.
            p. 49.
  CO,   1. 11, fragments of these mountains*. — *The con
            glomerates of the north of Scotland, mentioned
            in my note on p. 44, are not formed of fragments
            of the adjacent mountains, nor are perhaps any other
            such *'   pudding-stones,"  as they are here called,
            so formed.
       ]. 19, by marine currents t- — t This cause assigned
            for the excavation of Valleys, appears rather more
            adequate to the effects, than
                                            " Rivers which flow
            through them," page 47 ; but neither are suffi
            cient, to account for the very general denudation:
            of the earth's surface, if they could be supposed
            to have formed the individual valleys.      The same
            cause which denudattd,       (whatever   it may    have

          Mr.    Farcy's Notes       on  Mr.   BakeweWs Geology.              257
      50.       been) appears evidently to me, to have formed
               the valleys at the same time, but by no mechani
               cal or natural law, that I can discover or devise,
              or have seen pointed out (Rep. i. 105, and Staf
              fordshire Report, p. 200).            Infinite wisdom seems
              so to have disposed the forces that operated, in
              teariug-ofT* hundreds of yards thick of Strata,
               that the parting or rupture at the bottoms of the
              removed solid masses, were in the complicated
              waving planes, which now form the surface ; of
              rather, which did so, before any alluvium was
              lodged, or decomposition had happened, to form
              the superficial soil, and slightly round the aspe
              rities. The sudden removal of a large Seal from
              off its impression on wax, would give us an idea
              of this operation, if we could mentally separate
              it from the previous compression of the yielding
              wax, into the shape of the seal. Here seems to
              be an operation of creative power on the vast ter
              restrial globe, fully within our power to investi
              gate, but which we cannot in any degree imitate,
              — which of them indeed can we imitate ? or, in
              deed, fully comprehend ?.
     *l» I.  11, it would sink*. — * Mr. B. might find himself
    ,         puzzled, even with the assistance of the learned
              Illustrator of these Huttonian absurdities, to tell
              us, how a fluid mass, whether gaseous or of melted
    * That the removed Masses from denudated tracts and
                                                                   Valleys have
mmid off upwards, and not horizontally, in the direction or by the action of
currents of water, moving in any imaginable courses; will I think admit of
the clearest proof, from an accural e and minute examination of the tops of
 beddy or thinly stratified Rocks, and of the rubble formed bv their being torn
up ; — on the tops of Quarries and Cliffs, in many parts of our Island, and in
most situations, as to hills and valleys, I have repeatedly and carefully studied
this phxnomenon, see my Note on p. 209.
    Mri L. Horner saw two cases of this kind in the Limestone Quarries on
 the W flank of the Malvern Hills, but on returning to view one of them
again, the Quarrymen hud removed these Isosened and erected parts of the
beds: and I cannot but suspect, that it was after this, and from recollection
only, that Mr. L. drew the Section of these strata, which is published in the
 Geo. Trans. vol. i.
    Ashover Valley in Derbyshire, has presented many facts of this nature, and
even of more decisive kinds, as to a temporarv lifting action on the surfaee- (f
 the strata, whose precise localities I have pointed out, for re-examination    of
the curious facts which they exhibit, and mentioned the Names of the
parties present, when several excavations were made, on purpose to explore
the rubble, and are since closed again, in my Paper mentioned in a Note
in my first Letter (p. 55.) But alas, my unfortunate         production had no
sublime speculations on primitive transition or secondary formations,           to
recommend it, not even on " the independent Coal formation," (P. M. zli.
p. 305), and seemed to be thought unworthy to appear in betttr company.
      Vol. 42. No. 186. Oct, 1813,                        R                 lava,

258       Mr.     Farey's Notes on     Mr. Bakewell's Geology.
P. 51.         lava,   powerfully expanding itself, could suffer,
               much less cause (as seems here insinuated) part of
               the surrounding masseSi against which it acted
               (equally on all sides, by the known laws of
               fluidity), to sink, or approach towards the ex
               panding mass 1 Perhaps Mr. B. will wish to
               amend his words, and say, " after the surface had
               risen in one pari, ft sunk in another;" but which
               even will no better avail him, unless he can show,
               why that part of the shell which had stood firm
               and unmoved by the expanding action, should
                immediately alter (much less at the same time)4
                give way and sink down, in preference to that
                which had just been heaved up by its action. — >
                But it seems a loss of time, to notice such crude
                whims.
    52,   1.   3, defended from attrition*. — * The common ap
                pearance of extraneous fossils, and of known allu
                vium, which have suffered little or no attrition;
                by a distant removal, as on the Chellaston Gyp
                sum, see my 2d Letter, (p. 105), compels us to
                seek a more general and adequate cause, than a
'               coating of ice. — In the great alluvial Clays of
                Bedfordshire, very large ragged flints, with loops
                almost like the handles of pitchers, and more
                easily broken off, are commonly found in digging
                 (with other not less fragile ruins of the distant
                chalk Hills), and are often used for weights to their
                roasting Jacks.    Very large masses of laminated
                clay are also found lodged in the gravelly mixtures
                here.     In Dorsetshire larger unbroken masses of
                the stratified Pipe Clay (of Purbeck, probably)
                are found lodged in gravel ; at Hagworthingham
                in Lincolnshire, I have seen large masses of thinly
                 stratified Clay, with their edges little worn, lodged
                in confusion, on the top of a Hill, among immense
                holders and rounded stone3.          A multiplicity of
                 similar facts show, that a great deal of the known
                 alluvium must have been borne up above the sur
                face and moved in mass (generally, if not always^
                from SE to NW or near         it,   as Mr. Smith long
                ago discovered, P. M. xxxv.         p. 135) instead of
                being rolled along the     surface;   and the same re
                mark will evidently apply to many self stones or
                moved Blocks, see Ice borne, in Dr. Rees's Cyclo
                paedia, and Rep.  i.  143.
                                                                 P. 60,

        Mr. Farey's           Notes on   Mr. Bakewell's       Geology.           259
P. 60,    1.   3, Fresh-water fish*. — * Who has told us, any in
                dubitable marks, by which fresh and salt water
                 fish, or those or water of any other qualities can
                be discriminated ?, among the primitive races
                 whose remains we find in the strata.            I believe
                 no one has, or can, P. M. xxxv. p. 134. Some
                 time ago T asked a celebraied Naturalist this ques
                 tion, — he said, he knew no other characteristic
                 distinction between fresh and salt water shells,
                 than the thinness of the former, but will this
                serve as any distinction among fossil species? are
                not very thick and stout shells often mixed in the
                 same bed with very thin and tender ones ? — I have
                often seen         This being at present
                                  it.                           favourite
                                                                   a
                 Geological bauble, in London as well as Paris,
                 (Rep.   i.and P. M. xxxv.         256) Mr. B. has in
                                                     p.
                 seven or more pages of his Book, contrived to
                introduce so fashionable       subject, combined as
                                               a
                 often with his mistake, about the remains of large
                Quadrupeds being found in the stratified Clay of
                 London, instead of upon       it,
                                                see my Notes ^>n pages
                    6,   8etc."— See Mr. James Sowerby 'sconcluding
                                               "
                1    1   1
                         ,
                remark in        76 of his
                                  p.           Mineral Conchotomy."
         1.   6   and    ?.   Clay.
                              1        Sandf. — It
                                        2            f        much to be
                                                              is
                lamented,    that  Mr.  B. has so  far   suffered  Theory
                to distort facts, as to deny the many important re
                gular strata of Clay and of Sand in the south-i
                eastern parts of England (Rep.        i.  to 15), place
                                                          1
                                                          1
                                                          1        1        a
                among his secondary strata; placing them here
                among alluvial substances, viz. with Gravel, and
                calcareous Tufa, and even with beds of Peat                     !.
         1.    22, some time established       — Mr. B's work was
                                               J.
                intended, we should hope, as " introductory" to
                                                      %
                the truths of Science, and not for detailing and
                giving further currency to established errors.                       J£
                Mr. B. at all thought, with me, (as this passage
                intimates     Ithink) that the boasted arrangements
                of Lehman (p. vi.) were useless,              not hurtful
                                                              if
                to the science, (see my Note on page 44) why
                have they formed so large           share of his work,
                                                     a
                with additional and speculative arrangements of
                his own, on the same doubtful principles?
  6l,    1.    6,   forced through *. — *      It  more natural, and
                                                     is
                accordant with all the facts,      to   suppose the su
                perior strata have been denutlated off the moun
                tain tops of Granite (such as         in fig.
                                                      a          plate I),
                                                                       1,
                                        . R2                            ,       than

  20b     Mr. Farey's Noies      on Mr.-Bakewett's    Geology.
   P. 61.      than to suppose, with the Huttonians, that the
               Granite has been   "  forced through the more su
               perficial covering  of  the Globe s" when after all,
               theGranite may perhaps be comparatively an incon
               siderable nodule or crystallized mass (Rep.i. 153),
                 in a Stratum, of far greater magnitude and ex
               tent, see my Note on page 43.
     6f, 1.  10, over coal*. — * What reasons, except his new
               "   Anglo- German" theory of formations, has Mr.
               B. adduced, to show, that the CW-measures of
               the Ashby-de-la-Zouch        Coal-field do not pass
               under his " primary" (or       "  Transition") tract
               called Charnwood Forest ? see my note on page
               285. — At page 286 Mr. B. admits that the Red
               Marl (under his new denomination of Sandstone),
               occupies a space, in horizontal strata between the
 i ,           Coal-measures and the coarse Slate, and says, the
               Sandstone is evidently of " posterior formation to
               the coal strata,") or in plain English 1 should say,
               lies upon them; but which Mr. B. was not likely,
               to say, wishing for another purpose, to represent
              this same Red Marl (or Sand-stone) as identical
              with 1st Grit and Limestone Shale (or Sandstone),
              and underlying all the great Derbyshire and York
               shire Coal Series, see my 2d Letter (p. 103).
                   The coals rising up where they terminate
            > against
                         the horizontal Marl, as Mr. B. men
              tions, is consistent with the Fault which           I
              have represented in my Map Rep. i. p. 97 and
              mentioned p. 174 : and though Mr. B. may have
              attempted to invalidate this Fault, in another part
              of its course, at page 267, by saying, "on the
              south-west they (the Coal-measures)       are covered
I             by a thick bed of coarse breccia a?id gravel, which
              separates them from the coal-fields at Polesworth
              and Bedworth inWarwickshire :" his statement is
              clearly unfounded ; for between these two Coal
              fields, several miles wide of as perfect Red Marl
;,            occurs, in horizontal strata (with occasional grit
              stone beds in them), as in any part of England,
              as   my Map shows, Rep. i. 97, instead of Breccia
              and Gravel!.      I have shown and mentioned a
              small tract of Gravel Rock ? in Over Seal (Rep. i.
              142), which Mr. B. may perhaps have seen, and
             thus been induced to make this general and very.
             unfounded assertion.
                                                             P. 68,

                             On Electricity.
P. 68, I. 17, in clay-pits*. — * These alluvial Marl-pits with
            Granite and other foreign Bolders, extend into the
            NW corner of Derhyshire, Rep. i. 456.
   69,1.22, denominated rents*. — * Mr. B. seems here
            alluding, to the nearly vertical joints, slines cutters,
            &c. between blocks of stone, or masses of Coal,
            &c. which are generally peculiar or confined to
            each bed ; and should not therefore have been
            confounded by a common term, with the vastly
            different phenomenon of Faults, as is done in
            page 47, see my Note on page 162.
   72, 1. 3, to mica slate*. —* Did not Mr. B. note, in his
            Woburn observations, that the micaceoiis stones
            alluded     to, were worn and decomposing pebbles
            among the Gravel ?.         I have found such, very
            plentifully, on the lower chalk hills NE of Dun
            stable, and they have also reached Derbyshire,
            with many of their travelled companions, see
            Rep. i. 466.
    73, 1. 10, of statuary marble*. — * Mr. John Lingard,
             the occupier of Lodge Farm in Great-rocks Dale in
            Derbyshire, showed me small specimens of white
             granular Marble, scarcely if at all distinguishable
            from foreign statuary, which came I believe from
            a Dyke or vein of this stone, which there inter
             sects the 4th Limestone Rock, Rep. i. 414.
    B3} 1. 9> secondary rocks (6)*.
                                          — * In a note on page
            45, I have already expressed a doubt, on the reality
            of such strata as are represented, No. 6, in fig. 1,
             plate I. and shall feel obliged to Mr. B. if he will
             particularly point out as many undoubted cases
             of the kind, as he can.
    My   next   communication commences Mr. B's 4th Chap*
 ter, and shall be sent in due time.
                          I am, sir,
                                Your obedient servant,
   Upper Crown-street, Westminster,             JOHN F-ARET Sen.
          £6tli July, 1813.
 XL1V. On Electricity.          By Mr. George John Singer,
      Lecturer on Chemical and Experimental Philosophy.
 The     phenomena observed in an experiment detailed in.
 the last number      of this Magazine*, as indicative of a double
                              * Page 161.
                                                             current

262                        On Electricity.
current in the discharge of the Leyden jar, have been the
subject of consideration with all practical electricians since
the year 1760, when an account of them was first pub
lished.
    In the fifty- first volume of the Philosophical Transactions
(page 171 and following) Mr. Symtner has given an ac
count of some experiments that led him to suspect the ex
istence of a double current in the discharge of the Leyden
jar: that which appeared to him to afford the most satis
factory evidence was the following.
    He placed a slip of tinfoil in the middle of a paper book
 (the thickness of a quire), and, passing an electric charge
through    it, observed that the leaves on each side the tinfoil
were pierced; the tinfoil itself was not perforated, but an
 indentation was made on each of its surfaces at        little
                                                            a        di
 stance one from the other: these indentations were opposite
 the holes in the paper, and evidently pointed in opposite
directions.
   In another book of the same thickness, he placed two
slips of tinfoil with the two middle leaves of the book be
tween them      and he states that all the leaves of the book
                 ;
were    pierced,  excepting the two that were between the
slips of tinfoil: and     in  these two instead of holes the two
impressions in contrary directions were very visible.
 I     have frequently repeated Mr. Symmer's- experiments.
The result of the first     is  usually as he has stated, but the
phaenomena     of  the   second   are somewhat different.         When
the   two  middle  leaves   of   apaper book are inclosed between
two slips of tinfoil, and           sufficiently powerful charge
                                     a                                 is
passed through the book          ;all the paper leaves are pierced,
                    tinfoil has two indentations in opposite
and each slip        of                                              di
rections and in different parts of their opposite surfaces.
 Consequently,       if
                      these impressions        are caused    by distinct
 currents of electricity,    there  must    be Jour   currents   to pro
duce this effect.
     But the phaenomena were still more remarkable when               I
 introduced between the leaves of quire of paper, six slips
                                              a
 of tinfoil, each pair separated         by
                                          three leaves of paper. The
 charge perforated    all the  paper  leaves,  but in  different places,
 and each slip      foil
                     of   had    an indentation    on  each  of  its sur
faces, and consequently in opposite directions          ;   so that, ac
 cording to Mr. Symmer's reasoning, there must have been
 twelve distinct electric currents.
     The perforations in the paper were never in right line a
  through the separate strata and consequently the indenta
                                     ;
  tions on the opposite surfaces of each slip of tinfoil were
                                                                        at

                         On Electricity.                     263
at some distance from each other, and sometimes consider
ably so, being at the opposite extremities of the slip : but
each impression was immediately opposite to the perforation
in the paper contiguous to it ; so that an upivard impression,
and an impression downwards on two opposite tinfoil slips,
resulted from the perforation of each interposed stratum of
paper : which is a sufficient proof that the effect arises from
the expansion caused by a spark at each interruption of the
metallic circuit, and not from any effect of opposite cur
rents.
   When a card or quire of paper is pierced by a charge
passed' through wires applied to its opposite surfaces, there
is but one interruption of the metallic circuit, and conse
quently but one spark; this produces an expansive effect,
which will operate with the greatest force where it finds
the least resistance; which will be at the opposite surfaces
of the card or paper : consequently a bur or protrusion will
take place at those surfaces, and if any soft substances are
contiguous, they will receive an impression, although they
are out of the circuit, and of course could not be affected by
a current either way.     But. if a series of cards or strata of
paper are placed on each other, and separated by as many
slips of tinfoil, the interruptions in the metallic circuit will
be as numerous as these slips; and as a spark will take
place at each interruption when a chargers passed through
them, an expansive effect will be produced by the perfora
tion of each stratum of paper, and this expansion must
necessarily indent the tinfoil contiguous to its opposite sur
faces, and consequently produce two indentations in op
posite directions.   The slips of tinfoil may be considered
as stepping-blocks for the electric fluid, which does not (in
consequence of their extension) pass in a right line, but
through the least resisting part of each interposed stratum
of paper.
   The truth of this explanation is evident from other phe
nomena attending the' experiment ; for, allowing it to be
correct, the effect of expansion may be expected to be most
considerable when the slips of tinfoil are at the greatest di
stance from each other, as the spark then passes through
a greater interval : and it will be found that the impressions
are better defined and deeper, when several sheets of paper
are interposed between each pair of tinfoil slips, than when
they are only separated by a single theet.
   An additional confirmation of this fact has also occa
sionally occurred in my experiments.          In varying Mr.
                             R  4                    Symmer's

26*4                    On  Electricity.
Symmer's arrangement, by including a single leaf of paper
between two tinfoil slips in the middle of a book ; it has
sometimes happened that the perforation of the paper took
place in a right line, and in such cases loth slips of tinfoil
have been indented in one direction only, and invariably in a
direction from the positive to the negative surface.
    From these facts, (and from various others, which if my
leisure permitted    I could state,) I feel authorised to con
clude that Mr. Symmer mistook the expansive effects of
electricity for an evidence of its direction ; and that Mr. E.
Walker has ingeniously amplified this error by adducing
in his second experiment two opposite impressions, which
 are produced out of the electrical circuit, as an evidence of
opposite currents supposed to take place withinit.
     With respect to the permanence of the effects produced
 by electrical influence, Mr. W. has fallen into error by
 confounding them with communicated electricity. If, after
 bringing an electrified body near an insulated conductor,
 on withdrawing it the insulated conductor remains per
 manently electrified, it must have lost or received electricity ;
 and in either case it is electrified by communication and not
 by position, whether its loss or gain be the consequence of.
 the contact of some conducting body, or the imperfection
 of its own insulation during the disturbance of its natural
 electricity j and one.cf these causes must operate to produce
 permanent electricity in such an experiment: for neither an
 insulated rod nor a gold-leaf electrometer, if properly con-
 structed, will be permanently electrified by approximation
 to an electrified body ; unless they communicate by imper
fect insulation, or pointed terminations ivith surrounding
 unelectrijied substances during such approximation.       These
 are facts, which the constant repetition of such experiments
 professionally enables me to state with confidence; and
 they are indeed such as amongst electricians are generally
  admitted : but perhaps Mr. Walker has yet to learn, that a
  conducting body supported by dry glass, and surrounded
  by dry air, may be still very far from perfectly insulated.
                                                G.J.StKGER.
      OcSuia.
                                                      XLV. An

                           [   265    ]
XLV. An   Attempt to determine the definite and simple Pro-
 portions, in which the constituent Parts of unorganic Sub
 stances are united with each other.    By Jacob Berze-
 iius, Professor of Medicine and Pharmacy, and M.R.A.
  Stockholm.
                      (Continued from p. 182.)
  2. Sulphureted    Hydrogen    as an     Acid (the Hydrotheic).
Sulphureted        hydrogen is a combination of hydrogen with
sulphur corresponding to the sulphuret of lead and to the
sulphuret of iron at a minimum.         It has most of the cha
racters of an acid, and affords saline combinations with
some bases. Hence a question arises, Whether the hy
drotheic acid contains oxygen ?        I shall hereafter mention
the quantity of oxygen probably contained in hydrogen,
which amounts only to '005 of the whole weight of the
sulphureted hydrogen.        It would therefore be expected that
sulphur should be an oxygenized body; for a substance
deriving its properties as an acid from oxygen must na
turally contain more than f per cent. of it.
    Some years ago, I made an analysis of sulphureted hy
drogen (Afh. ii. 78 ) and employed in it the hydrotheate of.
 the protoxide of zinc, which I found to consist of 72 parts
 of the protoxide, 25 of sulphureted hydrogen, and three of
 water.     Although  I   did not then pay so much attention
 to minute accuracy as I have lately done, I am persuaded
 that there cannot be an error of more than 1 per cent,
 which is here of no consequence.          Now according to my
 analysis of the protoxide of zinc, 72 parts of it contain
  14*12 of oxygen; so that if sulphureted hydrogen, like
 every other aeid, is required to contain 2, 3, or 4 times as
 much oxygen as the base which saturates           it,
                                                     the least pos
 sible quantity must be 14-12 X2     =   28'24, or more than the
 whole amount of the hydrotheic acid and      :    if we supposed
 the quantity of oxygen to be simply equal to that of the
 basis, this would still be something more than half the
  weight of the hydrotheic acid.          Ishall hereafter explain
  how   far this
               is  reconcileable with our views of the subject.
   It   is  not absolutely necessary that this acid, so called,
  should contain oxygen; for its combinations with bases de
  pend principally on the affinity of the sulphur, since in the
  hydrotheates the sulphur and the metallic body are in the
  same proportions as in the sulphurets.       On the part of the
  metal some oxygen   is   added, and on the part of the sulphur,
  as much hydrogen as would be required to convert that
  oxygen into water,      If the metallic base attracts the oxygen
                                                               more

266                    Cn definite Proportions.
more powerfully than hydrogen does, this quadruple com
bination of sulphur, metal, oxygen, and hydrogen may take
place, and all the component parts exist in such propor
tions, that, when taken in pairs, they stand in the same
degree of combination, however they may be divided.             If,
on the other hand, the metallic body has a weaker attrac
tion to oxygen than hydrogen has, the combination with
the hydrotheic acid is impossible ; the hydrogen forms
water with the oxygen, and the metal a sulphuret with the
sulphur. Alkalis, alkaline earths, the protoxides of zinc
and of manganese, afford saline combinations with snlphu-
reted hydrogen ; while most of the oxides of the older
metals, for instance, the oxides of lead and tin, are only
reduced to sulphurets by it.
    3. Does Ammoma contain Oxygen or not ?
   If  we grant     the affirmative,  we have already determined
its composition as accurately as our modes of analysis ad
mit. Since, however, many distinguished chemists assert
the negative, we shall examine the probability of each
opinion ; for in this case we must be satisfied with proba
bility only.
    If ammonia contained no oxygen, we should be obliged
to consider it as a base comparable to sulphureted hydrogen
as an acid, there being no oxygenization in either case.
But whence should we derive, on this supposition, its pro
perty of becoming a base, or its alkalescence, since hydro
gen does not possess this property, and since nitrogen, its
other component part, is a substance of an opposite uature?
Nitrogen stands with sulphur, phosphorus, and arsenic, in
a series of bodies which form the strongest acids, and
which are attracted by the positive pole of the electric cir
cle.    It has been observed indeed that sulphur, phosphorus,
carbon     and   arsenic are sometimes deposited at the ne
gative pole,    and   cannot appear at the positive pole : this
however only happens in the presence of water, at the ex
pense of which these bodies are oxygenized ; and in com
parison with oxygen all bodies tend to the negative pole,
1 call all those bodies       \negOlive'\, which either alone, or
in combination with oxygen, are capable of being attracted
by the positive pole; and those [positive] , which when
combined with oxygen cannot collect at the positive pole,
and are repelled by it when they have been formed, and in
a short time either reduced, or collected at the negative
pole; for example, the metallic oxides, which are some
times formed at the positive wire.          [Negative] bodies arg^
in general   so  [negative]   that they never constitute the bases

                     Ore definite Proportions.                   267
of    salts, as sulphur, phosphorus,      carbon, arsenic ; of if
they do in some cases     afford  bases, for  instance, in the sul
phureted or phosphureted muriatic        acid,  they have infinitely
less the character of a base than water has.            The bodies
most decidedly [positive] have this character in such a de*
gree, that even when they have combined with so much
oxvgen as no longer to constitute bases, for instance, the
oxidts which I call peroxides, they still are not [negative],
and do not exhibit any characters of an acid.           This is the
case with lead, manganese, cerium, and some other sub
 stances ; their peroxides contain oxygen so little saturated,
 that it is [negative] in comparison with almost every com
 bustible body, although the whole peroxide can never
 be [negative] with respect to any other oxidated body.
 [Our author's language has here been translated into one
 which has been more generally adopted, and which had on
 a former occasion been substituted for it by Professor Gil
 bert,    in pursuance of Sir H. Davy's theory, without any
 objection from Professor Berzelius; he is indeed still dis
  posed to call those substances positive which are collected
  at the positive wire, but does not insist on the absolute ne
  cessity of emploving this language.]
      Now neither hydrogen nor nitrogen is so highly [positive]
  in its electrical power as ammonia itself j it is therefore in
  conceivable whence this property should be derived, unless,
  like the fixed alkalis, ammonia is an oxidated metallic body.
  Sulphureted hydrogen derives its acid properties from the
   [negative] nature of sulphur, the attraction of which for
  most bases it overpowers, because the oxygen in the base,
  which is still in some degree [negative], enters into a sort
   of neutral state with the hydrogen of the sulphureted hy
   drogen, which we may compare with that of the cake of
   resin and the metallic disc or cover of the electrophorus.
   We see therefore in the constituent parts of sulphureted
   hydrogen a cause why it possesses the character of an acid,
   that is, of a [negative] body.
       Since ammonia contains, according to the analysis of
   Gay-Lussac, 1S 475 per cent. of hydrogen, it might be
   presumed that in the salts of ammonia as much acid should
   be found, as contained either exactly oxygen enough to
   form water with this quantity of hydrogen, or some simple
   multiple of that quantity. This however is not universally
    the case; for we shall find that ammonia is combined in
    this proportion with those acids only which contain three
    times as much oxygen as the base that saturates them.          Of
    those acids which -contain twice or four times          as  -much
                                                               oxygen

 268                   On definite Proporthnf'.
oxygen as the base by which they are saturated, the quan
 tity neutralized by ammonia contains either f- or             as
 much oxygen as would be necessary in order to form wa
 ter with the hydrogen of the ammonia : and these are mul
 tiples of which we have no other examples.        In the hyper-
 oxymuriate of ammonia, which I shall mention hereafter,
 the ammonia exists in such a proportion, that the acid
 contains 2-| times as much oxygen as would be necessary
for forming water with hydrogen.           On the other hand,
 we shall find that if ammonia be considered as a metallic
 oxide, constituted in the manner already calculated, it will
appear to be subject precisely to the same laws as the other
 alkalis, earths, and metallic oxides.
    Ammonia and sulphureted hydrogen are very differently
affected by the electrical column.       Although both are de
 composed by     the interposition  of water, which is itself de
 composed at the same time, yet the ammonia is also col
 lected as a [positive] undecomposed substance at the nega
tive pole, while the sulphureted hydrogen is never collected as
 a [negative] substance at the positive pole. Besides, ammonia,
under certain circumstances, like the other alkalis, produces
 a metallic body at the negative pole, and seems to indicate
a case of reduction, which does not happen to the sul-
 phuTeted hydrogen.      The amalgamation of ammonia de
monstrates the deposition of a [positive] substance, to com
pensate for which a corresponding quantity of a [negative]
substance must be collected at the positive pole*            The
French chemists explain this by supposing that the whole
undecomposed alkali unites wnh the hydrogen of the de
composed portion, and that the metallic body is produced
by this union. According to this explanation, it is only
the hydrogen that passes to the negative pole in compen
sation for the nitrogen disengaged at the positive pole, and
that fixes a portion of the ammonia, so as to form a metal
lic substance with it. Such a fact would be very important
in determining the intimate nature of metals in general :
but can it be supposed that the undecomposed ammonia, to
which in this view, of the subject there is no corresponding
deposition at the positive pole, and which therefore only
obeys the chemical attraction of the hydrogen, an attrac
tion by the way not otherwise discoverable ; — that this
portion of ammonia should act only a chemical part in the
amalgamation, not immediately depending on the operation
of electricity ? I can scarcely admit the plausibility of
such a statement.        However the phenomenon may be
explained, the explanation must incontrovertibly hold good

                   On definite Proportions.                 26*9
fty all other appearances of amalgamation produced by the
electrical column under similar circumstances. To dispute
respecting experiments with ammonium or its amalgam is
a loss of labour; for it is scarcely possible to devise so de
cisive an experiment as not to be explicable on either hy
pothesis.    But whatever is demonstrable respecting the
fixed alkalis, and the properties which they have in com
mon with ammonia, may also be considered as demon
strated of ammonia.     The existence of oxygen in the fixed
alkalis being therefore so indubitably well established, it
appears that perhaps there is more than simple probability
in the opinion that ammonia is an oxidated substance.
    When ammoniacal gas is decomposed by electrical shocks,
we obtain, according to the experiments of MM. Henry
and Berthollet the younger, nitrogen and hydrogen, without
a trace of oxygen : hence it follows that the oxygen of am
monia must be contained in these two gases. One of these
substances, without doubt the nitrogen, must therefore be
in a higher degree of oxidation than the other :' hence the
 oxygen of the nitrogen must be a multiple by \\, 2, 3. . . „
of the oxygen of the ammonia: and the true multiplier
 seems to be \\.    The considerations on the different de
grees of oxidation of sulphur, which I have already ad
 vanced, have led me to the conjecture, that every apparent
multiplication by    \\ is in reality a multiplication by 6 ot
 12 with regard to some lower degree, which, if it cannot
exist independently, may at least be found in a combina
 tion with other substances.      Jf therefore we consider hy
drogen as beina; in this degree, it must contain either       oi<
                                                            -J-
Vt   as much   oxygen as  nitrogen   doesj  and  from  the pro
 portion of the component parts of ammonia,        it may easily
be calculated, that hydrogen can only contain TV as muck.
 oxygen for every 100 parts of ammonium as nitrogen does.
Now  if  in ammonia 100 parts of ammonium are combined
with 88*2768 of oxygen, in nitrogen they must be com
bined with half as much more, or 132-4152, and in hydro
 gen with one twelfth of this quantity, or 11-0346.      Hence
we should have for Hydrogen
              Ammonium       90-062        100-0000
              Oxygen.... 9-938              11*0346
   And for Nitrogen
             Ammonium 43-027            100-0000
             Oxvgen  .
                     .  .   56-973      132-4152
  Mr. Gay-Lussac attributes to ammonia 18*475 parts of
hydrogen and 81 525 of nitrogen: according to what we
have just calculated, 81*525 of nitrogen would contain 46*43
of oxygen, and 18-475 of hydrogen 1*8 of oxygen, which
                                                        together

 870                 On defimte Proportions.
together would give 48'23 of oxygen in 100 parts of amV
xnonia, that is, only 1*34 per cent, more than we have ar-i
ready determined by calculation.       Consequently either the
proportion of oxygen in all these substances has been made
a little too great, or, as I have reason to believe from other
computations, the quantity of hydrogen in ammonia a little
too small ; or perhaps errors in both these respects are
combined.        [According to Sir H. Davy's numbers, J 00
parts of ammonia contain £ = VjV o* nitrogen, giving
                               f
46*29 of oxygen, and for the whole 48*12, which is still
too much by 1-23 per cent. Tr.]
    If nitrogen is an oxide capable of higher degrees of oxi
dation, the quantity of oxygen in each must be an integral
multiple of the quantity in nitrogen. Now Mr.Lay-Lussac
has shown, in his excellent essay on the combinations of
gaseous bodies, that the nitrous oxide consists of 63-72
parts of nitrogen and 36*2S of oxygen.          In these 63-72
parts of nitrogen, according to the preceding calculation,
we find 36*2898 of oxygen ; hence it follows that the ni--
trous oxide contains twice as much oxygen, for a given
portion of ammonium, as nitrogen does. Now since in
the remaining degrees of oxidation of the nitrogen the
quantities of oxygen, according to the same investigations,
are multiples by 2, 3, and 4, of the quantity which converts
100 parts of nitrogen into nitric oxide, it is evident that,
if nitrogen contains a multiple by 12 of the lowest degree
of oxidation of ammonium, these higher degrees must af
ford multiples by 24, 36, 48, and 60. Water, which, if all
this is correct, must be ammonium oxidated in a still higher
degree, must stand in the same series, and exhibit another
multiple composed of 12 as a factor, that is, a multiple
by 72.      Hence we have the following multiples of 1 1*0346
for the degrees of oxidation of ammonium, 100 parts af
fording, with
  1 1 0346 X l of Oxygen         Hydrogen
             X4 = 44-1384        Protoxide of ammonium, sup
                                    posed to be Davy's
                                                        " olive-
                                    coloured matter"
             X8 = 88*2768        Ammonia
             X 12=132-4152       Nitrogen
             X 24 = 264-8304     Nitrous oxide, or protoxide of
                                    nitrogen
             X 36 = 397-2456     Nitric oxide, or oxide of ni
                                    trogen
             x 48 = 529-6608     Nitrous acid
             x 60=662-0760       Nitric acid
             x 72 = 794-4912     Water
                                                               It

                     On definite Proportions.                S71
    It is remarkable  that all the intervals from nitrogen to
water proceed in twelves.       According to this computation,
water consists of 12-413 parts of hydrogen and 87-587 of
oxygen, which differs but little from one of my experi
ments in which the proportions were 12-23 and 87*77-
    These determinations cannot be precisely accurate, since
they depend on experiments which are not absolutely cor
rect.     It appears however that the error cannot be very ma
terially great, from the coincidence between the composition
of nitrogen as deduced from calculation, and from the
analysis of the nitrous oxide.        If we might venture to as
sume, that the weights of the gases in the experiments of
the celebrated French chemists were perfectly accurate, we
might easily correct the proportions of the ammonia ac
cording to those experiments : but this cannot yet be done
with any certainty. Mr. Gay-Lussac's mode of weighing
the gases, and determining their composition from the
volumes concerned, is probably the most accurate; and
 when we have obtained some perfectly correct analyses in
this manner, the rest may be completed by calculation.
 It is therefore to be hoped, that those chemists who have
begun these experiments will shortly repeat them, and carry
 them to the highest degree of perfection of which they are
 susceptible.
     We have still a very comprehensive question left to be
 answered : Why does hydrogen, when combined with oxy
gen, always afford water, and nitrogen always nitric acid or
 nitrous oxide ? Or, conversely : Why do we obtain, by the
 subtraction of oxygen^ always hydrogen from water, and
 nitrogen from nitric acid or nitre, if both these substances
 are truly oxides of the same base ?
     In this question there is apparently involved a weighty
  objection against the existence of oxygen in hydrogen. It
 analogy should here mislead me in the outline of my argu
 ments, and I should endeavour to explain a fact which does
  not exist in nature, I may in this case at least be excused
  for having erred.    I shall therefore venture to enter upon
 .the subject.
     I have observed that ammonia, considered as an oxidated
 substance, was not likely to contain a compound base,
  which, if it existed, must consist of hydrogen a/id the base
  of nitrogen. For when ammonia is decomposed by po
 tassium, it condenses a part of the hydrogen with the ni
  trogen. If the base of ammonia were a compound, it ought
  to set all the hydrogen at liberty, or to condense the whole
 of it with the base o£ nitrogen. It cannot therefore be
                                                        believed.

  272                  On definite Proportions.-
  believed, that ammonia is an oxide, without admitting that
  hydrogen is the same base in a lower degree of oxidation.
  Now hydrogen, which in this view of the subject we con
 sider as an oxidated substance, has all the properties of a
  simple one; it has the same comparative capacity for satu
  ration with oxygen and sulphur as the metals have, and in
 all triple combinations of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen,
 we have reason to consider the hydrogen as a simple sub
 stance.    Notwithstanding these difficulties, the whole may
 be pretty easily explained.
     In de-scribing the combustion of copper in the vapour of
 sulphur, I have expressed an opinion, that the appearance
 of fire in combustion, and the evolution of heat in chemical
 combinations in general, must be owing to precisely the
 same internal cause as the appearance of fire and the ex
 trication of heat between the conductors of a powerful
 electrical column.     The knowledge that we already possess
 of electricity, as a chemical agent, allows us no longer to
 think of any process as chemical, without being at the same
 time electrical ; and we are indebted to Davy's important
 investigations for the discovery, that two bodies, which
 exhibit an affinity for each other, appear to possess, whenever
 they come into contact, that is, whenever they are about to
 unite, electricities of an opposite nature, and this the more
 distinctly, as their mutual affinity is greater.    If we com
 pare this with our experience relating to electrochemical
 decompositions in the column, we find the most convin
 cing proofs, that every phenomenon of combination or se
paration must be electrochemical.        What electricity itself
is, how it is attached to different substances, and deter
mines their chemical properties, we are wholly ignorant;
and we are more likely to be misled than 'enlightened by
speculations on this subject, advanced by persons who
pronounce their opinions with great confidence, yet with
out possessing sufficient experience to enable them to judge
on rational grounds.
    Experience has informed us, that a variety of substances
are collected in the electrical circuit at the same pole with
oxygen, and other substances at the same pole with hy
drogen. The latter we name [positively] electrical, the
former [negatively.] We have seen that most of the me
tals belong to the first of these classes, but sulphur, phos
phorus, and some other substances, to the last.          If now
v e appiv this remark to ammonia, we find that it affords,

                     On definite Proportions.                   273
therefore is a [negatively] and hydrogen a [positively] elec
trical substance.   These two bodies distinguish themselves
from all others by retaining their electricities so powerfully
that they cannot be discharged ; so that the gases once
formed cannot unite again to constitute ammonia. The
nitrogen, when it has once assumed that character, always
preserves the same aversion to all combinations with [po
sitive] substances, and can only be united to oxvgen.
   Since the same electrical discharge resolves ammonia into
nitrogen and hydrogen, and water into oxygen and hydiogen,
the hydrogen in both cases must require the same quantity of
negative electricity in the conductor on the one side, and
consequently the same quantity of positive electricity at the
opposite pole; so that 81-525 parts of nitrogen must re
quire the same expense of electrical power for its' formation
as would form water from oxygen with 18-475 of hydrogen,
or would form a corresponding portion of oxygen from
water.    Hence it may not be impossible, at some future
time, to obtain a numerical expression of the properties of
bodies with respect to chemical electricity.        The quantity
of electricity which saturates in nitrogen the opposite elec
tricity of its basis, and besides renders the nitrogen [nega
tive], is to that which is saturated in the oxygen during the
formation of water, in the inverse proportion of the quan
tities of nitrogen and oxygen which saturate the same
quantity of hydrogen, that       is,
                                  as     to 2, or
                                            3         to 1.l£ The
quantity of electricity appears therefore to be subject to the
same laws as the quantity of ponderable substances in
chemical combinations, as might indeed be concluded              a
priori. The great quantity of [negative] electricity in ni
trogen  is kept in   state of saturation
                     a                           by
                                              the [positive] elec
tricity of  the base ; and nitrogen can therefore only be da-
composed by    a   substance much more strongly [positive]
than ammonium.
 I  must here observe, that there        very material difference
                                            is
                                             a
between the capacity of satura'ion of        substance, and its
                                                 a
power   of neutralizing more or  less  the  electrical condition
of another body, with which           combines.
                                        it           This power
agrees with the force of affinity, the degree of which may
possibly be determined       it, while the capacity of satura
                            by
tion appears, according to the important views and experi
ments of Dalton and Gay-Lussac, to depend on mechanical
causes, connected with the volume only.           Potassium, for
example, saturates but little oxygen,          comparison with
                                                  in
hydrogen and nitrogen but  ;         overcomes the [negative]
                                       it
nature of the oxygen so completely, that the potass which
   Vol. 42. No. 186. Oct. 1813.                        S         it

274                      On definite Proportions.
it forms with it is  a [positive] substance.        In water neither
of  the electrical powers seems to prevail, since it holds an
intermediate place between acids and alkalis.           In the nitric
acid, on the other hand, the oxygen, or at least a great part
of    it,
       retains all its [negative] powers, and consumes com
bustible bodies with the salne appearances as oxygen:
hence the nitrogen has so slight an affinity for this portion
of oxygen, that all other combustible bodies take away.         it
   When ammonia           resolved
                          is             electrical shocks into hy
                                          by
drogen   and  nitrogen,  the  substances,     which, according to
these views, are its true component parts, are separated in
such    proportion, that exactly
        a                               parts of ammomum form
                                          2
nitrogen with |£. or *96 of the whole oxygen, and                 part  1
of ammonium with             or -04 of the oxygen, makes hy
drogen.    The -96 of oxygen must take with                     corre
                                                               it   a
sponding quantity     of  [positive]   electrical   power,   which             it
had saturated in ammonia, so that only                   left for the
                                                          is
ammonium in hydrogen. Hence the ammonium in hy
drogen retains only          or     as much [positive] electricity
                                                    "
                                    -J-
as originally belonged to it.          When        hydrogen gas                is
formed from ammonium,"               itreceives      new addition of
                                                      a
[positive] electricity,    which   however         not  sufficient to
                                                   a is
give   it clear and distinct character as
            a                                     base.        It
                                                              appears
therefore that hydrogen and nitrogen cannot be produced
in this experiment, without neutralizing corresponding
portions of electricity, the former [negative], the latter [po
sitive]. And since we must no longer disregard the opera
tion of electricity in every chemical phenomenon,          clearit      is
that the same cause, which produces chemical separations
or combinations in the column, must also co-operate in
similar appearances in other cases, and that nitrogen and
hydrogen can never be formed without neutralising, or
fixing their appropriate electricities. Jfnow water          de
                                                                        a is
composed        by
                combustible bodies, these bodies afford     part
of their [positive] electricity to the hydrogen which                          is
formed, and with another part they more completely satu
rate the [negative] qualities of the oxygen which had pre
viously been contained in the water and since here [posi
                                               ;
tive] electricity only      employed, hydrogen only can be
                               is
generated. And, in these operations, the electricities, being
subject to the same laws with ponderable substances, re
specting the proportions in which they combine, are never
                                    chemical       effects have escaped
the observation        of natural philosophers of former times.
  What      I   already adduced sufficiently shows, that no
                have
substance can form nitrogen from water.     The nitric acid,
                                                        and

                      On definite Proportions.                 975
and the oxides of nitrogen, which contain oxygen so little
saturated, cannot be reduced to hydrogen in common cases,
because they give out so much oxygen, in the further sa
turation of which the [positive] electricity of the inflam
mable substances must in great measure be employed.
Hence the nitric acid can only be restored to the state of
nitrogen; but it may perhaps hereafter be found possible to
reduce this substance both to hydrogen and to ammonium,
by means of substances more powerfully [positive] than
ammonium.         In Davy's later experiments, the electrical
discharge seems to have produced the latter of these effects
by the assistance of quicksilver, and the operation of potas
sium on ammoniacal gas the former.
    Since hydrogen always requires the same quantity of
 [positive] electricity for forming it out of the component
 parts of ammonia, whether it appears as hydrogen gas, or
 forms water with oxygen ; and since this [positive] elec
 tricity cannot be obtained without the evolution of a cor
 responding quantity of [negative] electricity, it follows
 that ammonia must always afford hydrogen and nitrogen in
 the same proportions, whether it be decomposed by com
 mon electricity, or by means of oxidation. On the other
 hand, in decompositions by means of potassium or in the
 circuit of the column, when ammonia is reduced in con
 tact with quicksilver, the appearances of the decomposition
 are of a very different nature ; and the products, in com
 parison with the quantity of ammoniacal gas employed, are
 dissimilar in quantity and kind.       Now since hydrogen and
 nitrogen   require  for   their existence   a different  electrical
 modification from that which orisinally belonged to their
 radical, they must be considered in our analyses and ex
  periments as simple bodies, until we shall have learned to
  express their electricities with safety by means of appro
  priate numbers.
     Is it not however probable, according to these views,
  that sulphur may be a [negatively]        electrical oxide of an
  unknown    metallic   base, precisely  as  nitrogen is an oxide
  of ammonium ? I cannot undertake to answer this ques
  tion in the negative.    We have seen that sulphur, to judge
  from sulphureted hydrogen, njay contain about half its
  weight of oxygen, and this proportion of oxygen agrees with
  the other degrees of oxygenation of sulphur, which may
  all be multiples of it. This must also be possible with re
  spect to carbon, phosphorus, and arsenic.           But that pure
  carbon, for instance, in plumbago, and metallic arsenic,
  which have all the characters of the simple or supposed
                                 S2                          simple

 276            Researches into the Anatomy          of Plants.
  simple metals, should also be oxides, can scarcely be con
 jectured with the same degree of probability, and is indeed
  contrary to our present views of their nature.
   -
     I have ventured into a wide field of hypothetical               specu
  lation, in which it is very difficult to find the truth, and I
 must beg the reader to examine my suggestions with in
  dulgence.       I have thought it necessarv to do this, because
  I have been sorry to see that so distinguished a chemist
  as Mr. Davy, who has communicated to the learned world,
 with exemplary modesty, the greatest and most important
  discoveries that have ever enriched the science, has still
 found opponents who seem often to be more desirous of
 proving that he is in the wrong, than of investigating the
 real truth of the points to be discussed.
                              [To  be continued.]
    XLVI.     Researches into       the Anatomy of Plants.             By
          H. F. Link,      of Breslau,   formerly of Rostock*.
 The       anatomy of plants is a new science, known only since
 the microscope came to be used in the investigations of
 natural history. It is by the use of this instrument alone
 that we can observe the' interior organs of plants; for the
 immense trees which grow in our forests only extract their
 nourishment by the organs which are exposed to view.
 It might have been imagined that the pines and firs, those
 giants of the vegetable kingdom in the countries of the
 north, would have exhibited larger vessels ; but, on the con
 trary, the interior parts of these trees are still smaller than in
 the smallest grasses.        The vessels of the palm-tree do not
 exceed in size those which we see in the amaranth.                    The
 insects which feed upon the leaves of the oak have tracheae
 larger than the stalk which bears them, and which feeds a
 great number of them.            Hence there are as many different
 opinions as there are authors who have written upon this
 subject,
     Malpighi and Grew were the first naturalists who made
 use of microscopes to examine the interior of vegetables,
 and to these accurate observers the anatomy of plants owes
its origin.       A century almost elapsed without more than
one important fact being added to the. discoveries of these
great men.          In 1733, Father Sarrabat found that water
coloured by the berries of the phytolacca decandra merely
penetrated into the wood of plants, and left the bark and
          * Annalcs du Museum d'Histoire Nalureilt, tome HI. p. 307.
a.qrr   i
                                                                       pith

           Researches into the Anatomy                of Plants.        277
pith of plants untouched. The celebrated Bonnet repeated
these experiments with success ; and finally Reichel, pro
fessor at Leipsic, observed in 1758*, that the tracheae
alone assumed the colour, and that it neither touched the
fibres nor the cellular texture.     The above were the most
important discussions on the anatomy of plants in the
eighteenth century.
    Towards the end of that century, Hedwig, celebrated by
his work upon Mosses, announced a discovery which has
not been confirmed by any subsequent observer.         He main
tained that the tracheae are composed of two vessels, one
straight, filled with air, the other twisted around the former,
filled with sap, and destined to draw up the nutritive sap
from plants.
    Two naturalists, the one French, the other German, have
renewed and systematized the anatomy of plants, towards
the commencement         of the nineteenth century. Messrs.
Mirbel and Sprengel published the first works, for many
years, which contained a great number of real discoveries,
and which elucidated several points of vegetable organiza
tion. But there were still so many difficulties to resolve,
that the Royal Society of Gottingen proposed a prize for
 1805, on the subject of the vessels of plants.       This prize
was divided between M. Rudolphi and myself, and the ac-
cepit granted to M. Treviranus.        From this time the Eluci
dation of the Theory of vegetable Organization, by M. Mir
bel, and the Essays on the Organization of Plants, by M.
Albert du Petit Thouars, have increased our stock of
knowledge upon this subject.        All these authors, far from
being agreed, differ almost always as to the most essential
facts of vegetable organization.         In this embarrassment
there is scarcely an observation which may not be useful in
some respect, and it is this which led me to present these
additional inquiries to the judgement of enlightened na
turalists.
    I shall first speak of the cellular texture, because it exists
in almost all plants, and because it constitutes the greater
part of them.
                       I.    Cellular Texture.
   The cellular texture consists of small membranous ve
sicles, the figure of which varies much.   Nothing fibrous
is visible in   it,
                  and  it with good reason that M. Mirbel
                             is
and M. Sprengel have rejected the common opinion, which
makes all be developed from the fibres, and which finds
                Vide Diss,              Plant. spiraliirus. Lip«. 4.
            •
                             de Fasis
                                   S    3                              them

278         Researches into the Anatomy       of Plants.
them everywhere.       An unprejudiced person will agree with
both these naturalists, that the membrane is the primordial
substance of vegetables, and I may add of all organized bodies.
   Those vesicles which compose the cellular texture are
frequently separated from each other, sometimes combined
completely and frequently combined in part.           I have found
them entirely separated from each other in several parts,
particularly in the fruits ; and the|berries of the liguttrum, and
of the lantana aculeata, furnish proofs of this. In the midst
of the peduncles, of the receptacula, and some other hollow
parts, we frequently see isolated cellules.        In order to ex
amine the cellular texture under this respect, we must bake
it, because then the cellules are detached from each other.
Vid. PI. I. f. 1. [Plate IV. of the present volume] the roun£
cellules of a French bean taken from the interior of the
shell : fig. 1, the oblong cellules taken from the exterior.
I  have seen precisely the same thing in boiled potatoes, the
roots of parsley, &c.
   We cannot separate the cellules, by this or any other
means, in the epidermis of plants.           There they are com
pletely  combined   : the  cellules  which   are immediately un
der the epidermis are equally incapable of separation.           We
observe no interval between the cellules of this genus, and
there exists therefore a continuous cellular texture without
any interruption.
   Lastly, there are cellules which are not entirely com
bined. The sides, adhering to each other at the middle,
separate towards the edges, and leave a small interval like a
vessel.    This structure is generally observed in all the fatty
plants, in the pith, and in general in all the woody parts.
Hedwig has remarked these small intervals, and calls them
rasa revekenlia.      M. Sprengel maintains that he is mis
taken, that he merely saw the inferior edge of the partition
through the transparent membranes beside the upper edge,
and that this must have presented the appearance of an in
terval or a vessel.    He is probably correct : nothing could
more easily deceive an observer.           But on looking at the
cellular texture obliquely, we can distinguish perfectly well
the upper edge of the partition from the lower edge, and
we see at the same time the small interval generally filled
with an obscure substance not very fluid.             PI. I. fig. 3.
 [PI. IV.   of the present volume] represents        cellules  taken
from the stalk of the cacaliaficoides. M. Treviranus calls
these intervals meatus intercellulares.     They are found solely
between the edges of the partitions ; the remainder of the
latter present only a simple membrane,
                                                              I find

               Researches into the Anatomy    of Plants.       279
     I  find other intervals also between the cellules, which
  may be called intercellulary canals (ductus intercellular es).
  They descend in a perpendicular direction ; they are not
  visibly in communication with the intervals which I have
  described, and they contain a peculiar juice, which is less
  fluid than the sap, and which issues sometimes in the form
  of small round corpuscles, and sometimes in the form of
 crystals.     These canals are much larger than the meatus
  inter cellulares.  Vide in PI. I. fig. 4. letter a, these inter
 vals in a longitudinal section of the same stalk.            They
 exist in many plants, particularly if the cellular texture is a
 little serrated ; and we may class them among the reservoirs
 of the sap, which I shall presently mention.
     In the ferns and the mosses, the intervals are so great,
 and so well united together, that they perfectly resemble
 vessels.     They form a network, of which the meshes are
.cellules. It is highly probable that Hedwig, who laboured
 hard at the theory of the mosses, was so deceived by this
 net-work, as to form a separate kind of vessels which he
 called vasa revehentia.      I have represented a similar net
 work taken from the scales (strigce) of the scolopmdrium
 vulgare, PI. I. fig. 6. These scales are remarkable, because
 the intervals are of a colour different from that of the cel
 lules, and they furnish an indubitable proof of the existence
 of the intervals.
     M. Mirbel compares the cellular texture to the froth of
 common soap. This comparison is very correct, and I do
 not know a better.        But the author rejects entirely the
 double partitions, which does not agree with this compari
 son; for the froth of soap is composed of bubbles of air,
 separated originally from each other, so that each bubble is
 formed as it were of a distinct membrane, and it is only by
 meeting that these partitions are confounded. Frequently,
 the isolated bubbles rise to the surface of the froth, as is
 the case with cellules isolated in the cavities of the peduncle,
 the receptacle of the flowers, and of the fruit.        I am even
 of opinion that the cellules have had the same origin with
 the bubbles alluded to; that a gas has been developed in a
 viscous fluid, and has reduced it into small vesicles, which
 have approached each other. As the vesicles of the cellular
 texture have a more regular arrangement than the soap
 b ubbles,a peculiar attraction, necessary to the increase of
 the vegetable, must have forced them into this arrangement.
     According to M. SrJreagel, the cellular texture derives its
 origin from small grains which we find in the cellules of
                               S4                              the

280         Researches into the Anatomy       of Plants.
the seed, and of several other parts.             I have proved that
these small bodies are generally grains of starch, and some
times Of mucilage ; that we may dissolve them in hot water,
and sometimes in cold water ; while, on the contrary, the
membrane resists all these solvents.            It is clear therefore
that these small grains are not small cellules.              But it is
very possible that they may be dissolved in the sap, and
then form this viscous fluid, which gives birth to new
            '
cellules.
    The cellule seems to be an organ completely closed, so
 that the sap, which undoubtedly passes by the cellular
 texture, only penetrates it by imperceptible pores.           There
 are cases in which    we distinctly   see  the  juice pass by pores
 of this kind. If we press, however gently, the calyx of the
 lettuce, there issues a small drop of a milky liquor by the
 epidermis,    where we never see any pores with the best
 microscopes.     M.Mirbel, however, found pores surrounded
 by a small ring in the partitions of the cellules.         As all the
 observations of this excellent naturalist are so precise, I
 hesitate on this subject in forming my own opinion.                  I
 certainly saw small points raised on the membrane ; I saw
 in the midst of these points a clear and transparent spot ;
 and frequently I thought I had met with a true pore : but
 still I had my difficulties. These small points were some
 times so heaped upon each other, that it occurred to me they
 must be small grains fixed on the membrane, and trans
 parent in the middle. This is my opiuion : it is for others
 to decide.                                                          . i
    There are several varieties of cellular texture, which may
  be distinguished   in the following manner :
     1. Alveolary Texture.       It consists of short cylindrical
  or prismatic cellules : it is very common, particularly in
  the pith, external bark, &c.       See PI. I. fig. 3,4, 5.
     2. Elongated Texture.         It differs from the foregoing:
  the cellules are longer and narrower.         We find them in the
  stamina, the pistils, and in some other elongated parts.
  See PI. I. fig. 7. the elongated cellules are here taken from
  the pistil of the antirrhinum majits.
     3. Globular Texture.       It is composed of spherical or
  almost spherical cellules : it fills the interior of the leaves,
  of the peduncles, of the receptacle, &c. See PI. I. fig. 8.
  a is a section transverse and perpendicular to the surfaces
  of a leaf of the lantuna aculeata.                                   i
     4. Vesicular Texture.      It is composed like the foregoing
  of spherical cellules j but these cellules are more detached
                                                                 from

             Researches into the Anatomy     of Plants.       281
from each other, and frequently dispersed.        This texture is
common in mushrooms ; and several kinds of agarici,
pezizce, and phallus, are entirely made up of vesicles.
     5. Irregular Texture.     The sides do not form the same
angle with the base: sometimes this angle is a straight an
gle, sometimes acute, sometimes obtuse.            We find this
texture in the sheaths of the leaves, in the bractese, the
calyces, &c. particularly where one part is attached to the
other.      See in PI. I. fig. 9, this texture taken from a
 Iractea of the scirpus maritimus.
     6. Hazel-tree Texture.       The cellules are not spherical,
 cylindrical,  or prismatic they have rather an oval or oblong
                             :
 form. This texture is common in the internal bark of the
 hazel-tree, and particularly between the fibrous vessels be
 side the trache».     PI. I. fig. 10. represents this texture in
 the inner bark of a root of the malva crispa.
     These six varieties of the cellular texture admit of several
 shades, and we frequently find intermediate forms which
 appear to be two varieties at once.         We might add a se
 venth variety, the compact texture, which is found in some
  mushrooms, lichens, &c. : but this texture is not cleaily
 developed, or rather it is so fine that its structure cannot be
 distinguished.
      The arrangement of the cellules is generally alternate,
  such as we see in PI. I. fig. 5, and these rows follow the
  length of the parts in which we find them.           Sometimes,
  these rows are laid transversely; I found this arrangement
  in the leaves, when we cut them in a direction perpendi
  cular to the surfaces ; which is very difficult, particularly
  if the leaves are thin. But in the latter this arrangement
  is more distinct than in the thick leaves, where it is ge
  nerally wanting. See PI. I. fig. 8. I. We find it already
  in the small leaf which is just coming out. These trans
   verse rows are seen in The middle of the wood, (PI. If.
   fig. 16. e.) [Plate V. of the present volume] as we shall
   presently see, and at the surface of the roots, particularly
   if they are in considerable size. I have represented this
   arrangement as we see it at the surface of the thick roots
   of the malva crispa, PI. I. fig. 11. We do not find it in the
   small roots, and I am certain that it is formed by the in
   crement of the root, which extends the bark, and draws
   aside the meshes of the net-work of the cellules.        Take a
   piece of common thread net, for instance,, and draw it at
   both ends ; you will see the meshes arrange themselves in
   horizontal rows in a way similar to that which we have seen.
       The cellule increases with the whole plant.            It is
                                                       astpnishing

S82         On a Method        of Freezing    at a Distance.
astonishing that a cellule surrounded with wood should
extend, notwithstanding the obstacle thus presented to it.
Every organized body is developed, and increases by 'a very
powerful force, and the plant in developing itself breaks a
very strong thread tied firmly round it.
   Every cellule is a separate organ, destined to preserve and
prepare the sap, to furnish it to other parts.               The super
fluity penetrates   into    the  meatus   intercellulares,   and resem
bles animal fat a little.          The green matter which colours
the plant is always in the cellules.            It resists the action of
water, but it is dissolved in alcohol : this solution is not
precipitated by water like that of the resins.               All the co
louring   matter   of the    leaves,  the  flowers,   and   the fruits, i»
contained in the cellules, as well as the acid,           sweet,    astrin
gent or saline juices, &c.            Finally, we therein find the
starch, which forms small grains, and the mucilage, which
sometimes forms small grains, sometimes small crystals,
and occasionally it is fluid.            Chemical analysis has dis
covered to me some very remarkable varieties between
the mucilages of plants, which I shall mention in another
place.
                             [To  be continued.]
 XLVII. On a Method of Freezing at a                    Distance.      By
       William Hvde Wollaston, M.D.                     Sec.  R.S.*
That      a fluid, from which a portion is evaporated, be
comes colder in consequence of the heat absorbed by
that part which assumes the gaseous state; that fluids
rise in the state of vapour at a lower temperature when the
pressure of the atmosphere is removed, and consequently
may be cooled to a lower degree by evaporation in vaeuo
than in the open air, are facts too well known to need
confirmation before the Members of this Society by any
new experiments.
   Nevertheless,     a new      mode of applying the most esta
blished principles may deserve to be recorded, if it assist
the illustration of them, and be instructive from the no
velty of the view in which it exhibits a certain class of
phaenomena ; although no immediate                  use be at present
proposed,    to which    it   can  be  applied   with  advantage.
    If an attempt were made to freeze water by evaporation,
without other moans than the vacuum of an air-pump, the
pump must be of the best construction ; and though the
         * From  the Philosophical Transactions for 1813, part   i.
                                                                 quantity

             On a Method  of Freezing at a Distance.       S83
quantity of water be small, the receiver must be of large di
mensions ; otherwise its capacity would set too confined a
limit to the quantity of vapour that will rise, and conse
quently to the degree of cold produced.
    Supposing the commonly received estimates to be cor
rect, as to the quantities of heat, that become latent in the
conversion of ice into water, and of water into steam, being
 140° and 9GO0 respectively, we should find the following
statement to be not far from the truth.
    If  32 grains of water were taken at the temperature of
 62°, and if one grain of this were converted into vapour ,
 by absorbing 960°, then the whole quantity would lose
       =a  30°, and thus be reduced to the temperature  of 32°.
    If  from the 31 grains, which still remain in the state of
 water, four grains more were converted into vapour by ab
 sorbing 960° ; then the remaining 27 grains must have lost
      of 960°= 142°, which is rather more than sufficient to
 convert the whole into ice.      In an experiment conducted
 upon a small scale, the proportional quantity evaporated did
 not much differ from this estimate.
     If  it be also true, that water in assuming the gaseous
 state, even at a low temperature, expands to 1800 times its
 former bulk; then, in attempting to freeze the small quan
 tity of water above mentioned, it would be requisite to have
 a dry vacuum with the capacity of 5x1800, or equal to
 that of 9000 grains of water.
     As a means of avoiding the necessity of so large a va
 cuum, Mr. Leslie had recourse to the ingenious expedient
 of employing an extensive surface of sulphuric acid, for
 the purpose of absorbing the vapour generated in the course
  of the experiment, and by that means contrived to freeze
  much larger quantities of water than could otherwise have
  been done, and by a far less laborious process.
     But even in this method the labour is not inconsiderable,
  and the apparatus, though admirably adapted to the purpose
  for which it is designed, is large and costly.  I  have there
  fore thought the little instrument 1 am about to describe
  may possess some interest, as affording a readier and more'
  simple mode of exhibiting so amusing and instructive an
  experiment.
     Let a glass tube be taken, having its internal diameter
  about -f of an inch, with a ball at each extremity of about
  one inch diameter;      Plate IV. and let the tube be bent
  to a right angle at the distance of half an inch from each
                                                            ball.

                        Climate and Diversions in
 ball. One of these balls should contain a little* water,
 and the remaining cavity should be as perfect a vacuum as
 can readily be obtained.         The mode of effecting this is well
 known to those who are accustomed to blow glass.                         One
 of the ball's is made to terminate in a capillary tube ; and
 when water admitted into the other has been boiled over a
 lamp for a considerable time, till all the air is expelled, the
 capillary extremity, through which the steam is still issuing
 with violence, is held in the flame of the lamp till the force
 of the vapour is so far reduced, that the heat of the flame
 has power to seal it hermetically.
    When an instrument of this description has been suc
 cessfully exhausted, if the ball that is empty be immersed
 in a freezing mixture of salt and snow, the water in the
 other ball, though at the distance of two or three feet, will
 be frozen solid in the course of a very few minutes.                    The
 vapour contained in the empty ball is condensed by the
 common operation of cold, and the vacuum produced by
 this condensation gives opportunity for a fresh quantity to
 arise from the opposite ball, with proportional reduction of
 its temperature.
    According to a theory that does not admit of positive
 cold, we should represent the heat of the warmer ball to be
 the agent in this experiment, generating steam as long as
 there remains any excess of heat to be conveyed.                     But if
 we would express the cause of its abstraction, we must say
 that the cold mixture is the agent, and may observe, in this
 instance, that its power of freezing is transferred to a di
 stance,    by what     may be called       the negative       operation    of
 steam.
    The instrument, by which this is effected, may aptly be
 called a Cryophorus, which correctly expresses its office of
 frost-bearer.
XLVIII.        Climate and Diversions in the Northern Parts of
    British India. Extracted from a Letter from an Officer
    in the Army f.
    We       [one of His Majesty's regiments of infantry] ar
rived at Meerut in the middle of November.                    You can have
no conception       how    cold the  weather      is at this place.     This
is the cold season; and I can assure you it is piercingly so.
   • If the ball be more than half full, it will be liable to burst by the ex
pansion of water in freezing.
   f  Communicated    by Dr. W. Thomson, Kensington.
                                                                      A   few

                  the Northern      Parts of British India.               285
A    few days ago the ice was half an inch thick : it is now
more.         The natives coming from Bengal cannot keep
themselves warm.             Cold unhinges them completely. We
have     a  good deal of hunting and shooting, which warms
us. We now and then enjoy tiger shooting. Three im
mense animals have already been destroyed in the bourse of
as many weeks.            I inclose four hairs of a tiger's whiskers.
     "I  never till lately had an opportunity of ascertaining the
truth of the porcupines shooting their prickles or quills.
Being one moon-light night with a party in search of por
cupines with dogs, we had not been long out ere we de
scried a hole inhabited by these quadrupeds.                      A dog was
immediately put to it.             The animal had not gone in many
paces, when he howled and retreated with severai quills ia
his body. One in particular was driven an inch into his
right leg. The porcupine on the approach of the dog
drew itself into the shape of a ball like a hedge-hog, and
darting forward with all its strength threw its quills into the
dog*.
     " It has   certainly been generally found much more difficult
 to guard against the sensation of great cold, than of great
 heat.     It is singular, but nevertheless true, that in the hot
 season here, though the winds be scorchingly hot, the
 bungalows may be made even too cool, by tallies, to sit in.
 These tallies are made of kus, which is a light brown root,
 dug out of the earth, about a foot and a half long and a
 foot broad. This is split, and put into a frame made of
 bamboos, so as to fit the doors, and constantly watered.
 The wind driving furiously against these tallies, produces a
 most refreshing cool breeze. Jooaga is another root af
 which tallies are made.              It is of a lively-coloured green.
 When made into tallies, and watered, it diffuses a pleasing
 scent through the bungalow, besides being a relief to the
 eye ; which all must own to be gratifying, when they are
    * There are several species of the porcupine. This was no doubt tha
 Hvsbrix Indica ; the body of which is about two feet long, and in height
 abouf two feet and a half. It is covered with spinas or prickles, some of
 them nine or ten inches long, and about a quarter of an inch thick ; which
 the animal can erect or let down at pleasure.       When irritated he beats the
 ground with his hinder feet, shakes his tail, and rattles his quills.  All au
 thors before Count Buffon assert that the porcupine, when irritated, darts
 his quills to a considerable distance against the enemy, and that ha will thus
 kill very large animals. This the Count thinks a mistake, as he had re
 peatedly irritated him without producing any other effect than that of some
  loose quills being shaken off.     But this letter seems decisive against the
  Count, and in favour of the old naturalists.       Buffon's experiments were
  made on the Italian porcupine, with smaller but shorter bristles than the
  Indian porcupine.

886                 On  some   Properties   of Light.
told that in India houses, nothing but white plastered wall*
is to be seen. But a tally made of jooaga requires to be
changed every three days : whereas kns will remain good
the whole hot season $ which generally lasts four months."
XLIX.        On   some Properties     of Light.     By David Brew
    ster, LL.D. F.R.S. Edin. In a Letter to Sir H. Davt,
     LL.D. F.R.S.*
Dear SiRi-^-Having              been for some time engaged in a
 series  of experiments on the phsenomena of light arising
 from its transmission through diaphanous bodies, I have
 taken the liberty of communicating to you, for the infor
mation of the Royal Society, a short and general account
 of the results of my inquiries. In the narrow compass of
 a letter, it would be impracticable to include the various
 details of these experiments ; the particular methods of ob
 servation that were employed; or the numerical results
which I have obtained for the refractive and dispersive
 powers of nearly two hundred substances.                As these wttt
 form part of a separate work, in which I am now engaged,
 I  shall confine myself at present to some of those results
which appear to be most interesting, either from their no
 velty or importance.
             I,  On a new Property       of refracted Light,
     As you are already well acquainted with the optical pro
 perties of doubly refracting media, and the analogous pro
 perty of reflected light discovered by Malus, it will be un
necessary to take any notice of these phaenomena.                   After
 repeating    the  experiments of Malus, and measuring several
 of the angles of incidence at which this property was com
municated to light by reflection from different substances,
 I made a variety of experiments, with the view of discover
ing if a similar character could be impressed upon light by
its transmission through bodies, either wholly or imper
 fectly transparent.       All these experiments afforded no new
 result, and every hope of discovering such a property was
 extinguished, when my attention was directed to a singular
 appearance of colour in a thin plate of agate.               This plate,
 bounded by parallel faces, is about the fifteenth of an inch
 thick, and is cut in a plane perpendicular to the laminae of
which it is composed.          The agate is very transparent, and
           * From the
                       Philosophical Transactions for 1813, part i.
                                                                    gives

                On   some   Properties     of Light.           487
gives a distinct image of any luminous object ; but on each
side of this image is one highly coloured, forming with it
an angle of several degrees, and so deeply affected with co
lour that no prism of agate, with the largest refracting
angle, could produce an equivalent dispersion.       Upon ex
amining    this coloured image  with a prism  of Iceland spar,
I  was astonished to find that it had acqinred the same pro
perty as if it had been transmitted through a doubly re
fracting crystal ; and upon turning the Iceland spar about
its axis, the images alternately vanished at every quarter of
a revolution.     My attention was now directed to the com
mon colourless image formed bv pencils transmitted per
pendicularly through the agate; and by viewing it through
a prism of Iceland spar, it exhibited all the characters of
one of the pencils produced by double refraction, the images
alternately vanishing in every quadrant of their circular
motion.
   When the image of a taper reflected from water at an
angle of 52° 45', so as to acquire the property discovered
by Malus, is viewed through the plate of agate, so as to
have its laminae parallel to the plane of reflection, it ap
pears perfectly distinct;     but when the agate is turned
round,   so that its lamina: are perpendicular to the plane of
reflection, the light which forms the image of the taper
suffers total reflection, and not one ray of it penetrates the
agate.
    Ifa ray of light incident upon one plate of agate is re
ceived after transmission    upon another plate of the same
substance, having its laminae parallel to those of the former,
the light will find an easy passage through the second plate;
but if the second plate has its laminae perpendicular to those
of the first, the light will be wholly reflected, and the lu
minous object will cease to be visible.
   Owing probably to a cause which will afterwards be no
ticed, there is a faint nebulous light unconnected with the
image, though always accompanying               it,
                                               and lying  ina di
rection parallel to the laminae. This light never vanishes
along with the images, though         it   evidently affected by
                                           is
the different changes which they undergo            and in one of
                                                      ;
the specimens of agate      it   distinctly incurvated, having
                                 is
the same radius of curvature with the adjacent laminae.
This character of the nebulous light          consider as an im
                                                I
portant fact, which may be the means of conducting us to
a  satisfactory theory, and  I   am at present engaged in exa
mining    it with particular care.
    This remarkable property of the agate         have found also
                                                      I
                                                                 in

288              On     some    Properties of Light.
  in the kindred substances of cornelian and chalcedony, and
 it is exhibited in its full effect even when these bodies are
 formed into prisms, and when the incident rays fall with
 any angle of obliquity.         In one specimen of agate, which
 has no veins to indicate the direction in which it was cut,
 the images did not vanish as before ; and in another speci
 men of the same character the images suffered only an al
 ternate diminution of brightness, in the same manner as a
 pencil of light receives only a partial modification when re
 flected from water at a greater or a less angle than 52° 45'.
    The different experiments which have now been men
 tioned were repeated; with the most satisfactory results, by
 Mr. Playfair, Dr. Hope, and Mr. John Davy.
    Although the preceding results are by no means ripe for
 generalization, I cannot omit the present opportunity of
 hazarding a few conjectures respecting the cause of this
 singular property of the agate.
    May not the structure of this mineral be in a state of
 approach to that particular kind of crystallization which
 affords double images ? and may not the nebulous light be
 an imperfect image arising from that imperfection of struc
 ture?    When one of the images vanishes, the nebulou*
 light  which   encircled it       then
                                 is.       maximum, and
                                           a                it   gra
 dually diminishes during the re-appearance of the image.
When the image which had disappeared recovers its full
lustre, the surrounding nebulosity            very small; and this
                                               is
 remaining light    is, in  all probability,  no portion of the un
formed image, but merely           afew scattered rays arising from
the imperfect transparency of the mineral.
    By forming the agate into          aprism, the nebulous light
should be separated from the image which                incloses, in
                                                       it
proportion to the angle contained            by
                                             the refracting planes  ;
but owing, perhaps, to the smallness of its double refrac
tion, if   it has such      aproperty,     Ihave not observed any
separation of this kind.
    The incurvated form of the nebulous light corresponding
with the curvature of the laminae, seems to connect         it   with
the laminated structure of the agate, and to indicate that
the phenomena of double refraction are produced               by   an
alternation of lamina of two separate refractive and               di
spersive powers.       In Iceland spar, one set of the laminae
may be formed      by   a  combination of oxygen and calcium,
while the other set       isformed      by combination of oxygen
                                           a
and carbon.      In chromate of lead, the chromium and oxy
gen may give one image, while the oxvgen and lead give
another, la like manner the carbonate of lead, the car
                                                            bonate

                   On  some   Properties of Light.                289
bonate of s'rontites, jargon, and other crystals may give
double images, in virtue of similar binary combinations.
Of the simple inflammable bodies, sulphur is the only one
which has the property of double refraction ; but it will pro
bably be found that it holds a metal or some other ingre
dient in its composition, which chemists have not been
able to discover.
    If the explanation which has now been given of the po
larising power of the agate should be confirmed by future
experiments, this property will be considered as a case,
though a very curious one, of double refraction; but if
these conjectures      should be overturned, the phsenomena
which we have described must be ranked among the most
singular appearances in the wide range of optical science.
       2. On the doulle Refraction     of Chromate of Lead.
    In the course of my experiments on refractive powers,            I
discovered a double refraction in this metallic salt of such.
enormous magnitude, that the deviation of the extraordinary
ray is more than thrice as great as that produced by Iceland
 spar.    The ratio of the sines, for both refractions, and the
other properties of this extraordinary     mineral, will  be  noticed
 in the next article.
3.    On Substances with a higher refractive Power than            the
                                         '
                              Diamond.
    Since the time of Sir Isaac Newton, who first measured
the action of the diamond upon light, its refractive power
 has been regarded as superior to that of every other sub
stance ; but, in the course of my researches, I have found
that realgar and chromate of lead exceed the diamond in.
refractive     power, and that this high refraction, in both
 these substances, is accompanied with dispersive powers
 greater than those of any other body. The following are
 the measures which I have obtained for these, and a few
 .other substances.
                        Refractive Powers.
                      Index of Refr.                     Iudex of Refr.
 Chromate of lead                    Phosphorus                 2-234
     (gr. refr.)            2*996    Sulphur, native  ...   .   2-115
 Ditto, least refraction    2'479    Cryolite                   1*344
 Realgar                    2-510    Ice                        1-307
 Diamond (according
    to Newton)              2-439
 Vol.42. No.     186. Oct. 1813.                T                  Di

8 9d                 On  some     Properties    of Light.
              Dispersive Powers or Values              of    > -.
Chromate of lead                          Phosphorus                   0I2S
    (gr. refr.)                 0-400     Flint glass (highest)        0-052
Ditto, least refraction         0-262     Diamond                      0-038
Realgar                         0-255     Water                        0 035
Oil of cassia                   0-139      Fluorspar                   0-022
Sulphur                         0-130      Cryolite                    0022
     It appears from the first of these tables, that phosphorus
is next to diamond in refractive power, and that the three
simple inflammable substances have their refractive powers
 in the order of their inflammability.                 Dr< Wollaston has
placed phosphorus below horn and flint glass*; but I am
confident that this distinguished philosopher, to whom the
physical sciences are so deeply indebted, will find, upon
making the experiment with prisms or lenses, that I have
assigned the right place to that remarkable substance. The
 difference between the extreme dispersive powers in the se
 cond table is very remarkable, and the result for oil of cassia
indicates in that body the existence of some ingredient
which chemical analysis has not been able to detect.
4. On the Existence of two dispersive Powers in all doubly
                           refracting Crystals.            .
    It has been long known, and it is indeed^ obvious, from a
 simple inspection of the images formed by a prism of Ice
 land crystal, that the one image is more coloured than the
 other, or that the actual dispersion of the one refraction is
 greater than the dispersion of the other, in the same manner
 as the dispersion of a prism of flint glass with a refracting
 angle of 12 degrees, is greater than the dispersion                      of a
 prism of the same glass with an angle of only 10 degrees.
     Dr. Wollaston, who was the first person that examined
 the subject of dispersive powers with philosophical accu
 racy, makes the dispersive power of Iceland spar consider
 ably above water, and even above diamond.                     Upon repeat
 ing this experiment, with the least refracted image,                I  found
 the dispersive power, or the value            of          to be 0-036, very
 considerably below water, which stands at 0-035 of the
  scale; and I therefore concluded that Dr. Wollaston had
 examined the greatest refraction, while I' had examined the
 least, and that the vast discrepancy between our measures
    * Dr. Wollaston is satisfied that his original estimate was erroneous, and
 that Dr. Brewster's determination is very near the truth. H. D.
                                                                         arose

                      On some Properties      of Light.                1
arose     From the existence of a double dispersive power.
This conclusion was confirmed by determining the disper
 sive power of the greatest refraction, which coincided ex
actly with the order assigned to it by Dr. Wollaston.
    The dispersive powers, which I have obtained for ather
doubly refracting crystals, such as carbonate of strontites,
carbonate of lead, and chromate of lead, have confirmed
this result, and establish the general law, that each refrac
tion of crystals which give double images is accompanied
with a separate dispersive power.               The double dispersive
powers of these bodies are given in the following table.
       Chromate of lead (gr. refr.) estimated at               0-400
                Ditto             Ditto    must exceed         0296
                Ditto          (least refr.)                   0 262
       Carbonate of lead (gr. refr.)                        -f 0 091
                Ditto          (least refr.)           .. .    0 066
       Carbonate of strontites (gr. refr.)                     0-016
                 Ditto                 (least refr.) ....      0-027
       Calcareous      spar (gr. refr.)                        0 040
                Ditto        (least refr.)                     0-026
    In  a  table of refractive powers, published by the late Mr.
Cavallo, he has given, from other authors, the dispersions,
or the dissipations as he calls them, of a few substances,
and he has annexed a different dispersion to the two refrac
tions of Iceland crystal ; but it is obvious, from a simple
inspection of the table, that these are measures of the di
spersion or quantity       if colour, and not of the dispersive power
of the substances. The measures in the table alluded to,
with the exception of one or two, are so completely in
compatible with those taken by Dr. Wollaston and myself,
that I can scarcely believe that the experiments were ever
made.
    The singular property of a double dispersive power, whi|e
it seems to exclude some of the theories by which the double
refraction has been explained, adds another to those nu
merous difficulties with which philosophy has yet to strug
gle, before she can reduce to a satisfactory generalization
those anomalous and capricious phsenomena which light
exhibits in its passage through transparent bodies.
              I have the honour to be, dear sir,
                       Your most obedient humble servant,
   Edinburgh, 23, Duke-street,                   DAVID BkEWSTER.
       December   19.  1812.
To Sir     H. Davy, LL.D. F.R.S.
                                   T   3                          L. On

                                 [   292       ]
 L.     On changeable     Colours     and Glories.         By Thomas
                Young, M.D. F.R.S. L.S. &c*
                         Changeable Colours.
   In   examining some of the dust of the l.ycoperdon, I had
put  it with a drop of water on a glass, when I observed a
purple tinge in the water, which I thought at first was a                    .
stain extracted from the powder; but the water viewed se
parately was perfectly transparent, and the light transmitted
directly through the water, when the globules were present,
was of a yellowish green. After some consideration, I conjec
tured that this appearance of colour must be analogous to that
of the mixed plates which I had formerly observed, depending
on the difference   of refractive densitv of the water and the
globules (Young's Nat. Phil.); and by substituting fluids of
different densities for water, I had the pleasure of finding
 my conjecture confirmed ; for, when the water was saturated
 with salt, the yellow green became nearly blue, and the
purple redder or browner ; and when olive oil was employed,
the light directly transmitted was purple, and the oblique
light greenish : in balsam of Tolu, again, this purple became
red, and the indirect light afforded a faint blue. In air, too,
I found that the powder appeared of a bright blue green by
direct light, and of a purplish hue with a light a little
oblique ; but when the obliquity became a little greater, the
tint changed to a brownish yellow green, which continued
afterwards unchanged : this alteration may perhaps be de
 rived from the admixture of a portion of light coming
round the particles by a more circuitous route.     By com
paring the opposite effects of water and olive oil, of the re
fractive densities 1*336 and 1*370, the refractive density of
the particles themselves may be calculated to be 1-62, or
somewhat     less.
  fi Grey beaver wool      seems     of
                                    purplish hue in direct, and
                                           a
greenish in oblique light, both in air and in olive oil ; Us
grey colour seems to be derived from a mixture of these
tints ; in olive oil, the rings of colours which.it affords are
considerably altered in their appearance, the reds becoming
every where very faint.      Lead precipitated from its acetate,
or silver from its nitrate, by common water,.affords a reddish
direct and a blueish indirect light, and the same seems to be
true of smoke, and of other bodies consisting of very minute
particles : but when the indirect light is very powerful,
smoke sometimes appears reddish in             as might be ex-
                                                   it,
      * From " An Introduction   to Medical Literature,"   8vo. 1813.
                                                                    pected

                   On chavgealle    Colours and Glories.           293
      pected from a collection of very small opaque instead of
      transparent particles.
         " Mr. Delaval has observed that an infusion of sap green
      appears of a bright red by transmitted light, and the case
     seems perfectly analogous to that of the dust of the lyco-
     perdon ; the green becoming somewhat yellower, when the
     gum, with which the colouring particles are mixed, is di
     luted wiih water.     But this is not the universal cause of a
     difference of colours exhibited by pigments in different
     lights ; the carthamus, or pink dve commonly sold for
     domestic use, affords an unequivocal instance of a sub
     stance exhibiting colours analogous to those of thin plates,
     which have been adduced by Newton in illustration of the
    .colours of natural bodies; the reflected light being undeni
    ably of a yellow green, while the transmitted light is of a
    bright piuk colour.      Here the light regularly reflected from
    the surface only, especially when dry, sjives the colour op-
s   posite to that of the transmitted light ; all the light passing
    through the fluid, even indirectly, giving a pink colour.
    But the infusion of the lignum nephriticum seems to hold
    a middle place between this substance and those which have
    been mentioned before; the dry extract is of a brownish
    yellow only; an infusion, not too strong, gives the same
    colour, verging to orange, by direct transmitted light, and a
   bright blue by-light reflected, or obliquely dispersed within
    the infusion, or at its surface.     The solution of the car
   thamus affords no green reflection from its surface, and
   varies in its hue, in different lights, only from crimson to
   scarlet.    The tinging particles of the lignum nephriticum,
   like those of the precipitated lead and silver, are probably
   extremely minute, since the colour is but little changed by
   changing the density of the fluid.       It often happens that a
   blue colour, precisely like that of this infusion, is reflected
   by green glass bottles, which, when seen bv transmitted
  light, exhibit only a reddish brown colour. The inner bark
   of the ash is also said to have a property similar to that of
   the lignum nephriticum. (Murr. App. Med.) The particles
  of the blood do not derive their colour from any of the
  causes which have been mentioned, since it may be ex
   tracted from them in a clear solution.
        " When I attempted to explain the colours of mixed
  plates, which I had produced by partially moistening two
  lenses very slightly convex, I observed that the reflection
  of the light from the internal surface of a denser medium
  must be supposed to invert its properties with respect to the
  production of colours by interference, as is naturally to be
                                  T  3                     supposed

294             On changealle    Colours and Glories.
supposed on the principles of the undulatorv theory. But
when the obliquity is so considerable, it is not very easy to
assign a reason for this inversion ; and the experiments,
which. I have now mentioned, make it necessary to assume
a law, which I cannot explain, that every very oblique re
flection inverts the properties of light with respect to inter
ference.    This conclusion confirms the assertion of Newton,
that a dark space, bordered by light, will appear in the
centre of a portion of light transmitted between the edges
of two knives placed very near each other, and the opinion
of Mr. Jordan, that the augmentation of a shadow by dif
fraction is to be considered as the first dark space belonging
to the coloured fringes.      I had obtained a different result in
an experiment similar to Newton's, because I was not aware
of the necessity of employingivery sharp edges; for, when
the edges are blunt, the light is reflected from the one to the
other in such a manner, as wholly to destroy the appearance
of a central dark space j but in any case this source of error
may be avoided, by causing one of the edges to advance a
very little before the plane of the other, so that half of the
fringes may disappear.       It is however necessary to suppose
this inversion confined to cases of extremely oblique re
flection ; for, when the deviation of the light from a recti
linear path becomes a little more considerable, its effects
are no longer perceptible; the second and third fringes
scarcely ever requiring any material corrections of the cal
culations from which it is excluded.          The same inversion
must also be attributed to the light bent by diffraction
round the remoter side of a fibre: for this light always co
 operates in the first instance with that which is reflected
 from the nearer side. The extent of the central white light
is indeed so great, that all the coloured appearances may
 almost be considered as beginning at such a distance, that
 the first daik space is exactly where the simple calculation
 would lead us to expect the white; since the value of the
 unit of the eriometer ought to be, according to this calcu
 lation, about TT-J-nT,- of an inch, instead of ,5.^-^; and in
 deed this value agrees very accurately         with experiment,
 where the two portions of light concerned are exactlv in
 similar circumstances; as may be observed in some of the
 parallel lines drawn on glass in Mr. Coventry's micrometers,
 probably where they happen to be single, for in general
 they are double, and exhibit colours corresponding to an
 interval much smaller than their regular distance : but in
 gome parts we may observe colours exactly corresponding
 to their distance, for instauce, to -j-fj- of an inch, according
                                                                to

              On changeable Colours and Glories.                        295
to the simple principle of considering each unit as equal
to about the 43000th of an inch.     Hence it seems that the
necessity  of a  correction depends on the different state of
the lights reflected from one side of a fibre, and diffracted
round its opposite side, and that, when they proceed in a
similar manner from two neighbouring parallel lines, the
necessity no longer exists.    What may be the cause of this
irregularity, will perhaps be understood when we under
stand the cause of the singular phsenomena of oblique re
flection discovered by Mr. Malus, and we have no reason
to expect to understand it before.
    '
,                             Glories.
    u   I
        have had an opportunity of ascertaining,          that the
clouds which exhibit the white and coloured circles, some
times denominated glories, are certainly not composed of
icy particles ; and I have succeeded in deducing an ex
planation of these phenomena from the same laws, which.
are capable of being applied to so many other cases of phy
sical optics.   In the theory of supernumerary rainbows,
(Young's Nat. Phil.) I have observed that the breadth of
each bow must be the greater as the drops which afford it
are smaller; and by considering the coloured figure, in
which their production is analysed, it will be obvious, that
if we suppose the coloured stripes extremely broad, they-
will coincide in such a manner in one part as to form a
white bow ; the red, which projects beyond the rest, being
always broadest; so that, if all the stripes be supposed to
expand, while they preserve their comparative magnitude,
the middle of the red mav coincide with the middle of the
blue; and it will appear on calculation that a white bow-
will be formed, a few degrees within the usual place of the
coloured bow, when the drops are about 3                or TTrVo of
                                                         0'0
                                                         „
an inch in diameter.     It   is remarkable that in such cases
the original rainbow    is  altogether wanting; and probably
for    similar reason, we scarcely ever see
        a                                            rainbow in
                                                     a                   a
cloud which does not consist of drops so large as to be ac
tually falling, although    I  have once seen such         rainbow
                                                               a
ending abruptly at the bottom of         acloud  :    may be con
                                                     it
jectured that the edge of the light      is in such cases so much
weakened    by diffraction, that   it   istoo faint to exhibit the
effects occasioned bv   a  larger   drop.     Dr. Smith has made
a remark somewhat similar, (Opt.             r501.) which,      notif
completely satisfactory upon      the principles which have    been
mentioned,   is  certainly altogether unintelligible upon his
own.
                              T    4                               "    The

296               Researches upon the Heat developed
    "The coloured circles, immediately surrounding the
shadows of the observers, may be deduced from the effect
of the same minute particles of water, upon the light which
has been four, and perhaps five, times reflected within the
drops, which may, after transmission, coincide in direction
with another portion, passing on the opposite side of the
centre ; and the drops about 3     or -raVs- of an ,ncri m
                                             0'0
                                             6
meter would in this manner produce       faint corona, of such
                                                        a
magnitude, that the limifc of green and red, employed in
the use of the eriometer, should be at the distance of about
five degrees from the centre of the shadow           which, as          ;
nearly  as  could
              I    estimate     was    it,
                                     its  real distance  in the
appearance  that   observed."
                     I
LI.   Researches upon the Heat developed in Combustion,
  and in the Condensation of Vapours. Read before theFrench
  Institute on the IMh      February and 30th
                                of                November               of
   1812.   By Count Rumford, F.R.S. Foreign Associate
  of the Imperial Institute    France, of  &c.            &c
                      [Continued from vol. xli. page 444        ]
      VII.    On the Quantity  Heat developed in the Com.
                                      of
Tbuslion
§
                                       of
                                Naphtha.
   he naphtha which        made use of in my experiments
                             I
was supplied       M. Vauquelin
                     by                 had been purified
                                              :    it                                 by
distillation, and its specific gravity at the temperature of
56°   F.   was 82*731.
  The following are the details and results of two experi
ments made with this liquid on the 29th of January 1812.
  The capacity of the calorimeter for heat was equal to that
of 2781 grammes of water.
                                                                    Result.
                                                    S    a
                                                    E    £-
                                                                    l
                                                                    6   J3
                                                                    00 3 '
                                                                      CO
                                                    f-   £
                                                         (3
                                              o     -3
                                                            I       2-°
                                                                    «*  Zl   .
                                                                    ^
                                                                        *    «
                                      Q             w
                                     M.S. Gram.     Deg.
        1stExperiment       .
                            . J       32 4-45           16      73-881           1.
        2d Experiment      .
                           .    .J    36 2-77            13     72-771
          Mean Result       .
                            .                                   73-376

     in Comlustion, and In the Condensation         of   Vapours.          9QJ
    The naphtha was burned in the same small lamp which
I .had   employed in my experiments made with alcohol and
sulphuric ether : but as I had not been able to succeed in
burning the naphtha without smoke, I cannot rely impli
citly upon the results of these experiments.             Perhaps with
pure oxygen gas     we   might succeed in burning it entirely.                 -
    I have met with the same difficulty in burning oil of
turpentine and colophon ; and for this reason I thought it
would be useless to detail my experiments with these two
substances.
  §   VIII.   On the Quantity    of Heat developed in        the Com,-
                         busiion  of Tallow .
    Having procured tallow candles of a good quality, those
which are called six in the pound, I burned one under the
calorimeter, taking care to keep it well snuffed, in order to
avoid smoke.
    The following are the details and results of two experi
ments made on the same day (i 6th of November 181 1),
with one of these candles.
    The capacity of the calorimeter for heat was equal to that
of 2371 grammes of water.
                                                            Result.
                                        n O                    '
                                                            -J- u 2 £=
                                                                       l
                                                             e
                                           -a
                                                            .«   js.sa   i
                                                    lis
                                        » s
                                         6  s       > JS     «   K   a .2
                                                O!  3
                                       M.   S. Grs. D.F.
    1st Experiment                     16      16   101 84-385          lb.
    2d  Experiment                     16 50|  17   10} 82- 991
          Mean Result   .                                 83- 687 lb.
    We have     seen  that with    \
        white wax the result was
    With purified oil of colsa .
                                   J                      94-682
                                   . .                    93-073
    And with oil of olives                                90439
  § IX. Quantity of Heat developed in the Comlustion of
                              Charcoal.
    If we  could burn under      the calorimeter       some pieces          of
                                                                       wood

   298           Researches upon the Heat developed
  wood made into charcoal, with the same facility that we burn
  thin pieces of dry wood, the investigation in question would
  not be attended with difficulty ; but the charcoal cannot be
  burned in this manner. We can light a piece of charcoal
  very well, and if it be very thin it continues to burn until
  it is entirely consumed ; but the combustion is so slow, and
  furnishes so little heat, that it would require several hours
  to heat the calorimeter sufficiently to give an appreciable
  result ; and for this single reason the result could not but
  be extremely uncertain.
     I have long endeavoured,     but without success, to find a
  method, by steeping thin chips of wood in some inflamma
  ble liquid, to burn the charcoal more rapidly.
     Some chips of wood of a known weight, perfectly dried
  and strongly heated, were plunged into white wax, melted
  and very hot, and the chips when taken out and cooled were
  again weighed.
     Their augmentation in weight gave me the quantity of
  wax which they had imbibed ; and as I knew accurately
  how much heat this quantity of wax should have given in
  its combustion, if the chips thus prepared had been burned
'
  properly under the calorimeter, I should certainly have dis
  covered how much heat the charcoal would have-furnished j
  but the experiment did not succeed.
     The wax was entirely burnt, and the chip of wood be
  came very red ; but it was not burnt, at least not entirely,
  nor in such a way as to give me the least hope of being
  able to derive any advantage from my experiment ; and I
  did not succeed anv better by steeping my chips of char
  coal in melted tallow, in oil, alcohol, sulphuric ether,
  naphtha, essential oil of turpentine, in a solution of gum
  arabtc, and in that of sugar.     I have also tried colophon,
  but without more success.
     I have made several experiments in order to determine
  directly the quantity of heat which is developed in the
  combustion of considerable masses of charcoal (80 grammes)
  burnt in a small stove, under a calorimeter of a large size,
  which I procured at Paris four years ago, and which I have
  still in my laboratory ; but the results of these experiments
  have been too variable to satisfy myself.
      After all the care which I took, I found that the ex
   periments of Crawford were better than mine: and as they
  furnished more heat than I could find, I have not. hesitated
   to adopt their results, instead of relying upon my own.
                                                    § X. Quart

     in Combustion, and in the Condensation     of Vapours. 299
 §   X. Quantities of Heat   developed     in the Comlustion of
                             Wood.
  Tn a memoir which I had the honour to present to the
Class on the 9th of September 1812, I gave an account of
a considerable number of experiments       (upwards of fifty)
which I made, in order   to determine the quantities of heat
which are developed in the combustion of different kinds of
wood.                              .
   From the results of these experiments, it appears that, at
equal weights, the lysht and soft woods give out a little
more heat than the compact and heavy woods : but as the
difference is very small, we may rather ascribe it to a greater
degree of humidity in the latter.
    h is certain that the compact retain humidity with more
tenacity than the light woods, and a small difference in the
dryness of a wood ought to produce a sensible effect on its
apparent weight, and consequently upon the result of the
calculations which we employ in order to determine the
heat which it furnishes.
    In physical and chemical researches, it is always satis
factory to be able to compare the results of new experi
ments with those of more ancient date, particularly when
the latter have been made by persons remarkable for their
accuracy.
   M. Lavoisier has shown that equal quantities of heat arc
produced in the combustion of 1089 parts in weight of oak,
and 600 parts of charcoal : consequently equal quantities
of heat ought to be furnished in the combustion of one
pound of oak and 0-55 of a pound of charcoal.
   According to the experiments of Mr. Crawford, one
pound of charcoal furnishes in       combustion enough of
                                    its,
heat to raise the temperature of 57*608 pounds of water to
180° of Fahrenheit.
   Consequently the temperature of 31*684 pounds of water
would be raised the same number of degrees        by
                                                 the heat fur
nished   in the combustion of 0-55 pound of charcoal.
   According to the result of the experiments of M. Lavoi
sier, this same quantity of heat ought to be furnished       in
                                                           the
combustion of one pound of oak.
   Having made four consecutive experiments with very
good dry oak wood, and in very thin slips, burnt so as to
give out neither smoke nor smell, and which left but an in
appreciable quantity of ashes and no charcoal,       obtained
                                                       I
the following results:
                                                           Number

 300                        Researches upon the Heat developed                                                *
                                                                                   Result.
           Number            Quantity    '
                                                  Elevation of the           Pounds of Water
            Experi-
          [of                   of                Temperature of             heated 180° with
            merits.         Wood burned.          the Calorimeter.            one Pound of
                                                                              Combustible.
                     1           5-10 gr.                \Q\ F.                   31*051 lb.
                                 5-13                    lOf                      31*623
                    4 3 2
                                 5-12                                             31-941
                                 495                     10J                      31-212
                Mean Result         .  . .                                        31-457
                Result according to Lavoisier                        1
                                                                                  31*684
                  and Crawford's experiments                       J
   It    rare to find experiments made
          is                                 different persons               by
at distant periods, and with very different apparatus, which
agree better together.
   But experiments which are well made, can never fail in
agreeing in their results, whatever be the difference of the
methods employed           nevertheless necessary to remark,
                                   :   it    is
that the coincidence in question could not be so perfect as
itappears, for every thing depends upon the equality of the
humidity which may exist in the wood and charcoal em
ployed,    circumstance which
                a                    impossible to establish.
                                                      it   is
     XI.        On the greatest Intensity                       Heat which
                                                         of of
§                                                                                     it   is   possible-
     to produce             by   the Combustion                inflammable Substances.
     It   is    well known that the heat ofsmall fire seems to bea
less intense than                 that      of
                                large fire, even when the same
                                                 a
 species of combustible      employed     but
                                            is  do not know that
                                                               :        I
it  has been attempted to determine the limits of the inten
 sity of    fire, or the greatest degree of heat which
                a                                                                                  it    is
 possible to produce       means of combustion.
                                       by
    In order to elucidate this subject,        necessary to con    it   is
sider attentively what passes in the chemical operation
which we call combustion.
    In all known cases where two elementary substances
unite together so as to form        new substance, there
                                                     a                                              is   a
change of temperature, so that the new substance at the
moment        its formation has temperature differing strongly
                of                                a
from that of the surrounding bodies.          Consequently, the
surrounding bodies are always either heated or cooled more
or less         by
             the new body which has been formed.
    But in order that this effect may be sensible to our or
                                                                                                  gans,

    in Combustion,    and in the Condensation   of Vapours.  301
gans, or capable of acting in a sensible manner upon our
 apparatus, it is necessary that the quantity of the new sub
 stance formed should be considerable; for it is certain that
 the most intense heat, if it be developed in a very small par
ticle of matter, may exist without producing any sensible
 effect which could give us any indications of its existence.
    It is not less true that the chemical union of two atoms,
two different elementary substances, ought always, under
every circumstance, to beaccompanied with one and the same
change of temperature : for this union takes effect in a place
 so distant, relative to all the other bodies (if, in every case,
all the interstices are not filled with particles of an ethere-
ous fluid), that we cannot conceive.how the change of tem
 perature in question may be either augmented or diminished
by the effect of the action of these surrounding bodies.
    It is extremely probable, from what we have been able
to remark in a great number of phaenomena, that the ap
proximation of the elementary particles of bodies is always
accompanied by an elevation of their temperature; and as
it cannot have new substances formed except in conse
quence of an approximation and the chemical union of
elementary particles, we may conclude that there cannot be
new chemical compositions without a development of heat.
    We may form an idea of what passes in combustion, by
considering the phaenomena which take place when water
freezes.
    At a certain temperature, which is invariable, the mole
cules of the liquid are disposed to approximate in order to
form a solid body, ice ; and the first particle of ice which is
formed is accompanied by a development of a certain quan
                                               '
tity of heat, which quantity is invariable.
    It is also very probable that it is at a temperature which
is invariable, that the oxygen and hydrogen are disposed
to approximate and unite in order to form an atom of va
pour, and that the intensity of the heai developed at the
moment of this union is also invariable, and that it is al
ways manifested in all its intensity in the atom of vapour
which is formed.
    But as the atom of vapour is extremely small, and sur
rounded by bodies relatively very cold, its heat is soon dis
sipated.
    There is however a method, which appears certain, that
we may employ in order to determine the temperature of
an atom of vapour at the moment of its formation, and
by this means we may know what is the highest tempera
                                                             ture

 302         Researches upon the Heat developed
 ture which   it is possible to procure by means of combus
 tion.
     We have seen that, according to the results of the re
 searches of Mr. Crawford, it seems that when one pound
 of hydrogen is burned, enough of heat is developed on
 this occasion to elevate the temperature of 410 pounds of
 water to 180° of Fahrenheit (= 100 degrees centigrade.)
    Now as one pound of hydrogen perfectly dry, is united
by burning to 7*3333 pounds of oxygen, and forms with it
 8-3333 pounds of steam, it is evident that the quantity of
 heat which exists in 8*333 pounds of steam at the instant when
 this steam is formed, is equal to that which is necessary to
 raise the temperature of 410 pounds of water 180° F., or to
 elevate the temperature of 73-800 pounds of water one de
gree of the scale of Fahrenheit.
    From this calculation we may conclude that the qnantity
 of heat which exists in one pound of steam, at the instant
 when it is formed, is sufficient to raise the temperature of
 one pound of water 10063 degrees.
    If the capacity of the steam for heat was equal to that
of liquid water, it is very certain that the tempeiature of
the vapour at the instant of its formation would be that of
 10063° F.
    Jn order to form an idea of this degree of intensity, we
may compare it to an intensity of heat which is known.
    A piece of iron heated until it becomes red even in day
light, has then the temperature of J000° F. ; consequently
the temperature of the steam at the instant of its formation
would be ten times higher than that of red hot-iron : but
as, according to Crawford, the capacity of the steam for
heat is greater than that of water in the proportion of 1-55
to 1, the temperature in question will be less than that of
10063° in the same proportion.        It will therefore be equal
to 8750° F.
    Here therefore is the limit of the intensity of the heat,
in the midst of the greatest fire, in which pure hydro
gen would be employed as a combustible, and in which the
fire would be fed by pure oxygen. This is an intensity
which we may approach more or less, but which we can
never attain.
     As Wedgwood's pyrometer indicates much higher
temperatures, it seems demonstrated by the result of this
calculation that the scale of this pyrometer is faulty. These
doubts have been stated by other chemists.
    But in order to decide definitively upon this interesting
                                                       question,

      in Comluslion, and in    the Condensation of Vapours. 303
question, it would be indispensably necessary to know ac«
curately the capacity of steam for heat, at different tem
peratures ; a thing unknown, and which is difficult to de
termine.
    Upon examining the subject attentively, we shall find,
however, reasons for thinking that the capacity of steam
for heat ought necessarily to be diminished with the in
crease of its temperature.       The following calculations may
serve to elucidate this subject :
     In order to determine the highest degree of temperature
which can exist in the midst of the greatest heat when pure
hydrogen is the only combustible employed, and when the
fire is fed by atmospheric air; it is necessary to remark, that
as oxygen and azote are intimately mixed in the atmo
 sphere, the heat which results from the combustion of hy
 drogen ought to be immediately divided between the vapour
 which results from the union of the hydrogen with the
 oxygen, and the azote which ii found necessarily mixed
 with this vapour.
      In order to simplify our inquiry, we shall commence by
 supposing that all the oxygen which exists in the atmo
 spheric air is employed.
      In this case, as it requires 7*3333 pounds of oxygen to
 be united to one pound of hydrogen in order to compose
 8*3333 pounds of steam, and as the atmospheric air is com
 posed of 21 pounds of oxygen gas mixed with 79 pounds
 of azote; the 7*3333 pouuds of oxygen which are united
  to one pound of hydrogen in order to form 8*3333 pounds
  of steam, ought to be found mixed with 27-597 pounds of
  azote : consequently the heat developed in the combustion
  of one pound of hydrogen ought to be also divided between
  8*3333 pounds of steam and 27-537 pounds of azote ; and
  this partition ought to take place in the direct ratio of the
  weights of these two fluids, and of their capacity for heat.
       The capacity of the steam being to that of azote as 1 55
  to 0*7036 (according to Crawford), all the heat in question
  will be divided so as that the steam shall retain a part of it
   represented by the number 9*5832 ; ( = 8*3333 x 1*55) and
  the azote will receive the other part of it =19*41 (being
   the product of 27*587 multiplied by 0 7036 )
       Now as the two numbers 9*5832 and 19*41 are both in
   the proportion of 1 to 2-0254, it is evident that the tem
   perature will be the same which we should have if all the
   heat in question was equally divided between the steam
   which would result from the combustion of 3*0254 pounds
  of hydrogen, i. e. between 25-21 13 pounds of steanj.

  304           Researches upon the Heat developed
    And as we have seen that the heat manifested in the
 combustion of one pound of hydrogen which is in the
  8*3333 pounds of steam which are the products of this
 combustion, is sufficient for raising the temperature of this
 steam to that of 8750° F. it is evident that if this same
 quantity of heat is divided among 25-21 13 pounds of steam,
 the temperature of this steam could not be higher than
 2891°   F.
    This  is therefore the highest temperature which we ought
 to find in the midst of a strong fire fed by the atmospheric
 air in which the combustible burnt is pure hydrogen.
    As this temperature is much lower than that which we
 can excite by combustion, even without employing pure
 hydrogen or pure oxygen, the result of this calculation fur
 nishes a demonstrative proof that the capacity for heat of
 steam, or rather that of azote, is diminished when its tempe
 rature is increased. Tn all probability, the capacities of both,
 and generally of all elastic fluids, are diminished when their
 temperature is increased.
    We shall now see what is the highest temperature which
it would be possible to attain by burning charcoal, and by
 blowing the fire with pure oxygen gas.
    According to Crawford, one pound of charcoal gives heat
sufficient in its combustion to raise the temperature of
57*608 pounds of water 180° F., or to raise the temperature
of 9369-44 pounds of water 1 degree.
    Now as one pound of charcoal is united to 2-5714
pounds of oxygen in burning, and forms with it 3-5714
pounds of carbonic acid, the heat which is found in
3-5714 pounds of carbonic acid at the instant of its forma
tion would be sufficient to raise the temperature of 9369'44
pounds of water 1 degree : consequently the heat which is
in one pound of this acid at the moment of its formation
would be sufficient to raise the temperature of 3643*6 pounds
of water 1 degree.
    Here we have the quantity of heat which exists in the
carbonic acid at the instant of its formation.        In order to
know what is the intensity which it would indicate if wc
could measure it at this moment, by means of a thermo
meter, it would be necessary to know precisely the specific
heat of the carbonic acid. If, with Crawford, we take it
at 1*0459 (that of water being taken =1), we shall have
381 1° F. for the measure of the intensity of the heat which
exist3 in the carbonic acid at the moment of its formation,
and consequently for the intensity of the greatest fire made
with charcoal (without mixture of hydrogen) even in the
case where the fire is fed by pure oxygen.                     It

      in Combustion, and in the Condensation    of Vapours. 305
    It  remains to determine the temperature which we might
hope to attain by burning charcoal with atmospheric air.
    As we have found that the temperature or the 3-5714
 pounds of carbonic acid which are the product of the
-combustion of 1 pound of charcoal, is that of 3811° F.
at the moment of its formation, we have only to ascertain
how much the temperature of this acid ought to be dimi
nished by the mixture of the azote which must necessarily
be there when the oxygen employed in the combustion of
the charcoal is furnished by the atmospheric air.
    As, in the atmospheric air, every pound of oxygen is
mixed with 3*7619 pounds of azote, the 2-5714 pounds of
 oxygen employed in the combustion of 1 pound of char
 coal ought to be mixed with 9*6735 pounds of azote :
 consequently all the heat developed in the combustion of
  1 pound of charcoal will be found divided between 3-5714
 pounds of carbouic acid and 9*6735 pounds of azote.
    And as the specific heat of the carbonic acid is to that of
 azote as 1*0459 to 0*7036; this heat will be divided be
tween these two substances in the proportion of (3-5714 x
  1-0459 = ) 3-7354 to (9*6735 X 0*7036 = ) 6*S062, which.
 is in the proportion of 1 to 1*8221 or of 3*5714 to 6*5075;
 and thence we may conclude that the temperature of the
 mixture of 3-5714 pounds of carbonic acid and of 9*6735
 of azote would be the same as if we had mixed with the
 3-5714 pounds of carbonic acid 6*5075 pounds more of
 this same acid, making together 10*0789 pounds of carbo
 nic acid.
    Now as the heat developed in the combustion of one
 pound of charcoal was sufficient to raise the temperature of
 the 3-5714 pounds of carbonic acid coming from this com
 bustion to that of 3811° F., this same quantity of heat
 ought to be sufficient to raisejthe temperature of 10*0789
  pounds of carbonic acid to the temperature of 1350° F.
     This is, according to the results of this calculation, t he
  highest temperature which we ought to expect to find
  amid the strongest charcoal fire fed by atmospheric air.
     But we are very certain that the intensity of the heat of
  the strongest charcoal fire is far superior to the above cal
  culation : consequently we are authorized to conclude that
  the capacity for heat of the carbonic acid, and that of the
  azotic gas, are much diminished when these elastic fluids are
  exposed to a very high. temperature.
     If, in endeavouring to discover the limit of intensity of
  a charcoal fire, 1 have supposed the fire to be very large,
     Vol. 42. No. 186. Oct. 1813.            U                 it

306         Researches -upon the Heat developed in Combustion.
it   is not because         I
                     suppose that the heat developed in com
bustion                            primitive source in a large
                    is more intense at the
than ina small fire: but as a small fire is always surrounded
by bodies relatively very cold, such as the bars of the grate, &c.
the products of the combustion (which are always at the
instant of their formation at the same temperature) are so
rapidly cooled when the fire is small, that the temperature
which we may find in such a fire is necessarily lower than
that which we find in the midst of a larger fire, where a
greater quantity of the same kind of combustible           is em
ployed.
     When                      fire is well lighted up in a close
                     a large charcoal
 stove, constructed    with  bricks   or fire stones, all the inte
rior surfaces become excessively hot, and the heat accumu
lates and becomes very intense throughout the whole in
terior of the stove, so that iron and even stones are melted
in    it,
       and flow like liquids: but when the fire place        small,      is
it    with difficulty that
     is                       can be heated so much as to make
                                     it
the sides red hot at       ;the fire-place be very small, char
                                 if
                                 d                                           a
coal fire cannot be kept up at all, even with continual blow
ing. We may truly say that such           fire dies   cold, an ex
                                                      a             of
pression which with as much force as justice describes the
event as      really happens.
                it
     But        be the cold communicated
               if   it                                     by
                                                   the surrounding
bodies which hinders         very small
                                     a   charcoal fire from burn
ing, could we not make           burn    it           by
                                           guarding it in     proper     a
manner against the cold                  ?
   This      an experiment which
                is                      tried six years ago with
                                                  I
the greatest success, and which ended in my causing to be
made small portable cooking stoves now in general use in
Paris, and elsewhere for aught        know.       I
   By surrounding the body of the stove with two strata of
inclosed air, the cooling of the fire-place and the char
coal     contains
          it            hindered
                            is      and in this way the charcoal
                                              :
buwis perfectly well, and the fire          so well kept up that
                                                      is                         it
obeys      small
            a      register, which  regulates the quantity of air
admitted into the body of the stove.
    Some judgement may be formed of the advantages which
ought to result from the use of these small portable fur
naces       cooking, &c. arising from the saving of time and
               in
 combustibles,     when we are informed that the combustion
may   be  regulated without any difficulty, so as to consume
 the charge of charcoal        £0 minutes with
                                     in              brisk heat, or
                                                                a
 so as to keep up       moderate fire for three hours.
                            a
    With these portable cooking stoves                          is
                                                      indispensably
                                                           it
                                                                         necessary

             Roman Antiquities    found in Westphalia.          307
 necessary to use kettles or saucepans of a particular con
 struction. They ought to be suspended by their rims, in
 large circles of wrought iron or copper, the better to keep in
 the heat.     The circle of a saucepan ought to be half an
 inch more in breadth than the saucepan is in depth.
     But to return to the main branch of my subject.         If the
 present state of our knowledge does not admit of our esta
  blishing with a rigorous precision the highest temperature
 which it is possible to excite by means of the combustion of
 inflammable bodies ; the calculation which I have sub
 mitted to the Class may nevertheless serve to guide our
 conjectures on this interesting subject.          They will at all
 events show what is wanting to enable us duly to appreciate
 the subject.
                           [To be continued.]
           LI I. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
  ROMAN     ANTiaUITIES DISCOVERED            IN THE KINGDOM OF
                           WESTPhALIA.
 M     . Hoffman,      a German engineer, who has been long
 engaged in examining the banks of the Rhine, with a view
 to ascertain at what point Caesar passed that river, has
 transmitted to the Gottingen Academy a detached account
 of certain interesting objects discovered near Neuwied.
     It is well known that there was in the environs of this
frontier town a Roman camp intended to check the incur
sions of the German nations, and in particular the Catti.
It was a short distance from this point that Caesar con
structed his celebrated bridge.          M. Hoffman in October
 1811 drew a plan of the whole country, with a view to as
certain the precise spot which was occupied by the Romans
at that period.      He also made a drawing of the camp which
they had near Bonefeld, three leagues and a half from
Neuwied.
    To judge from its extent, this camp, which the moderns
would call a redoubt, might contain a cohort.             A single
tent served ten men, and the Romans encamped much more
closely than the moderns.           The four parts of the camp
were unequal, probably on account of a fosse which passed
through the middle.        The two upper parts, which abutted
on the Preiorian gate, are smaller than those which are
beneath and abut on the Decuman gate.                The camp in
question is situated on the high road on the banks of the
Rhine, near Neuwied. The objects discovered in it may
                                U 2                            not

SOS                 Roman Antiquities  fomit
not be   so interesting as those presented by the ruins of
Greece and Rome, but they are nevertheless highly impor
tant to the history of the country where they were found.
   They tend to make us acquainted with the private life of
the Romans, chiefly of the soldiery, and in some measure
with the nature of their establishments in Germany.
   The objects discovered consist of vases and instruments,
coins and figures.      The quantity of medals is also consi
derable, these are for the most part Imperial ; and there is
a greater number in silver than in bronze.       The bronzes
are very much corroded and almost illegible.       This series
of medals is so far remarkable, that it furnishes us with in
ferences as to the length of time the Romans continued in
the country.     The catalogue now in the possession of the
Gottingen Academy is very exact : it presents a series of
256 pieces, which finish with the reign of Gallienus.      We
know that at this period the relations of this part of Ger
many with the Romans ceased, and the wars undertaken
by the latter in the reigns of Dioclesian, Constantius, Con-
stantine, &c. contributed without doubt to destroy these
relations. The catalogue commences with a medal of
Augustus ; for that which has been regarded as Consular
from having on it the letters S. C. is too much defaced to
enable us to say any thing positive of it. The medal of
Augustus bears the Bos Corm/peta, and the Imp. X upon.
the reverse.    Upon the face there is the head not crowned
with the legend Augustus Divi F.       This medal has excited
a considerable controversy, and its date has been fixed at
742.    There is only a single medal of Tiberius, which is-
well known.       It is of the. date 768, when we find upon
medals the Pontif. Max.         Upon the medal in question
we find the head of the empenor with the legend Ti. Cces.
£>iv. Aug. F. Aug.       Upon the reverse is a female seated,
holding a spear and a branch. It has been said that this
figure represents Livia.
   One of the medals in this collection represents the con
secration of Titus, and it is remarkable not so much for the
subject as for the nature of the metal, which is brass alloyed
with silver : it is consequently of a posterior date, and is
perhaps part of those which have been ascribed to Gallienus
or Tiebonian.      We ought not however to ascribe to them
alone all the restored medals, since they have been struck
at different times, and probably with different views, rather
to preserve the recollection of the event than to restore the
medal.     The medal in question is perfectly similar to the
consecration medal.      The head of Titus bears the radiated
                                                        crown

                  ill the Kingdom of Westphalia.             309
.crown with the words Dlvo Tito.       On the reverse there is
an altar with the flame of a sacrifice, and the word Conse-
cratio. From this medal downwards the series of Imperials
 is continued almost without interruption ; but there are
 very few of Domitian or Nerva, and none of Trajan or
 Adrian.     There are four of Antoninus Pius, several of
 Marcus Aurelius and of Commodus.          The greater number
 is of Septimus Severus and of Caracalla. Two of Lucilla;
one of Crispina; several of Julia Pia; three of Geta ; one
of Macrinus;     nearly twenty of Eliogabalus; four of Julia
 Paula; three of Julia Soemia ; ten of Julia Msesa ; sixty-
six of Alexander Severus.       From the reign of the latter we
 remark an evident deterioration in the quality of the metal,
 which progressively becomes worse.        We see two medals
of Sallustia Barbiana ; twelve of Julia Marnsea; six of
 Maximian ; thirteen of Gordian III. The last are almost
 illegible, from having been thrown into a furnace by some
 ignorant workmen after they were discovered.          There are
 ten of Philip; one of Decius ; three of Volusianus ; five
 of Valerian ; four of Gallienus. We have thus enume
 rated the coins of each species, because those will be recog
  nised which have been most in circulation; and it will also
 appear that the more ancient gradually disappeared, being
 melted down for new coins.         It would appear that about
 the time of Gallienus the Romans quitted the banks of the
 Rhine.
     The above new collection has an importance peculiar to
 itself. All the coins which compose it are authentic be
 yond a doubt, and they render the principality of Neuwied
 tloubly interesting to the curious.
     The Roman vases and utensils were found between Neu-
 wied and Haddersdorf.        A tomb was opened in presence
 of the Princess of Neuwied, and great care was taken of the
 skeleton and all its ornaments or appendages.           Among
  these was a long snake in silver ; twelve pearls serving as a
  neck-lace ; but whether they are true or false, is not vet as
 certained; two ear-rings, each consisting of a pearl and a piece
  of gold wire; fibulae, bracelets, &c. two clasps rested on
  the chest, and served to fasten the mantle or cloak : two
  others were found at the bottom of the body, and were no
  doubt intended to fasten it at bottom: a button made of
  bone was on the left side of the body: on the right there
  was a very fine knife blade : at the feet lay a small pitcher.
  All these instruments seem to have had a reference to the
 profession of the deceased. There were also some glass
 buttons found, made of scales like all the glass ornaments

3 10       Roman Antiquities found in   W estphalia.
of the ancients which we have seen. In another spot there
was found a bow] of crystal chased in silver and surmounted
by a knob or stopper.          M. Hoffman thinks the ladies
among the ancients made use of this for cooling their
hands.     Eleven tombs have been opened, and a great many
 more remain still untouched.
    Among the iron utensils, darts were found hollowed in
the sides and with a very keen edge, besides a great quan
tity of other instruments, which prove rhat the Romans un
derstood the preparation of iron extremely well.      Very few
bronze articles were found, some were of bone, and among
other curiosities there was the handle of a guitar. M. Hoff
man also found several bones as if attempted to be sawed,
but without answering any purpose, which would seem to
indicate that a mechanic had his workshop near this place.
    M. Hoffman remarks, with respect to the earthen vases,
 that their red colour does not depend upon the quality of
the clay, but upon the way in which the Romans washed it.
They employed for their vases all kinds of earth : and where-
ever the Romans resided in Germany, these red vases have
been discovered.      Those which were dug up near Neuwied
were made'of an earth found in the environs of the village
of Radenbach.       It is probably necessary to observe, that it
does not follow, because there ire abundance of fragments
of earthen ware at any spot, that there was necessarily a
pottery there.     We know that the Romans scarcely used
any other than earthen vessels, and near every inhabited
place there must have been a spot where they threw the
broken pieces. As these utensils served for common pur
poses, it is not surprising to find that the figures on them
are very coarse : some however are carefully executed.
Besides the ornaments which serve for the borders abov«
and below, and which consist of festoons, foliage, pearls,
Seethe body of the vase is adorned with all kinds of figures
of animals.     Upon a kind of saucer or fiat dish there is a
curious   design : a man has transfixed an infant from behind,
and holds it up on his lance, while its hands are raised to
wards the sky.      A warrior is in the act of advancing with
a drawn sword in one hand and a buckler in the other: the
latter is probably a Roman, and the former a German, the
group being intended to inspire a hatred against the Bar
barians.    Several vases bear inscriptions.   On one, for ex
ample, we read the letters SCR in distinct characters.
Several at the bottom bear the name of the potter.           On
another we read VITR10 FE : on the other JULLINUS.
!Np other figures were discovered but those which were
                                                        painted,

            Antiquities discovered in East Lothian.              311
  painted on the vases ; but near the supposed workshop
  above alluded to, consequently in the Roman camp near
  Niederbiber, one league from Neuwied, there was found
  the head of a small stone statue, which M. Hoffman thinks
  belonged to a Genius which he had formerly discovered.
     Upon digging tolerablv deep, a verv solid foundation was
  discovered of bricks and lime.        M, Hoffman thinks that
  this was a bath, and the walls show that it was a large one.
  It is some distance from the Decuman gate of the camp.
  There are also outside the camp, farther off and nearer Gaul,
 the ruins of a very large building where the head of a
  statue was found of good workmanship : it is a mixture
 of lime, pounded bricks, and coarse sand. The mass has
 been fused, and is of course very solid.           It would seem
 therefore that the Romans were acquainted with the art of
 making the same use of lime that we do of gvpsum.
 To conclude : they were also acquainted with this last sub
 stance, and according to Pliny and Columella made fruits
 and figures of it.     In the place in question there was no
 gypsum ; at least there are no appearances of it in any of
 the works near Niederbiber.
                                      Eatt Lothian, October 12, 1813.
     Last week, on trenching with the plough a field possessed
 by William Hunter, Esq. at the Knows, and belonging to
 the Earl of Haddington, a number of stone coffins were
uncovered.      These are ranged in rows from south to north,
with the heads to the west; and, as far as examined, co
ver an extent of ground measuring in length fifty-four
yards, and in breadth twenty-six.        They are computed to
exceed 500 in number.       Each coffin lies about two or three
inches from the side of the other, with the heads in exact
lines, and about two or three feet from each row. They are
formed of flat stones neatly joined together on the sides,
and in the exact form of our present coffins. and covered
on the top with flag stones; some of them laid with stones
in the bottom, others not. It appears the stones have been
brought from the adjoining sea-shore.         What were unco
vered were found full of sea-sand, which being carefully re
moved, a human skeleton was discovered lying entire from
head to foot.     The bones, excepting the sculls, on being
taken out, crumbled to dust ; but the teeth were in com
plete preservation, not one wanting, and appeared to have
belonged to persons dying in the prime of life. The coffins
appear to have been formed exactly to the length of the dif-
                                U  4                         ferent

3 12        Antiquities discovered in East Lolhian.
ferent bodies ; the longest measured six feet nine inches,
the shortest five feet three inches. The thigh bones are of a
great length and thickness, and one jaw-bone was disco
vered of a prodigious size.
    Towards the west end of the burial-ground there are evi
dent marks of bodies that have been consumed by fire,
but it has not been ascertained what extent of ground these.
covered.
    The farm has been in possession of the same family for
three generations back ; and it is said a tradition has been.
handed down that a battle was fought there, and that those
who were killed were buried on that spot, which was then
a rising ground, and always kept sacred from the touch of
the plough, until the present possessor ploughed it over
many years ago, at which time a few coffins were dis
covered.
    Tradition also reports, that near the present farm-house
there was formerly a bastel, or bestial, an ancient place of
security for cattle during an incursion of an enemy.       This
gives name to a place on the farm to this day.        It is also
said there had been either a fort or Baron's castle erected
there.
    When digging a deep trench some years ago, the work
men discovered a round building of hewn stone, about nine
feet in diameter ; they also found a range of building so
strongly cemented that they could not remove it.
    It appears at least probable that this might have been
in former times a Roman station, and that the circular
building was a bath. What supports this idea is the cus
tom the Romans had of placing their burial-grounds near
 to the highways. Now it is well known that the great
post road formerly passed close by the side of this burial-
place, though it has since been removed further south.
     It seems certain, from the regular position of the coffins,
 and the skeletons having the appearance of adults, that they
have been deposited in the earth at one time, ahd after hav
 ing fallen in battle.     In this neighbourhood many single
 stone coffins have been found, and sometimes two or three
 together ; several long stones have also been erected, as it
 is thought, to the memory of some fallen chief; which
  renders it probable that this quarter'has been the scene of
 many sanginnary battles, that are of so ancient a date as
 to be either unrecorded in the page of history, or form the
  dubious  tale of tradition.
                                                             His

                 Coal. — Honey. — Cure for    Croup.          313
     His Majesty's ships Spitfire and Bonne Citoyenne, on a
recent cruize off the coast of Greenland, discovered two
distinct strata of coal in the cliff on the north-east end of
Bear Island.      The upper layer is of superior quality : the
under one was ponderous and full of sulphur, but burned
well. Some metallic ore, supposed to be tin, was mixed
with the latter. Bear Island is in lat. 74.28. long. 18. 20. E.
good anchorage all around, and easy of access, except to
the south-east,       where the coast is high and rocky.      The
island is about twelve miles in diameter, barren, having on
it a few bears and foxes, and a quantity of aquatic fowl.
      From some experiments recently made at Paris upon
 honey, it appears that this substance is composed of -ft of
 syrup, and        of a solid white farinaceous and almost in-,
 sipid substance. When adulterated with flour or starch, which
 is too often the case, the fraud may be detected by heat
 ing it : — if it is pure, the whole mass will be melted into a
 fine transparent syrup; whereas, if it is adulterated, the ex
  traneous body will give it a muddy appearance.         The white
  substance     above alluded to may be separated from the
  syrup by evaporation       with alcohol.      The syrup, when
  taken internally, in the dose of about three ounces and a
  half in tea every morning, does not affect the stomach ; but
  the powder or concrete part,i if taken in the dose of about
  two drachms, occasions colic followed by looseness.             It
  would appear, therefore, that the laxative properties as-'
  cribed to honey are owing to the above substance : and
   the following recipe is given for obtaining a syrup of honey
   without this sometimes disagreeable concomitant : — Dilute
   eight ounces of honey with two of cold water, adding one
   ounce of charcoal from bones: shake the mixture, let it
   stand an hour and a half, and then filter. The syrup at,
   first passes over quite turbid, but it soon becomes clear.
   It acquires from the charcoal a peculiar smell, but which
    may be entirely removed from it by exposing it to a gentle
    heat for about a quarter of an hour.
       A   prize of 12,000 francs was offered in 1807 by the
    French Government to the physician who should produce
    the best memoir on the disease called the Croup : two have
    shared the prize, being of equal merit ; three are distin
    guished as extremely honourable to their authors ; and a
    sixth memoir is marked by the proposal of a remedy that is
    said by the writer to be a specific in this malady and in
    the hooping-cough.      It is liver of sulphur alkalized, a sul-
                                                               phat

   314             .  Mushroom of Kamtschaila.
    phat of potash recently prepared ami brownish.            It is
    usually given mixed with honey, and sometimes with
    sugar.   The dose, from the attack of the croup to the de
    cided diminution of the disorder, is ten grains morning
    and evening, to be lessened as the disorder abates; and
    towards the close the morning dose only to be given. The
   mixture of sulphat and honey to be made at the moment
   of using. Young children will suck it off' the end of a
   finger; but it may be given in a spoonful of milk, or of
   syrup thinned with water, or as a bolus; grown children
   take it best in this form.    It usually relieves in two days ;
   but it must be continued till the cure is completed, and
   often beyond that period, for fear of relapse.
      M. Langsdorf, in    his recent Voyages and Travels, relates
   a curious circumstance with respect to the agaric or mush
   room. The inhabitants of Kamtschatka and the neigh
  bouring countries, he informs us, make use of this fungus
  on account of its intoxicating qualities.       One large or two
  small mushrooms dried are sufficient to produce a high ex
  citement.     The narcotic effects, which are greatly aug
  mented by the use of cold water, are manifested in half an
  hour, or sometimes even two hours afterwards, by startings
  of the muscles and tendons, followed by giddiness and sleep.
  The effects are the same, in short, with those produced by
  wine or spirits.       A propensity for dancing and using
  strange gestures characterizes the use of the agaric, and its
  action upon the mine is very remarkable.          This secretion
  of the human body acquires a narcotic property much more
  decided than that of the agaric itself : drunkards in the
  above countries, therefore, greedily drink up the urine of
 their companions.         A moderate-sized cupful produces,
  even two davs afterwards, a much higher degree of intox
 ication, and the urine of the person who drinks it produces
 a still greater state of drunkenness,     and so on even to the
 fifth urine-drinker.     Two or three spoonfuls of grease or
 fish oil are sufficient to remedy all the bad effects upon the
 stomach occasioned by the use of the mushroom in que
 stion.    It is to be regretted that M. Langsdorf has not
 specified the kind of agaric which is thus employed.
     The following     melancholy account of the massacre of
 the crew of an American vessel employed in the fur trade,
makes us acquainted with a race of savages whose coast it
is not unlikely that some British vessels may visit : the in
formation thus conveyed may therefore save some valuable
                                                            lives.

         Massacre   ly Natives   of Vancouver's Island.     315
lives, while it must prove highly interesting to our readers.
A large vessel called the Tonquin was fitted out last
year by the Pacific Ocean Fur Company established at
New York, and dispatched with a valuable cargo for Astoria,
the Company's settlement in the northern regions of Ame
 rica.    The Tonquin it would appear, after landing the
cargo intended for Astoria, departed on a trading voyage to
 the coast north of Columbia river, with a company (in
 cluding officers) of 23 men, and had proceeded about 400
miles along the seaboard, when they stopped on Vancou
ver's island at a place called Woody Point, inhabited by a
 powerful nation called Wake-a-nin-ishes.           These people
 came on board to barter their furs for merchandise,         and
 conducted themselves in the most decorous and friendly
 manner during the first day ; but the same evening informa
 tion was brought on board by an Indian whom the officers
 had as interpreter, that the tribe where they then lay were
 ill disposed, and intended attacking the ship next day.
 Captain Jonathan Thome affected to disbelieve this piece of
 news ; and even when the savages came next morning in.
 great numbers, it was only at the pressiug remonstrance of
 Mr. M'Kay that he ordered seven men aloft to loosen the
 sails.   In the mean time, about 50 Indians were permitted
  to come on board, who traded a number of sea otters for
  blankets and knives ; the former they threw into their
  canoes as soon as received, but secreted the knives.     Every
  one when armed moved from the quarter deck to a different
  part of the vessel, so that by the time they were ready, in
  such a manner were they distributed that at least three
  savages were opposite every man of the ship, and at a signal
  given they rushed on their prey, and notwithstanding the
  brave resistance of every individual of the whites, they
  were all butchered in a few minutes.        The men above, in
  attempting   to descend,  lost  two  of their number, besides
  one mortally wounded, who, notwithstanding his weakened
  condition, made good his retreat with the lour others to the
  cabin ; where finding a quantity of loaded arms, they fired
  on their savage assailers through the skylights and com
  panion way, which had the effect of clearing the ship in a
  short time, and long before night these five intrepid sons of
  America were again in full possession of her. Whether from
  want of abilities, or strength, supposing themselves unable
  to take the vessel back to Columbia, it cannot be ascertain
  ed : thus far only is known, that between tha time the In
  dians were driven from the ship and the following morning,
   the four who were unhurt left her in the long boat in hopes

    316         Earthquake in the Island of Teneriffe.
   of regaining the river, wishing to take along with them tha
   wounded person ; who refused their offer, saying that he
   must die before long, aud was as well in the vessel as else
   where.
       Soon after sunrise she was surrounded by an immense
   lmmber of Indians in canoes, come for the express pifrpose
   of unloading her, but who, from the warm reception they
   met with the day before, did not seem to vie with each
   other in boarding.
      The wounded man showed himself over the railing, making
   signs that he was alone, and wanted their assistance ; on
  -which some embarked; who finding what he said was true,
   spoke to their people, who were not any longer slow in get
  ting on board, so that in a few seconds the deck was con
   siderably thronged, and they proceeded to undo the hatches
  without further ceremony.
      No sooner were they completely engaged in thus finish
  ing this most diabolical of actions, than the only survivor
  of the crew descended into the cabin, and set fire to the
  magazine containing nearly nine thousand pounds of gun
  powder, which in an instant blew the vessel and every one
  on board to atoms.
      The nation acknowledge their having lost nearly one
 hundred warriors, besides a vast number wounded by the
 explosion, who were in canoes round the ship. It is im
 possible to tell who the person was that so completely
 avenged himself : but there cannot exist a single doubt that
  the act will teach these villains better manners, and will
 eventually    be of immense benefit to the coasting trade.
     The four men who set off in the long boat were, two       o^
 three days after, driven ashore in a gale and massacred.
     Saturday, the 18th of September, at half-past 11 o'clock
 A. M.    an earthquake was felt throughout the island of Te
 neriffe.   It lasted three quarters of a minute. No very
 great damage was done.         The houses perceptibly waved,
 many walls were cracked, buildings twisted, and parts of
 cielings broken in.      Two slight shocks were felt after on
the same day ; — not any the following ; but two very slight
the next.     It evidently went in the direction from the Peak.
No volcano was discovered within five days in consequence
of it. Chaldon, a small village of Grand Canary, about
twelve leagues from Palermo, the capital, was destroyed ; the
inhabitants escaped, about seven or eight hundred of them.
AtLagona, the capital of Teneriffe, a steeple of the cathedral
fell ; also one at Polma, in Grand Canary — two officiating
                                                         priests

                   Extraordinary        Fresh   of the Mississippi.             317
priests were killed, and the bishop severely hurt.     A rent
remained in the cathedral of Onatavo, in TeneriflTe, large
enough for a man and horse to pass through. — A report is,
that a volcano appeared at Hiera, one of the small islands.
The shock was felt on the water, and in all the islands.  At
Ycod el Aleo, Teneriffe, the mast of a large vessel, with
rigging attached to     branded '- United Mates/' has been
                             it,
thrown up           by
               the sea.
      A
      newspaper contains the following account of an extra
ordinary fresh, as          termed in the transatlantic world,
                             it    is
of the river Mississippi last summer.
                                             New York, August fi.
    A letter from an officer of the United States army, dated
at Natchez, the 28th of June 1813, states, that the 3d regt.
had been ordered to ascend the Misssissippi, and join Gen.
Harrison      and that the river had not been so high as
               ;                                             then          it
was for 25 or 30 years. — He then gives the following me
lancholy description of the effect of the rise of the river: —
"  The water has broken over the levels and inundated the
country on the west side, to the high ground, more than
40 miles.      The beautiful and highly cultivated country
contiguous to Red River         now an ocean. —The crops are
                                        is
destroyed, and there         great destruction
                                   is                drowning of
                                                             by
horses, cattle, sheep, hogs, and deer.       Winthrop Sargent,
Esq.      gentleman whom you know) has lost 400 head of
          (a
cattle — others     or 300.
                         2     The loss of neat cattle       esti          is
mated at 20,000 head.        Every little spot of bare ground                       is
crowded with animals of every description.              common  It   is
to find 15 or 20 deers intermixed with cattle and they have ;
become as domesticated as the cattle themselves.              The
 water has been falling for several days, but has not yet low
ered more than two feet. — The waters of the Mississippi are
 already sensibly affected both      taste and smell,
                                             in          the dead     by
 animals, and the putrefaction of vegetable substances.
                                                                                '
                                                                                 I
 hope     will not be the hard fate of our regiment to perform
          it
   ninety-day's. voyage in these waters       should much prefer
a a
                                                     :I
    march throughD
                     the wilderness."
       METALLIC OXTDES PRODUCED BY ELECTRICITY.
   The experiments of Van Marum and Cuthbertson have
 shown that very beautiful figures are produced on paper by
 the electrical oxidation of various metals when exploded in
 the state of wire.    These figures cannot be well represented
 by engravings,     and Mr. Singer has consequently proposed
 to illustrate   few copies of his " Elements of Electricity,"
                     a
 with real specimens of the oxides, struck       the aid of his
                                                             by
                                                       powerful

  318       Electricity. — Minerals. — List of Patents.
  powerful apparatus, and extensive       batteries.   Those who'
  desire such copies, may secure them by transmitting their
  names to Mr. Singer at an early period.
     M. Geisecke, the celebrated mineralogist, arrived lately at
  Edinburgh, from Greenland, on his return to Copenhagen,
  after a residence of seven years and a half in the country;
  during which time he examined the whole line of coast
  from Cape Farewell to 76 deg. of north latitude.           He has
  brought   with   him   a fine collection  of   minerals,   among
  which are many totally unknown to the mineralogists of
  Europe.     He proposes to publish an account of his stay in
  Greenland, which the scientific world will look for with
  great anxiety.
     A third edition, with additions, is now in the press, of a
  work entitled " Observations on the Brumal Retreat of
 the Swallows, with a copious Index to passages relating to
 this Bird in ancient and modern Authors." By T. Forster,
 F.L.S.
           LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     To Jacob Brazil), of Great Yarmouth, in the county of
 Norfolk, for his machine for working capstans and pumps
 on board ships. — 4th September 1813. — 2 months.
     To Frank Parkinson, of the town of Kingston-upon-
 Hull,   for his still and boiler for preventing accidents by
 fire, and for preserving spirits and other articles from waste
 in the operation of distilling and boiling. — 4th September.
 —2    months.
    To John Westwood, of Sheffield, in the county of York,
artist,  and general manufacturer,      for embossing      ivory by
 pressure. — 4th Sept. — 2 months.
    To Henry Liston, clerk, minister of the parish of Eccles-
machan, in the county of Linlithgow, for certain improve
ments upon the plough. — 23d Sept. — 0 months.
    To Henry Osborn, of Whitmore House, in the county
of Warwick, for his method of making tools for tapering
of cylinders of different descriptions, made of iron, steel,
metal, or mixture of metals ; and also for tapering bars of
iron, steel, metal, or mixiure of metals. — (5th Oct. — 2 mo.
    To Robertson Buchanr.n, of the city of Glasgow, civil
engineer, for his certain improvements          in the means of
propelling vessels, boats, barges, and rafts, which mav also
be applied to tiie moving of water-wheels and wind-mills,
the raising of water, the dredging, cleansing, or deepemng
of rivers' and harbours, and the impelling of other ma
chinery. — 1 8th Oct. — 2 months.
                                                         Meteoro*

                             Meteorology .
   Meteorological Observations made at Tunbridge Wells,
                    from August 22 to 24, 1813.
    August 22. — Heavy cumulostratus, with cold northerly
 wind followed by rain in the evening, and clear star-light
 night.     I noticed a tailing star inclined to the earth in the
 direction of the wind.
    August 23. — Rather warmer again ; cumulostratus and
 other clouds.       Wind NW. Clear sunset and yellow haze,
 afterwards    clouds.
    August 24 *. — Fine warm diy, with cumuli and cumulo-
 strati.    Sea breeze about tour o'clock.
 Meteorological Observations made at Clapton in Hackney,
    from the 25th of August to the L2d of September 1813.
    August 25. — Fair day, with cumuli, &c. coloured clouds
 at sunset ;   haze reddish.
    August 26. — Much cumulostratus through the day ; by
 night the snapping or cracking of the wicks of the candles
 indicated rain next day.
    August 2".— Rain came on in gentle showers from the
 northward in the wind. Therm, at 11 P.M. 54°. Barom.
 30. 35.     Owls both hoot and screech by night.
    August 28. — Fair with clouds and cold wind from NE.
    August 29. — Various cumuli and scud early ; afterwards
 showers.      Wind easterly.
    August    30.  — Cumulostratus prevailed through the day ;
 cool easterly wind, and unwholesome kind of weather.
    August 31. — Fair with large cumuli ; wind easterly : the
stars did not shine particularlv clear by night, and the
.moon was hazy.          Owls hoot and screech.
    Sept.   I.l  Warmer air again; through the day' a veil of
 cloud obscured the sky, beneath which were cumuli of rain
 like appearance ; the cloudiness increased and rain came on
 at night with falling Barometer.              Wind easterly. The
 owls both hoot and screech notwithstanding the darkness
 and rain ; spiders appear on (he walls of the house more
 than usual, and there are other signs of rainy weather.
    Sept. 2. — Fair warm morning, with gentle S wind ; a
 thickness and reddish colour of the sky with clouds came
 on about eight in the morning, followed by gentle showers;
 afterwards rain with a NW wind; but a warm and fair
evening followed ; reddish and dim haze above the sunset.
   Clapton, Sept. 3, 1818.                        THOMAS FoRSTER.
              *  Observation thii day made at Brighthelmstone.
                                                               METEORO

                                                                 Meteorology,
                                             meteorological table,
                       By Mr. Cary, of the StrawD,
                                                      For October 1813.
                                                                                            .    V)
                          Thermometer.
                                                                          Height of
                                                                                           2J»{
                                                                                           »;
                                                                                                J
 Days of
                       o'Clock,
                                                                          the Barom.
                                                                                                      E
                                  Morning.
                                                                                                             Weather.
                                                       o'clock
  Month.                                                                                   u >. 2
                                              Noon.              Night-
                                                                                           u    u
                                                                           Inches.
                                                                                           brrr£      ^
                       8                                1
                                                        1
Sept.   27             52                    63         52                30-06                 47        Fair
        28             55                    60        49                    -01                40        Cloudy
        29             50                    57        50                    -20                33        Cloudy
        30             54                    58        46                    -19                37        Fair
Oct.       1           46                    58        48                 29-82                 40        Fair
                       48                    55        50                   -74                 30        Cloudy
           6 5 4 3 2
                       54                    61        54                    -so                36        Fair
                       51                    55        56                    -76                0         Rain
                       57                    63        59                    -82                35        Fair
                       59                    62        55                    -79                32        Fair
                       62                    62        55                    -56                          Rain
           S 7
                       52                                                    -62                0 0       Rain
                                             59        59
            9          57                    64         54                   -51                48        Fair
        10             54                    61         51                   -46                36        Showery
        11             51                    56        49                    -30                10        Stormy
        12             47                    56         55                   -79            32            Showery
        13             56                    54        39                    -60            32            Cloudy
        14             39                    50        42                    -63            44            Fair
        15             45                    52        44                    -46                0         Stormy
        16             44                    42        45                    -20                26        Cloudy
        17             50                    55        41                 28'70              30           Stormy
        18             39                    47         38                29-50              33           Fair
        19             33                    47        41                   -70              30           Fair
        20             42                    51        50                   -60                 27        Cloudy
        21             49                    54        47                    -61                0         Rain
        22             51                    57         52                   -80            36            Fair
        23             54                    52        51                   -98              21           Cloudy
        24             53                    54        47                   -94                 15        Cloudy
        25             47                    50        43                   -89              27           Fair
        26             39                    46        40                 30-15              30           Fair
               W.B. The Barometer's height                                         is   taken at one o'clock.

                               [    321    ]
LIIT.     Some further Observations on a new detonating Sub
     stance.    In a Letter to the Right Honourable Sir Joseph
     Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S.             By Sir Humphrv Davy,
     LL.D. F.R.S. r.P.R.I*
                      I                  Berkeley-Square, June 20, 1813.
                           have already described,
which you were so good a3 to communicate to the Royal
                                                             in a letter
Society, a few facts respecting a new detonating compound.
I shall now do myself the honour of mentioning to you
some other particulars on the subject.
     I received, in April, a duplicate of the letter in which the
discovery was announced, containing an Appendix, in which
the method of preparing it was described.               M. Ampere, my
correspondent,      states  that the  author   obtained    it by passing
a mixture of azote and chlorine through aqueous solutions
of sulphate or muriate of ammonia.                 It is obvious, from
this statement, that the substance discovered in France, is
the same as that which occasioned my accident.                 The azote
cannot be necessary ; for the result is obtained by the ex
posure of pure chlorine to any common ammoniacal salt.
     Since I recovered the use of my eyes, I have made many
experiments on this compound ; it is probable that most of
 them have been made before in France ; but as no accounts
of the investigations of M. Dulong on the substance have
 appeared in any of the foreign journals which have reached
 this country, and as some difference of opinion and doubts
exist respecting its composition, I conceive a few details on
 its properties and nature will not be entirely devoid of in*
tercst.
      I have been able to determine its specific gravity, I hope,
 with tolerable precision, by comparing its weight at 6l°
 Fahrenheit, with that of an equal volume of water.                    8*6
 grains of the compound, carefully freed from the saline so
lution in which it was produced, filled a space equal to that
 filled by 5-2 grains of water, consequently its .specific gra
 vity is 1*653.
      When the compound is cooled artificiallv, either in water
 or in solution of nitrate of ammonia, the fluid surrounding
 it congeals at a temperature a little below 40° Fahrenheit,
 which seems to be owing to its becoming a solution of chlo
 rine ; for, as I have stated in a paper published in the Phi
 losophical Transactions, the saturated solution of chlorine
 in water freezes very readily.         The congelation of the fluid,
 in contact with the new compound, led me, when I first
           * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1813,
                                                            part ii.
  Vol. 42. No. 187. Nov. 1813.                  X                 operate*

322                            Further Observations
operated on it in very small quantities, to suppose it readily
rendered solid by cooling; but I find in experimenting upon
it,out of the contact of water, that        not frozenit  ex
                                                           is        by
posure to   mixture of ice and muriate of lime.
                      a
   The compound gradually disappears                       in
                                                   water, producing
azote, and the water becomes acid, and has the taste and
smell of       weak solution of nitio-muriatic acid.
                a
   The compound, when introduced into concentrated solu
tion of muriatic acid, quickly resolves itself into gas, pro
ducing much more than its own weight of elastic fluid,
which proves to be pure chlorine, and the solution evapo
rated affords muriate of ammonia.
   In concentrated nitric acid afforded azote.
                                         it it
   In diluted sulphuric acid           yielded     mixture of azote
                                                            a
and oxygen.
     Itdetonated in strong solutions of ammonia.             In weak
solutions       produced azote.
                  it
  It  united to or dissolved        sulphurane, pho3phorane, and
                                        in
alcohol   of  sulphur,  without   any violence of action, and dis
solved in moderately strong solution of fluoric acid, giving
it the power of acting upon silver.
   When         was exposed to pure mercury, out of the contact
                 it
of water, white powder and azote were the results.
                 a
   The first attempt that       made to determine the composi
                                   I
tion of the detonating substance, after my accident, was                  by
raising      in vapour in exhausted vessels, and then decom
posing        it it
                  heat   but in experiments of this kind, even
                          by   ;
though the whole of the substance was expanded into
elastic matter, yet the vessel was often broken                 by
                                                              the ex
plosion,   and    in several  instances    violent  detonations     oc
curred during the process of exhaustion, probably from the
contact of the vapour of the substance with the oil used in                    .
the pump.
   In the only instance in which was able to examine the
                                             I
products of the explosion of the substance in an exhausted
vessel, no muriatic acid or water was formed, and chlorine
and azote were produced          but;      was impossible to form
                                                 it
any correct opinion concerning the proportions of the
gaseous matter evolved, as an unknown quantity of com
mon air must have remained mixed with the vapour                     in
                                                                    the
vessel.
   The action of mercury on the compound appeared to
offer    more correct and less dangerous mode of attempting
          a
its analysis     but on introducing two grains under
                      ;                                           glass
                                                                     a
tube filled with mercury and inverted,            violent detonation
                                                           a
occurred,        whichby   was slightly wounded in the head and
                               I
                                                                hands,

                  on a new detonating Substance.            323
hands, and should have been severely wounded, had not my
eyes and face been defended by a plate of glass attached to
a proper cap, a precaution very necessary in all investiga
tions of this body.
    In using smaller quantities and recently distilled mercury,
I obtained the resulis of the experiments, without any vio
lence of action ; and though it is probable that some acci
dental circumstance might have occasioned the explosion
of the two grains, yet 1 thought it prudent, in my subse
quent experiments, to employ quantities which, in case of
detonation, would be insufficient to do any serious mis
chief.
    In the most accurate experiment that I made, -r^ths of a
grain   of the compound produced, by its action upon mer
cury, 49 grain measures of azote.       I collected the white
powder which had been formed in this and other operation*
of the same kind, and exposed it to heat. It sublimed un
altered, without giving off any elastic or fluid matter, which
there is the greatest reason to believe would not have hap-
pened, if the compound had contained hydrogen, or oxy
gen, or both. The sublimed substance had the properties
of a mixture of corrosive sublimate and calomel.
    If the results of this experiment be calculated upon, it
must be concluded that the compound consists of 57 of
azote to 643 of chlorine in weight, or 19 to 81 in volume;
but this quantity of azote is probably less than the true pro
portion, as there must have been some loss from evapora
tion, during the time the compound was transferred, and it
is possible that a minute quantity of it may have adhered
to mercury not immediately within the tube.
    The decomposition in this process is very simple, and
must be supposed to depend merely upon the attraction of
the mercury for chlorine, in consequence of which tha
azote is set free ; and if the result does not strictly demon
strate the proportions of chlorine and azote in the com
pound, yet it seems at least to show, that these are its only
constituents.
    As muriate of ammonia and chlorine are the only pro
ducts resulting from its action upon solution of muriatic
acid, it seems reasonable to infer, that this action depends
on a decomposition of part of the muriatic acid, by the at
 traction of the new compound for hydrogen to form am
monia, which, at the moment of its production, combines
 with another portion of the acid, the chlorine of both com
pounds being set free.
    On this view, the quantity of chlorine formed from »
                              X 2                        certain

324                  Further Observations
certain quantity of the compound being known, it becomes
easy to determine the composition of the compound ; for,
ammonia being formed of three volumes of hydrogen and
one of azote, and muriatic acid of one volume of hvdrogen
and one of chlorine, it is evident, that for every three volumes"
of chlorine evolved by the decomposition of muriatic acid,
one volume of azote must be detached from the compound;
and the weight of chlorine in the compound must be less
than the weight of the whole quantity of chlorine produced
by a portion, which is to the azote in ihe compound as
205 to 2295, if the relative specific gravities of the two
gases be considered as 2 62 7 and 1.
    Two grains of the compound, when exposed at the tem
perature of 62° Fahrenheit, and under a pressure of the at
mosphere equal lo that of 30-l inches of mercury to strong
solution of muriatic acid in a proper apparatus, afforded
3't)l cubic inches of chlorine.
    In another experiment, one grain of the compound af
 forded 1'625 cubic inch of chlorine.
    In a third experiment, one grain produced only 1*52 cu
bic inch.
    In the two last experiments the compound was acted upon
much more slowly, and the gas generated exposed to a
much larger surface of solution of muriatic acid, and the
appearance of a smaller relative proportion of chlorine must
be ascribed to the absorption of a larger proportion of that
gas by the liquid acid; and I found by exposing concen
trated solution of muriatic acid to chlorine, that it soon
 absorbed nearly its volume of that gas.
    I attempted to remove the source of error in the experi
ment, by using liquid muriatic acid holding chlorine in so
 lution; but in this case the quickness of the action of the
compound on the acid was greatly diminished ; and it not
being easy to obtain the point of absolute saturation of the
acid with chlorine, some of the gas was absorbed in the
nascent state during its slow production ; and in most of
my experiments made in this manner, I obtained less chlo
rine from a given weight of the compound, than in operat
ing on pure solution of muriatic acid.
    Liquid muriatic acid, whether concentrated or diluted in
its pure state, does not affect the colour of the sulphuric
solution of indigo; but it is immediately destroyed by so
lutions containing chlorine dissolved in them. The quan
tity of solution of indigo, which is deprived of colour by a
given quantity of solution of chlorine, is directly as the
proportion of chlorine it contains ; and I found that the
                                                             same

                   on a new detonating   Substance.       325
  same quantity of chlorine, whether dissolved in a large or a
 small quantity of solution of muriatic acid, destroyed the
 colour of the same quantity of the blue liquor.
    On this circumstance it was easy to found a method of
 determining the precise quantity of chlorine produced in
 solution of muriatic acid, from a given quantity of the
 compound ; namely, by comparing the power of a given
 quantity of muriatic acid, containing a known quantity of
 chlorine, to destroy the colour of solutions of indigo, with
 that of the muriatic acid, in which the compound had pro
 duced chlorine.
    Two experiments were made. In the first, a grain of
 the compound was exposed on a large surface beneath a
 tube inverted in about six cubic inches of solution of mu
 riatic acid, and the chlorine absorbed by agitation as it was
 formed. The acid so treated destroyed the colour of seven
 cubic inches of a diluted sulphuric solution of indigo; and
 it was found, by several comparative trials, that exactly the
 same effect was produced in another equal portion of the
 same solution of indigo, by 2-'2 cubic inches of chlorine
 dissolved in the same quantity of muriatic acid.
    In the second experiment, 1*3 cubic inch of chlorine
 was evolved in the gaseous form, the thermometer being
 at 56", and barometer at 30-33, and suffered to pass into
 the atmosphere; and by the test of the solution of indigo,
 it was found that '75 of a cubic inch remained dissolved in
 the acid.
    Now, if the mean of these two experiments be taken, it
 appears  that 1*61 grain of chlorine are produced in solu
 tion of muriatic acid by the action of a grain of the com
 pound ; and calculating on the data just now referred to,
 the compound must consist of 9t of chlorine and nine of
 azote in. weight, which in volume will be nearly \ 19 to 30;
 and this estimation differs as little as might he expected
 from that gained by the action of mercury upon the com
 pound.
       It may fairly  concluded, that M. Gay-Lussae's prin
                       be
 ciple of the combination of gaseous bodies, in definite
 volumes, strictly applies to this compound, and that it
 really consists of four volumes of chlorine to one of azote ;
.and the volumes likewise exactly coincide with the laws of
 definite proportions ; and the detonating compound may he
 regarded as composed of one proportion of azote 26, and
 four proportions of chlorine 261.
    | attempted a comparative experiment on the proportions
 jn.the compound,       estimating the quantity of azote pro-
                            by
                                 X   3                  duced

326            Olservations        on a new detonating     Substance.
duced in the decomposition of ammonia by it ; but I found
that this process was of no value for the purpose of ana
lysis, for water appeared to be decomposed at the same time
with Ihe ammonia, and nitric acid formed; and, in conse
quence, the quantity of azote evolved was much less than
it would have been, supposing the ammonia decomposed
by the mere attraction                  of'
                             chlorine for hydrogen.
    The results of the analvsis of the new compound are in
teresting for several reasons.
    They show, what teemed probable from other facts, that
there     no strict law of analogy, which regulates the com
          is
binations of the same substance with different substances.
As three of hydrogen combine with one of azote, and one
of hydrogen with one of chlorine,            thought   Iprobable it
that the new compound would contain three of chlorine to
one of azote; which       not the case.
                                   is
    This compound        the first instance known of one pro
                                  is
portion of      substance uniting to four proportions of an
                    a
other substance, without some intermediate compound of
1  and    I, and
               1     and    and
                             2,      and the fact should render
                                       1           3
                                                   ;
us cautious in adopting hypothetical views of the composi
tion of bodies from the relations of the quantities in which
they combine.       Those who argue that there must be one
proportion of oxysen in azote, because there ought to be
six proportions in nitric acid, instead of five, which are pro
duced from                   by
                      analysis, might with full as much pro
                        it
priety contend, that there must be azote in chlorine in some
simple multiple of that existing in the compound.
     Itmay be useful to show, that many hypotheses may be
framed upon the same principles; and which, consequently,
must be equally uncertain.       Views of this nature may be im
portant     directing the practical chemist in his researches
               in                                                              ;
but the philosopher should carefully avoid the development
of them with confidence, and the confounding them with
practical results.
   The compound of chlorine and azote agrees with the
compounds of the same substance with sulphur, phosphorus,
and the metals, in being          non-conductor of electricity;
                                              a
and these compounds are likewise decomposable              heat,      by
though they require that of Voltaic electricity.
   Sulphur combines only          one proportion with chlorine;
                                              in
and hence the action of sulphurane, or Dr. Thomson's
muriatic liquor upon water, like that of the new compound,
is not   simple phsenomenon of double decomposition.
          a
   It seems proper to designate this new body              some       by
name     azotane
          :          the term that would be applied to
                             is                               ac         it,
                                                                        cording

        On a new systematic Arrangement          of Colours.     327
cording to my ideas of its analogy to the other bodies
which contain chlorine; but I am not desirous, in the pre
sent imperfect and fluctuating state of chemical nomencla
ture, to press the adoption of any new word, particularly as
applied to a substance not discovered by mvself.
                    I am, my dear sir, very sincerely yours,
                                               Humphrv Davv.
LIV.    On a new systematic        Arrangement    of Colours.     By
                         T. Forster, Esq.
                           To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, — Since      my communication on the subject of a more
perfect nomenclature and classification of colours, I have
met with Mr. Sowerby's work on Colours, and have had
 some conversation with the author on this subject.               He
expressed   his   opinion  to me  that such a  nomenclature    might
be formed as I have hinted at in my paper; namely, one
which should express their varieties by reference to the pro
 portions of the primitive colours which made up each of
 the compounds.
    According to the most recent theory, there are only
 three primitive colours., each of which is distinct from the
 other two, and none of which can be artificially made by
 any compound of other colours; they are, for example,
 the red, the blue, and the yellow of the prism.             The pri
 mitive red should be distinguished from all other reds, as
 the latter are mixtures of the former, with some proportions
 of one or other of the remaining colours.            The same ob
 servation holds good       with respect  to  the  primitive yellow
 and blue.      In the formation of different colours, the pri
 mitive colours are mixed either in binary or ternary com
  pounds.
     The binary compounds are : Firstly, the combinations of
  red and yellow, which, according to the proportion in which
  they are combined, make all those varieties between red
  and yellow, which, when mixed in pretty equal quantities,
  are called orange colour.        Secondlv, the combinations of
  red and blue, which make all the crimsons, lake colours and
  purples.     And lastly, the combinations of yellow and blue,
  making   all  the varieties of green.
     The ternary compounds are the browns, various, indeed,
  according to difference of the proportions. Accordingly as
  oue or the other preponderates, it will be a blueish, a reddish, or
                                 X 4                      a yellowish

a2B      On a new systematic Arrangement      of Colours.
a  yellowish brown ; if blue and yellow preponderate, 4
greenish or oiive brown.
   Though, at first view of the subject, it seems difficult to
reconcile this theory with the numerous tints displayed on
the surfaces of different bodies ; yet experiments seem to
warrant the notion, that all the tints in nature are com
pounds of these primitive colours, varied in the way I have
described.     To construct a nomenclature to express these
said proportions, we must first get an idea of the proportions
themselves      which are requisite to produce given com
pound    colours.   This may, I think, bt- done in some mea
sure by mixing together repeatedly different liquors coloured
with the primitive colours ; and which were known to
have no such chemical action on each other by mixture, as
should destroy the result of the compound by producing a
different colour the result of chemical changes in the mixed
liquid.    Prismatic mixtures might be made the criterion,
whether the colour resulting from the liquid mixtures
were ihe genuine effects of the compound of colour; or
whether chemical changes in the substance had not given
one something different.
   Having hinted, as above, at the manner in which a more
correct nomenclature for colours might be formed by an
analysis of the proportions of the primitive colours in the
compounds; and having before spoken ofamo.de of forming a
more useful classification for common purposes, by reference
to specific flowers, as affording standard colours ; I shall
conclude with exposing the inexplicit nature of our present
names, by an etymological inquiry into their true import.
And first of the primitive colours.
Yellow.        This word is derived from the Anglo-Saxon
      verb   geaelgan, accendere, to inflame,  and signifies the
      colour of flame, which is a sort of a yellowish colour.
      In like manner the Latin fiammeus, as well as flpvusj
      come from ^Xey^a, flame, from ^Xsyeiv.        The Italian
      giallo, and French jaune, seem to have bad a com
      mon origin with yellow.
Red. However the real difference between red and yellow
      may be demonstrated by a prism, I suspect the ety-,
      mology expresses no difference.       The etymology of
      the word seems doubtful.      Home Tooke has omitted
      it in his etymological account of colours in the Diver
      sions of Purley. I suspect, however, it may have some
      connection with the word ray, and expresses the co

       On a new systematic Arrangement        of Colours.     329
     lour of the sun's rays. In this sense, it has the same
     real import as yellow.         The Anglo-Saxon word is
      peafe.     The  Latin  rubere,   whence ruber and rufer,
     was sometimes used simply for splendescere, to shine.
Blue. This word seems to come from blopan, florere, to
   . blow as a flower       does, and signifies the colour of
     flowers ; certainly the most indefinite of all our names
     for colours.
     I  next    proceed to the compounds ; and first the bi
         naries.
Green is derived from thp Anglo-Saxon verb jqienman or
     jjienman, virescere.      In like manner the Latin virere
     gave the adjective viridis.
Purple. This word, commonly used in modern times
     for the mixture of red and blue, is derived from the           ,
     Latin purpureus ; and signifies only flame-coloured,
     from mp, fire. The word is variously applied by the
     Romans to substances differing essentially in colour.
     They used also many other indefinite words for this
      kind of colour, as ostreus, phcenicius (i.e. color pal-
     mulce) &c.       Certain varieties of this binary are ex
      pressed by the words crimson, pink, lake, &c.
Orange. We have no name for this third binary, but such
      as has reference to the colours of specific bodies, as
     orange ; or such as represent the compound, as yel
     lowish red.
         The ternary only remains to be spoken of, and
Brown is a corruption of the past participle of the Anglo-
     Saxon verb bpennaa, mere, to burn ; and signifies the
      colour of burnt substances ; having etymologically no
      distinction between it and ash colour.       In like man
      ner the Latin fuscus comes from $«xrit«v, ustulare, as
      noticed by Tooke ; and has the same real meaning,
      as well as the same application, as brown.           Query,
      Whence come fulvus and aqinlus?
White        comes from   ©A'1*QAN        spumare.
Pur word Gray is derived from Ttpigniau, inficere, mean
      ing the colour of tainted, infused, or damaged arti
      cles, and is most properly used when applied to mix
      tures, which appear as if tainted or tinged with foreign
      colours, as the salt and pepper mixtures, &c.
The   dilutions   of yellow by white are called straw colour.
Black      has   probably the same root as lleak, perhaps from
      blaecan, and signifies     deprived of colour;      and the
        inary carroty and sandy ; together with olive, vermi-
        on, violet, rose-colour,     lilac, cherry-colour, horn-
                                                            colour,

330                      Observations relative to
       colour, are obvious ; as are the Latin luteus, cimreus,
       caerultus, glaucus,   prasiuvs,   aureus, violacev.s, and
       manv others.     I shall dismiss this subject at present,
       hopine that it may be pursued till we have a more
       expressive and complete set of names, &c.
                    I remain yours, &c.
  Clapton, Nov.    1, 1813.                      THOMAS FoRSTER.
'LV.    Observations relative to the near and distant Sight               of
   different Persons.    By James Ware, Esq. F.R.S*
The       fact that near-sightedness    most commonly com
mences      at an earlv period of life, and distant-sightedness
 generally at an advanced age, is universally admitted.      Ex
 ceptions, however, to these rules so frequently occur, that
 T flatter myself a brief statement of some of the coincident
 circumstances     attendant on these different imperfections
 in vision, may not be found wholly undeserving the atten
 tion of the Royal Society.     Near-sightedness usually comes
 on between the ages often and eighteen.        The discovery of
 it most commonly arises from accident; and. at first, the
 inconvenience it occasions is so little, that it is not impro
 bable the imperfection would remain altogether unnoticed,
if a comparison were not instituted with the sight of others,
 or if the experiment were not made of looking through a
 concave glass.     Among persons in the inferior stations of
society, means are rarely resorted to for correcting slight
 defects of this nature ; and, indeed, I have reason to be
lieve the imperfection in such people is not unfrequently
overcome by the increased exertions that are made by the
.eye to distinguish distant objects.     This, however, is not
the case, in the present dav, with persons in the higher
ranks of life.     When these discover that their discernment
of distant objects is less quick or less correct than that
of others, though the difference may be very slight, in
fluenced perhaps by fashion more than by necessity, they
immediately have recourse to a concave glass ; the natural
consequence of w hich         is,
                             that their eyes in   short time be
                                                      a
come so fixed in the state requiring its assistance, that the
recovery of distant vision       rendered afterwards extremely
                                    is
difficult,if   not quite impossible.    With regard to the pro
portion between the number of near-sighted persons in the
different ranks of society,      have taken pains to obtain sa-
                                    I
         *   From the Philosophical Transactions for 1813, part   i.
                                                                  tisfactory

       the near and distant Sight      of different Persons.      331
tisfactory information, by making inquiry in those places
where a farge number in these several classes are associated
together.    I have inquired, for instance, of the surgeons of
the  three regiments of foot guards, which consist of nearly
ten thousand men; and the result 'has been, that near
sightedness, among the privates, is almost utterly unknown.
Not half a dozen men have been discharged, nor half a
dozen recruits rejected, on account of this imperfection, in
the space of nearlv twenty years : and yet many parts of
a soldier's duty require        him to have a tolerably correct
view of distant objects ; as of the movements of the fugle
man in exercise, and of the bull's eye when shooting at
 the target ; the want of which might furnish a plausible
 apology for a skulker to skreen himself from dutv, or to
get his discharge from the service.         I pursued my inquiries
at    the  military  school  at Chelsea,  where    there are thirteen
 hundred children, and I found that the complaint of near
 sightedness had never been made among them until I men
 tioned it ; and there were then only three who experienced
 the least inconvenience from it.         After this, f inquired at
 several of the colleges in Oxford and Cambridge ; and,
 though there is a great diversity in the number of students
 who make use of glasses in the various colleges, they are
 used by a considerable proportion of the whole number in
 both universities; and, in one college in Oxford, I have
 a list of the names of not less than thirtv-two out of one
  hundred and twenty-seven,          who wore either a hand glass
 or spectacles, between the years 1P03 and 1807.              It is not
 improbable, that some of these were induced to do it solely
  because the practice was fashionable ; but, I believe, the
 number of such is inconsiderable, when compared with
  that of those whose sight received some small assistance
  from them, though this assistance could have been dis
  pensed with, without inconvenience, if the practice had
  not been introduced.       The misfortune resulting from the use
  of concave glasses is this, that the'near-sightedness is not
  only fixed by  it,   but
                         a    habit of inquiry  is  induced with re
  gard    to the   extreme   perfection  of  vision;   and, inconse
  quence     of  this, frequent changes   are  made    for glasses that
  are more and more concave, until at length the near
   sightedness becomes so considerable, as to be rendered se
  riously inconvenient and afflicting.        It  should be remem
  bered, that, for common purposes, every near-sighted eye
   pan see with nearly equal accuracy through two glasses,
  pne of which     is    one number deeper than the other       ;   and
  ^hough the sight be in     a   slight degree more assisted     by  the
                                                               deepest

332                              Observations relative to
 deepest of these than by the other, yet on its being first
 used, the deepest number always occasions an uneasy sen
 sation, as if the eye was strained.         If, therefore, the glass
 that is most concave be at first employed, the eye, in a lit
 tle time, will be accommodated to             and thenit,   glass one          a
 number deeper may be used with similar advantage to the
 sight and
         ;        the wish for enjoving the most perfect vision
                   if
 be indulged, this glass may soon be changed for one that                                       is
a   number still deeper, and so         succession, until at length
                                                 in
it  will be difficult to obtain      glass sufficiently concave to
                                             a
 afford the assistance that the eye requires*.
    Although near-sightedness            in general gradual in its
                                                  is
 progress, instances occasionally       occur  of its existence,                            in   a
 considerable degree, even         children
                                        in         whom;         some
                                                                in              it   is
 times discovered almost as soon as they begin to take notice
 of the objects around them. This mav be occasioned                                             by
 some degree of opacity in the transparent parts of the eye
 but such     cause of near-sightedness
              a                                 easilv discovered
                                                           is                                   by ;
 an examination, and         quite different
                                   is         from   that state of the
eye to which the term myopia, or near-sightedness,                                              is
usually applied         ;    by
                           which       simply meant, too great
                                             is                                                  a
 convexity either        the cornea or in the crystalline, in pro
                            in
 portion to the distance of these parts from the retina;.            In
 such cases of extreme near-sisrhtedness              children,      in,                   it    is
 sometimes necessary to deviate from rule, which       a       slighter         in
casesJ   always follow, qf discouraging the use of spectacles                                    ;
since, without their assistance,          would be impossible for
                                                  it
them to prosecute their learning with ease or convenience.
    Extreme near-sigiitedness        sometimes occasioned
                                             is                      an                   by
evident change in the spherical figure of the cornea, and its
 assumption of        conical shape. This morbid state of the
                        a
cornea       not only productive of near-sightedness,
             is                                                    but,
when the projection         considerable, vision
                                  is                   so much con    is
fused, that        affords little or no service, and cannot be
                   it
amended           by
               any glass.     The cornea, in most of these cases,
is  preternatural!)'  thin,  and  not unfrequentiy             accom       it   is
panied    with   symptoms     of  general debilitv;     under    which
last circumstance chalybeate medicines, and bracing appli
cations to the eye, have been found to afford considerable
benefit.
   *   have observed that most of the near-sighted
     I                                                persons, with whom                        I
have had an opportunity of conversing, have had the right eye more near
sighted than the' left; and   think
                                 I   not improbable, that this difference be
                                        it
tween the two eyes has been occasioned by the habit of using      single con    a
cave ha:;d-g!ass; which, being most commonly applied to the right eye,
contributes,. agreeably to the remark above mentioned, to render this eye
more near-sighted than the other.
                                                                                          Near-

     the near and distant Sight             of different   Persons.   333
    Near-sightedness, to an alarming degree, has sometimes
 attacked young persons suddenly.       A remarkahle case of
 this kind came under my notice a few years ago in a young
              ai Westminster school, who had been attended
   y Sir George Baker and Mr. Sutherland, on account of a
 eentleman
/Variety of anomalous nervous symptoms.     These had wholly
 left him before I was consulted; and the consultation with
  me was solely for the purpose of determining whether he
 might be permitted to make use of concave glasses, and to
  return to the business of the school.   The patient's health
  at that time not being perfectly restored, it was thought
  adviseable to send him for a few weeks into the country,
  and to postpone the use of glasses. yThis advice was fol
 lowed ; but in ten days the afflicted youth died suddenly.
 No anatomical examination of the head was permitted by
 the relatives.  It seems, however, probable, that the near
 sightedness, as well as the previous indisposition, no less
 than the death of the patient, were occasioned by the pres
  sure of a morbid substance of some kind or other on the
  source of the nerves in the brain.
     Near-sightedness is seldom alike in the two eyes, and a
  few cases have come under my observation, in which one
  eye of the same person has had a near, and the' other a
 distant sight.
    It has been said by Dr. Porterfield*, that the pupils of
  near-sighted persons are more dilated than those of others.
 This,    however, does not accord with the observations I
  have made in such cases.
     It has also been commonly believed, that the size of the
  pupil is influenced by the distance of the object to which
  the attention is directed, this aprrture being enlarged when
  the object is far off, and becoming more and more con
  tracted as it is brought near.        But though the activity of
  the fibres of the iris is sometimes sufficient to be visibly in
  fluenced by this circumstance, yet in the greater number
  even of those cases where tli.- dilatation and contraction of
  the pupil are powerfully influenced byva difference in the
   strength of the light, the distance of the object considered
  alone, produces so little effect upon                it,
                                                  as to be scarcely
   perceived.    That  it has, however,      general, some degree
                                                  in
   of power on the pupil        highlv probable; and an extraor
                               is
  dinary   instance of  this kind exists, at the present time, in           a
   lady between thirtv and forty years of age, the pupil of
   whose right eye, when she        not engaged in reading, or in
                                    is is
   working with her needle,          always dilated very nearly to
     *   Treatite on the Eye and the Manner of Vision, rol. ii. p. 38.
                                                                         the

 334                    Observations relative to
 the rim     of the cornea; but whenever              she   looks at a small
 object, nine inches from            the eye, it contracts, within less
 than a minute, to a size nearlv as small as the head of a
 pin.      Her left pupil is not affected like the right; but in
-every degree of light and distance, it is contracted rather
 more than is usual in other persons.               The vision is not pre
 cisely alike     in the   two   eyes ;  the  right eye being in a small
 degree near-sighted, and receiving assistance from the first
 number of a concave glass, whereas the left eye derives no
 benefit from it. This remarkable dilatation of the pupil of
 the right eye was first noticed about twenty years ago,
 and a variety of remedies have been employed at different
 times with a view to correct it ; but none of them have
 made any alteration.              It should be mentioned, that, in
 order to produce the contraction of the pupil, the object
 looked at must be placed exactly nine inches from the eye ;
 and if it be brought nearer, it has no more power to pro
 duce the contraction than if it were placed at a remoter
 distance.       It should also be mentioned, that the con
 tinuance of the contraction of the pupil depends, in some
 degree, on the state of the lady's health; since, though its
 contraction never remains long after the attention is with
 drawn from a near object, yet whenever she is debilitated
 by a temporary ailment, the contraction is of much shorter
 duration than when her health is entire*.
     Dr. Wells, in his ingenious paper, published in the Se
 cond Part of the Transactions of the Royal Society for the
 year 1811, has taken pains to ascertain, whether the power
 by which the eye is adjusted to see at different distances,
 depends in any degree on the faculty in the pupil of dilating
 and contracting ; and whether its fixed dilatation has any
 influence in preventing an accurate view of near objects.
 This last-mentioned effect Dr. Wells relates to have taken
 place remarkably in the case of Dr. Cutting, whose pupil
 being fixed in a dilated state by the action of the extract of
    * Several instances have come under my notice, in which the pupil of one
 eye has becomedilated to a great degree, and has been incapable of contracting
 on an increase of light, whilst the pupil of the other eye has remained of its
 natural size. In some of these, the eye with the dilated pupil has been to
 tally deprived of sight, the disorder answering to that of a perfect amaurosis ;
 but in others, the dilatation of the pupil has only occasioned an inability to
 distinguish minute objects.    Reading has been accomplished with difficulty,
 and convex glasses have afforded very little assistance.    Though objects at
 a distance were seen with less inconvenience      than those that were near,
 these also appeared to the affected eye much less distinct than to the other.
 Most of the persons to whom 1 allude had been debilitated, by fatigue or
 anxiety, before the imperfection was discovered in the sight ; and in some
 it had been preceded by affections of the stomach and alimentary canal.
                                                                  belladonna,

       the near and     distant Sight    of different   Persons.       335
belladonna, perfect vision of a near object was removed, as
the dilatation advanced, from six inches (which was the
nearest distance at which Dr. Cutting could distinctly see
the image of the flame of a candle reflected from the bulb
of a small thermometer) to seven inches in thirty minutes,
and to three feet and a half in three quarters of an hour.
My eldest son, who has a very extensive range of vision, has
made a similar experiment on his right eye with a similar
result.     Previous to the application of the belladonna, he
could bring the apparent lines on an optometer (like that
improved by Dr. Young from the invention of Dr. Porter-
field, and described in the Philosophical Transactions for
the year 1800) to meet at four inches from the eye; and,
by directing his attention to a more distant point, he could
prevent them from meeting till they were seven inches
from the eye, after which they continued apparently united
the whole length of the optometer, which was twelve
inches *.      He could see the image of a candle reflected from
the bulb of a small thermometer, five-sixteenths of an inch
in diameter, at the distance of three inches and three quar
ters from the eye ; and he could also see the same image
at the distance of two feet seven inches.                The belladonna
produced     a conspicuous      dilatation   of  the   pupil in less than
an hour; after which, on viewing the apparent lines on the
optometer, he was unable to make them meet at a nearer
distance than seven inches, or to gain a distinct image of
the candle reflected by the bulb of the thermometer nearer
than this distance; but he could discern it at two feet ten
inches from the eye, which was three inches further than
he was able to see it before the belladonna was applied.
During the time of the experiment on the right eye, the
left eye possessed its usual range of vision ; but the sight,
when both eyes were open, was rather confused, in conse-
qnence of the unequal foci of the two eyes ; and it did not
become clear until the pupil of the right eye recovered its
usual power of contracting, which power was not acquired
till the third day after the application of the belladonna.
     It is remarkable that a different effect is sometimes
 produced on a near-sighted eye by the application of the
 belladonna, from that which it has on an eye that enjoys a
distant sight. Dr. Wells made an experiment of this kind
   * The two lines that are perceived on looking through the slits of an
optometer, cross each other precisely in the point from whence the rays of
light diverge in order to be brought to a focus on the retina.    And their
apparent union before and after this point is occasioned by the unavoidable
thickness of the line drawn on the optometer.
                                                                         on

  336                Observations relative to
  on a friend of his, who was near-sighted ; and he informs
  us, in ihe paper above referred to, that in this instance, the
  nearest point of perfect vision was moved forwards during
  the dilatation of the pupil, whilst its remote point remained
  unaltered.    1 have made a similar experiment     on the eyes
  of several such persons ; and though in two of these the
  result appeared to be similar to that which has been men
  tioned by Dr. Wells, yet, in the greater number, their
  sight, like that of those. who were not myopic, has become
  more distant as the pupil became more dilated. — In one
  gentleman, in whom the lines of the optometer appeared to
  meet at four inches and a quarter from the eye, the pupil*
  in half an hour after the application of the belladonna, be
  came completely dilated, and in consequence of this the
  sight at first was confused; but both on that day, and for
  two days afterwards, it was evidently more distant, and the
  apparent lines on the optometer could not be made to meet
  nearer than seven inches from the eye. — In a young lady,
  seventeen years of age, whose right eye was so near-sighted
  that the apparent lines on the optometer met at two inches
  and three quarters from the eye, these lines, when the pupil
  was dilated (which took place in a small degree in less than
  half an hour), could not be made to meet in less than three
  inches and a quarter; and on the following day, the pupil
  being more dilated, the lines did not meet till they were at
  the distance of nearly four inches. — In a third instance,
  viz. that of a lady forty-five years of age, who had been
  remarkably near-sighted from her infancy, and for many
  years had used concave glasses of the fifteenth number,
  (which number is ground on each side, upon a tool the ra
  dius of which is only three inches,) the sight was become
  so confused in both eyes, that she saw nothing distinctly,
  and was unable to read letters of the size that are used in
  the printed Transactions of the Royal Society, either with
  or without a glass.     In this case, after the pupils had been
  dilated by the application of the belladonna, the sight was
/ so much improved that she was able to read a print of the
  abovememioned       size at the distance of two inches 'with
  either eye.    I do not insist, however, on the present case,
  because, though there was not any visible opacity in the
  crystalline, this sometimes exists in a small degree without
  being perceptible even to an attentive observer ; and it may
  be doubted whether the amendment           in the lady's vision
  were not occasioned solely by the retraction of the iris from
  before a part of the crystalline that was not yet become
  opaque: it being well known that the outer part of this
                                                              lens

           the near and distant Sight   of different Persons.     337
  lens not (infrequently retains its transparency for some time
   after an opacity has commenced in the part that surrounds
  its centre.
      It is evident, that near-sightedness has no dependence on
  the greater or smaller degree of convexity possessed by the
  -cornea, when this circumstance is considered alone; since
  the length of the axis of the eye from the cornea to the re
  tina, and the greater or smaller degree of convexity in the
 .crystalline humour, must be also regarded, before the di
  stance of accurate vision can be determined.
      It is no less evident, that near-sightedness is not neces
  sarily occasioned by a morbid protrusion of the whole eye ;
 since some persons are born with eyes of this description,
  and others acquire the peculiarity, when further advanced
  in life, in consequence of a morbid accumulation of adeps
  at the bottom of the orbit, without either of them being
  more near-sighted than those who are free from this im
 perfection.
      I have seen many instances in which oW persons, who have
 -been long accustomed to use convex glasses of considerable
 power, have recovered their former sight          at the advanced
 age    of eighty or ninety years, and have then had no further
 need of them.       Dr. Porterfield was of opinion that in such
 cases jhe amendment is occasioned by a decay of adeps at
 the bottom of the orbit ; in consequence of which the eye,
 from a want of the usual support behind, is brought, by
the pressure of the muscles on its sides, into a kind of oval
figure, in which      state the retina is removed to its due focal
distance from the flattened cornea.          But if a morbid ab
 sorption    of adeps  at  the bottom  of the  orbit were sufficient
to restore the presbyopic to a good sight, it might be ex
 pected that a morbid accumulation of adeps in this part
 would produce a presbyopic or distant sight. This, how
ever, has not happened in any of the cases that have come
under my notice. On the contrary, in some such persons
a degree of near-sightedness         has been induced by the ac
cumulation j and in others the sight, with regard to di
stance, has not been affected by it.        It appears to me more
probable, that this remarkable revolution in the sight of
old persons is occasioned by an absorpticn of part of the vi
treous humour ; in consequence of which, the sides of the
sclerotica are pressed inward, and the axis of the eye, by
this lateral pressure, is proportionably lengthened.        An al-
teratipn of this kind is also sufficient to explain the reason,
why such aged persons retain the power of distinguishing
objects at a distance, at the same time that they recover the
     Vol. 42. Ne. 187, Nov. 1813,               Y           faculty

   3S8                         Observations relative to
    faculty of seeing those that           are near ; since the lengthened
    axis  of the   eye leaves the power          by which it is adjusted to
    see  at   different    distances,      precisely   in the same     state    ir>.
   which it was before the lengthening of the axis took
    place*.
       Although old persons lose the power of distinguishing
   correctly near objects, and require for this purpose the aid
    of convex glasses, they usually retain the sight of those
    that are distant as well as when they were young.                        In
   stances, however, are not wanting of persons advanced in
   life, who require the aid of convex glasses to enable them
   to see near as well as distant objects.               Dr. Wells is one of
   these.      He informs us, in the paper to which I have more
   than once adverted, that when twenty years younger, he
   was able, with his left eye, to bring to a focus on the retina,
   pencils of rays which flowed from every distance greater
   than seven inches from the cornea ; but at the age of fifty-
   five, he required not only a convex glass of six inches focus,
   to enable him to bring to a point on the retina rays pro
   ceeding from an object seven inches from the eye, but like
   wise a convex glass of thirty-six inches focus, to enable
   liim to bring to a point parallel rays. — There are also in
  stances of young persons, who have so disproportionate                          a
  convexity of the cornea or crystalline, or of both, to the
  distance of these parts from the retina, that a glass of con
  siderable convexity is required to enable them to see di
  stinctly, not only near objects, but also those that are di
  stant ; and it is remarkable, that the same glass will enable
  many such persons to see both near and distant objects ;
  thus proving that the defect in their sight is occasioned
  solely by too small a convexity in one of the parts above
  mentioned, and that it does not influence the power by
  which their eyes are adapted to see at distances variously
  remote.        In this respect such persons differ from those who
  have had the crystalline humour removed by an operation ;
  since the latter always require a glass to enable them to dis
  cern distant objects, different from that which they use to
  see those that are near.           This circumstance, in my appre
  hension, affords a convincing proof that the crystalline hu
 mour is indispensably necessary to enable the eye to see at
 different distances. — It is also worthy of remark, that per-
     *Dr. Young, in the paper to which I alluded in pa^e 335, has described
 a great number    of ingenious experiments devised by him, to show that the
 faculty of seeing at different distances is produced by a power in the crystal
 line humour, to become more or less convex, according as the object is more
-er less distant from the ey«.
                                                                          SOUS

       (he near and distant Sight  of different Persons.    339
sons who have had the crystalline humour removed, have
less power to ascertain the distance of an object when they
look through a convex glass, than when they view it with
out this assistance ; in consequence of which such persons
seldom make use of glasses when they are walking : and
the inconvenience of glasses is particularly experienced when
they descend a flight of steps, or pass over uneven ground.
    Near-sighted persons do not appear to possess the same
extent of vision that is enjoyed by those who have a distant
sight. Being near-sighted, I have repeatedly endeavoured
to ascertain my own range of vision : and I find, bv ex
amining the focus of my right eye through the abovemen-
tioned optometer, that I see two converging lines, which
 appear to meet, with very slight variations, at the distance
 of three inches from the eye ; and no effort I am able to
 make can keep these lines united further than the distance
 of four inches and a quarter. They then separate, and
 continue to diverge.     With my left eye, the lines do not
 appear   to meet  nearer than four inches, and they continue
 united as far as five inches and a quarter, after which they
 also separate and diverge ; so that the range of distinct
 vision in me does not extend further than an inch and a
 quarter in either eye; and within these distances I always
 hold a book when I read. — I find also the following rule,
 for determining the concavity of the glass that is best
 adapted for near-sighted persons, to be perfectly correct
 with respect to myself, and, I believe, it may be safely
 adopted by those who, from distance or any other cause,
 are unable to suit themselves at the shop of an expert opti
 cian. The rule is this. Multiply the distance at which the
 person reads with ease, (which, with my left or brst eye, is
 five inches,) by that at which he wishes to read, which may
 be said to be twelve inches; divide the product, sixty, by
 seven, the difference between the two, and it leaves nearly
  nine inches for the focus of the concave glass that shall
  produce the desired effect.   This is the exact concavity of
  the glass that I am obliged to use, to enable me to read
  with ease ; and it answers to that sold under the name of
  No. 6 ; which, I am informed by Mr. Blunt the optician,
  is a double concave glass, ground on a tool of eight inches
  radius on one side, and eleven inches on the other, the mean
  between which is very nearly nine inches.         With a glass
  of this description I can read the smallest print; but to di
  stinguish distant objects I am obliged to look through that
  denominated     No. 9, by opticians, which is ground on a
  tool of nine inches radius on both sides.      In this respect,
                               Y  9                           my

 340                     Observations relative to
  my   eye has varied from what it was a few years ago, when
  I was able to distinguish both near and distant objects cor-
  Tectly, through No. 8. This is ground to a radius of eight
  inches on one side, and six inches on the other, and with
  it I can still read a type like that in which the Transactions
  of the Royal Society are printed ; but am unable to distin
  guish through it many distant objects, which I formerly
  used to see distinctly. — Hence it appears that my eyes have
  a confined range of distinct vision, extending only to an
  inch, or an inch and a quarter ; and that they remain nearly
  in the same state in which they were many years ago with
  regard to near objects, but have lost a part of the power
  which they formerly possessed, of adjusting themselves to
  distant ones.     In this last respect, they differ from the eyes
  of those who have naturally a distant sight, since, as such
  persons advance in life, they usually retain the power of
  distinguishing distant objects, but lose that of seeing those
  that are near.     It appears to militate also against the com
  mon observation, that as near-sighted persons grow older
 they becom^ less near-sighted; since my eyes, on the con
 trary, are more near-sighted, at the age of fiftv-five, than
 they were at twenty-five, and I am now obliged to employ
 deeper concave glasses than I then used to see distant ob
jects, though     I  am not able to see distinctly through them
 things that are near.
     The alteration which has taken place in my range of vi
 sion, I have reason to believe is not unusual. Dr. Wells,
 in his paper on this subject, mentions the case of a gentle
 man, who, like me, was near-sighted, and whose sight, as
 he advanced in life, had undergone a similar change. — .The
 following is also an instance of this kind, that is still more
 remarkable.      Mr. L. sixty- six years of age, who has spent
 a great part of his life in the West Indies, and whose sight,
 when he was young, enabled him to see both near and
 distant objects with great precision, began, at the age of
 forty, to experience a difficulty in reading and writing. He
 immediately procured convex spectacles of the first number
 sold by opticians, which glasses are usually ground to a
 focus of forty-six or forty-eight inches, and by the aid of
 these he continued to read and write with ease (distinguish
 ing perfectly in the usual way all distant objects without
 them,) until he was fifty. At this time he first began to
 perceive an indistinctness in the appearance of things at a
 distance ; and, on trying with different glasses, he dis
covered that, by looking through a double concave glass of
the sixth number, (which is ground to a radius of eight

      ihe near and distant Sight of different Persons.      34 1
inches on one side and eleven inches oil the other,) he was
enabled to see distant objects distinctly.  He has continued
to use glasses of this description for the purpose of seeing
distant objects from that time to the present ; but is obliged
to remove them whenever he reads, and still to employ the
first number of a convex glass. — In this instance, a pres
byopic was changed to a myopic sight, without any known
efficient circumstance to produce it. — In the two following
cases, a similar change took place ; and in them it was at
tributable to known causes.      A woman, about fifty years
of age, of a full habit, who for several years had been
obliged to make use of convex glasses, in order to read a
small print, was seized with a dimness in the sight of the
right eye, accompanied with a small degree of Inflamma
tion. The sight of the left eye having been long imperfect,
this affection of the right eye occasioned a great depression
of spirits.   Recourse was necessarily had to copious evacu
ations, by means of which the inflammation and dimness
of sight were soon removed ; but afterwards the patient was
pinch alarmed on finding that the spectacles she had been
accustomed to wear, instead of affording their usual assist
ance, confused her sight.     Upon this discovery, she was
induced to look through her husband's glasses, which, in
consequence of his being near-sighted, were double con
caves of the fifth number, and ground to a radius of eleven
inches on each side. These did not assist her in looking
at near objects, but by their aid she saw much more di
stinctly those that were distant ; and, on attempting to
read, nothing more was now necessary, than to bring the
book a little nearer to her, than she had been previously
accustomed to place it. — The second case occurred in a
patient about the same age, who, in the course of the last
year, was attacked with an inflammation in both eyes. By'
the use of leeches and cooling medicines, it was speedily
removed, and, afterwards, she was much gratified, by find
ing that the necessity for using glasses when she read,
which had existed many years, was removed ; and that she
could see both near and distant objects correctly, without
any extraneous help. The amendment in this lady's sight
continued, however, only a few weeks; after which she
was again obliged to use the same convex glasses in looking
at small near objects, which she had used before her eyes
became inflamed. — In addition to these cases, I beg leave
to add the information I have received from an eminent
mathematical instrument-maker, about fifty years of age,
who has long made use of convex glasses to assist his sight
                            Y  3                             in.

342       On the near and distant Sight   of different   Persons.
in reading.  He tells me, that when he has been employed
many hours together, for several successive days, in looking
through a double microscope that magnifies twenty-eight
times, (in order to enable htm to mark the degrees on at
small brass plate) he has afterwards been able repeatedly
for  a few weeks, to read without his glasses ; but then the
amendment gradually ceases, and he is soon obliged to re
turn to the use of the same glasses that he had worn before.
    In the instances that have been mentioned, the distant-
sjghtedness affected persons who were considerably advanced
in life : but in the three that follow, a similar affection of
the sight occurred in those that were young ; and a like
       effect was produced by the use of evacuating remedies.
  (ne of these was a boy eight years old, who suddenly be
?ood
came presbyopic,       and had repeatedly been punished at
school, on account of his incorrect and defaced writing j
the real cause of     it,at that time, being unknown to his
master.     After the presbyopia had continued fortnight,a
and different local applications had been used, without pro
ducing any sensibly good effects, the lad was cured            theby
application of leeches to the temples, and the administration
of    afew purgative medicines.        The other instances oc
curred in two daughters of the same family.           The eldest,
twenty years    of age,  had   never  been able  to do fine work,
and for three years had been greatly assisted                by
                                                           convex
spectacles.    The youngest,      a girl of fifteen, had become
presbyopic about     ayear ago, and since that time had been
obliged to use spectacles whenever she read, or worked with
her needle. The young person, last mentioned, in the course
of six weeks, (during which time she totally abstained from
the use of glasses,) was completely relieved from the neces
sity of using them,         the application of two leeches to
                            by
each temple twice in         aweek.    The former, in the same
space of time, experienced much relief from        asimilar treat
ment, but was still unable to do fine work without glasses,
partly in consequence of the long continuance of the in
firmity, and partly on account of her not having abstained
with equal steadiness from the occasional use of them.
    From the preceding statement, the following inferences
may be deduced.
    First; near-sightedness       rarely observed in infants, or
                                 is
even in children under teu years of age.             Itaffects the
higher classes of society more than the lower: and the in
stances are few,     if any, in which,    if the use of concave
glasses has been adopted, increasing years have either re
moved or lessened this imperfection.
                                                             Secondly;

        An Appendix      to Mr.   Ware's Paper on Vision.            343
     Secondly ; though the usual effect of time on perfect eyes
  '
be that of inducing a necessity to make use of concave
 glasses, in order to see near objects distinctly, yet some
 times even after the age of fifty, and after convex glasses
 have been used many years for this purpose, the eyes have
 not only ceased to derive benefit from them, when looking
at near objects, but they have required concave glasses to
enable them to distinguish with precision objects at a di
 stance.
     Thirdly; though the cause of this change be not always
known, yet sometimes it has been induced by the use of
evacuating remedies, particularly of 'leeches applied to the
 temples ; and sometimes by looking through a microscope,
 for a continued length of time, in several successive days.
     Fourthly ; instances are not uncommon, in which per
 sons far advanced in life, (viz. between eighty aud ninety,)
 whose eyes have been accustomed for a long time to the use
 of deeply convex glasses, when they have read or written,
 have ceased to derive benefit from these glasses, and they
 have become able, without any assistance, to see both near
 and distant objects almost as well as when they were young.
 Although it be not easy to ascertain the cause of this
 amended vision, it seems not improbable that it is occa
 sioned by an absorption of part of the vitreous humour ;
 in consequence of which the sides of the eye collapse, and
 its axis from the cornea to the retina is lengthened , by
 which alteration the length of this axis is brought into the
 same proportion to the flattened state of the cornea or cry
 stalline, or both, which it had to these parts before the
 alteration took place.
    LVI. An Appendix        to Mr. Ware's        Paper    on    Vision.
              By Sir Charles Blagden, F.R.S.*
 M r. Ware      states in his paper, that near-sightedness comes
 on most frequently at an early age ; that it is more common
 in the higher than in the lower ranks of life ; and that par
 ticularly at the universities, and various colleges, a large
 proportion of the students make use of concave glasses.
 All this is exactly true, and to be accounted for by one sin
 gle circumstance; namely, the habit of looking at near ob
jects. Children born with eyes which are capable of ad
justing themselves to the most distant objects, gradually
 lose that   power   soon after they begin to read         and write    j
         * From the Philosophical Tramactioni for ]813, part i.
                                 Y  4                              those

 3*44   An Appendix   to     Mr. Ware's Paper        on   Vision.
   those who are most addicted to study become near-sightecf
   more rapidly ; and, if no means are used to counteract the
   habit, their eyes at length lose irrecoverably the faculty of
   being brought to the adjustment for parallel rays. Of this
 I    am myself an exampfe; and as I recollect distinctly the
   progress, it may not be useless to record it here.
       When I first learned to read, at the usnal age of four or
   five years, I could see most distinctly, across a wide church,
  the contents of a table on which the Lord's Prayer, and the
  Belief, were painted in suitably large letters.        In a few
  years,  that   is, about the  ninth or tenth  of  my age, being
  much addicted to books, I could no longer read what was-
  painted on this table; but the degree of neaT-sightedness
  was then so small, that i found a watch-glass, though as a
  meniscus it made the rays diverge very little, sufficient ta
  enable me to read the table as before.         In a year or two-
  more, the watch-glass would no longer serve my purpose ;
  but being dissuaded from the use of a common concave
  glass, as likely to injure my sight, I suffered the incon
  venience of a small degree of myopy, till I was more than
  thirty years of age. That inconvenience, however, gra
  dually though slowly increasing all the time, at length be
  came so grievous, that at two or three and thirty I deter
 mined to; try a concave glass ; and then found that the num
 bers 2 and 3 were to me in the relation so well described
 by Mr. Ware; that     is, I   could see distant objects tolerably
 well with the former number, but still more accurately with
 the latter.    After contenting myself little time with No.
                                                                              a 2,
                                             a
I    laid
        it   wholly aside for No.        and, in the course of
                                         3
                                         ;
 few more years, came to No. 5, at which point my eye has
now been stationary between fifteen and twenty years.          Ad
earlier use of concave glasses would probably have made
me more near-sighted, or would have brought on my pre
sent degree of myopy at an earlier period of iife.          If my
friends had persuaded me to read and write with the book
or paper always as far from my eye as          could see; or
                                                 I                       if
                                                                          I
had occasionally intermitted study, and taken to field sports,
or any employment which would have obliged me to look
much at distant objects,       it   very probable that
                                    is                      might
                                                              I
not have been near-sighted at all.          Possibly the persons
who become near-sighted             by
                                    having constantly to adjust
their eyes to near objects, may not usually change to be
long-sighted  by age.
   On the subject of vision,    Imay be allowed to take this
opportunity of relating an experiment made many years ago,
to decide how far the similarity of the images seen    each         by
                                                                         eye

                       On making Tea.                                34*
eye contributed to make them impress the mind as one.           In
the house where I then lived was a marble chimney-piece,
the upper horizontal block of which was fluted vertically ;
and the ridge between each concavity of the fluting was
about as wide as the concavity itself. When I looked at
this range of fluting at the distance of about nine inches,
and directed the optic axes to              saw of course every
                                          it,
                                            I
ridge and concavity distinctly, and judged rightly of the
distance.     Adjusting the optic axes as to an object       little
                                                                 a
further oflf,
            I    discerned the fluting confusedly and all dou
ble, the ridges interfering with the concavities       which was
                                                          ;
accompanied with the uneasy sensation of squinting.            But
on widening the direction of the optic axes still more, as to
an object about eighteen inches distant          (namely, just so
                                                     ;
far that the duplication of the images should correspond
successively; that    is,  so that the first ridge and concavity
of the fluting, as seen     by one eye, should fall in with the
second ridge and concavity, as seen                  by
                                                 the other;) the
fluting appeared as distinct and as single as at first but      ;      it
seemed to be about double the distance from the eye that
really was, and to be magnified in proportion          nor had
                                                          ;
                                                                      I, it
in this case, any sensation of squinting. As the parts of
the fluting, though in general much alike, were not exactly
so every where in colour and minute circumstances,          there
appeared in some places        slight confusion from this dissi
                                a
milarity of the images      ;but that trifling confusion had no
manner of effect on the mind's judgement of the images,
which looked as perfectly single, as when the fluting was
viewed with the optic axes so directed, that the ridges and
concavities seen    by   one eye corresponded with the same
ridges and concavities as perceived          the other. No idea
                                                by
was suggested, but that of range of fluting larger and more
                                 a
distant than  it  was in fact.    This experiment      frequently
                                                          I
repeated,  and   always  with  the same effects.
LVII.   The Correctness     of      popular Observations      illustrated
     in the Directions commonly given for making Tea.
Philosopheks       will frequently find reason to follow the
advice of Bacon, who recommends them to avoid            hasty  a
contempt of popular opinions. The mass of mankind will
be found with few exceptions perfectly correct in points of
observation, however erroneous the conclusions may be
which they sometimes deduce from their premises.         Men
of science are too apt to treat as vulgar errors, facts which

346                      On making Tea.
do not admit an obvious explanation, and thus neglect
many interesting phaenomena, observed by mankind at
large, whose experiments ought to be the best, being di
rected by no favourite theories, and biassed by no hypotheses.
This idea is illustrated in many circumstances of daily oc
currence, and among others in the directions usually given
for the ordinary process of making tea; some of which co
incide with Professor Leslie's experiments, while others
seem hitherto to have received no explanation.            It has been
long   observed,    that the  infusion made   in  silver  is stronger
than that which is produced in black earthen-ware.               This
remark    is confirmed   on  the principles  of the   Professor,  who
has shown that polished surfaces will retain heat better than
dark roue;h surfaces, and that consequently the caloric be
ing confined in the former case must act more powerfully
than in the latter.      It is further remarked, that the siTver
.when filled a second time, produces worse tea than the
 crockery-ware ; and that it is advisable to use the earthen
 ware, unless a silver vessel can be procured sufficiently
 large to contain at once all that may be required.             These
 facts are readily explained, by considering that the action
 of heat retained in the silver vessel, so far exhausts the
 herb, as to leave little flavour for a second dilution; whereas
 the reduced temperature of the water in the earthen-ware,
 by extracting only a small portion at first, leaves some for
the action of subsequent dilutions.         The next observation
we might at first view he ready to consider as a vulgar
error, did it not admit an explanation on mathematical
 principles. It is supposed that the infusion is stronger in
a globular vessel than in one of a different form ; and this
must be the case, since it has frequently been demonstrated,
that a sphere contains a given measure under less surface
than any other solid ; from which it follows, that where
there are two vessels of equal capacity, one globular and
the other square, oblong, elliptical, or even cylindric, the
spherical vessel having less surface than any of the other
forms must throw off less heat ; and that, consequently, the
effect will be greater in the former case than in the latter.
It is further observable, that the effect increases very ra
pidly, as the vessel is made larger, since the capacity in
creases as the cube, while the surface oulv increases as the
 square of the diameter.
    The reason for pouring boiling water into the vessel, be
fore the infusion of the tea, is, that, being previously warm,
it may abstract less heat from the mixture, and thus admit
a more powerful action.          Neither is it difficult to explain
                                                                  why

  Additional Olservations             on the   Effects     of Magnesia.           347
why the infusion is stronger, if only a small quantity of
boiling water be first used, and more be added some time
afterwards.     If we consider that only the water immediately
in contact with the herb can act upon           and that  it, coola         it
very rapidly, especially  in black earthen-ware,       clear   that
                                                                 it   is
the effect will be greater where the heat       kept up    is addi          by
tions of boiling water, than where the vessel            filled at     is
once, and the fluid suffered gradually to cool.
    When the infusion has once been completed,               found     it   is
that any further addition of the herb, only affords            very          a
small increase         the strength, the water having cooled
                        in
much below the boiling point, and consequently acting
very slightly.
    Some may be inclined to consider these remarks as too
 trifling but they should remember, that
          ;                                            the appli
                                                            it   is   by
 cation of philosophic principles to the ordinary and even
 trivial occurrences of life, that science diffuses her benefits,
 and perfects her claim to the gratitude of mankind.
LVIIT.    Additional Olservations on the Effects    Magnesia          of
   in preventing an increased Formation      Uric Acid with
                                                          of                ;
   Remarks on the Influence of Acids upon the Composition
   of  the Urine.   By William Thomas Brande, Esq.
   F.R.S. Prof           Chem.    R.I*
In   a  paper which    had the honour of laying before this
                             I
Society, about three year9 ago, and which      published in      is
the Philosophical Transactions            t,
                                    some cases are related,
illustrating the effects of magnesia in preventing an in
creased formation of uric acid, and some experiments are
detailed, instituted with     view to discover its mode of
                                      a
action.
    Since that period many opportunities have occurred both
to Sir Everard Home and myself, of confirming its efficacy
upon     more extended scale, and of ascertaining the effi
         a
cient treatment of those cases in which magnesia        inef                 is
fectual, and      which
                   in      has even been found to aggravate
                                 it
the complaint.
   To bring forward additional evidence in favour of the
use of magnesia,    and to distinguish the cases in which its
use  isindicated, from those where       improper or hurtful,
                                                it   is
are the principal objects of the present communication, and
will be considered in the two following sections.
             * From the Philosophical
                                      Transactions for 1813, part ii.
          f    For 1810, p. 106.
                                                                                  SEC

  343                  Additional  Observationt
                             Section I.
      The following is the case of a gentleman who suffered
   from a calculous complaint, during which he was acci
   dentally induced to employ magnesia, the effects of which
  he has thus described.
      Case 1.   About twenty-seven years ago,     I felt a pain in
  one of my kidneys, particularly when in bed, which con
  tinued to increase during six months. I had likewise an
  occasional sympathetic pain in the testicles, and violent and"
  excruciating pains in the left kidney now became frequent.
 These attacks were sometimes brought on by stooping to
  take up something; but at other times without any appa
 rent cause.     They lasted from twelve to twenty-four hours,
  and I obtained some relief from the application of warm
 flannels; but they always left me languid and relaxed.
      On the fourth attack I consulted a physician, who ima
  gined that my complaint had been induced by drinking
 cyder, in which I had formerly indulged.        He ordered me
 weak Hollands and water for common drink, and prescribed
 the lixivium of tartar to be taken in broth.     This medicine
 was persevered in for some time ; but I found it gradually
 weaken my stomach, and impair my digestive powers.
     About nine months after my first attack in the kidney,
 1 walked from Hampstead        to London after dinner, and on
 the following day I clearly felt something pass from the
 kidney to the bladder, and suspected what it was. I took
about a pint of Hollands and water, and on attempting
shortly afterwards to void my urine, found that the passage
was blocked up; but had scarcely time to consider of my
situation before the obstruction moved forwards to within an
inch of the extremity of the urethra: it remained there till
the following evening, when, by the help of a small pair of
watchmaker's forceps, I succeeded in extracting a stone,
which was the source of the mischief.
     It was jagged and rough, and of a deep brick-red colour.
I   afterwards voided a considerable quantity of red crystal
line sand.
     My physician, who was apprehensive of a return of the
disorder, desired me to purchase of Cadell an anonymous
pamphlet upon the Stone and Gravel, and to observe the
rules there laid down.        This treatise particularly recom
mended the use of the alkalies.       1 therefore took the lixi
vium, and two bottles of Ferry's solvent; but the red de
posit in my urine continued, my loins felt weak, and when
in   bed very  painful.
                                                           Being

                  on the Effects of Magnesia.              34§
    Being in the profession of the law, and much employed,
I was    under the necessity of leading a very sedentary life,
which so aggravated my tendency to bile and indigestion,
that I seldom could get above two or three hours sleep.
    With a view to alleviate these symptoms, and not with
any idea of its being beneficial to the stone, I resorted to
magnesia, which I continued wi\h little intermission for
eight months in the dose of a tea-spoonful or two, every
evening before I went to bed. The long vacation coming
on, I gradually took more exercise, and used the cold bath.
The tone of my stomach, at the end of the period I have
mentioned, was so far restored as to induce me to set medi
cine of all kinds aside, except when any food or drink dis
agrees, when I occasionally resort to the magnesia.      Under
such treatment, the weakness and pain in my kidney left
me, and the red sand entirely disappeared.         I have since
enjoyed a very good state of health, and am now in my
fifty-seventh year.
    If  I occasionally make a little free with the good things
of this world, my stomach reminds me of the improper use
of the lixivium, especially when I am prevented taking my
usual exercise.
   The above case is important, not only as furnishing a
striking and unprejudiced instance of the effect of magnesia,
in counteracting the tendency to form uric calculi and gra
vel ; but likewise, as demonstrating its efficacy where the
alkalies had failed, and where the digestive organs had been
injured in consequence of the use of such remedies: the
time which has elapsed since the cure of this and other
cases, without a relapse, is also strongly in favour of thu
mode of treatment.
    Case 2. A gentleman twenty years of age, who had suf
fered from heartburn and other dyspeptic symptoms,         wa»
seized, on the 1st of June 18 U, with a violent pain in the
loins, and more especially in the right kidney, and during
the night he passed a large quantity of red sand with his-
urine. On the 2d, with a view to relieve the pain, which
had increased considerably, he took fifty drops of laudanum,
and drank freely of barley water.       The night was passed
more quietly ; but on the morning of the 3d he was seized
with a violent pain in the kidney, and with the usual sym
ptoms of the passage of a calculus along the ureter.     These
continued with more or less violence till the evening of the
4th, when he became perfectly easy, and remained so till
the morning of the 6th, wheu, with considerable pain and
difficulty, he voided a calculus composed of uric acid,
                                                      weighing

 8 JO               Additional Olservations
 weighing nine grains.      For several successive days his
urine deposited a large quantity of red sand, and three very
email round calculi were voided.
    He was now directed to abstain from all kinds of fer
mented liquors and sour food, and to take a pint of treble
soda water (containing three drachms of sub-carbonate of
 soda) daily.    Under this treatment he continued to reco
ver, and remained perfectly free from complaint until the
end of August, when a copious deposit of red sand appeared
in his urine : he had little pain in the affected kidney, but
complained of almost constant nausea, or want of appetite.
    The soda water was increased to a pint and a half, and
afterwards to two pints daily, and in the intervals he drank
very freely of barley water.
    Having persevered in this way for ten days without re
ceiving any benefit, he was induced to make a trial of mag
nesia, of which he took one tea- spoonful night and morn
ing in cold chamomile tea. In about a week, the state of
his stomach was much improved, and the deposit in the
urine proportionally diminished, and in three weeks every
symptom of disease had disappeared.
    In February 1812, having persevered in the use of mag
nesia with little intermission, I was informed that the sand
had returned, that increasing the quantity of magnesia had
produced no good effect, and that alkalies materially aggra
vated his complaint, by disagreeing with the stomach and
greatly increasing the urinary deposit.
    On examining the sand, I found that instead of consist
ing as formerly of uric acid, it was composed of a mixture
of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate with phosphate of
lime : he was directed to abstain from magnesia and alkalies,
and to adopt a plan of treatment which it is the object of
the second section of this paper more particularly to ex
plain.
    The foregoing is a well marked case of uric gravel with a
strong tendency to form calculi, materially relieved by the
use of alkaline remedies : it illustrates their usual effects
when carelessly persevered in, and shows the advantage
with which magnesia may in such instances be employed:
it also exhibits the effect of magnesia and the alkalies, in
producing the deposit of white sand (or phosphates) in the
urine, when the red sand (or uric acid) has been removed.
    The cases which follow are selected, from among others,
to explain the best mode of preventing the formation of
white sand, and to show the most effectual treatment
where it is a natural deposit ia the urine, or where it has
                                                         been

                       t>n    the   Effects    of Magnesia.                  351
    been induced      by the incautious          exhibition of alkaline me
    dicines.
                                     Section II.
       The white sand so frequently voided by persons labouring
    under calculous complaints was first analysed by Dr. Woi-
    laston*, who found it composed of ammoniaco-magnesian
    phosphate, either alone or mixed with variable proportions
    of phosphate of lime. The use of acid medicines in these
    cases was also first suggested by the same able chemist; but
    although his valuable observations have been before the
    public for nearly fifteen years, I am not aware that any ex
    periments have been made to ascertain what acids are best
    calculated to produce the desired effect, or to illustrate theit
    mode of action.
       Since my former communication, I have lost no oppor
    tunity of attending to this important subject, and hope thatx
    the conclusions, suggested by the following cases, will be
    deemed satisfactory, and that their application in practice
    may lead to useful results.
        Case 1. A gentleman, fifty years of age, who about ten
    years before had undergone the operation for the stone                    f,
     was attacked on the 14th of January 1810 with violent pain
    in the right kidney and ureter, which lasted two days; on
,   the I 7th, these symptoms subsided, and were followed by
    those of stone in the bladder, which continued for some
    days; and although he had taken abundance of barley water
    and similar diluents, the stone showed no disposition to
    pass.    On account of his former sufferings, this circum
    stance rendered him extremely uneasy, and on the evening
    of the 21st he suffered several severe paroxysms of pain on'
    attempting to make water.       Under these circumstances, he
     was desired to take a purge, composed of two ounces of
    infusion of senna, two drachms of tincture of senna, and
     twenty grains of powdered jalap J.       In three hours this
     began  to lake powerful  effect, and  during the violence of
     the operation, he was so fortunate as to void ihe calculus
     with his urine; it weighed eight grains.      On the 28th he                   .
    again suffered pain in the region of the kidneys, and voided
      * Philosophical Transactions     1797.
      -f- The stone extracted consisted of nucleus of uric acid about the size of
                                           a
    a pea, incrusted with a mixture of the phosphates.       1c
                                                             was broken during
    the operation, but appeared to have been of the size of pigeon's egg.
                                                              a
      % I   recommended this treatment in consequence of having heard 'Sir
    Everard Home state case, in his Surgical Lectures, of
                          a                                      gentleman who
                                                                   a
    suffereda   bougie to pass so far into the urethra, that   could not be re
                                                              it
    moved by any instrument.      During the operation of purge
                                                         a          was expelled
                                                                       it
    with considerable force.                                           . -•-
                                                                            much

                         Additional Observations
   much sand,       composed of uric acid, with ammoniaco-*
  magnesian phosphate.            He now took three half pints of
  soda   water  daily, which materially increased the proportion
  of the triple phosphate, while that of uric acid was con
  siderably diminished.          Ten drops of muriatic acid were
  then taken three times a day in water.               The red sand now
  began   to  re-appear,     and  ou   the  4th  of   February he voided
  a very small uric calculus.           The urine made after dinner
  contained more or less mucus streaked with blood, a sym
  ptom which was much aggravated by a slight excess in
  wine. On the 6th he left London, and employed no me
  dicine until the 12th, when he returned in consequence of
  having voided a large quantity of the white sand.
     Having observed the efficacy of carbonic acid in prevent
  ing the deposition of the phosphates, and having found it
  Jess liable than any other acid to induce a return of the uric
  gravel and calculi, I now directed him to take half a pint
  of water highly impregnated with fixed air, four or five
  times a day, and to drink cyder instead of wine.                  On the
   18th of February his urine was less turbid than it had been
  for some months before, and on the 20th of March, having
 continued the use of carbonic acid, he had no remaining
 symptoms *.
     In August his urine became again turbid ; but by the use
 of vinegar and lemon juice at his meals, which acids, he
 now finds, have no tendency to induce a return of the red
 gravel, he succeeds in preventing this symptom.
     Case 2. On the 11th of October 1812, the operation for
 stone in the bladder was performed upon a boy eleven
 years of age, and four calculi were extracted, of which the
largest was of the size of a small horse bean : they were
 each composed of a nucleus or centre of uric acid, upon
 whieh the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate was deposited.
     After the operation, the urine deposited a large quantity
 of white sediment, and some small pieces of red gravel were
 occasionally voided.          He was now directed to take eight
 grains   of citric  acid    dissolved    in barley water, three times
 daily; under this treatment the sediment in the urine was
 considerably diminished, but did not wholly disappear. The
 doSe    of the acid was gradually increased to twenty grains,
 by which means the sediment was only occasionally depo
 sited, and consisted of little else than mucus.               It was ob-
    * I have several times examined the urine, with a view to ascertain
 whether any of the acids which were exhibited could be detected in that
 *ecretion; but the results of such experiments are so much interfered with
 by the very compound nature of the urine, that I have not hitherto been
 able t# draw any satisfactory conclusions respecting them.
                                                                    servedi

                     on the    Effects  of Magnesia.                   353
 served, that whenever the citric acid was omitted, even for
 twenty-four hours, the sediment was greatly increased, and
 this was constantly attended with frequent desire to make
 water, and other symptoms of irritation in the bladdetf.
 On resuming the use of the citric acid, the sediment al
 ways disappeared, and the irritation of the bladder subsided,
 and this happened so frequentlv, that no doubt could be
 entertained of the influence of the medicine on the corn-
position of the urine.
    This plan of treatment was continued            for three months ;
at the end of that period, it was found that the urine had
not the same disposition to deposit the phosphates as for
 merly; even when the medicine was omitted, the sediment
 was small in quantity, and not constant in its appearance.
 He was now directed to omit the use of the citric acid, and
 occasionally to eat oranges and other acid fruits.               He con
tinued this plan until the beginning of April 1813; his urinei
was then quite clear, and he had no symptoms of disease.
    Case 3.      In the month of October 1 8 1 1 , a gentleman,
thirty-four years of age, informed me, that he had observed
a white deposit in his urine, during the whole of the pre
ceding summer.           He had taken considerable quantities of
soda water, which he thought increased the sediment, and
alkalies in any other form produced a very obvious aggrava
tion of    the  complaint.
    His urine was      at all times clear when voided ; but after a
few hours, a white powder was observed to separate from
it, and a film of crystalline matter formed upon the surface.
The former consisted of phosphate of lime and mucus, the
latter of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate.
    He was directed to take one drachm of muriatic acid
properly diluted, at divided doses, during the day ; and it
was proposed that he should pursue this plan for a week;
but it was discontinued on the third day on account of its
acting upon> the bowels; and producing a frequent desire to
make water*.
    On the 10th of October, he was advised to take two large
glasses of lemonade dailv, and to substitute claret for port
wine, a pint of which he was in the habit of drinking daily.
Under this treatment the symptoms produced by the mu
riatic acid subsided : but the appearance of the urine was
not at first improved.
    On the 20th, the film of triple phosphate formerly con-
   • In this and other instances the
                                      sulphuric and nitric acids were occa
sionally substituted for the muriatic ; but they were found equally inad
missible.
    Vol.42. No. 187. Nov. 1813.                   Z  .             stantjy

                       Additional Olservalions
stantly observed in the urine began to decrease, but th«
white sand remained as abundant as before; he was there
fore directed to take twenty grains or citric acid twice a day,
and to continue the use of acid drink as formerly.
    The additional acid at first disagreed with the bowels;
but this effect soon ceased, and the sediment was only ob
served in the urine voided in the morning; he therefore
took another dose of the acid every night.                  This plan
was pursued with little intermission until the beginning
of December: the deposition of the phosphates gradually
ceased, and he remained in perfect health until the middle
of May 1812, when after violent exercise and taking more
wine than usual, the white sand again made its appearance
in great abundance; his stomach became extremely irritable,
and the acids, which he had before employed with success,
brought on considerable irritation in the bladder.             The ad
dition of ten drops of laudanum to each dose of the citric
 acid prevented this effect, and he was thus enabled to con
tinue the acid, which in a fortnight relieved his complaint.
    This gentleman informed me, that whenever he omitted
 the use of an acid diet, or took much wine, especially port,
his urine deposited the white sand and mucus, for two or
 three successive days.
     Case 4.    A gentleman, eighty years of age, who had
 twice submitted to the operation for the stone within five
years, voided with his urine considerable quantities of white
 sand and mucus.
     From the age of this patient, and the account of his case,
 there appeared little doubt that the calculi had been formed
 in consequence of a diseased prostate gland, in the manner
 described by Sir Everard Home*, and on examining them,
 they were found to contain ml uric nucleus, nor indeed had
 there been any symptoms of disease in the kidneys, at any
 previous period.
     This gentleman had been in the habit of taking soda
 water, from which he was now desired to abstain, with a
 view of putting him upon the acid plan of treatment.                He
 was ordered to lake eight drops of muriatic acid three times
 a day in two table spoonsful of water; but the third dose
  produced so much irritation in the bladder, and consequent
  increase of his symptoms, that it became necessary to adopt
  another treatment.
     Lemon juice, or a solution of the pure citric acid, when
  given in quantity sufficient to produce any change in the
    * Practical
                Observations on the Treatment of Diseases of the Prostate
  eiaild, p. 39^
                                                            appearance

                    on the Effects of Magnesia.                355
 appearance    of the urine, had the same effect as the  muriatic
  acid.
     As water impregnated with carbonic acid could not be
 procured,    he was directed to dissolve, in separate portions
  of  water, twenty grains of citric acid, and thirty grains of
 the crystallized carbonate of potash, and to take the mixed
 solutions, during the effervescence.      This quantity was at
 first only taken night and morning ; but as it agreed per
 fectly well, it was afterwards repeated four and five times
 daily. Under these circumstances the appearance of the
 urine was soon improved, and both the mucus and the sand
 were considerably     diminished in quantity. In six weeks
 the urine, when voided, was transparent ; but a consider
 able deposition of the phosphates took place, when it had
 remained for some hours at rest.      In this state he left Lon
 don, and has since informed me, that the sediment gradually
 diminished under the use of the carbonic acid, that his
 urine is never turbid, and that the irritation in the bladder
has entirely subsided.
    It did not appear necessary to detail the minutiae of the
 above cases ; they have been selected with a view to eluci
 date the treatment of the disease, as far as it depends upon
 chemical principles, and to furnish the data upon which the
following conclusions are founded.
     1. That where alkalies fail to relieve the increased secre
tion of uric acid, and to prevent its forming calculi in the
kidneys, or where they disagree with the stomach, magnesia
is generally effectual, and that it may be persevered in for a
considerable time without inconvenience, where the ten
dency to form excess of uric acid remains.
    2. When the alkalies, or magnesia, are improperly conti
nued, after having relieved the symptoms connected with
the formation of the red sand, or uric acid, the urine ac
quires a tendency to deposit the white sand, consisting
of the ammoniaco-magnestan phosphate and phosphate of
lime.
    3. The mineral acids (muriatic, sulphuric, and nitric,)
diminish, or entirely prevent the deposition of the phos
phates ; but are apt to induce a return of the red gravel.
    4. That vegetable acids, especially the citric and tartaric,
are less liable to produce the last mentioned effects, even
when taken in large doses for a long time; and that car
bonic acid is particularly useful in cases, where the irritable
state of the bladder prevents the exhibition of other re
 medies.
                             Z2                     UX.     Notes

                               [   356    ]
 LIX.      Notes and Observations on the     fourth, Jlflh and part
     of  the  sixth Chapters  of  Mr.  Robert    Bakewell's " Jn-
     troduction to Geology ;" — embracing incidentally, several
     new Points of Geological Investigation and Theory.         By
     Mr. John Farey Sen., Mineral Surveyor.
                            To  Mr.  Tilloch.
 Sir, — Tn       transmitting to you, the second division, which
 in order to suit the convenience of your work, has been
 made, of mv Notes and observations on Mr. Bakewell's re
 cent Geological work ; I beg the liberty of mentioning,
 that since the first division was sent, I have bad an oppor
 tunity (for the first time) of travelling across, and seeing
 the Polesworlh Coal-field (p. 260, herein), and that part of
 North Wales between Holywell and Bangor, and of making
 a sufficient stay in Anglesea,' to have become pretty well
acquainted with its Limestone Rocks, particularly             those
 which form a Trough, on the coarse Slate, across the Island
from Red-wharf Bay on the NE to near Malldraeth Bay oil
 the SW, and vyith the Coal-measures in this Trough, from
near Ceinti southward to near Bodowen, but particularly
 with that part of them, near Berw, in which Holland Grif
 fith, Esq. has an interest, part of whose Coals have for a
 considerable time past been advertised for letting, in conJ
junction with those of a neighbouring proprietor.
     I mention these circumstances here, in order to account
for several interlineations and additions to my Notes, written
 in July fast, which I have lately made or intend to make, par
 ticularly as to whin-dykes, pages 106 and 108 (of Mr. B's
 Geology), Coal-fields pages 108, 275 and 285, Conglomerate
 and coarse Gritstone strata, with Jasper fragments and Rocks*
&c. p. 202, Limestone Strata, p. 295, Granite and Serpen
 tine, p. 2^6, and perhaps others. Hoping that my example
may stimulate others of your Readers, to communicate
through your work, the observations they may have oppor
 tunities of making on the British Strata,
                       I remain, sir,
                                 Your obedient servant,
    Upper Crown-3treet, Westminster,            JOHN FAREY Sew.
            15th Nov. 1813.
                              Notes, &C.
 P. 85,    1. 8, water-worn pieces*. — * Query 1, see my Note on
               page 44.
     87>  \. 3 and 4, sixty degrees*.—* See ninety degrees Of
                                                               near

          Mr. Farey's             Notes on      Mr. Bahewell's    Geology.        357
1\ 87.           near    it,   at page 288, and
                                                         "
                                                an opposite direction,"
                 in P. M. xl. p. 47,    also my 2d Letter, p. 116.
           1.   4, the principal seamf.    —   This might seem to re-
                                                         t
i                assert the stratification of the Charnwood Slate,
                 P. M. xl. p. 47, without       reference to page 2S8
                                                         a                          ;
                 see P. M. xxxvii.       442, and Rep.
                                                p.         155.   i.
    89,    1.   15, basis of clay slate*.— * At page 359, Mr. B.
                 defines JVache to be, " an earthy kind of Basalt."
    90,1.16, water-worn fragments*. — * Query?,                          see      my
                 Note on page 44.
    92,   I.    19, nowhere exposed*. — *Eep.i. 280, Phil. Trans.
                 181    and P. M. xxxix.
                        1,                     29.       p.
          ).    21, same kind of Limestonef- — In          large pro
                                                              t    a
                 portion of the cases, in which Mr. B. and myself
                 are found differing in opinion, the cause thereof
                 may he traced, to that very erroneous and dan
                 gerous dogma of the Anglo- Wernerian Theorists,
                 viz. that the kind of stone or rnineralo^ical cha
                 racters of     substance, will, bv help of "Me
                                       a
                 Geognosy," determine its priority of formation
                 to others, &c.    or    plainer terms, will fix its
                                           ;        in
                 place    the series of strata; but which Smithian
                             in
                 clservcrs, well know to be untrue.
     *
                     Whenever      mention herein, the opinions of
                                            1
                 that very able Mineralogist, M. Werner, or the
                 Wernerian doctrines,      wish always to be under
                                                     I
                 stood, as speaking of what his disciples have pro
                 mulgated or published, as his doctrines,          this      in
                 country; except, as far as they can be gathered from
                 a very vain and unphilosophical performance (see
                 Mr. B's Note,     page 229) written     i701, under
                                                                  in
                 the title        of " The
                                     new Theory of the Formation of
                 Veins," by M. Werner, and which was translated
                 into English in i809: — when his many zealous
                 Disciples can give us other English translations,
                 perhaps      will be more generally seen, than at
                                  it
                 present,  that his " admiring pupils" have greatly
                 over- rated the talents, of this " greatest of Geo-
                 gnosts."
    93,1.       1,   and       Westmorland*. — * The Limestones of
                 Westmorland and Lancashire, appeared to me, to
                 have no similarity to those of the Peak of Derby
                 shire, as mentioned in my 1st Letter (p. 59), see
                 P. M. xxxix. p. 427, and vol. xl. p. 53.
           1.   6,sandstone    — Every practical Miner in Derby
                                       f.   f
                 shire, used to the 1st Limestone Mines, would
                                                Z
                                                3                                  tell

358      Mr.   Farey's Notes on       Mr. BdkewelVs Geology.
P. 93.     tell   Mr. B.,   as   Mr. Whitehurst, Mr. Pilkington,
           M. St. Fond, Mr. Mawe,    myself and several others
           have written, that Shale, an argillaceous stratum,
           and not Sandstone, rests on the upper Limestone
           of the Peak : in Lancashire, and I believe in West
           morland also, Red Marl, covers the uppermost
           of the two adjacent Limestone Rocks ; — the third
           and still higher Rock, underlieing the Coals, I had
           no opportunity of approaching, when in that di
          strict. See Rep. i. 298 Note.
  97, Plate   III. fig. I. see p. 315 and 320. — Fig. 2, see
          p. 124. — Fig.~  3, see p. 286, and my Note on
          page 45.                      (
  98, 1. 10, flat over these*. — * The experiment here, with.
          Books, is a representation of no instance in re
          gular stratification, which I have anywhere seen,
          or believe to exist ; Gravel and Gravel Rocks,
          commonly form such " unconformable" masses
          on the ends of strata, (as observed in my Note on
         p. 45) but no others, 1 believe ; that the Clee
         Hill Basalt, or Jewstone, does not so overlie, I
         feel partly confident, as is I suppose represented,
         in Plate III. fig. 2, but which is not clear, from
           the confused account thereof at page 124, since
           the blue mass, may be supposed to lie in the lack-
          ground, instead of directlv over the face oj the Sec
           tion coloured yellow and brown. Mr. B's surprise
           expressed at meeting with a hummock of Basalt,
          intersected,   in common with the strata beneath
           it, with  a  Basalt Vein or Whin- dyke, shows,         I
           think, that he       but little acquainted with the
                                 is
          facts of the Forth and Clyde Coal field, where
          such hummocks, and dykes too, are very com
          mon, or with the Rowley Hills near Dudley, which
          Mr. Keir has described, Mont. Mag. xxviii.         p.
                                                            35r
          or Will. Min. Kin. 2d Edit. ii. 279, and       66 and
                                                        i.
          123, &c.
              When at the Clee Hills,        saw or heard from
                                             I
          the practical Men, who gave me accounts of their
          sinking, of none of the "several small Coal-fields,"
          mentioned p. 24, but perceived, the southern end
                            1
          of one large depressed hummock or Trough of
          Coal-measures, capt           " conformable" Basalt,
                                        by
          and underlaid       the uppermost of the three Lime
                             by
          stone Rocks (as mentioned in my 1st Letter,        p.
                                                           53):
          the middlemost of which,          ihink could trace,
                                             I     I
                                                               from

      A/r. Tarey's Notes on Mr. BakewelVs Geology.          359
P. 98.     from within    a Mile or two of Ludlow, to Landcg*
            ley (mentioned by Mr. B. page 5297), thence to
           near Brecon, where I have traced it for some
            Miles, I think, and thence to the shore of the
           Bristol Channel at Llanstephen and Llaughern,
            where Mr. Smith has, 1 believe, observed it.
   100, 1. 3 and 4, Markfield knowl *.— * See p. 291, and
            Markfield Windmill Hill, in Rep. i. 45 and 144.
   106, I. 1, balls fall out*. — * As at Long-lane and Knot-
           Low, Rep. i. 278, &c. At Pentre-Berw, im. SSE
            of Llangefni in Anglesea, I lately observed the
            same thing, in a decomposing whin-dyke.
       I. 3 and 4, similar structure f. — Sienite on Mount
                                            f
            Sorrel Hill, P. M. xxxv. p. 260.
   108, 1. 8 and 9, the same line of longitude*. — * Some
           latitude of expression, is certainly taken, in saying
           that these places are nearly on one meridian, espe
           cially if Bath is near their range, as supposed in
            page 305, in order to account for the heat of its
            Springs, by the aid of this vast train of lava!!
            Mr. B's general inference as to the northern and
            southern direction of Basalt, is not borne out by
            British facts, since the most considerable Basaltic
            range known therein, stretches nearer to east and
            west than to any other of the eight principal points
            of the compass, viz. from near Montrose on the
            German Ocean, to Dumbarton on the Clyde, in
            Scotland, and forwards, I believe, to Antrim in
            Ireland, as mentioned in my first Letter, p. bi.
       I. 19, north and south f. — This general remark, I
                                      t
            believe also to be unfounded. at any rate the Dyke
            mentioned at p. 125, the longest and most re
            markable in England, has been traced near 60
            Miles, almost in an east and west direction ;      I
            have seen it at Silhow- Cross in the Road to
            Whitby, and believe that it proceeds forwards to
            the Sea Coast ; at its western end, it intersects,
            and is lost in, the great basaltic mass, near the
           -head of the Tees, as I learned from Mr. John
             Bird, an artist at Whitby, and a very attentive
            observer of Geological phenomena.
                In the Isle of Anglesea, I have had an oppor
             tunity, since the above was written, of tracing
             two very considerable Whin-dykes, and of seeing
             two smaller ones (in the face of the Lime
                                                        Quarries
             at Cibor, lm. W of Moel-y-don Ferry), all of
                                Z 4                       which

     Mr. Farey's           Notes on       Mr.   Bakcwell's Geology.
1,08.   which range alouL                 WNW
                                   and ESE.      The most
        considerable of these Dykes, seems to intersect                      .
        and cross all the Coai- measures, to the westward
        of Penlre-Berw above mentioned, to cut through
        the Limestone Rocks, which form the floor or
        trough in which the Coal measures rest (see my
        Notes on pages 275 and 285) and to penetrate
        the vast series of coarse Slate beneath all these,
        along the course of Pentre-Berw Erook ; and pro
        ceeding thence nearly in a straight line eastward,
        for Gairwan yicha and the S side of Plas Newydd
        House, on the banks of the Menai straight, as                  I
        h.ave been   informed.
           Wherever I have had the opportunity of ex
        amining this Dyke, it has appeared to be near 40
        yards wide, and the Basalt to be principally in a
        decomposed state, like very coarse brown grey
        loamy Sand, but so compact, that it can with dif
        ficulty be cut with a spade, in the several " Gravel-
        pits," as they are there called, which are opened
        in     for procuringSand to mix with Lime, which
              it,
        jt occasions to set very hard in the mortar of walls
        built therewith; many Balls and large irregular
        Blocks of black and very hard Basalt (called Iron
        stone         by
                    the inhabitants) are seen lodged in or
        detached from this dyke, below Pentre-Berw
                      .
        3V2   ill.
            The other large Dyke,is filled with this solid and
         durable Basalt       intersects and crosses the Coal-
                                 ;   it
         basin, about Qjin. southward of the last, and pass
         ing close on the south side of Pencrug Colliery
          (1m.     of Tretdraeth Church),
                     E                         appeared to oc
                                                         it
         casion the Coal-seam iherein, to be much harder
         and less inflammable (though not         " charring,"-
                                                              by
        I   believe, see Note on p. 125), than in the other
         Collieries on the same seam to the south-west of
         this place, and whence this Pencrug Coal was
         called Culm, and sold for the same uses, as the
         small of theStone-coal brought from South Wales,
          under that appellation. Qn the N side of Ty-
          Calch Lime Works, this dyke intersects the Lime
          stone Rock      and in its course westward, soon
                             ;
         after  has entered the coarse Slate, \m. WNW
                     it
         of Ty Calch House,   large mass or rock of white
                                           a
         Marble stands up in its range, above the sur
         rounding Slate, and which     its quality, seemed
                                                    in             '
 i                                                                     to,

     Mr. Farcy's         Notes on  Mr.   Bakewell's Geology.    361
P. 10S.     to me to approach very nearly to the nature of
            statuary Marble.        If L mistake not, all the masse3
            of white granular Marble, or of Breccia Marble,
            which I have yet had the opportunity of examin
             ing, in situ, belonged to Dykes or Veins, and did
             not form strata, see Rep. i. 4)3 and 414, and my
             Note on p. 73.
   113,  1.  24, never visited*. — * Has Mr. B. examined any
            active volcano P, before he ventured to describe
             England as a volcanic Country, p. 306, 307, 8cc.
             and to affright our ancient Ladies, with the im-
     •       pending fate of the Matrons of Pompeii and Her-
             culaneum, by the sudden activity of the dormant
             Volcanos, which occasion (he says) the hot waters
             of Bath, Bristol, Matlock, Buxton, &c.l !
   1 16, I.   20, basaltic rocks *.-r~ * If such Rocks differ in nq
              essential particulars from other regular strata, as
              Mr. Williams, a practical Collier in the very vici
              nity of Edinburgh concluded, Min. King. 2d Edit,
              j. 66 and 1S3, &c, and as I maintain, after a
              more extended examination ; the second inunda
              tion of the Wernerian theory, here alluded to, ap
              pears equally unnecessary and
                                                 " imaginary," with
              the subterraneous Volcanos of Mr. Whitehurst, or
              the submarine ones of Mr. Bakewell, P. M. xl.
              p. 47, and Geology, p. 93 and 122.
    J 19, 1. 18, partial formations*. — * See my Notes on
               p. 116, p. 98, &c.
    1 23,1. 8, interior parts are columnar*.
                                                     — * The reverse
               of this is generally, if not universally true, and
               the outsides of Basaltic hills are often locally co
               lumnar, where their interior has been proved to be
               homogeneous and solid, as Mr Williams has truly
               stated Min. Kin. 2d Edit. i. 67, 68,&c. and M. De
               Luc's Geo. Trav. in France, ii. 240. When I
               viewed the curious horizontal Basaltic columns
               in Pqwk-hill, in 1808, and the compact basaltic
               stratum (or "Greenstone") in Birchhill Colliery,
               near and "in the deep of it," NW of Walsall,
                Staff'. I concluded them to be parts of the same
                regular    stratum, and with the lamellar and de
                composing Basalt also, in Daisey-hill, near to the
                Colliery, and the perusal of page 392 in your
                xlth vol. has not in' the least altered this opinion,
                see my Note on p. 315.        I have been told, that
                regular Basaltic strata occur also in the Bed worth
                                                                Coal-

3fli    Mr. Farcy's    Notes on  Mr. BakewelVs Geology.
P. 123.    Coal-field, mentioned by Mr B. pp. 267, 285, and
           290: but at page 134 and 155, he rejects the
           " flcetz trap formation," as a useless distinction.
   124, 1. 9, towards a centre*. —* See Will. Min. King.
           2d Edit. ii. 288 ; the dips of the Gee- hill Coal
           field, are probably pretty uniform towards the
           middle of the Trough (see Plymley's Report, p. 61,
           and your xxist vol. p. 365). See other notes ap
           plicable to this page, on page 98.
   125, !. 10, Cockfield tell*. — * See this grand English
           Whin-d) ke mentioned, in my second Note on page
           108.
     1. 15,  into soot t- — -(-Observations and descriptions, lest
           tinctured with theory, than here and p. 124, 209«
           &c. would, I believe, present a different view of
           the case.    In South Wales, whole strata, where
        i  Basalt is not near, seem to me, to be exactly like
           the "charred Coal," found under Mr. Keir's House,
           which he gave me specimens of, in 1608, when
           cursorily viewing the Dudley Coal-field (see
           p. 148), and nearly similar to the " Culm" of
           Anglesea, see my Note on p. 108.
               Practical men, to their cost know, and often
           meet with, defective or altered parts of their Coal-
           seams;    sometimes    where faults (whatever filled
           with), may     be  supposed to occasion them, and
           often, where no visible cause has been discovered,
           and particularly so, in the Coal- works, to which
           Mr. B. has particularly alluded in pages 18 and
            139, as the Maps of underground workings, in the
           possession of Edward Mammatt, Esq. might have
           shown to Mr. B. And after all, what stratum,
           when traced through a sufficient length of its
           course, and well explored, is found free from as
           great local anomalies, as those patches of" sooty"
           or " charred" Coal exhibit ?.
   120, 1. 23 and 24, brass lumps*. — * Rep. i. 218.
   130,1. 13. !. Siliceous sandstone*. — * The different
           Red Marls in England, and their locally imbedded
           Gritstones, &c. (Rep. i. 146, Phil. Trans. 1811,
           and P.M. xxxix. p. '29, and xl. p. 50 and 53), seem
           to be included by Mr. B. in this " formation,"
           of his System, seepages 134, 136, 174 Note, and
            267.    The many important Clay and Sand strata .
           of England, seem also forgot in this 5lh class of
                                                               his

     Mr.   Farey's Notes on    Mr.   Bakewell's Geology.     369
P. 130.   his new System, as observed in my second Note on
           p. 60; Mr. B. seems, in forming this Class, to
           have been rather too " well educated," see his
           Note on p. 353.
   135, 1. 1, been found under it*. —
                                          *"   Bed sandstone, or
           sand-rock," in this case, evidently refers to the
           different Red Marl strata, in or below the middle
           parts of the British series of strata, as observed in
           my 2d Letter (p. 104) ; and although the practical
           Colliers of the Asbby-de-la-Znuch          Coal-field,
           and of some others perhaps, surrounded in whole        .
           or in part, by faults, which have elevated their
           (denudated) Coal-measures, from too great a depth
           to be reached under the Marl beyond the fault,
           (see my Note on p. 143, and Rep. i. 174) may
           believe, and maintain with Mr. B. (see also pages
           134, 268, 273,&c), that "Coalis never found un
           der the Red Marl" (or red Sandstone), and may,
           as the Writer mentions in page 232 of your pre
           sent volume (perhaps Mr. Jameson) " consider it
           madness to seek for Coal, in districts composed
           of red sandstone," or red Marl : yet in Somerset
           shire (as well as in Lancashire, I believe, as Mr.
           B. hints, p. 135), the fallacy of this old rule has
           long been known.        Until about 50 or 60 years
           ago,   all the Coal-pits to the SW of Bath, had
           Shale, Bind, and Grit beds only in their sinkings,
           and it was then confidently asserted, that the Red-
           ground or Marl to the East of them, entirely " cut
           off" all the Coal-measures (see Mr. B's pages
            134, 268, 273, &c. and your 105th page, Note):
           but a practical old man, of the name of Bush, from
           an attentive examination of the edges of the strata
           in the gullies to the eastward, discovered, and
           maintained, that their Coal-measures         regularly
           underlaid the red ground to the East ; and in the
            process of the workings, and sinking of deeper
            Pits, as steam Engines became more general, his
            opinion has been fully confirmed, and great num
            bers of Coal-pits, in different valleys, between
            htfls capt with Lias, (and even with Bath stone
            on this, in some instances) have since been sunk,
            through considerable thicknesses of Red Marl.
               These facts, induced the trial in a deep valley
            to the north of these, at Bath-Easton, which I have
            mentioned, Rep. i. 1 16, and which has since been
                                                      abandoned,

364     Mr.    Farey's Notes  on Mr.   Bakewell's Geology.
P. 135.     abandoned,    on two different accounts, as 1 have
            heard; viz. the vast quantity of water they met
            with, and the certainly almost which appeared,
            that if the pumping here was continued and the
            Pit deepened, that the important hot Springs at
            Bath, would be diverted thereby, and cease to
            flow !
                On the well ascertained fact, that Coal-measures
            do frequently, if not constantly in England, occur
             beneath the upper or marley Red of Mr. Musbet,
            P. M. xl. p, 53, at no vast distance below the
            Lias strata, a scheme has lately been entered on,
            under Mr. Smith's direction, to. search for Coals
            under the Red Marl, at Compton-dunden N of
            Somerton, which if attended with success, can
            not fail of proving highly beneficial to all that
            part of England.
    138, 1. 24, strata of Marl*. — *These Polish Marls, hold
            ing organic remains, are probably those of the
            Paris strata, and not the Cheshire'; for though we
            were untold, whether springs or beds of Salt any
            where appeared in the basin of Paris ? (as it has
            improperly been called, and said to have been the
            receptacle of fresh water Lakes) P. M. xxxv.
            p. 134 N ; yet M. De Luc in his first Travels on
            the Continent (just published)        vol. i. p. 328,
            mentions two mounts of strata near Lunenburg,
            in a vast plain of sandy alluvia, with flints, one
            composed of Chalk and the other of Gypsum, the
            latter accompanied by a Spring, which supplies
            the Salt-works there 1       >
                In p. 269, M. De Luc mentions another emi
            nence of Chalk in a very distant part of this same
            alluvial flinty plain, near Aix-la-Chapelle : both
  /         of which appear to me, to be lifted pieces of the
            Chalk Strata, like that at Windsor, whereon this
            truly veteran Geologist now lives, and not merely
            hummocks, or parts remaining, of the " dissolved
            strata of chalk," as is constantly assumed in his
            account of this vast plain, in the present twq
            volumes, and in that published. in 1810, which is
            reviewed in your xxxvuh volume, and this sub
           ject noticed at page 50.
               These raised pieces of Chalk and Paris-Gypsum,
            &c. in Germany, give greater probability, to my
            supposition, of the Chalk strata underlieing all
                                                              the

 Mr.   Farey's Notes on       Mr. Bakeivell's Geology.    365
138.   the central     parts of Europe, mentioned in your
       xxxviith vol. p. 412. The Wilicksa salt strata,
       seem also to me, to agree with those of Paris,
        Kir. Geo. Ess. p. 373.
139,1.6, in Northumberland*. — * In Birtley Colliery
       in Durham, about the year 17S5, a Salt spring
       was cut, at 140 yards beneath the surface, from
       whence, for some years past, 1100 tons of Salt
       have been made annually, see Mr. Bailey's Report
        p. 47.
   j. 8, under the surface *. — * The Spring here al
        luded io, is in the Warren-hill Colliery (Rep. i.
        213), and besides issuing so much below the level
        of the Sea, it contains one half more salt, in a
        given weight of water; its produce being TVth of
        salt, and that of the sea ^\tb, according to Kir-
        wan. The situation of this salt Spring, is I be
        lieve, near to the greai Fault which surrounds the
        Ashby de-la-Zouch Coal-field ; beyond which (in
         the Red Marl, as I understand) \m. W of Donis-
         thorp, on the N side of the foot-path toOverseal,
         is a Spring on the surface, in Sir Francis Burdett's
         Estate, nearly as Salt as that above mentioned,
         and as another Spring which oozes into Donis-
         thorp Colliery (Rep. i. 196 and 503), accom
         panied by hydrogen gas and a hissing noise, above
         80 yards beneath the surface; but in which last
         Pit, it soon becomes mixed with fresh water
         from nearer the surface, and appears less salt,
          than in Warren-hill Pit.
ill, 1. 6 and 7, never found        upon it*. — * This is not
         literally true, even of the 1st Grit Rock or proper
          '* Mill-stone Grit" of Mr. Whitehnrst, because
          of the perfect though very thin Coals, in the
          Limestone Shale, Rep. i. 234 ; and the 3d Grit
          Rock, often proves even coarser-grained than the
           1st, and was mistaken for it by Mr. Whitehurst,
          in Chatsworth old Park (as I have shown, Rep. i.
           1 ?8) where   three Coal-seams underlie his mill-
           Stone  Grit !
              A  not less striking p>oof of the impropriety of
          this hasty generalization by Mr. W. and repeated
          by Mr. B. occurs on the Green and Tinkers-knowl
           Commons in Tanslev ; these being near to the line
           of Mr.Whitehursfs Section in Plale IV, of his 1st
           Edition, where the 1st Coal has long been occa
                                                       sionally

366   Mr. Farey's       Notes on   Mr. Bakewell's   Geology.
P. 141.     sionally wrought (Rep. i. 2)2), under a very coarse
            (and I believe an accidental) thick Gritstone bed,
           in the 1 st Coal Shale ; which circumstance escaped
           my notice, until my Ashover Survey, wherein            I
           found, other occurrences of a coarse Grit bed, in
           the same part of this 1st Coal Shale.
  )42, 1. 21 and 22, no connection with any other*. — * If
           by this expression is meant that the surfaces or
           basset edges of Coal-strata, cannot now be traced
           in connection on the surface between one Coal
           field and another, it is perfectly correct : but if it
           is meant thereby to contend (and by nearly similar
           expressions in pages 134, 268, 273, &c.) that a
           connection did not once. exist, between several
           Coal-fields, now separated, '7. must beg to dissent,
           and maintain, that before the dislocations of the
           strata happened, which threw up (comparatively*
          at least) great thicknesses of strata, that have since
          been denudated and are gone, from off tfr^ interven
          ing spaces; or which threw down (comparatively)
          the large intervening tracts of strata, so tri^t not
          only the Coal-seams themselves, but the whofe^of
          the Coal-series are sunk, below practicable mininTg
          depths, and are consequently unknown, that se*,
          vera! of the Coal-fields did then connect; the^
          succession of the strata that do exist on the sur
          face, between and around these Coal-fields, will
         I think prove      it, as well as the successions    or
        sinkings, in the Coal-measures themselves, when
         due allowances are made, for those variations in
         thickness and quality, in the individual strata,
         which so frequently happen, within each Coal
         field, of any considerable extent.
              Mr. Edward Martin, Coal-Engineer of Morris-
         town near Swansea, in South Wales, was brought
         up and first practised his profession in the White
         haven Coal-field, in Cumberland, and        isperfectly
        acquainted with the strata of each of these very
        distant Fields. When this gentleman was in Town
        in April 1806, and had drawn up the Paper which
        appeared in the Phil. Trans. 1806, p. 348, (see
          also   Williams's Min. Kin. sdEd.ii. 291) describ
           ing the South-Wales Coal-basin, had great deal
                                             I       a
           of interesting conversation with him on the sub
          ject,  inwhich he stated, and mentioned numerous
          facts in confirmation of his opinion, that the Coal-
                                                         field*

   Account    of some   Discoveries in Chemical Philosophy.      36?
P. 142.     fields of South Wales, and Whitehaven, are de
            tached parts of the same strata ; see my Note on
            page 13A.
    143,1. 2, fresh water muscle-shells*. — *The Muscles
            in Coal-measures, which I have seen in great
            numbers, are ail of them, so much less than our
            Pond Muscles, that were there no other marks to
            distinguish them, they ought, for Geological pur
            poses, to be considered        of different species, and
            not confounded under          one name.     But Nautili,
            Anomia, &c. occur in the Derbyshire Coal strata,
            P. M. xxxix. p. 352; and in the Coal strata NW
            of Whitby, many Shells occnr usually denomi
             nated Marine; and above the Coals in Sutherland,
            the numbers and varieties of these are so very great,
            P. M. xxxix. p. 337, that we ought no longer to
            hear of*' fresh-water productions," as characteriz
             ing the Coal strata : see my Note on p. 60.
                            [To  be continued.]
LX. A      short    Account     of  some   Discoveries  in Chemical
               Philosophy.      By Ez.    Walker,      Esq.
Although          greater improvements have been made in che
mistry,    within    these last thirty or forty years, than during
many ages before, yet it still remains in a very imperfect
state.    No regular theory has yet been investigated, from
those new discoveries, bv which the various chemical phe
nomena can he explained.
   Hence it appears, that chemistry is now exactly in the
same state that astronomy was before the days of Kepler :
it consist? r f a very valuable and extensive collection of
facts; but that universal law, which governs all chemical
phenomena, still remains undiscovered.                Some chemists
of the present day treat the idea of «uch a law as chimeri
cal ; but so far as we are acquainted with the operations of
nature, we find that they are not produced " by partial but
by general      laws."
    It is  a   truth well known, that the same power, which
causes a drop of rain to fall to the ground, extends its in
fluence to every particle of matter contained in the remor
test planet in our system. And by reasoning from analogy
we may infer, that the feeble light of the glow-worm,             the
vivid flash of lightning that illuminates our hemisphere,
the first increments of heat, the most intense fires, the re
                                                            spiration

  368           A short  Account   of some    Discoveries
  spiration of animals, the growth of plants, and various
  other phenomena in nature, maybe so many effects pro
  duced by the same universal cause; and this cause may oc
  casion the particles of matter to act upon one another so as
 to produce all the various changes which constitute the
 science of chemistry.
     If the nature of combustion was clearly understood, the
 philosophy of chemistry might then be erected upon a solid
 foundation.     But this grand operation of nature still re
 mains unexplained in a clear and satisfactory manner, not
  withstanding the various hypotheses that have been in
 vented by the most learned philosophers.
     Those who first attempted to explain the phsenomena of
  combustion, supposed that a certain elementary body
 called fire existed in matter, which possessed the property
 of devouring certain other bodies.
      Other theories have since been founded on different
 principles ; as,
     1. On the ether of Sir Isaac Newton. — 2. On the spirit
 of saltpetre of Dr. Hook. — 3. On the phlogiston of Stahl.
 —4. On the latent heat of Dr. Black. — And 5thly, Lavoi
 sier founded a theory upon the absorption of oxygen by a
 combustible body.
     " But at present, in consequence of the recent and un
 expected Galvanic discoveries, the Lavoisierian theory stands
 a considerable chance of being new modelled,              if not in. a
great measure overthrown.            Several important and neces
 sary modifications have already taken place, and others not
 less important will probably follow*."
    Sir Humphry Davy supposes, that the phsenomena of
heat consist of a vibratory motion of the particles of heated
bodiesf.
    But as we are not informed what force or power acts
upon the particles of matter, to put them into a vibratory
motion, this hypothesis seems to be as inconclusive as any
of the preceding.
    There is, however, a great number of chemical effects
which are produced by the same cause ; and as comlustioii
is one of them, this cause, therefore, is an interesting sub
ject of inquiry.
    When a Leyden Jar is charged it contains two invisible
fluids, one on the inside and the other on the outside ; and
 as these fluids are   of such   a nature    as to produce     no effect
              " Edinburgh Ency. vol. vi. page 8.
              f Davy's Elements of Chemical Philosophy, p. 9$,
                                                                  upon

                              i/2   Chemical Philosophy.                              369
iipon the most delicate balance,                    they may be deemed                im-
pondeiable.
    When      communication
                a               made between the inside and
                                          is
the outside of    charged jar, bv some conductor of electri
                    a
city, combustion    produced.
                         is     This well known experiment
shows, that these two invisible imponderable fluids, which
are generally called positive and negative electricity, are the
Very elements       of
                  combustion.
   Now, as the electric machine creates nothing, these fluids
become an important subject of investigation.
   A Leyden jar cannot be charged when all communication.
is cut off between    and the earth, nor unless
                              it                     has com            it
munication, at the same time, with the atmosphere. Now,
from these unquestionable facts,    appears that one of those
                                                    it
fluids    derived from the atmosphere, and the other from
          is
 the earth.
   Oxygen and hydrogen gases are diffused. throughout all
nature, in great abundance.      More than one- fifth of the
atmosphere consists of oxygen gas.     And that gas found in.
the interior parts of the earth, formerly called inflammable
air,     is
       hydrogen gas.
   Oxygen gas   composed of oxygen, which
                     is                                                 is   an   invisible
imponderable         active clement,        ponderable base.
                                                 united   to   a
Hydrogen gas     composed of an invisible and imponde^
                     is
rable element, united to ponderable matter*.
   Now, wfieri    Leyden jar
                     a          receiving    charge from an
                                            is                 a
electric machine, one side of the jar receives oxygen from.
the oxygen gas of the atmosphere, and the other side re
ceives hydrogen from the hydrogen gas contained in the
earth.                                                                                      .
   The truth of this theory may be proved        various well          by
known experiments*
  An electric machine acts very imperfectly when many
candles stand near             it,
                        because the candles consume the oxy
gen in the air.   And for tbe same reason, all electrical ex
periments, made with      small apparatus
                                     a        candle light, areby
inconsistent with those made in day.
     It kuown, that,
          is                         by
                            concentrating the solar rays upon
any body,     most intense heat
                a                  produced    and that almost
                                               is              ;
all the combinations which can be effected        combustion,          by
may be      this manner accomplished.
               in
     "Now the portion of solar light, which contributes to
these effects, must be the calorific fays   for neither the il-
                                                          ;
  * An demerit.   not an object of our senses, but an invisible imponde
                    is
rable power which acts on matter; as gravity, magnetism, &c.
     Vol. 42. No.tS7. Nov. 1813.                               A   a         luminating

 370 Account         of some Discoveries in Chemical Philosophy.
 luminating nor the chemical rays produce heat, and they
 are, consequemly, incapable of exciting combustion."
     " To the exhibition, however, of these phenomena in
 combustion the presence of oxygen is necessary ; for the
  calorific rays do not excite combustion in vacuo, nor in any
  gas deprived of oxygen, even when the most inflammable
  substance is employed.            The very same condition is re
  quired     for  the  excitation of electricity.       Colonel Haldane
 observed, that, when tfie Voltaic pile was placed in vacuo,
 its action immediately ceased ; that in nitrogen gas it did
 not even commence ; while in oxygen gas, or in atmospheric
 air, it acted with energy, and the oxygen disappeared. These
 facts were confirmed by Mr. Davy, who found that, in gas
 devoid of oxygen, no Galvanic electricity could be excited ;
 but it was more or less abundantly developed, when oxygen
 gas was present*."            Hence, what has hitherto been called
 positive electricity, is unquestionably the elementary or im-
                                                                               -
 ponderable part        of oxygen    gas — one of the elements of com
 bustion.
     Sir Humphry Davy found great difficulty in breathing
 hydrogen gas for so long a time as half a minute. It pro
 duced uneasy feelings in the chest, and momentary loss of
 muscular power, and sometimes a transient giddinessf.
     And some persons have experienced                giddiness,     loss   of
muscular motion, and fainting, when standing                          near   a
 pow erful electric machine while in action J.
     When      an electric   is strongly  excited, it causes the sensa
 tion of the spider's web upon the face brought near it$.
 And in coal mines highly charged with hydrogen gas, the
 workmen always experience the same sensation.
     Now from these facts it appears, that when a portion of
air is charged with what is called negative electricity, it is,
in fact, charged with hydrogen gas.
 On the elementary principles of oxygen and hydrogen gases,
                 called positive and negative electricity.
     When        a  Leyden jar is discharged through the air, a
 spark is produced which sets certain bodies on fire.                   That
a charged jar contains the two elements of combustion,
cannot be disputed with any degree of reason, since com
bustion has been produced by these elements thousands of
times, without any other meaus whatever, except some pon
derable matter for them to act upon.
   •  Ellis on Atmospheric Air, p. 188.  + Thomson's  Chemistry, vol. i. p.S4.
   J  Yatman on the Electric t'laid.     § Cavallo's Electricity, p. 408.
                                                                          Tbe

                           On definite Proportions.                        371
  The only point to be discussed     What are those two ele
                                                 is,
ments     There are
           ?           thousand questions of the like nature,
                           a
that cannot be answered. What         gravity, or magnetism
                                                 is                         ?
All we know of them       derived from the effects which they
                                is
produce.
  The astronomer knows how to calculate the revolution*-
of the celestial bodies to    mathematical
                                      a      exactness, upon
the unknown element of gravitation       and the mariner can
                                                       ;
navigate unknown seas         his compass, without kuowing
                                      by
the cause that turns the needle to the pole.   And men pre
dict thousand effects from causes equally unknown.
       a
   Of the animal and vegetable kingdoms we know nothing
but what we see. An ege; becomes        bird, and flies away
                                                       a                   ;
and    bulbous root, planted in the earth, produces
       a                                                flower       a
which displays more beautiful tints than those of the rain
bow. These phenomena are known to every child              but         ;
the causes of those wonderful effects are hidden from every
human eye. In short, men reason from the effects of
unknown causes, and act accordingly with the same con
fidence as     those causes were perfectly understood.
               if if
   Hence,     we adopt the two invisible imponderable active
powers, collected          by
                       the electric machine, as the elements
of  combustion, we do not deviate from the best modes of
investigating truth.
    Lynn, Nov.   15,                                        Ez. WALKER.
                                [To   be continued.]
LXI.       An Attempt       to determine the definite and simple Pro
    portions, in       which the constituent Parts         of
                                                       anorganic Sub
    stances are united with each other. By Jacob                     Berze-
    lius, Professor    Medicine and Pharmacy, and
                           of                                        M.R.A.
    Stockholm.
                        IV. The Carbonic Acid.
The carbonic acid in combination contains either twice or
               four     times as miich oxygen as the base.
At the time of my first investigations
                                     relating to carbonates,
I  was unacquainted with M. Gay-Lussac's determination
of the component parts of the carbonic acid.       had taken    I
for their proportion 7f56 of oxygen, and 28*43 of carbon,
according to the experiments of MM. Allen and Fepys.
My analvses did not perfectly agree with this proportion;
but I  supposed the cause of the disagreement to depend
rather on my experiments than on those of the English
                                     A   a   2                      chemists.

3?i                   On definite Proportions.
chemists.     I am  however   disposed to consider the analysis
of M. Gay-Lussac       as affording   a confirmation of my ex
periments, although the agreement is not quite perfect.
   a. ) Carbonate of the protoxide of lead.       Ten grammes
of well dried carbonate of the protoxide of lead, weighed
while still warm, were ignited in a small crucible of platina;
they left 8*35 gr. of the protoxide, and had consequently
lost 1*65 of carbonic acid.         Now if this acid, as Gay-
Lussac has determined, contains in 100 pans 72-624 of
oxygen, we have 119 83 of oxygen for 165 parts.                But
835 of the protoxide of lead contain 59- 7 of oxygen, and
59*7 X 2= 1 19-4.
   b. ) Carbonate
                    of baryta consists of 22* I parts of carbonic
acid and 77'9 of baryta; the one containing 16*05 of oxy
gen, the other 8*14; and 8*14X2=16*28.
   c. ) Carbonate of lime consists of 43*6 parts of carbonic
acid and 56*4 of lime : the one corresponding to 31*66 of
oxygen, the other to 15*88; and this doubled gives 31-76.
   d. ) Carbonate of soda. Ten grammes of pure carbonate
of soda, dried in the heat of melting tin, dissolved in mu
riatic acid, and dried and ignited in a platina crucible, af
forded 10-995 gr. of muriate of soda.        Since these contain
5-8757 gr. of soda, it follows that the carbonate contains
41 -243 per cent, of carbonic acid, answering to 29*95 of
oxygen, while the soda gives 15-077, twice which is 30*J5.
   e. ) Svper carbonate of soda.     Five grammes of fully sa
turated carbonate of soda were dissolved in muriatic acid,
in a flask which had been weighed, and it was found that
2*60 gr. of carbonic acid had escaped.        The remaining so
lution, being dried and ignited, afforded 3-46 gr. of muriate
of soda, containing 1*85 of soda. Consequently the super-
carbonate consists of 52 parts carbonic acid, 37 soda, and
11 water.     But 52 parts of carbonic acid contain 37'74 of
oxygen, and 37 of soda 9-49: and 9*49 x4 = 37*96. Hence            ,
it follows that the soda in this salt is combined with twice
as much carbonic acid as in the foregoing.
  f.  ) Potass and ammonia also afford two salts in which
the carbonic acid is combined with the base in the same pro
portions.    I shall take the carbonate of ammonia as an ex
ample.     M. Gay-Lussac found, that 100 parts of ammonia
take up 127 '37 of carbonic acid in the common carbonate,
and 254*74 in the supercarbonate : but 100 parts of am
monia contain 46*38 of oxygen, which doubled becomes
03-77, and quadrupled 187*54.         The carbonic acid in the
former «alt contains 92*5 of oxygen, and in the latter 185.
   All  these experiments   therefore, except the first, agree in.
                                                       indicating

                         On definite Proportions.                 373
indicating   a  little more oxygen in the carbonic acid than
the determination of M. Gay-Lussac ; but the variation is
immaterial: future experiments will perhaps inform us on
 what this variation depends.         In the experiment on the
carbonate of the protoxide or lead, the quantity of carbonic
acid was in all probability augmented by a little moisture;
for, when the experiment is performed in a small glass re
tort, a slight deposition of aqueous vapour always appears
in the neck of the retort, and disappears immediately with
the carbonic acid- gas.
   It appears to me that we are right in considering the car
bonates of lime of baryta, and of the protoxide of lead, as
neutral combinations : and in order to avoid inconsistency,
we must denominate all the carbonates, in which the acid
contains only twice as much oxvgen as the base, neutral
salts, and the combinations completely saturated with car
bonic acid super carbonates.       For, if we attempt to infer, for
example,    the   component parts of the neutral carbonate of
soda from the analogies of the sulphates of baryta and soda
and the carbonate of baryta,         we  obtain    a result  agreeing
with the common carbonate          of soda.
                V. The Acids of Phosphorus.
   The phosphoric acid saturates so much of any base, that in
the phosphates, as in the carbonates, the acid contains exactly
twice as much oxygen as the base.
   a.) Four grammes of phosphate of baryta were dissolved
in nitric acid, and a precipitate was obtained by means of
the sulphate of potass: when ignited, it weighed 4*397 gr.,
which contain 2-888 gr. of baryta, and leave 1*112 gr. for the
phosphoric acid in the 4 gr. Hence the phosphate of baryta
consists of Phosphoric acid            27*8        100*0
                  Baryta               72-2        2597
   I.)  I dissolved    five grammes   of pure   lead  in nitric acid,
and dried   the  solution.     The neutral  nitrate  of the protoxide
was dissolved in water, to which neutral phosphate of am
monia was added: the phosphate of the protoxide of lead,
thus obtained, after having been well washed and ignited,
weighed 6-8 gr. ; and no trace of lead was discoverable in
the fluid by means of sulphuretted hydrogen.              Now 5 gr.
of lead require -385 of oxygen, in order to form a prot^
oxide: hence 5*385 gr. of the protoxide had united with
1-415 of phosphoric acid : and the phosphate of the prot~
exide of lead consists of
         Phosphoric acid                20*809         100*00
         Protoxide of lead              79' 191       380*56
                                 Aa3                           These

                                                                    s
 374                   On definite Proportions.
     These results are also confirmed by calculation: for 100
  parts of sulphuric acid saturate 191*427 of baryta, and 279
  of protoxide of lead, and      100  of phosphoric acid 259'  7 of
  baryta; whence we have 191*427 : 279 = 259'7 ' 378*51.
 The slight difference amounts only to TTVo- 01 tne we'gnt
  of the salt.
     Now 380-56 parts of the protoxide of lead contain 27*21
  of oxygen, which, doubled, gives 54-42.           Consequently,
 according to this calculation, 100 parts of phosphoric acid
 should consist. of 45-58 of phosphorus and 54-42 of oxy
  gen.    The late   Mr.  Rose   found that 5 gr. of phosphorus
 absorb 5-555 of oxygen, or that 100 parts of phosphoric
 acid consist of 47-62 of phosphorus, and 52-38 of oxygen.
 If  we take into consideration the moisture unavoidably ad
 hering to the phosphorus when it is weighed, the analysis
 of Mr. Rose will agree very well with the computation.
 This gentleman attempted also to convert a determinate
  quantity of phosphorus into phosphate of the protoxide of
 lead, and obtained from 50 grains of phosphorus 481 of
 this combination.       If this experiment were perfectly cor
 rect, the phosphorus must take up less than its own weight
 of oxygen, or, calculating upon the analysis of the phos
 phate adduced by Mr. Rose, the acid should conisist of
 equal parts of oxygen and of phosphorus : so that the two
 experiments, which give 22-3 for the acid contained in 10Q
 parts of the phosphate of the protoxide of lead, and 481 for
 the phosphate obtained from 50 parts of phosphorus, are
inconsistent with each other, and lose their pretensions to
 accuracy.
    With    the phosphorous acid I am not acquainted from my
own experience      : but it is very possible that this acid also
may    be  found  to  contain twice as much oxvgen as the base
by which it is saturated.       In this case it would follow that
such salts when exposed to heat in close vessels, should af
ford phosphorus, and leave a neutral phosphate behind :
which, according to Fourcroy and Vauquelin, is the actual
result of the experiment: and it is not probable that so ac
curate a chemist as Vauquelin would have overlooked the
excess of base, if the phosphites had been decomposed by
heat in the same manner with the sulphites.         Consequently
the phosphites must stand in the same relation to phos
phorus, as the hyperoxymuriates to oxygen; [that is, with
regard to the operation of heat only.]
                 VI. The Acids of Arsenic.
   We have     several  good analyses   of the arsenic and arse-
                                                            nious.

                         On definite Proportions.                                375
nious acids, according to which the former contains                             from
  50 to 56, and the latter 33 33 of oxygen to 100 of metal ;
  or the arsenic acid consists of             metal and         oxygen, and
                                                                      -J-
  the arsenious of       |  metal and       oxygen.
                                               \           If however the
  composition of the latter           rightly determined, the former
                                         is
 must contain, according to the laws which                       have disco
                                                                  I
 vered, cither 50 or 66 parts of oxygen, that                         is,
                                                                  cither once
  and
    f     or twice as much as the latter.
     In order to ascertain this point,           dissolved 10 grammes
                                                     I
 of metallic arsenic in nitric acid, evaporated the solution,
 dissolved the acid in          very little water, and mixed              init
                              a a
                                                                                  a
 platina crucible with          solution of 30 gr. of oxide of lead
 in nitric acid.     I   evaporated the mixture to dryness, and
 ignited    it:  the   residuum after ignition weighed 44 95 gr.
 Consequently 100 pans of metal had taken up 49-5 of oxy
 gen.     The same experiment, repeated with                  gr. of arsenic,
                                                                  3
 afforded '4-5 [4-45?] of arsenic acid; so that 100 parts of
 metal had taken up 48*3 of oxygen.               In another repetition,
a   single gramme       of  the metal   afforded      -53 gr. of the acid.
                                                             I
 The experiments, which              performed
                                         1               this manner, in
                                                             in
 order to avoid the presence of water, afforded therefore very
 different results   :   partly because the arsenic acid retains in
 them  a   little muriatic acid, which          expelled with the prot
                                                        is
 oxide of lead   ;    partly  because    the   two   acids, which are at
 liberty, begin     to  contend    with   each   other    in'     high tem
                                                                       a
perature     for  the protoxide, whence           little of the uncom-
                                                         a
 bincd arsenic acid      is  decomposed and dissipated.              In order
to satisfy myself that metallic arsenic contains no hydrogen,
that could have influenced the result,                 heated some of
                                                             I                    it
 with some oxide of tin in           small glass retort; some traces
                                         a
of moisture appeared in the operation, but they were too
slight to be estimated            weight and in the neck of the
                                    by              :
retort some arsenious acid had been sublimed.                      Although
all these experiments afford no very accurate determina
tion of the quantity of oxygen               the arsenic acid, they still
                                                in
sufficiently show that 100 parts of metal cannot be com
bined with 66 of oxygen in                    it,
                                           and consequently that the
arsenic acid can only contain half as much more oxygen
than the arsenious.          In order to assure myself more fully
of the composition of these acids,               examined their com
                                                        I
binations with the protoxide of lead.
    Arscnite   of  the protoxide       lead.
                                         of       dissolved 20 grammes
                                                        I
of protoxide of lead in nitric acid, and evaporated the so
lution, in order to expel the superfluous acid.                  The nitrate
of the protoxide, dissolved in water, was mixed with the
arsenite of potass, as long as             precipitate appeared
                                              a                           this
                                                                            ;
                                   A          4 a                     arsenite

376                On definite Proportions.
arsenite being prepared by the solution of white arsenic in
carbonate of potass, until the solution, when cooled, de
posited arsenious acid in crystals.    The precipitate, which
was at first viscid, became a powder when heated, and was
completely deposited.      It was placed on a filter, washed,
and well dried ; it then weighed 39*126 gr. When melted
in a red heat in a small glass retort, it afforded -665 gr. of
water, and 1*651 of arsenious acid.      Consequently 20 gr.
of the protoxide of If ad had afforded 36*81 gr. of neutral
arsenite.   The same experiment was then performed in a
different manner.     I carefully mixed 5 gr. of protoxide of
lead with 6 of arsenious acid, and heated them together in
a covered crucible of platina, increasing the heat slowly to
complete ignition.       The arsenite thus obtained weighed
9'22 gr.
  Now if   36*81 parts of this arsenite contain 20 of the
protoxide of lead, the salt is thus constituted:
            Arsenious acid . . 45-667      100-000
            Protoxide of lead 54-333      1 18 977
  If  however we calculate from the last experiment, 100
parts of the acid must be saturated by 1 18'476 of the prot
oxide ; so that the experiments differ very little from each
other.
   The arsenite of the protoxide of lead being a substance
but little known, I think it right to make some remarks on
its external characters.   If it has been prepared by precipi
tation, the white powdery salt is perhaps the most strongly
electrical of all known bodies.     When I rubbed a little of
it in a mortar, it cracked and flew about ; and when I en?
deavoured to pour it out, it remained adhering to the mor
tar: upon detaching it from the mortar, it spread, in falling,
over a surface several inches in diameter.' Sulphur exhibits
similar appearances, but in a much less considerable degree.
The salt when fused is not very fluid ; it is transparent,
and retains this property when cold : its colour is very
slightlv yellow; and if the lead contains a trace of copper,
it becomes of a bottle green; but if made from common
litharge, it is quite black. If it is heated with access of
air, some arsenious acid is disenaged, and some arseniate of
the protoxide is formed, which sinks in the salt when it        is.
fused.
   The composition of the arsenious acid may easily    be cal
culated from that of the arsenite of the protoxide of lead.
But my first conjecture, that      contained, like the sul
                                      it
phurous acid, twice as much oxygen as the base that     itsa
turated,    not confirmed
           is                    by
                              the investigation,   For since
                                                      118977

                              On definite Proportions.                       87f
118*977 parts of the protoxide contain 8*50GS of Oxygen,
the arsenious acid should, upon that supposition, contain in
 100 only i7*Oi36 of oxygen to 83-0864 of metal; and this
js not reconcileable with any of the analyses of Bucholz,
Rose, Thenard, and Proust.            If however the arsenious acid
.contains three times as much oxygen as the protoxide sa
 turated by       it,
                  its composition will stand thus:
                Arsenic            74-48        100 000
                Oxygen.... 25-52                 34-263
     And this determination agrees very nearly with that of
 the chemists who have been mentioned.
     Arseniate       the protoxide cf lead.
                    of                            dissolved 10 gr. of
                                                        I
 very pure arseniate of the protoxide of lead, which had been
 ignited, in diluted nitric acid, and precipitated with sul
 phate of ammonia.           The clear liquid was evaporated t6
  dryness,  and  the   dry mass,  still acid, was dissolved in water.
It   left a pretty considerable quantity of sulphate of the prot
  oxide of lead, and still more was thrown down upon satu
  rating the fluid with caustic ammonia. The precipitate,
  when collected, well washed, and ignited, weighed 9'559gr.
  As this result did not agree with the determinations of
  JEClaproth and Rose,       repeated the experiment with
                                I                               gr. of   6
  the arseniate: and the sulphate, which            obtained from
                                                          I                      it,
  weighed 5- "31 gr. and this agrees very nearly with the for
  mer experiment.        As Klaproth and Rose did not remark
  the solubility of the sulphate in the mixture of the two
  acids, this circumstance was probably the reason that thev
   found the quantity of lead smaller than          did.   For when
                                                           I                     I
   decomposed 10 gr. of the arseniate,            means of sulphate
                                                          by
   of soda, without saturating the superfluous acid,          obtained
                                                                     I
 only     "0-042" [9-042?]                  gr.    of ignited  sulphate, which
 agrees   exactly with the result obtained                      by
                                                                those chemists.
 Hence the arseniate      the protoxide
                                  of                     oflead consists of
            Arsenic acid               ....
                                   29-63 17                      100-0
            Protoxide of lead      70-3683  .
                                            .     237\5
     Tthought     probable that
                        it         superarseniate of lead miirht
                                              a
 also exist, containing only half as much of the base as the
 neutral combination, and consisting of the acid united with
 the base in the same proportion as in the arsenite.       there      I
 fore dissolved some of the arseniate in nitric acid, slowly
 evaporated the solution until       crystallized, and collected
                                                  it
 the salt     : was however not such
                  it                          compound as ex
                                                          a                  f
 pected,  but    double
                    a    combination    of arseniate  and nitrate
 of the protoxide.       was decomposed
                                It                         by
                                               water; the nitrate
 jvas dissolved,             the crystals    lost their transparency,     and the
                                                                         arseniate

                      On definite Proportions.
   arseniatc fell down as a white powder: so that it seems
  impossible to obtain a superarseniate of lead.
      Arsenic acid.   When 1 attempted to deduce the compo
  sition of the arsenic acid from these data, I thought at first
  that it could not contain less than three times as much
  oxygen as the protoxide of lead neutralized by it; and in
  this case more than half of it must have been oxygen.         It
  could therefore only contain twice as much oxygen as the
  base; for 237*52 parts of the protoxide contain J 6'98 1 of
  oxygen, and 16 981 x 2 = 33*962.         According to this cal
  culation, therefore, the arsenic acid consists of
              Arsenic.... 66*038               100000
              Oxygen.... 33-962                 51*423
     But 100 parts of metallic arsenic lake up 34*263 of oxy
 gen in order to form arsenious acid, and 34*263 x 1{ =
  51*3945, which differs 'from the number already found, by
  -0335 only.     Consequently the arsenic acid follows the
 same steps, in its different states, as the sulphuric and the
 oxymuriatic acids, the oxide of iron, and the yellow oxide
 of lead.
      What differences however are still observable in the
 midst of these analogies ! The sulphites take up oxygen,
 without altering their internal composition, and become
 sulphates.    The phosphites part with a portion of their
 phosphorus, which becomes phosphoric acid, and the hy-
 peroxyinuriates become muriates while they emit a part of
 their oxygen.     The arsenates, on the other hand, are only
 altered in the fire by the addition of oxygen, since they
 contain more arsenic and more oxygen thsn the arseniates :
 but if a portion of the arsenious acid can be more highly
pxygenized, it expels another portion, equal to itself in
weight, from the mixture. These are appearances which
might have been deduced from our general views, without
the necessity of observing them.       It is remarkable that all
these double acids, derived from the same radical, have dif
ferent laws with respect to their powers of saluratinga civen
base. The sulphuric acid contains half as much more oxygen
as the sulphurous which is capable of saturating the same
base ; the phosphorous     and the phosphoric contain equal
quantities; the arsenious contains half as much more as the
arsenic ; while the hyperoxymuriatic, as we shall hereafter
see, must contain three times as much oxygen, for a given
quantity of a base, as the simple muriatic.
    Metallic arseniets or arseniurets.     In the sulphites, as
well as in the sulphates, the metal of the base is combined
                                                          with,

                    On definite Proportions.                  3"§
with a minimum of sulphur, in the supersulphates with a
maximum.        The phosphites answer to combinations in
which the phosphorus amounts to once and         \   or twice as
much as in the phosphurets at a minimum, accordingly as
the quantity of phosphoric acid, which saturates a basis,
contains once and    \ or twice as much oxygen as the quan
tity of phosphorous acid " that saturates the same basis       [or
ratherthat is formed from the same quantity of phosphorus.]
The phosphates follow, in all probability, the same propor
tions as the phosphorets at a minimum. We should expect
that the same would happen in the two kinds of salts
containing arsenic : but if we calculate from the two salts
of lead the respective quantities of arsenic united with
 100 parts of lead, we shall find, in the arsenite 67-578, and
in the arseniate 29*943 of arsenic.      The latter number is
less than the half of the former ; and since twice 29*943 is
59*886, the deficiency 7*7 is exactly equal to the quantity
of oxygen taken up by      100 parts of lead.  If  it is true that
the arsenious acid contains -§-as much oxygen as the arsenic,
and saturates a base containing        as much oxygen as it
 self, we must indeed never expect to find twice as much
arsenic in the arsenite formed from a given quantity of lead
 as in the arseniate.    This made me doubt the accuracy of
my experiments, but they have afforded me the same re
 sults upon a repetition.    And since any other law for the
capacity of saturation of the acids would suppose a very
great difference in the results, it appears to me demon
strated, that a small error in the experiments canuot have
any essential influence on the conclusions here drawn from
them.
    We cannot however doubt that arsenic combines with
the other metals, exactly as sulphur does, in determinate
 proportions ; for in the natural arseniurets, for example
those of cobalt or of iron, the component parts are mani
 festly always united with each other in the same propor
tions. But if arsenic dues not follow the same progressive
 steps of combination with other metals, as with oxygen,
 such irregularities must occur, in the same manner as I
 have shown that they are observable with respect to sulphur
 and iron, in the subsulphate of the oxide of iron. But these
irregularities will perhaps no longer be entitled to that ap
pellation, if we succeed in discovering, at some future time,
the lowest stages of combination.
    There can be no doubt that the other metals combine
 also with each other in determinate proportions, although
 jhe possibility of fusing most of them together, in all
                                                          propor

$&6                            On definite Proportions.
proportions whatever,          has hitherto concealed from us what
the proper chemical proportions are.                   Potassium, for ex
ample, crystallizes       with  quicksilver       in  two  determinate pro
portions, one of which          is  twice    as  great  as the other.      The
arbor Dianae is always the same combination of quicksilver
and silver.      It a mixture of zinc and copper is exposed to
distillation at a high temperature, it loses a part of the zinc;
but the remainder cannot be separated from                        it,
                                                                   as long as
the air      excluded.       When        zinc       distilled,   in  order to
         it, is
                                                   is
purify         leaves some alloys behind, from which the zinc
              it
cannot be expelled.           All this indicates some determinate
proportions even           the combinations of the metals which
                               in
may be mixed in all possible quantities.                   We shall here
after  be  able    to   compute       these    proportions according to
those of the protoxides,           for   the  metals    must combine with
each other either in such proportions as to be able to take
up equal quantities of oxygen, or that the least strongly
 [positive] may be able to take up 2,                   or
                                                        3,   times as much
                                                             4
oxygen    as  the   most   strongly.          I had   proposed to make       a
series of experiments on this subject                   but since         diffi
                                                                        it
                                                                        is
                                                        ;
cult to perform       such   experiments with accuracy,             and   they
are expensive and tedious, and since the truth of the law                    is
sufficiently evident without them,                 have desisted from my
                                                   I
purpose.      Since    the  earths    must    also   be considered as me
tallic oxides, the same law must be applicable to the com
binations of metals and earths in crystallized minerals, or
in all such as are formed                by
                                        the operation of chemical affi
nities, so that the oxygen must determine the proportion in
this case also        and
                       :      will be necessary that all analyses of
                                    it
minerals should be repeated and examined                     bythis test.
    Protoxide       arsenic.
                   of                thought
                                         I         itprobable that arsenic,
which resembles sulphur in il3 stages of oxygenization,
must also have protoxide, containing one-sixth as much
                           a
oxygen as the arsenic acid, that              is8*57 for 100 of the metal,
I  therefore mixed 10 gr. of melted muriate of the pro
toxide of lead with          gr. of metallic arsenic, and ignited
                                6
the mixture in         small glass retort.
                           a                        The arsenic sublimed
in  a  metallic form, and the muriate remained undecom-
posed.     It  appears, therefore, that arsenic affords no oxide
capable of combination with the muriatic acid.
    But every chemist knows that arsenic, exposed to the
air, falls into black powder, which
                       a                                no longer metallic,
                                                        is
and   must   therefore be considered as an oxide.                  Itherefore
exposed two grammes of very finely powdered arsenic, in                      a
small glass dish, covered with paper, for two months, on
a  stove, to      temperature between 30° and 40° [86° and
                   a
                                                                         104°],

                                          \
                       On definite Proportions.                381
104°], and weighed it from time to time, taking care to
stir the powder. At the end of the time, it had assumed the
form of a blackish brown powder, and had acquired* 162
gr. weight. The increase during "the last" [a third?]
month was only *0075 gr., and it then became sta
tionary. Consequently 100 parts of arsenic had united
with 8'475 of oxygen ; and this is so nearly -J-of the oxygen
contained in the arsenic acid, that the difference does not
exceed half a thousandth of the weight of the protoxide;
so that we have hence a new proof that the multiples by
 If   are only apparent, and in reality represent multiples by
6 or 12 of a smaller quantity.        The protoxide of arsenic is
reduced by heat, affording metallic arsenic and arsenious
acid.                                                               >
            VII.   TUNGSTIC AND MoLYBDIC           AdDS.
     Not having had an opportunity of making any original
experiments      on these acids, I shall only calculate their com
 position from the analyses of MM. Bucholz and Klap-
 roth. According to Klaproth (Beitr. III. 47) 100 parts of
 tungstate of lime afforded 32 of carbonate of lime and
 77*75 of tungstic acid.       The 32 parts of carbonate of lime
 contain 18*05 of the earth, and in it 4-0719 of oxvgen :
 this quantity, multiplied by 4, gives 1 6*2876 ; and if this is
 the quantity of oxygen contained in 77*75 of tungstic acid,
 this acid consists of 79' 1 of metal and 20*9 of oxygen.
 Bucholz gives 80 and 20 for this proportion.
     In Klaproth's analysis of the mohjbdata of the protoxide
 of lead (Beitr. II. 274) 100 grains were found to afford 74-f
 of the muriate, which contain 59*9 of the protoxide, with
 4*282 of oxygen, and 3 times this quantity gives 12 846.
 The salt of molybdaena afforded 34*25 of acid ; and if this
 contained 12-846 of oxygen, the molybdic acid must con
 sist of 65*5 parts of metal and 34*5 of oxygen.        According
 to the determination of Bucholz, it consists of 66*67 and
 33*33 respectively.
     The analyses, on       which these two computations are
 founded,    are  not perfectly accurate; so that, notwithstand
 ing the slight variation in the result, they serve as new and
  ample proofs of the law of nature which I have been endea
 vouring to develop.
     Since all the acids, with the composition of which we are
  in any degree acquainted, follow the law which has been
  laid down, I think we are justified in applying the same
  mode of calculation to the investigation of the composition
 of those acids also, which we cannot directly analyse.           It

 382              On definite Proportion^
will therefore be permitted me, to extend the law      also' id
the muriatic acid, and to the acids with compound radicals.
In these last we shall be able to observe the transition from
inorganic to organized bodies, and the modifications of
the same laws which nature follows in both orders of sub
stances.
     VIII. Muriatic      and Hvperoxmuriatic Acids.
    The muriatic acid contains oxygen, and in such a pro
portion, that in the muriates the oxygen of the acid isjwice
 as much as that of the base.    In the hyperoxy muriates, the
acid contains 8 times as much oxygen as the base, and emits,
by the operation of heat, 6 times as much oxygen as the base
contains.
    I exposed 4 grammes of hyperoxymuriate of potass,
which 1 had dried very quickly in a hot sand bath, to a
high temperature in a small retort ; I caused the oxygen
gas which escaped to pass through a glass tube, filled with
muriate of lime, of which the weight was accurately as
certained, and continued the experiment until the retort
was red hot, and no more oxygen gas escaped.         The smalt
retort had lost 1*5525 gr.        of its weight.   During the
whole operation, no trace of moisture was perceptible on
its neck ; but in the curvature a sublimate was deposited,
which was perhaps carried up mechanically by the gas,
weighing exactly '01 gr., and consisting of hyperoxy-
muriate still undecomposed.       The lube filled with muriate
of lime, when the oxygen had been blown out of it by
means of a very dry bottle of caoutchouc, had gained -00.5
in weight.     Consequently the loss of oxygen amounted
to 1-5475 gr.        The saline mass left behind weighed
2*4375 gr.   ;  and, according to the analysis of the mu
riate of potass, must have consisted of *8913 gr. of
muriatic acid, and 1*5462 of potass.      Consequently *8913
gr. of muriatic acid had been combined with 1*5475
gr. of oxygen, which gives 173*62 of oxygen to 100 of
muriatic acid.   Now since the oxymuriatic acid contains,
according   to Davy   and Gay-Lussac, as much oxygen as the
common muriatic acid requires in the bases which it satu
rates, and consequently 100 parts of muriatic acid take up
29*454 of oxygen in order to form oxymuriatic acid, it
follows that 173-62 ought to be a multiple of 29*454 by
some whole number.        In fact 29*454 X6= 176*724, which.
differs only by 3- I from the experiment.      We may there
fore consider this experiment as a proof that the hyperoxy-
muriate of potass affords, by the effect of heat, 6 times a*
                                                         much

                      On definite Proportions.                 383
much oxygen as is contained in the potass ; and the same
must be true of other neutral hyperoxymuriates.               The
slight variation of the experiment from the          law   is very
easily understood, from the difficulty of purifying the hy-
peroxymuriate from the simple muriate, and the material
influence of such an impurity on the result.
   We are next to inquire in what proportion the oxygen of
the muriatic acid, which is left behind, stands to that of
the potass and to the portion which has escaped as a gas.
To judge from the analogy of the other acids, it ought to
be a multiple by 2 or 3 of the quantity in the potass. That
the multiplier cannot be greater than 3 is very obvious,
since any greater number would afford a quantity greater
than that of the whole acid : and if 3 were the number,
the acid would consist of 11*64 of its basis to 88*36 of
oxygen, and the other known degrees of oxygenization
would be multiples by 1-j and 3 ; which is contrary to the
progression that has hitherto been observed. Consequently
the muriatic acid can only contain twice as much oxygen
as the base by which it is saturated, and must consist of
41*092 of its radical and 58*Q08 of oxygen.           It is how
ever possible that this proportion may be erroneous as far
as 1 per cent, since the analysis of the muriate of silver
can only be depended on to rfl'6.a of the whole, and the
quantity of oxygen may be 1 percent, greater, and that of
the radical as much less than that which is here laid down':
but this inaccuracy is of no consequence to the general
question of the degrees of oxygenization.
   It is obvious that these degrees may be expressed by the
numbers 1, If, and 4 ; the third step, or the multiple
by 2, being absent.      If  we might infer, from the analogy
of sulphur, that the multiple by     If  is here also a true mul
tiple by  6 of a lower  degree,   we  should    have in the hy
pothetical protoxide    of  the muriatic   radical, 100 parts of
this substance combined with 35-843 of oxygen.            Perhaps
a combination of this kind may hereafter be discovered in
the muriatic ether : for it is more probable that an oxide
enters into the composition of this substance, just as the
nitrons oxide enters into that of nitrous ether, than that
the acid itself should be retained by the component           parts
of the ether with greater force than by the ordinary bases
which attract it the most powerfully.        According to these
computations, we obtain for the different states of the mu
riatic acid, the following proportions.
                                                         a.) Com-'

384                    On definite Proportions.
                   a.)   Common muriatic acid.
          Radical 4l-09"8"            100 0000
          Oxygen 58*90"2"              143-3633
                        I.) Oxymuriatic   acid.
                                Muriatic   acid 77*232     100'Ood
   Radical 31-742 100-00
   Oxygen 68-258 215-06        Oxygen       .. 22-768       2Q-454
                   c.) Hyperoxymurialic      acid.
    Radical 14-85 100-000        Muriatic acid 36- 14 100-000
    Oxygen 85-15 573-429         Oxygen .. 63 86 176 224
     In order to discover the degree of oxidation which is
 wanting between the oxymuriatic and hvperoxymuriatic
'acids, I determined to examine with accuracy the analysis
 of the hyperoxymuriate of ammonia. Some years since,
 when I was investigating the chemical modes of decom
                                                          muriate of
 posing ammonia, I attempted to decompose the
 ammonia by means of a solution of hyperoxymuriate
                                                                   of
 lime, in an apparatus which had been weighed, and to as
                                                                  the
 certain the quantity of the nitrogen, which escaped, by
 loss of weight.      I found, however,     that  an excess  of  acid
                                                                  the
 was required for the decomposition of the salt, and
                                                                 of a
 apparatus lost in the mean time very unequal quantities
 gas, which had a very strong smell of oxymuriatic
                                                                aci<L
 Not being able to, obtain from the experiment any result
 applicable to the object which I then had
                                                   in view, I pur
  sued it no further : but when I began         to  make computa
  tions respecting the composition of       ammonia,     and of the
 muriatic acid, I found that the hyperoxymuriate of ammo
 nia must be so constituted, that the excess of the oxygen
  of the acid must be twice as great as would be required fof
 forming water with the ammonia.           And since this salt, ac
  cording to Mr. Chenevix, begins        to  be decomposed a few
  moments    after it has been formed, it followed that, besides
  waier and nitrogen, it ought to afford a new stage of oxy-
                                                               of th«
  genization of the muriatic acid, in which 100 parts
  radical should be combined with 358*366 of oxygen
                                                               ; that
  is, a multiple by         which did not however appear very
  probable.
      But it was also possible that it might afford water, nitro
  gen, nitrous oxide,       and the muriatic oxide which was
  wanting.     I therefore mixed a solution of hyperoxymuriate
  of potass   with  a solution of sulphate of ammonia, both
                                                                    of
   which were perfectly neutral, and boiled them for some
                                                                 time

                     On defimte Proportions.                                 385
  time in a retort with a pneumatic apparatus attached to it;
  but no gas was extricated, and that which remained in the
  apparatus was not altered.  When I added a little muriatic
  acid,   there was an effervescence,        the mixture          became yel
  low, and nitrogen and oxymuriatic acid were disengaged.
  When the neutral mixture was sjently evaporated, hyper-
  bxynmriate of potass crystallized in and the sulphate of
                                                  it,
  ammonia effloresced, as usual, about the vessel.      appears    It
 .therefore that these two salts do not decompose each other.
  When attempted to prepare the hyperoxv muriate of am
          I
  monia according to the method of Mr. Cheneyix,         found       I
  that no decomposition took place      the salts were
                                             if        neutral,
  but only    the acid or the alkali prevailed.
               if                                  An excess of
  ammonia disengages nitrogen, and the oxyrouriate                            is
  changed into common muriate.       Excess of acid disengages
  oxymuriatic acid and nitrogen. This appears therefore to
  demonstrate that neither the hyperoxvmuriat'i of ammonia
  nor the muriatic oxide in question can exist, at least in                    a
  separate form.
                              Conclusion.
     If   we compare what     I have explained in this essay with
  our common experience,         we .seem authorised to establish
  upon    these  foundations  the following laws offormation .
     " In chemical combination
              a                             two or more cxidated
                                             of
  lodies, (whether        consists of acid and acid, of acid and
                         it
  base, or of base with base,) the oxygen             the substance
                                                             of
  which   is most abundant u        multiple
                                    a               whole number
                                                        by   a
  (i, 1, 3, 4, . .  .)   ofthe oxygen      the body which
                                             of                 least   is
  abundant    ;  and in every chemical combination between two
  combustible substances, they are present in such quantities,
  t/iat,  if the compound be oxygenized,         new combination
                                                        a
  will be formed, which follows the same law."
   I    have already observed, that crystallized minerals must
  be formed according; to this law.       And the same ma«t be
  true of the water of crystallization of salts.       Thus     have    I
  found that the oxygen of the water of crystallization                       is
  either  a  multiple, or, in very few cases,
                                a                   stibmuttiple of
                                                             a
  that   of the base of the salt        bywhole number.
                                             a               In the
. supercarbonate of soda, and in the muriate of ammonia,
  the water and the base contain ecjual quantities of oxygen.
  In the sulphate of lime, the muriate of baryta, and the
  sulphate of ammonia, the oxygen in the water of crystal
  lization      double that of the base. )n the sulphate of th$
               is
  orotoxide of iron the water of crystallization contains
      Vol. 42. No. 187. Nov 1813.
                               .                    B   b    times,  7

386                           On definite Proportions.
7 times, and in the phosphate,    sulphate, and carbonate of
soda, 10 times as much oxygen as the base.
   In order not to be misunderstood, I shall here insert the
principle of the formation of organic productions, which I
shall extract from the continuation of my experiments re
lating to organic nature.  It stands thus :
      "
      In organized productions, two, three, or more inflam-
mable substances are united, and attached to a single por
tion      of oxygen, which is only sufficient for the oxygeniza*
tion      of one of them ; and this combination cannot he divided
into more immediate component parts, nor he farmed from
such parts."
   This mode of combination belongs so exclusively to
organic nature, that when such compounds occur in inor
ganic     nature, we always attribute to them an organic
origin     and, as far as I know, we have only two examples,
            ;
in which we can obtain products formed according to this
law, from bodies completely inorganic : these are Hatchett's
artificial   tannin, and the artificial extraction, See my
Analysis of Crude Iron, Afh.             132.     III.
                                               Since inorganio
nature consists partly of combustible bodies without oxygen,
and partly of oxygenized       bodies, each combustible body
contained in this class has its proper portion of oxygen,
which belongs exclusively to                     it,
                                      and which accompanies
it, when         separated from the rest. But organic products,
                it
                is
although they never exist without oxygen, are still all com
bustible, because the oxygen, although        does not belong
                                                            it
to one of the constituent parts rather than to another,                      is
still only sufficient to bring one of them into definite state   a
of oxygenization, and this state very seldom the highest
                                                       is
of which    capable.it   is
  On the whole   mav       be permitted to conclude, that
                              I                                             I
have sufficiently demonstrated in this essay the proposition
implied in its title: An attempt to determine the definite
and simple proportions,       which the constituent parts of
                                     in
inorganic   substances are united   with each other. Many of
my   readers will be disposed   to believe, that the same laws
must prevail for both kinds of natural bodies. But from
what have here remarked,
          I                        appears that each kingdom
                                            it
has    separate modification in the principles of its constitu
       a
tion.      shall endeavour, in the continuations of these
                1
experiments, to examine and demonstrate more particu
larly the last mentioned principle for the formation of
organic products.
                                   [To   be continued.}
                                                                     LXII. let

                                I    3S7     ]
  LXII.      Letter from Dr.        Wollaston         on the reriscopit
                        Construction    of Spectacles.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — In      the 180th number of your Magazine (for April
 last), your correspondent Mr. Jones renewed his attack
upon the periscnpic construction of spectacles, maintaining
as before, that the principle on which that form of glass is
recommended           for spectacles is not new, though all his
quotations prove that it was unknown to the authors on
whose opinion he so confidently relies, and though it evi
dently is not even yet rightly understood bv himself.
    I have hitherto thought it wholly superfluous to make
any answer.           Those who understood the subject would
certainly not expect any reply from me; those who did not,
would not be benefited by any attempts of mine at further
illustration; and to Mr. Jones himself it is probable that
my silence would be far more satisfactory than any ex
planation that 1 could give.
    I do hope however that the following Report of M. Biot
will gratify those who are best acquainted with the merits of
the question by its fairness and perspicuity ; that the au
thority of one so justly celebrated as a mathematician                   will
be received as conclusive by those who do not feel them
selves competent to decide on such subjects ; and that, pos
sibly, even Mr. Jones himself, if his "duty to his profes
sional interest*" should again impel him to write upon the
subject, may at least acknowledge that a philosopher of the
first eminence in France probably writes without any pre
possession liable to warp his judgement ; and that he may
perhaps even feel persuaded that there must be some advan
tage in the periscopic construction which he has overlooked,
when one so peculiarly skilled in optical science as M. Biot,
gives such decided testimony to the superiority of this kind
of  spectacles,
   I  hope you will find that T have fairly translated the whole
 of the Report: but as it is possible that I may in some in
stances have misinterpreted the strict meaning of the au-
   * See vol. *li, p. 247. The liberality of Mr. Jones must be acknowledged
in avowing himself the champion of the professional interest, in opposition
to an intruder who has presumed to recommend, as an improvement,            a
mode of construction which is necessarily far more costly, on account of the
thickness of glass that must be taken for the purpose, on account of the
quantity of this glass that must be ground away by hard labour, and more
especially on account of the very small number of large glasses that can be
arranged by the side of each other on ¦ surface ,of small radius, so as to be
ground at the same time by the same too).
                                  B b*                         .       thor,

388          Observations on a new      Kind of Spectacles.
thor, I beg you will refer those who may wish to see the
original to the Moniteur of the 2 1st of September last. "
                      I remain, sir,
                              Your obliged and obedient servant,
    Nov. 20,  181 S.                           WM. WOLLASTON.
 Observations      hj AT. Biot     on a new   Kind of Spectacles rin-
                       ventt>i by  Dr. Wollaston.
     Everv one knows that those whose eyes are too convex
 cannot v-e distant objects distinctly, because the pencils of
 rays of liijht intersect each oilier in the eye before they reach
 the ietina. On the contrary, those whose eyes have too little
 convexity, as is generally the case in old persons, cannot
 see with distinctness         those objects that are at a short di
 stance, because the rays converge towards a point that is
 beyond the retina.           The former defect is remedied by the
 use of concave glasses, which remove the focus of rays to
 a greater distance ; the latter is relieved by convex glasses,
 which have the effect of shortening the focus.
     But those who have recourse to common spectacles can
 not see with distinctness, any objects which are not nearly
 in the direction of the axes of the glasses. Objects seen
 remote from the centres are distorted and confused, by rea
 son of the obliquity of the rays to the surfaces of the glass,
 which occasions a degree of irregular aberration.            Hence
 with such glasses        the  view can embrace but small number
                                                      a
 of objects at a time. The head must be moved in such a
 manner as to direct the axes of the glasses to each object
 in succession, with great inconvenience in very many in
 stances.
     It is now some years since Dr. Wollaston proposed a
 remedy for thjs defect by a very simple invention.          He re
 marked that, since the pupil           of  the eye is of very small
 size, it is in fact but a very small portion of a spectacle
 glass that is employed in any one position of the eve, though
 its several parts are used in succession, when any lateral
 motion is given to the eye. He thence inferred that the
  form usually given to such classes,. though well adapted to
  other uses, for which the rays from all parts of the glass
 aie to be collected into one focus, is not the best for specta
 cle ; but that the best construction would be that which
  would give to all parts separatc.lv the same power of assist
 ing the sight, when the eye :s turned to each of them in
  succession.        Dr. Wollaston was thus led to the obvious
                                                          concSuiion

               Observations on a new  Kind of Spectactes.      389.
-  conclusion that the form should be (bombSe) convex with
   out and concave within, so that rays coming to the eye
    would pass nearly at right angles to the surface or' the glass
   in all directions. These glasses were called by the inventor
   Periscopic, and the exclusive sale of them was secured to
   Messrs. Dollond by patent.
       My attention having been 3ome time since drawn to this
   subject by an article in Nicholson's Journal, 1 proposed a
   trial of them to my friend M. Cauchoix, well known as a
   skilful optician in general, and more particularly by the
   large achromatic lenses which he has lately made of flint-
   glass manufactured     in France by M. Dartigues.         I re
   quested  his opinion  on the subject; for, though   our theory
   should direct the artist, his assistance and experience are
   necessary to confirm our results.    M. Cauchoix very soon
   made several pairs of periscopic spectacles of different focal
  lengths for the purpose of trying their merits.     For though,
  Dr. Wollaston had given no measures for the different cur
  vatures of the surfaces, M. Cauchoix, who is conversant
  with the theory as well as with the practice of his art, had
  no difficultv in discovering such combinations of curvature
  as would answer his purpose.        In those which he made
  first, the surface most curved was nearly concentric with
  the eye. The pupil might then be turned to the full extent
  of the glass pn each side, and see {nearly) as well as through.
  the centre.    The field of view gained by this construction
  is reallv surprising, and it would require a person to be for
  some time trained to the use of the common defective
  glasses, to be fully sensible of all the superiority of these.
  For my own part, I have not been accustomed to wear
  spectacles commonly, and have only used them occasionally
  for seeing distant objects ; but for the last three months [
  have regularly used the periscopic glasses, and I certainly-
  never shall emplov anv others.
     There was, indeed, one inconvenience in those first con
  structed by M. Cauchoix, which would be felt by those
 who are in the habit of wearing spectacles constantly. In
 looking towards a candle, particularly in a theatre where
 there are many lights, there appeared a variety of reflected
 images beside the principal object viewed, which occasioned
 some confusion.       This arose from a combination of re
 flections between the two surfaces, which, in consequence,
of the degree of difference of their curvatures, occasioned a -
 distinct image to be formed on the retina after two reflec-'
 dons. M. Cauchoix has however happily succeeded in re
 moving this inconvenience altogether, by making the inner
                               Bb3                        surface

390         Researches into the Anatomy          of Plants.
surface of the glasses less concave * than he did at first, W
that whatever light may enter the eye after reflection is no
longer brought to a focus, and consequently is not per
ceived.     We have then a larger field of view than with
common spectacles, without introducing any new inconve
nience.
    During the last three months M. Cauchoix has made
trial of these spectacles oh a great number of persons, and
even upon one so short-sighted that he could not see be
          j
yond 2 inches, which is certainly a case of extreme short
sightedness.       All these persons agree in making the same
favourable report.        The trials made by elderly persons re
quiring the assistance of convex glasses have also been at
tended with just the same success.
    I am the more particular in noticing these trials of some
months continuance, because it is by continued trial alone
that we can be certain of the goodness of spectacles, and in
           of optical instruments that do not magnify much,
feneral
  'he eye has a certain flexibility, and power to accommodate
itself for a short time to a glass that does not quite suit it.
Hut if the same degree of effort is to be long continued the
eye tires, and complains of an imperfection that was not
at first perceptible.
    It appeared to me that so decided an improvement upon
an instrument generally used, and indeed so necessary to
many persons, deserved some public notice ; and I advise
those who ever use spectacles to make trial of these.                   If
they are as well satisfied as      I have reason to expect, they
will derive a further gratification from reflecting that th*
science which thus adds to our enjoyment of the objects
immediately around us, is the same that has made us ac
quainted with the remotest parts of our solar system, and,
given us some conception of the extent of the universe.
                               (Signed)               Biot,
                                        Member of the lmperal Iustitute.
  LXIII.     Researches    into the Anatomy of Plants.              By
        H. F. Link, of       Breslau, formerly of Rostock,
                          [Continued from p. 282.]
                      II.  The Fessels  of Plants.
(Observations frequently and carefully repeated have in
duced me to abandon the theory of the moderns, as to
the vessels of plants, and to follow that of the naturalists
       •- At they have beta made from the firtt by Metsri. Dollond.
                                                                    wh»

               Researches into the Anatomy      of Plants.        39 1
  who originally took up the subject.         I am now of opinion
  that the fibres of the plants are vessels in which the sap
  ascends; that they are entirely different from the cellular
  texture, and that they constitute a class of particular or
  gans.
     Malpighi gives some very accurate figures of the fibres of
  plants : he supposes that these fibres are the vessels de
  signed to transfer the sap. Grew entertained the same
  opinion before Malpighi. Naturalists adopted the theory
 of these great men until. the discoveries of Sarrabat, Bonnet,
  and Reichel rendered it very doubtful.          Hedvvig said that
  the fibre of the plant is formed by the sap-vessels which
  twist themselves round the air-tube.        Sprengel asserts that
  the fibres consist only of the cellular tissue ; and Mirbel
  appears to be of the same opinion.        The opinions of these
  philosophers   made   MM.   Rudojphi,   Trcviranus,   and me un
 willing   to admit  that the fibres are distinct  organs, differing
 from the cellular tissue.        Only two modern naturalists,
 MM. Petit Thouars and Medicus, retain the ancient opi
 nion, and support the existence of fibres.
     The fibres of flax, hemp, and other plants, carefully ex
 amined with a good microscope, did not exhibit the least
 vestige of any partitions or intertexture.      I took the longest
 fibres which I could procure, and examined them from one
 end to the other without finding an intertexture in their
 whole length. Thev appeared to be straight and continuous
 tubes.     I have seen the same thing in the ramifications of
 the leaves of Bromelia ananas, from which we may draw
 the threads by tearing the leaves. The same thing happens
 when we tear the leaves of Plantago major, in which the
 fibres are joined to the tracheae in a small fasciculus, which
 is easily detached from the parenchyma.            Finally, the in
terior bark and the wood of the trees have afforded me the.
same result : having once seen the fibres distinctly, I was
able to recognise them every where, and to distinguish them
easily from the cellular texture. See PI. I. fig. 12, (Plate IV.)
these fibres taken from the inner bark of the laburnum lan-
tana.     The texture of the hazel-tree resembles considerably
these fibres, particularly if they are not parallel, and if they
cross each other under a very acute angle ; but maceration
destroys the texture, and leaves the fibres entirely.         In ge
neral these fibres accompany the tracheae, and constitute
with them the wood of the plants.         Nevertheless we find in
some plant, fasciculi of fibres under the epidermis separated
frpm the wood, and the tracheae, e. g. in the Laliatce, the
                              B b4                     Umbelliferce,

392         .      Notices  respecting New Books.
 Umbelliferce,     &c. in which the saliant angles of the stalk
are formed by these fibres.
   I  am convinced from a variety        of reasons, that these fi
bres are the vessels     of the plants whiph conduct the sap.
The following are some of their arguments.
    1. When we cut a branch of a tree in a rainy season,
the sap issues from the places where there are many fibres:
i.e. from the interior bark, and from the external wood.
It neither issues from the external bark where the cellular
texture is in abundance, nor from the interior wood where
the tracheae are in abundance.            It is' therefore probable
that these are the fibres which furnish the sap.
   2. When we cut a plant in order to examine the cut
place instantly, we see the orifices of the trachese very di
stinctly, but we see them dry: the sap issues, on the con
trary, from the fasciculi which surround and accompany
the trachese, and which are composed of fibres.
                            [To be continued.]     .
               LXIV.    Notices respecting New Books.
The      Second Part of the Philosophical Transactions for
 1813 has appeared ; the following are its contents -
    19- An Account of some organic Remains found near
Brentford, Middlesex. By the late Mr. William Kirby
Trimmer.         Communicated in a Letter from Mr. James R.
Trimmer to the Rt. Hon. Sit Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B.P.R.S.
— 20. On a new Construction of a Condenser arid Air-
pump. By the Rev. Gilbert Austin.                In a Letter to Sir
Humphry Davy, LL.D.F.R.S. — 21. On the Formation of
Fat in the intestines of living Animals.             By Sir Lverard
Home, Bart.          Presented by the Society for promoting the
 Knowledge of Animal Chemistry. — 22. On the colouring
Matter of the black Bronchial Glands, and of the black >pots
 of the Lungs.          By George Pearson, M.D. F.R.S. — 23.
Experiments on the Alcohol of Sulphur, or Sulphuret of
 Caibon.        By J. Berzelius, M.D. F.R.S. Professor of Che
 mistrv at Stockholm ; and Alexander Marcet, M.D. F.R.S.
 oneof the Physicians to Guy's Hospital. — 24. On theMeans
 of procuring a steady Light in Coal Mines without the Dan
 ger   of Explosion.       By William Reid Clanny, M.D. of
 Sunderland. Communicated by William Allen, Esq. F.R.S.
 — 25. On the Light of the Cassegrainian Telescope, com
 pared with that of the Gregorian.         By Captain Henry Kater,
              .. .                                         Brigade

                           Soyal Society.                  393
Brigade-Major.        Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir
Joseph Banks, Bart.K.B. P.R.S.— 26. Additional Obser
vations on the Effects of Magnesia in preventing an in
creased Formation of Uric Acid; with Remarks on the
Influence of Acids upon the Composition of the Urine. By
William Thomas Brande, Esq. F.R.S. Prof. Chem. R. I.
 Communicated by the Society for improving Animal Che
 mistry.— 27. Additions to an Account of the Anatomy of
 the Squalus Maximus, contained in a former Paper; with
 Observations on the Structure of the Branchial Artery. By
 SirEverard Home, Bart. F.R.S. — 28. Some further Obser
 vations on a new detonating Substance.       In a Letter from
 Sir Humphry Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. to the Right
 Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. — 29. Experi
 ments on the Production of Cold by the Evaporation of the
  Sulphuret of Carbon. By Alexander Marcet, M.D. F.R.S.
  one of the Physicians to Guy's Hospital. — 30. On a saline
  Substance from Mount Vesuvius.          By James Smithson,
                 —
  Esq.. F.R.S. 31.     Some  Experiments and Observations on
  the Substances produced in different chemical Processes on
  Fluor Spar.      By Sir Humphry Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. V.P.
  R.I. —32. Catalogue of North Polar Distances of Eighty-
  four principal fixed Stars, deduced from Observations made
  with the Mural Circle at the Royal Observatory. By John
   Pond, Esq. Astronomer Royal, F.R.S. — 33. Observation*
  of the Summer Solstice, 1813, with the Mural Circle at the
  Royal Observatory. By John Pond, Esq. Astronomer Royal,
   F.R.S.
              LXV.    Proceedings  of Learned  Societies.
                          ROYAL SOCIETY.
      Thursday, Nov. 4, This Society assembled after the
   long vacation ; and the'Right Hon. President Sir Joseph
   Banks, having so far recovered from his late indisposition,
   was carried into the meeting-room and placed in his chair.
   Dr.Wollaston read a paper describing an instrument which
   he has invented, for exhibiting at one view an epitome of
   what he calls " chemical equivalents." The instrument is
    made of paper with a moveable graduated slide, like that of
    theslidingrule; andthc names with the elementary principles
    or component parts of all the acids arranged in the order of
    their relations to each other, and to their respective bases,
    stating the relative quantity by weight and measure of their
    contents of oxygen, hydrogen^ azote, base and water, in-
                                                          eluding

  394                      Royal Society.
  eluding the definite proportions of the integral atoms of all
 the known compounds.           Bergman, Kirwan, and Rytter
 have alliattempted to give tables of the acids; but the state
 of chemical knowledge had not then attained sufficient
 maturity to make them permanently useful.          Dr. W. has
 availed himself of later discoveries, and formed a table on a
 new and more useful construction          to be used like the
 sliding-rule, and designed to abridge the labour of the analy
 tical chemist, assist the memory, and present a correct
 summary view of our knowledge of chemical bodies.          The
 only  substance   which  he found  it necessary to analyse was
 oxalic acid, in order to be able to state its component parts
 correctly, all preceding analyses being defective.         The
 Doctor also added some directions necessary to those who
 are not familiar with the use of that excellent instrument
 the sliding rule.
    Thursday, Nov. 1 1 . The President in the chair. The
 Croonian Lecture on Muscular Motion, by Mr. Brodie, was
 read.    Mr. B. began with a general review of the doc
 trine established by Hiller, and improved by subsequent
 physiologists, that muscular motion is dependent on ner
vous excitement, and that such excitement is derived from
 the brain.    He examined the recent opinions of M.de
Gallois, that muscular motion is occasioned by the spinal
marrow, and the stimulus of the blood on the heart ; the
result of four or five experiments was stated, all of which
tended to prove that the blood does not occasion the con
tractions and pulsations of the heart, that the circulation
can be continued by artificial respiration after decapitation,
but that it instantly stops when the heart is prevented from
communicating with the spinal marrow. Nevertheless the
author appeared to ascribe the principal source of muscular
irritability to the brain, and the nerves ramifying from ic.
In cold-blooded animals, particularly the frog, he found
that the pulsations of its heart continued above an hour
after being separated from the spinal marrow, and that the
irritability remained more than a day. Mr. B. has made
experiments on no other cold-blooded animals.
    Nov. 18. Major Kater communicated to the Society
the result of three more experiments made on the compara
tive powers of the Cassegrainian and Gregorian Telescopes,
by which it appears that the superiority of the former over
the latter is m the proportion of 23£ to 10.        The Casse
grainian telescope was made by Mr. Crickmore.
    Dr. Thomas Thomson furnished a paper, containing
an Account     of some Experiments which he made on an Ore
                                                              of

                         Geological Society.              395
Of Copper brought by Dr. Heyne from the East Indies.
The mineral he considered a new species (perhaps he meant
variety) of carbonateof copper; but his description was ap
plicable to many specimens found in this country. His
paper, although sparing in experimental details, was copiously
supplied with calculations.     He put 100 grs. of the mineral
into a bottle of sulphuric acid, stopped it with cotton, and
afterwards calculated the quantity of carbonic acid disen
gaged. The mineral contained about 19 per cent, of iron, the
remainder was carbonate of copper and crystals of quartz ;
the latter were very small.
                     GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
    Nov. 5. — S. Woods, Esq. Treasurer in the chair,
    Edw. Home, Esq. of Bookham, Surry ;
    The Rev. J. Holme, Fellow of St. Peter's College,
       Cambridge;
    Charles Hampden Turner, Esq. of Limehouse, were.
       severally elected Members of the Society.
    The continuation of Mr. Webster's paper " on the fresh
 water formations of the Isle of Wight, with some observa
 tions on the strata lying over the chalk," was read.
    Having in the former part of this paper given a general
 account of the chalk and of the beds lying above this rock
 in the Southern or Isle of Wight basin, and in the London
 basin, Mr. Webster next proceeds to a more particular de
 scription of them, with a comparison between these and
 those which occur in the basin of Paris.
    The beds lying between the chalk and the fresh-water
 formation (or the lower marine formation, as it is called by
 the author of this paper,) are to be observed with peculias
 distinctness at Allum Bay in the Isle of Wight.       They ai
 well  as the chalk are   here  nearly vertical, but have evi
 dently undergone no other alteration, except this change of
 position.
    The first bed, and immediately incumbent upon the
 chalk, is the chalk marl : it consists of chalk intimately
 mixed with clay, and is readily distinguishable from pure
 chalk by the ease with which it falls to powder on exposure
 to the weather.     It contains no flints. It appears to have
 been generally spread over the bottom of the Isle of Wight
  basin, being found in that part of Sussex which is south
  of the S. Downs, and occurring somewhat further to the
 W. than Corfe Castle in Dorsetshire. It has not how
 ever been met with in the London basin.
                                                          Next

    SQS                        Geological Society.
       Next above the chalk marl lies a thick bed of dark rei
    clay, often mottled with yellow and white, and forming an
   excellent material for bricks and coarse pottery.                Then
   comes a bed of yellowish white sand ; and another thick
   bed of blue clay, containing green earth and nodules of a
   dark coloured limestone inclosing shells.             Above this lie
   several beds     of .differently coloured sand, more or    less ferru
   ginous and clayey, in which no organic remains have hitherto
   been found.        These are again covered by a numerous suc
   cession of strata, consisting of irregular alternations of
^
   white, yellow and gray pipe clay, with white and variously
   coloured sands : neither the clays nor sands contain organic
   remains : but in the upper part of this series are three strata,
   from six inches to a foot in thickness, of a difficultly com
   bustible and sulphureous coal, the vegetable origin of which
   is apparent from the branches and fruits that may still be
   observed in it.       Above this lies another extensive series of
  white and differently coloured sands.             The different beds
  which have now been enumerated as lying above the chalk
  marl are very interesting, not only in a geological but in an
  (economical point of view.            The fine white sand of Alium
  Bay used in the manufactories of flint glass, as well as the
  white clays of the Isle of Wight and Dorsetshire, so ex
  tensively used in our finer kinds of pottery, belong to this
  series.     It  is plainly   to  be traced   in various  parts   of the;
  Isle of Wight basin, and may be seen in the London basin,
  on the east bank of the Med way near Rochester,                 in the
  neighbourhood of Rcadinsr, and elsewhere.
      Above the strata just mentioned lies the great deposit of
  the blue or London clay.             Its thickness in many places
  amounts to 200 or 300 feet, and in some parts even exceeds
  500 feet.      It consists for the most part of a very tough
 blackish clav, inclosing flattened spheroids of indurated
 marl, which when broken exhibit compartments formed by
 the intersection of veins of yellowish calcareous spar, and
 are hence called Septaria.          In some parts the clay is mixed
 with green earth and sand, and more or less impregnated
 with carbonate of lime, with pyrites, and with gypsum,
 this latter being probably the result of the vitriolization of
 the pyrites. and the subsequent decomposition              of the sul
phate of iron by the carbonate of lime.
      On account of these saits the water contained in this
bed is but little fit for domestic purposes;           wells are there
fore, if possible, sunk through it into the sand below, the
water of which is very abundant and of good quality.
     One distinguishing characteristic of this deposit is the
                                                               number,

                        Geological Society.                 397
number, variety and beauty of the organic remains which
are imbedded in it.      In the Isie of Wight basin it occurs
at Alium Bav, at Hardwell Cliff in Hampshire,          the fos
sils of which are uncommonly perfect and beautiful ; at
Stebbington near Portsmouth, at Portsmouth itself, from
Portsmouth westward to Pagham harbour; at Bognor it is
very sandy and calcareous, and possesses the solidity of
rock, but contains the same fossils as the pure clay does.
The bottom of the channel between Hampshire and the
 Isle of Winht consists of this clay.
     In the London bas in this bed is even more extensive than
in the Isle of Wight basin.         On the south side of the
Thames its eastern boundary is at Reculver: it then ap
 pears at Swale Cliff and Whitstable :. it forms the whole
of Sheppey, rising on its northern coast into cliffs 200 feet
 high ; ai Sheerness it has been sunk through at the depth.
 of 330 feet; to which if the height of the cliffs be added,
 the probable thickness of this bed in this part is above
  500 feet.
     The fossils of Sheppey, both animal and vegetable, are Very
 numerous, especially the latter, as is evident from the exten
  sive collection of them made by Mr. Francis Crowe, of
  Faversham.
     The elevated ground to the north of London, including
  Primrose Hill, Harrow, Hamptstead, Highgate, and Mus-
  well Hills, consists almost wholly of this stratum.          At
  Brentford and Wimbledon its thickness is from 200 to
  above 500 feet.     It appears to form the greatest part of the
  surface of Essex and Suffolk, and constitutes the lower
  part of the cliffs of Walton and Harwich.
-     Nov.        Dr. MacCulloch, Vice- President, in the chair,
      Lieut. Col. Congreve, M. P. F.R.S.
      W. E. Sheffield, Esq. of Somers Town ;
      John Rennie, Esq. F.R.S. Civil Engineer, were severally
         elected Members of the Society.
      The continuation of Mr. Webster's paper was read.
      Having in the preceding portion of his paper described
   the chalk with its superincumbent beds as far as the great
   blue clay inclusive, as they present themselves in the south
   of England, Mr. W. proceeds to compare them with the
   analogous beds in the basin of Paris.
      The chalk formation of France appears to correspond with
   that of England, both in its general characters and in the
   fossils which it contains. A chalk without flints occurs in
   Champagne; but whether this bed is, as with us, inferior to
   jhe flinty chalk has not been mentioned.
                                                              The

                         Geological Society.
    The plastic clay of Paris basin also agrees very accurately
with the corresponding deposit in the Isle of Wight basin.
They are both of various colours and qualities. and both
appear destitute of organic remains.       The English deposit
however contains two or three distinct beds of carbonized
vegetable matter, which does not occur in that of Paris.
    The blue clay, the most important of any of the English
beds above the chalk, does not make its appearance as such
 in the Paris basin; nor, on the other hand, does the calcaire
 grossier, a bed of equal importance in the latter basin, make
 its appearance among our English strata.           The calcaire
 grossier is composed     of beds  of limestone   inclosing beds
 of zoned hornstone, alternating with clays and marls of
various descriptions.     Of the fossil shells contained in this
 deposit nearly 600 species have been described by M. La
 marck, many of which, and particularly those which are
 considered as the most characteristic, have been found by
Mr. Webster to occur in the blue clay at Bracklesham, in
 Selsea, in Stebbington CI iff near Portsmouth, and other
parts of the Isle of Wight and London basins.           Hence it
appears probable that the blue clay and the lower beds of
the calcaire grossier are parts of the same deposit, and
that from local circumstances the clay has prevailed in the
one, and the calcareous matter in the other.
.   The lower fresh-water formation lies on the upper black
clay, and is most distinctly to be seen in the section of
Headen Hill, which forms the northern boundary of Allum
Bay.     It here consists of a series of beds, chiefly of sandy,
calcareous and argillaceous marie, mixed more or less with a
brownish coaly matter. Of these beds some appear to consist
almost wholly of fragments of shells, many of which how
ever are sufficiently entire to show that they are fresh-water
shells, belonging to the genera Lymnea, Planorbis, and
Helix. Some of the beds are sufficiently indurated to form
a coarse building stone.
    At Cowei, and at Binstead near Ride, are also beds con
taining fresh-water shells lying over sand and blue clay,
and differing from those of Allum Bay in littl« else than
that instead of being marl they are limestone.
    An analogous formation occurs in the Paris basin, like
that of the Isle of Wight already described : it contains
beds of marl inclosing fresh-water shells of the gertera
Lymnea and Planorbis, but differs from the English in
containing also three gypseous deposits.           Of these the
lowest is the thinnest, and abounds in crystallized selenite :
the next is thicker, and includes a bed of indurated clay
                                                      containing

               List of Patents for    new Inventions.        399
containing fossil fish : the uppermost is the thickest of all,
and abounds in the remains of extinct quadrupeds, mixed
occasionally with those of birds, and rarely with fresh
water shells.
           LXVI.    List of Patents for New Inventions.
To      Joseph C. Dyer, of Gloucester Place, Camden Town,
  n the county of Middlesex, who, in consequence of a com
munication made to him by a certain foreigner residing
abroad, is possessed of a new improved method of spinning
hemp, flax, grasses, or any substanoe having ' considerable
 length of fibre. — 1st Nov. 1813. — 6 months.
     To Samuel James, of Hoddesdon, in the county of Hert
 ford, surgeon, for his sofa or machine for the use of inva
 lids and others. — 1st Nov. — 6 months.
     To John Barton, of Tufton Street, Westminster, in the
 county of Middlesex, engineer, for his various improvements
 jn the construction and application of steam engines. — 1st
 Nov.— 6 months.
     To John Ruthven, of Edinburgh,         printer, for his ma
  chine, or press, for printing upon types, blocks, or other
  surfaces. — 1st Nov. —4    months.
      To Thomas Rogers, of Bagot Street, in the city of Dublin,
  but now residing in England,       for his new flour for bread,
  pastry,  and  other purposes. —  1st Nov. — 6 months.
      To William   Summers    the younger, of New Bond Street,
  in the county of Middlesex, ironmonger, for his method of
  raising hot water from a lower to an upper level for baths,
  manufactories, and other useful purposes. — IstNov. — 2 mo.
      To Benjamin Sanders the elder, of Granby Place, in the
  county of Surry, button manufacturer, for his improved
  manner or method of manufacturing buttons. — 4th Nov.—
   6 months.
      To Charles Wilks, of Ballincollig, in the county of
   Cork, Esq. for his method of constructing four-wheeled car
   riages of all descriptions, whereby a facility of turning is
   obtained without having recourse to the usual modes of
   having what is commonly called locks, or having anv ne
   cessity for keeping the fore wheels of such carriages lower
   than the hinder wheels usually are, or of raising the bodies
   of such carriages higher than usual. — 9thNov. — ? months.
      To Richard Jones Tomlinson, of Bristol, in the county
   of Somerset, iron master, for certain improvements in the
   methods of constructing or making the coverings of the
   roofs, or of other surfaces of buildings whether external or
   internal,— 13lh Nov. — 2 months,                    meteoro

400                           Meteorology.
                    meteorological table,
              Bv    Mr. Carv, of the Strand,
                        For November 1813.
                                             i  |  us
                Thermometer.                           .           .1
                                 Height of
  D^ys of
               ° c    a
                      o   _o £M the Barom.                       Weather.
  Month.      O   5
                      o
                      Z
                          CJ
                          'o ?-   Inches.          *  "
               °§                              an
                                               2  c 3-
Oct.    27    42     42    40    29-85             0        Rain
        28     37    42    36        -S5           0        Rain
        29     35    40    35        -91         10        Showery
        30     31    47    52        -50         11        Cloudy
                                                                    '
        31    47     48    40        -26         19        Fair
Nov.      1   35    48     38        -50         22        Fair
          2   35    47     35        -67         27        Cloudy
          3   33    46     30    3021            24        Fair
          4   31    45     38        -26         26        Fair
          5   35    46     38        -18         20        Fair
          6   37    47     38    29'93           22        Fair
          7   42    43     40        -75          0        Rain [Thunder
          8   47    57     46        -42          0        Rain with
          0   46    53    44         -C2         26        Fair
        10 46       57    47         -68         20        Showery
        11    47    58     52        -64         26        Fair
        12 54       54    42        -60           0        Rain
        13    37    46     36        -57        24         Fair
        14    33    47    37        -24          16        Fair
        15    36    46    35        -26         28         Fair
        16    34    43    43        -17         20         Fair
        17    38    37    35        -21           0        Snow-
        18    33    41    37        -62         10         Fair
       19     38    48    52        -64           0        Rain
       20     48    53    50        -88         16         Fair
       21     50    54    50        -91         18         Cloudy
       22     47    54    44        -91         17         Cloudy
       23     40    47    44        -92           0        r OffgV
       24     44    46    38    3010              o      ! Foggy-
       25     33    41    39       -10          10         Fair
       26     40    42    37       -1 1           9        Fair
            1
          N. B. The Barometer's height is taken at one o'clock.

                                  f     401   ]
JiXVlI.      Description and Use of an Instrument called
                                                                        " The
     Sectograph," principally          intended   for  the  Purposes    of di
     viding right    Lines     into   equal   Parts,   measuring Angles,
     and inscribing Polygons in the Circle, tsfc. &c. invented
     ly Thomas Jones, Astronomical and Mathematical In
     strument Maker, &c. No. 21, Oxendon- Street,
Several         years have now elapsed since I first thought of
 the arrangement for this instrument; but though I obtained
 a patent for it about two years ago, I have till now been
 prevented from submitting it to the public by various pro
 fessional duties which I could not lay aside ; being obliged,
 like every man who tries to attain excellence in his pro
fession, to finish the greater and most particular parts of
my instruments with my own hands.
     The sectograph will, I hope, effect the purposes intendedj
namely, a considerable saving of time, and a degree of ac -
 curacy applicable to the various purposes of drawing. The
 instrument is very simple in its construction, and easy in
 its use; requiring only one setting or adjustment for divid
 ing, laying down, or measuring any space or angle; and
 with a facility calculated to lessen the laborious part of
 these processes, and to render them light and pleasant to
 the careful and elegant draughtsman.
     The common size of the sectograph is about eight inches
long, and measures to the extent of that distance.                        The
 instrument is packed in a morocco case (with a printed de
 scription inside) the exterior of which is about nine inches
 long, and three quarters of an inch square*.
                    Description      of the Instrument.
     The bars of metal (or       other substance) (Pl.VI.) A,H,B,           are
of equal dimensions,          the bars a, a, a, a, a, are likewise equal
 to each other. The whole of the eight bars are of the same
length, and are pinned and screwed together at the dots and
 small circles, where the ends of the smaller bars join the
larger; each joint giving an easy and pleasant motion. 1, 3,
 5, and 7 are small short pieces placed across, and pinned
 to the others. O, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are the places
where the steel points are fixed into the bars. e, g, is a scale
with a slit in the middle, which receives the clamp and
fixing screw n, for holding the points at any required di-
    * The price of the tight- inch is two guineas, that of others in proportion
to their lengths, &c. as they are made to any size, with any number p
points, or without the clamp and scale, if required.
     Vol, 42. No. 188. Dep. 18)3.                    C«

402                    Description. and Use     of
stance.     This scale has degrees on one side       of the surface,
and inches and parts of inches on the other.
               Directions for using     the Sectograpk.
    . The letters and figures referred       to in the following di
rections are marked «m the instrument.
      Open the instrument by pulling A and B asunder, untit
the exterior nearly forms a square.           Hold it in the hand,
or place it on paper, with A next to you : the points will
then appear in line, and numbered from left to right 0, 2, 4r
&c. and may be made to recede from or advance to each
other at pleasure.        For dividing lines, place 0 on the be
ginning,     and  the   2d,  3d, 4th, &c. on the other point or
distance to be divided, and press. down the intermediate
points, or as many as may be required.             When a transfer
or copy is to be taken, take care to clamp the instrument
by the milled- head as soon as it is set. For measuring
distances, place 0 on one point, and the point of the op
posite corner on the other : the scale on the side where the
divisions are marked 1> 2, 3, 4, &c. (indicating inches) wilt
give, at the clamp, the inches and parts of the required di
stance.      For laying down angles, (the other side of the
scale marked 10, 20, 30, &c. are the degrees, the point A
the angular point, and the other two- points Oand 8 form
with A the sides of the angle,) set the division of the clamp
to the number of degrees, clamp the instrument, and apply
the points to the paper, or other surface.           For measuring.
angles, place the point A in the angle, and the other point*
to the sides respectively, clamp the instrument, and the
scale will give the number of degrees.           For angles of one
degree,   &e.   set the  instrument  to   ninety degrees, and clamp
it ; then place A, S, on one side of the angle and let fall the
point O, press gently the points A and 0, loosen the clamp,
lift the point 8, and move the required number of degrees,-
either for measuring or laying down angles.            By the scale
of inches the points are placed one inch, one-half, one-
quarter, one-eighth, or one-sixteenth, from each other.
The intermediate distances may be had by the scale Af inches.
In order to get the hundredth part of an inch, set the clamp-
to 5 inches, beyond which are ten divisions ; then place the
 7th point in the dot where you want the hundreds to com
mence j let fall the 8th point, on which place the second
finger of the right hand firmly; with the other hand hold
the end 0, letting the fingers touch the paper ; then raise
the 7th point, still keeping the 8th down, and move the
point* towards each other until you   '      come to the first of the
  .  *-               -                                           ten

            an Instrument called The Sectograph.           40$
ten divisions; then with the first fiuger of the right hand
make a dot with the 7th point, (which may easily be done
without marking with the other points,) which distance
will be one-hundredth of an inch; then raise the 7th point,
move to another division, dot, &c. &c.          By using every
second division you will have the fiftieth of an inch, &c.
Fractional parts of distance may be measured by the same
means.
The Sectograph and Scale for dividing Circles, Angles, Lines,
                              &c.
   This sectograph is exactly the same as the former, except
that of its not having the graduated scale e, g; instead of
which it is accompanied by a scale, the size of the in
strument when opened to its greatest extent, that is, about
eight inches and a half long and five- eighths of an inch
wide. Both being of the same dimensions, are neatly
packed in one case.
   The ivory scale has on one side a diagonal scale of inches ;
on the other, polygons, sines, tangents, semi-tangents, and
chords; — the whole constructed expressly for the instru
ment.
            The Use   of the Sectograph and Scale.
   The first (0) and last point (a) on the line of points are
called the extremes ; the single point (at A or B) the cen>
tral point.
   To divide any line, AB, fig. I. into    a given number of
equal parts, each less than the greatest, but greater than
the smallest division that can be made by the instrument.
                             Rule.
   1. Draw AC (fig. 1.) making any angle with AB.
   2. Take any distance as Al between the extreme points,
and repeat it as often as necessary along AC ; as from A
to 1, 1 to 2, 2 to 3, 8cc.
   3. Press down the points in the last division, as from 3
to 4, and let C be the required point.
   4. With the same extent of the sectograph and one ex
treme in C, let the other fall in D.
   5. Join CB, and parallel thereto draw DE ; then BE is
one extent of the sectograph on the line AB, to which
apply it and finish the division.
   Example.     Let it be required to divide the line AB into
twenty-nine equal parts with an instrument of eight divi
sions, or nine points.
                       ;     C c 2                     Proceed

 404                   Description and      Use  of
    Proceed    as above,   and press down the points in the 4th
 grand division, and C will fall against the 5th point, from
 which draw a line to B. Then make CD equal to Al,and
 draw DE parallel to CB, and BE will be the length of
 eight divisions on the line AB, to which apply the instru
  ment and finish the division.
    When the division can be made with one remove of the
 instrument, it may      be easily done by      trial without drawing
 an additional line.
    To divide any line AB into           a given number of equal
 parts,  each  greater  than I ,  but  less  than 2, of the greatest
 divisions that can be made by the instrument.
                                  Rule.
    1. Draw AC (fig. 2.) making any angle with AB.
    2. With the instrument drawn to its greatest extent,
 make the required number of divisions along AC, the last
 point being at C.
    3. Join CB, and parallel thereto draw lines from all the
 points to AB; or, without drawing the lines, make marks
 in AB, which will then be divided as required.
    Let the greatest division that can be made by the instru
 ment be called D.
    Then, to divide AB into any number of equal parts, each
 greater than 2 D, but less than 3 D,
    Rule. — Mark AC with twice the required number of
 divisions, each equal to D, and having joined CB, draw
 parallels from every 2d point in AC to AB, or make marks
 therein.
    If  the divisions to be made on AB are greater than 3 D,
but less than 4 D,
    Mark AC with three times the required number of divi
 sions, each equal to D, and draw parallels from every 3d
point, &c.
    N. B. When the divisions on AC are nearly equal to
 those on AB, the angle at A may be small ; but it             will be
best to make it larger as the difference is greater.
    The length of a line being given in inches, to divide it
 into a given number of equal parts by the lines of { and {
 inches on the scale.
                                 Rule.
    Multiply the number of inches by 2 or 4, to bring them
into half or quarter inches.        Then say,
    As the number of parts given         :  to the number of parts
in the sectograph : so is the length of the line given to the
length of one extent of the sectograph.                          Take

                 an Instrument called The Seclograph.                405
     Take this extent between the extreme points from the
 line of half or quarter inches (as the case may be), and this
 extent applied to the given line will divide it as required.
                                   Examples.
     1. Let it be required to divide a line of 5 inches long
 into 1 7 equal parts ?
    Here 5 X 2 = 10 half inches.             Then
    As 17 : 8:: 10 : 4 706 nearly. Take this number be
 tween the extreme points of the sectograph from the line
 of half inches. Then apply it to the given line, and it
 will divide it as required.
    2. To divide a line of 6| inches long into 37 equal parts?
    Here 6| X 2=13 half inches.
    Then, as 37 : 8 : : 13 : 2-81 1 nearly, to be taken from the
line of half inches, as in the last example.
    3. To divide a line of 14? inches long into 23 equal
parts   ?
    Here 14| X4=59 quarter inches.                Then
    As    23 : 8 : : 59   :  20-522 nearly, to be taken from the line
of quarter inches.
    4. To divide a line of 25£ inches long into                31  equal
parts   ?
    Here 25£ X 4= 103| quarter inches.              Then
    As 31 : 8 : : 103-5 : 26 71 nearly, to be taken from the
line of quarter inches.
    5. To divide a jine of 48*35 inches long into 100 equal
parts   ?
    Here 48*35x4—193*4                quarter inches.    Then.
    As 100     : 8 :: 193 4     : 15-472 to be taken from the line    of
ejuarter inches.
    If the length of the line to be divided is not given in
inches, it may easily be found by measuring, and then di
vided by this method, which in some cases will be found
to be preferable to the other.
                     Use    of the  Lines  on the Scale.
    The several lines on the scale, which belong to the circle,
are adapted to the radius           of the instrument, which is the
distance    between     the    central  point and one extreme proint.
                       1.
                             Of the Line of Chorals..
    To raise a perpendicular, or make an angle of 90 degrees.
    Rule. — Fix the middle point (fig. 3.) ol the instrument in
the point B, or that from which the perpendicular is to be
                                     Cc3                         drawn,

406         Description and Use of Tlie Sectograp.li.
drawn, and extend the extremes to any distance along the
line, as from A to C; then the central point will fall in the
perpendicular line at D.
   To find the measure of an angle.
   Rule. — Fix the central point in the intersection     pf the
lines, or angular point, and bring the extreme points to the
containing lines. Then this extent or distance of the ex
tremes applied to the line of chords, will show the measure
of the angle required.
   To make an angle of any number of degrees      less than GO.
   Rule. — Apply    the extreme points to the line of chords,
and take between them the measure of the angle.           Then
fix the central point in the angular point, and the extremes
will fall in the lines to be drawn from that point.
   N. B. If it be required to make an angle less than can be
taken between the extreme points of the instrument, — draw
a perpendicular or angle of 90°, and then lay down the
complement of the required angle.
       2.  Of the  Sines, Tangents,  and Semi-Tangents.
   The lines of tangents and semi-tangents are particularly
useful in the projection of the sphere, and the line of sines
in drawing the parabola by points. No further explanation
seems to be necessary here, as that is given in every trea
tise where their use is required.
                   3. Of the Line of Polygons.
   This line is numbered the contrary way, because the
lengths of the sides increase as their numbers decrease : it is
regularly divided from 3 to 24, and numbered ; but the
numbers 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21 and 22 are left out for want
of room.
   When a polygon of several sides is inscribed in a circle,
by continuing the division with one side only taken from
the scale, the error (if any) will increase with the number;
and will consequently at last be very considerable.      It will
therefore be necessary to divide the circle into parts of 2,
3, or more sides each ; and then take one side between the
extremes from the line of polygons, and finish the poly
gon by subdivisions. This may be done very correctly for
composite numbers.
   Thus the number 21 is composed of 3 and 7: therefore,
divide the circle first into 3 parts, and then take the side of
21 from the line, and subdivide each division into 7.
                                                         Again«

           Experiments     in  the Process on    Fluor Spar.        407
    Again, 20 is composed of 4 and 5 : therefore divide the
circle into 4 parts, and then by the side of £0 subdivide
each division into 5.
    For the prime numbers take one side from the line of
polygons, and with it mark 3 divisions as exactly as possi
ble. Take these 3 divisions between ihe extremes, and
divide the circle into as many divisions of 3 sides each, as
are necessary ; then with one side between the extremes
trisect the divisions.
    N. B. On the line of sines, the sine of 53 degrees is
equal to the chord of three sides of a polygon of 23 sides
nearly.
    For the purpose of very readily measuring degrees, bi
secting angles and lines, the sectograph (if required) may
be made to consist of three points only in the line, besides
the central point.
LXVIII.      Some Experiments and Observations on the Sub
    stances produced in different chemical Processes on Fluor
    Spar.     By Sir Humphrv Davy,             LL.D. F.R.S. V.P.
    P.I*
In the    Bakerian Lecture for 1608 I have given an account
of an   experiment on the combustion of potassium in sili-
cated fluoric acid gas, in which the gas was absorbed, and
a fawn-coloured substance formed, which effervesced with
water, and left after its action on that fluid, a residuum which
burnt when heated in oxygen, reproducing silicated fluoric
acid gas ; and I concluded from the phsenomena, that the
acid gas was decomposed in the process, that oxygen was
probably separated from it by the potassium, and that the
combustible substance was a compound of the siliceous and
fluoric bases.
   The experiment of burning potassium in silicated fluoric
acid gas was made likewise by MM. Gay-Lussac and The-
nard, before I published any account of my researches on this
phaenomenon.       It was indeed one of the most obvious ap
plications of potassium, and it occurred to manv others, as
well as to myself, that it might be made, immediately after
I  discovered that metal.
    MM. Gay-Lussac and Thenard drew the same conclu
sions as 1 did, namely, that the acid gas was probably de
composed during the action of potassium on silicated fluoric
acid; but their general views differed from mine in this re-
           From the Philosophical Transactions for 18X3, part ii.
                                Cc 4                              spect,

40$       Experiments on the Substances produced
spect, as they supposed that no part of the inflam.mable
matter was derived from silica, and they likewise reasoned
on the phenomena with more caution.
   At the time that my conclusions were drawn, I was ig
norant of the true nature of the muriatic acid. After I had
tried in vain to decompose oxymuriatic gas, and after I had
found that the compounds of this substance with phos
phorus, sulphur, and the metals combined with ammonia
without any decomposition, and produced compounds in
which no oxygen could be discovered ; I was forcibly struck
by the analogy between the oxymuriatic. and the fluoric
compounds, and led to doubt of the justness of my ideas
respecting the nature of fluoric acid.
  I  tried an experiment on the comparative quantities of
fluate of lime, formed from equal volumes of silicated flu
oric acid gas, one of which had been acted upon by potas
sium, and then exposed to solution of ammonia, the other
had been absorbed by solution of ammonia : and I found
the proportion of calcareous fluate nearly one-third larger
in the latter case. This result at first seemed favourable to
my early ideas, that the acid contained a peculiar inflam
mable basis, which was separated by the potassium, and
existed in the combustible substance insoluble in water :
but it Could not be considered as decisive on the question ;
for it occurred to me as possible, that this substance might
be silicum, or the basis of silica united to a much smaller
proportion of the fluoric principle than that existing in sili
cated fluoric acid.
                           I
   During the period that was engaged in these investiga
tions, I received two letters from M. Ampere, of Paris,
containing many ingenious and original arguments in fa
vour of the analogy between the muriatic and fluoric com
pounds*     M. Ampere communicated his views to me                in}
the most liberal manner; they were formed in consequence
of my ideas on chlorine, and supported      byreasonings drawn
from the experiments of MM. Gay-Lussac and Thenard.
   Before enter upon the detail of the investigations which
        I
promise to elucidate the nature of the fluoric compounds,
it will be right to describe those substances produced from
fluor spar, which have been the principal objects of my ex
periments, and to mention the different hypothetical viewa
that may be formed respecting them.
   The first of these substances     the silicated fluoric acid
                                       is
      which
                               is by
gas,         was  discovered   Scheele, and examined in its
pure  state by  Priestley.It    formed      by
                                            heating a   mixture
of fluor spar, powdered glassy and sulphuric acid.      It   is   a
                                                             very

        in different chemical Processes on Tluor Spar.                  409
very heavy      elestic fluid, its specific gravity being nearly
forty-eight times as great as that of hydrogen. It produces,
according to my brother Mr. John Davy, a quantity of si
lica equal to to¥r of ,ts own weight by it? action upon
water, and a quantity equal to             of iis weight by its ac
tion upon solution of ammonia. It condenses twice its
awn volume of ammonia, and forms a solid salt, volatile
when free from water without decomposition.
    Liquid fluoric acid, the second of these substances, was
 discovered by Scheele, but first obtained in its pure form
by MM. Gay-Lussac and Thenard.                  It is procured by
 heafing   concentrated     sulphuric acid  and  pure fluor spar, in
 retorts of silver or lead, and receiving the product in re
 ceivers of the same metals artificially cooled.         It is a very
 active substance, and must be examined with great caution'.
 According to my experiments, its specific gravity is 1*0609*.
 It produces a high degree of heat when mixed with water;
 and such is its degree of attraction for water, that it be
 comes denser by combining with that fluid. By adding
 water, in very small quantities at a time, to pure liquid
 fluoric acid, I found that its specific gravity gradually in
 creased till it became 1:95 : it is, I believe, the only known
  body possessed of this property.
     The third substance is fluo-boric acid gas, which was dis
 covered by MM. Gay-Lussac and Thenard.                    It is pro
  duced by intensely heating, in an iron tube, a mixture of
  dry boracic acid and fluor spar, or by gently heating in a
  glass retort a similar mixture with sulphuric acid.          Its spe
  cific gravity is rather more than thirty-two times as great
  as that of hydrogen.       It forms a solid salt, volatile without
  decomposition, by condensing its own volume of ammonia.
  The ammoniacal salt dissolved in water and distilled, af
  fords boracic acid.
      The most important phsenomena of chemical change, in
  which these bodies operate, that may be supposed to illus
  trate their nature,      their agency upon potassium and other
                         is.
  metals.      The action of potassium upon silicated fluoric
  gas has been already referred to.         MM. Gay-Lussac and
  Thenard,     by  heating potassium and sodium                in
                                                            fluo-boric
 acid gas, obtained fiuate of potaSsa or soda, and the basis
 pfthe boracic acid; and             by
                                     exposing potassium to liquid
 fluoric acid, their results were hydrogen and acid fluate of
 potassa.
    * Unless itdistilled through tubes and into vessels of pure silver, its
                  is
 specific gravity   greater;
                   is          readily dissolves tin, and slowly dissolves lead,
                               it
 and after being long kept in vessels of pure silver,it   found to have taken,
                                                          is
       small portion even of that irietal,
                                            '   '
 Op a
                                                                        Three

   410          Experiments on   the Substances produced
       Three hypotheses may, according to sound analogic!, be
   formed on the nature of the fluoric combinations.         In the
   first, which is that generally adopted, the silicated fluoric
   acid gas is supposed to be a compound of silica and a pecu
   liar acid, itself consisting of inflammable matter and oxy
   gen ; fluo-boric acid gas, a compound of boracic acid and
   the same acid ; and pure liquid fluoric acid as water com
   bined with the acid.
       In the second hypothesis, that which I have alluded to in
   the beginning of this paper, and that adopted by M. Am
   pere, the silicated fluoric acid is conceived to consist of a
   peculiar undecompounded principle, analogous to chlorine
   and oxygen, united to the basis of silica, or silicum; the
   fluo-boric acid of the same principle united to boron ; and
   the pure liquid fluoric acid as this principle united to hy
  drogen.
       In the third hypothesis, which    probably would have been
  formed by the disciples of the        phlogistic school of che
  mistry, had they been acquainted       with the facts, the liquid
  fluoric acid is considered as an       undecompounded      body ;
  and the metals and      inflammable   bodies as compounds of
  certain unknown       bases   with  hydrogen : silicated fluoric
  acid gas, on this idea, must be regarded as a compound of
  the fluoric acid with the basis of silicum, and fluo-boric acid
 gas as a compound of fluoric acid and the basis of boron.
        Whoever will consider, with attention, the different
  facts that have been brought forward by Scheele, Gay-Lussao
 and Thenard, John Davy, and myself, will find that they
 .will admit of explanation on either of these hypotheses;
 and as, in all the cases yet brought forward, of the most
 simple chemical action of other bodies on the fluoric sub
 stances, more than one new form of matter is produced,
 no explanation of the phaenomena can at present be given
 without involving suppositions.
      It is not easy to devise simple experiments to ascertain
 which of these hypotheses is true ; yet, in admitting strict
 analogical reasoning, it is easy to show which is most con
formable to the general series of chemical facts.
     Those acids which are known by direct experiments of
decomposition by heat, to consist of oxygen, bases, and
water, such as the strongest sulphuric and nitric acids and
hydro-phosphorous acid, when they are acted on by am
monia, afford moisture : this is easily proved, by causing
them to absorb ammoniacal gas in glass retorts, and gently
heating the mixture; when water immediately appears. On
this view, it occurred to me, if the liquid fluoric acid was
                                                           a com

            in different chemical Processes on Fluor Spar.              41   1
a compound of water, and inflammable bases, and oxygen,
that water ought to be produced when it was made to com
bine with ammonia.       It was not possible to make the ex
periment in glass vessels, as the acid acts with great vio
lence on glass, producing silicated fluoric acid gas.     I had
recourse, therefore, to an apparatus made of platina. A
small tray of platina was filled with pure liquid fluoric acid,
and introduced into a tube of platina connected by proper
stop-cocks with a mercurial gazometer, filled with am
monia ; the end of the platina tube was closed by a brass
stopper, and a communication made between the ammonia
and the fluoric acid ; the ammonia was gradually absorbed,
producing heat ; and white fumes sometimes rose into the
gas-holder, so that it was necessary from time to time to
cut off the communication ; ammoniacal gas was supplied
till no more absorption took place. When the tube was
 quite cool, the stopper was removed, and the result ex
  amined ; the interior contained a white crystalline mass,
 but there was no appearance of fluid *. A polished brass
tube, cooled by means of ice, was held over the aperture of
the platina tube, and it was gently heated till the salt began
to sublime, but no moisture was found condensed in the
cold tube of brass.
    This experiment is unfavourable to the idea, that the li
quid fluoric acid contains water ; and the following result
 js likewise unfavourable   to the idea that it consists of an
 inflammable basis united to oxygen. Solid and perfectly
dry fluate of ammonia was introduced into a tray of platina,
with about an equal quantity of potassium, and the tray
was heated in a small tube of glass connected with a mer
curial apparatus.     A violent action took place, gas was
-disengaged   with  great violence, which remained for some
 time clouded ; the application of heat was continued till the
tuhe was red : it was then suffered to cool, and the results
examined. Much white matter, which proved to be fluate
 of potassa, had been carried by the violence of the action
 out of the tray of platina into the glass tube; and a little
 potassium had sublimed in the tube.       The tray contained
 a considerable  portion of potassium,    and  a saline matter,
 which had all the characters of fluate. of potassa. The gas
disengaged, consisted of ammonia and hydrogen, to each
  *  It is necessary that pure liquid fluoric acid, i.e. that which has the
lowest specific gravity, be used for this experiment.    The first time that I
made  it,
        I   obtained moisture, owing to my having formed the hydro-fluoric
«cid by means of sulphuric acid that had not been previously boiled, and
vyhich must have contained more than one proportion of water.
                                                                       other

 4 12         Experiments   on the   Sulslances produced
   other in volume nearly as two to one ; but the experiment
   cannot be considered as decisive on this point, as no parti
   cular precautions had been taken to dry the mercury.
       Now, if there had existed oxygen combined with an in
   flammable basis in the fluate of ammonia, it might have
   been expected to have been separated, or at least to have
  formed a new combination during the action of potassium
   upon the fluate of ammonia, which is the case with such
   ammoniacal salts as contain acids in which oxygen is an
  element.      Thus nitrate of ammonia acted on by potassium,
  as  I   have found, affords azote and ammonia; and sulphur
  is partly disengaged, and partly newly combined during the
  agency of potassium in excess upon sulphate of ammonia.
       The actioti of potassium upon fluate of ammonia is pre
  cisely similar to its action upon muriate of ammonia, in
  which, as I have found by numerous experiments, ammonia
  and hydrogen to each other in volume as two to one aft
  disengaged, and muriate of potassa (potassane) formed.
      All the hydrates, that is, all the substances which con
  tain definite proportions of water, united to acids, alkalies,
 or oxides, which are fluid, or capable of being rendered
 fluid by heat, when exposed to the chemical aeency of
 Voltaic electricity, undergo decomposition, and their in
 flammable       principles, either pure, or combined with 3
 smaller proportion of oxygen, are disengaged at the nega
 tive surface in the circuit, and their oxygen at the positive
 surface.      Thus sulphuric acid affords sulphur and hydrogen
 at the negative surface, and the hydro-phosphorous acid,
 phosphurttted hydrogen and phosphorus, and nitric acid
nitrous gas ; and all these bodies yield oxygen at the posi
 tive surface.
      I undertook the experiment of electrizing pure liquid
fluoric acid, with considerable interest, as it seemed to offer
 the most probable method of ascertaining its real nature;
but considerable difficulties occurred in executing the pro
cess.       The liquid fluoric acid immedately destroys glass,
and all animal and vegetable substances ; it acts on all
bodies containing metallic oxides; and I know of no sub
stance? which are not rapidly dissolved or decomposed by
it,    except metals, charcoal, phosphorus, sulphur, and cer
tain combinations of chlorine.
I       attempted to make tubes of sulphur, of muriates of lead
and of copper containing metallic wires, by which    might it
be electrized, but without success.    succeeded, however,
                                         I
in boring piece of horn silver in such
          a                                manner, that
                                             a                  I
was able to cement   aplatina wire into        means of
                                              it,   by          a
                                                     spirit

         in different chemical Processes     on   Fluor Spar.    413
.spirit lamp  and by inverting this in a tray of platina filled
                 ;
with liquid fluoric acid, I contrived to submit the fluid to
the agency of electricity in such a manner, that in succes
sive experiments it was possible to collect any elastic fluid
that might be produced. Operating in this way, with a very
weak Voltaic power, and keeping the apparatus cool bya
freezing mixture, I ascertained that the platina wire at the
positive pole rapidly corroded, and became covered with a
chocolate powder ; gaseous matter separated at the negative
pole, which I could never obtain in sufficient quantities to
analyse with accuracy ; but it inflamed like hydrogen.       No
other inflammable matter    was produced   when  the  acid  was
pure.
   In   a case       in which the acid had been condensed in    a tube
of lead, joined by a solder containing tin, a large quantity
of powder separated at the negative surface of a dark co
lour, and which appeared to be tin mixed with a subfluate ;
the powder burnt when heated in the air, and gave fluoric
fumes when treated by potassa and sujphuric acid.
    I attempted to electrize the liquid fluoric acid, by making
plumbago the positive surface; but the plumbago was
quickly destroyed, a subfluate of iron was deposited on the
negative surface, and the liquid became tnibid and black.
When a point of charcoal attached to a wire of platina was
made positive, the effects were similar to those produced by
a platina wire alone; for the acid speedily penetrated through
 the pores of charcoal, and the platina, in consequence, be
 came a point of contact with the fluid.
    I applied the power of the great Voltaic batteries of the
 Royal Institution to the liquid fluoric acid, so as to take
 sparks in it.     In this case, gas appeared to be produced
 from both the negative and the positive surfaces; but it
 was probably       only the undecompounded         acid rendered
 gaseous,   which   was  evolved  at the positive surface, for du
 ring the operation     the fluid became   very hot, and speedily
 diminished. The manner in which the surrounding atmo
 sphere became filled with the fumes of the fluoric acid,
 rendered    it,indeed, very difficult to examine the results of
 any   of  these  experiments; the dangerous action of these
 fumes has been described             MM. Gay-Lussac and The-
                                     by
 nard, and   I   suffered considerable inconvenience from their
 effects during this investigation.        By mere exposure to
 them in their uncondensed *ate, my fingers became sore
 beneath the nails, and they produced         amost painful sensa
 tion, which lasted for some hours, when they came in con
  tact with the eyes.

414       Experiments on the Substances produced
   The phenomena of the Voltaic electrization of fluoric
acid present no evidences in favour of its containing a pe
culiar combustible substance and oxygen ; and the most
simple mode of explaining them is by supposing the fluoric
acid, like muriatic acid, composed of hydrogen, and a sub
stance, as yet unknown, in a separate form, possessed, like
oxygen and chlorine, of the negative electrical energv, and
hence determined to the positive surface, and strongly at
tracted by metallic substances.
   This view is much more conformable to the general or
der of chemical and electrical facts than the third hypo
thesis, just now mentioned.
   It is indeed possible to conceive, if the metals be regarded
as compounds of hydrogen, that the hydrogen may be pro
duced from the metal, positively electrified at the time that
the acid combines with its supposed basis, and that this
hydrogen may be transferred to the negative surface : but
this supposition involves a multitude of others ; and the
results of the electrization of fluoric acid are analogous to-
most of the results of the electrization of water and muri
atic acid, both of which are shown by analysis and synthesis
to be compounds of hydrogen ; and in the electrical de
composition of these bodies, their characteristic element is
generally combined with the positive metallic surface;
   In theBakerian Lecture for 1810 I have given an account
of the action of potassium upon pure silica. In this pro-'
cess, the potassium acquires oxygen ; and a combustible
substance, which consists either of the basis of silica, or
the basis of silica combined with potassium, appears.         In
supposing the silicated fluoric acid gas to be composed of
this basis and the fluoric principle, it is easy to explain the
action of potassium upon      it, and the complicated      phse-
nomena,     occasioned  by  the agency of water, and acids,
and oxygen, on the results of this action. The potassium
must be conceived to attract  a  part of the fluoric principle
from the siliceous basis, or to form triple compound, from
                                          a
which silicated fluoric acid gas     iscapable of being repro
duced, in consequence of the combination of      a  part of the
potassium and siliceous basis with oxygen       ;  and on this
idea the cause of the apparent loss of the fluoric principle,
in the experiments on the action of ammonia on the pro
duct of the combustion of potassium in silicated fluoric acid
gas, becomes obvious.
    Assuming then from the analogy with chlorine, that the
different fluoric compounds consist of inflammable bodies
united to peculiar principle,
          a                     it follows that all attempts to
                                                     decompose

        in different chemical Processes   on   Fluor Spar.    4   13
decompose the fluoric acids, by combustible substances,
can lead to no other result, than that of occasioning new
combinations of the fhioric principle; and the only me
thods which seemed plausible for obtaining this principle
pure, after that by electrical decomposition had failed, were
by the action of oxygen or chlorine on certain of its com
pounds. Chlorine is, in certain instances, detached from
hydrogen by oxygen ; and oxygen, in a number of cases,
is detached from metals by chlorine : I thought it therefore
probable, that the fluoric principle might, in some process,.
be separated from bases by either chlorine or oxygen.
   In selecting compounds for experiments of this kind,            I
was guided by the relative attractions of the fluoric and
muriatic acids, of chlorine and oxygen.      Horn silver and
calomel, and muriate of potassa are not decomposed bv
fluoric acid; but fluate of silver, of mercury, and of potassa
are easily decomposed by muriatic acid : I therefore con
ceived, that the fluoric principle would most likely be ex
pelled from the dry fluates of silver, mercury, and potassa
by chlorine.
   I  made some pure fluates of silver and mercury, by disr
 solving the oxides of these metals in fluoric acid, and           J
 heated them in small trays of platina ; much fluoric acid
 was driven off in this process, which I continued in the
 case of the fluate -of mercury till the salt began to sublime,
 ami in that of the fiuate of silver till it was red hot.
    The dry sails were introduced in small quantities into
glass retorts, which were exhausted and then filled with
 pure chlorine: the part of the retort in contact with the salt
was heated gradually till it became red.       There was soon a
strong action, the fluate of mercury was rapidly converted
into corrosive sublimate, and the fluate of silver more slowl v
became horn silver.      In both experiments there was a vio
lent action upon the whole of the interior of the retort.
On examining the results, it was found that in both in-i
stances there had been a considerable absorption of chlorine,
and a production of silicated fluoric acid gas, and oxygen
gas.
  I   tried similar experiments, with similar results, upon dry
fluates of potassa and soda.      By the action of a red heat,
they were slowly converted into muriates with the absorp
tion of chlorine, and the production of oxygen, and silicated
fluoric acid gas, the retort being corroded even to its neck.
    The obvious explanation of these phenomena          is,
                                                          that    a
particular principle, the acidifying matter of the fluoric
acid, combined with the metals,     is expelled from them by
  -.    -                                                    the

   4 16        Experiments on the Sulstanccs produced
   the stronger attraction of the chlorine, and that this prin
  ciple coming in contact with glass decomposes it by its at
  traction for the silicum and sodium^ and separates them
  from the oxygen with which they were combined.
      I  made various attempts to procure the fluoric principle
  in a pure form*       I heated the fiuates of potassa and soda in
  trays   of platina, in a tube of platina connected with a vessel
  filled with chlorine.      In this case the fluates were con
  verted into muriates, with a considerable increase of the
  weight of the tray ; and the platina was violently acted
  upon, and covered with a reddish-brown powder ; and in
  the instance in which fluate of potassa was used, a com*
  pound of fluate of platina and muriate of potassa was
  formed.
      There was a considerable absorption of chlorine ; but no
 new gaseous matter could be discovered in the gas in the
  tube.
      I tried to obtain the fluoric principle pure, by decom
 posing the fluates in a tube of silver, but with no better
 success ; the silver was acted upon both by the chlorine
 and the fluoric principle, arid rapidly dissolved.           I used
 glass tubes coated with resin of copper {cuprane) and horn-
 silver (argentane), on which       I  concluded that the fluoric
 principle    would   have  no action  from   the decomposition   of
 fluate of silver by chlorine; but at the degree of heat re
 quired to decompose the fluoric salts, the muriates were
 always fused, the glass violently acted upon, and silicated
 fluoric acid gas formed.                   .- .
     In' one instance, in which fluate of potassa had been
 heated in a platina tray and tube, in which muriate of
potassa had been fused, for the purpose of defending the
interior, as much as possible, from the action of the fluoric
principle, the gas, when disengaged into the atmosphere,
had a peculiar smell, different from that of chlorine, (which
certainly formed the greatest proportion of the elastic mat
ter,) and more disagreeable ; and dense white fumes were'
produced by its action upon the air.          A portion of this gas
thrown into a glass receiver, over mercury, acted upon the
glass, and silicated fluoric acid gas was generated,             On
examining the platina tray, however, it was found corroded*
and the reddish-brown powder formed.
     In the course of these investigations, I made several at
tempts to detach hydrogen from the liquid fluoric acid, by
the agency of oxygen and chlorine.              It was not decom
posed when passed through a platina tube heated red with
chlorine, nor by being distilled from salts containing abun
                                                              dance

        in different chemical Processes  on  Fluor Spar.     417
 dance   of oxygen, or those containing abundance of chlo
 rine.
    I  distilled the fiuates of lead and mercury with phos
 phorus and sulphur, with the hope of obtaining compounds
 of the fluoric principle with phosphorus and sulphur. In
 all experiments of this kind, a decomposition took place,
 and the glass tubes employed were violently acted upon,
 and sulphurets and phosphurets were formed. When I
 used tubes lined with sulphur the decomposition was less
perfect; but minute quantities of limpid fluid condensed in
 a part of the tube cooled by ice, both in the cases when
 sulphur and when phosphorus were used; it had the ap
 pearance of hydro-fluoric acid, and speedily dissipated itself
 in white fumes.     Whether they were that substance which.
 had obtained its hydrogen from these inflammable bodies,
 or compounds of sulphur and phosphorus with the fluoric
 principle, I have not ascertained; but the first opinion seems
 most probable.
    When I heated fiuate of lead and finely powdered char
 coal strongly in the air, the lead became revived, and white
 fumes were produced.        I thought it probable, that in this
 case a compound of fluorine and charcoal was formed ; but
 on trying the experiment in a close vessel of plaiina, no
 change took place ; and it evidently depended upon the
 presence of hydrogen in the vapour of the atmosphere, or
 in the flame of the spirit lamp, by which the experiment was
made, and I found muriate of silver decomposed, and silver
 produced under the same circumstances.
    From the general tenor of the results that I have stated,
it appears reasonable to conclude that there exists in the
fluoric compounds a peculiar substance, possessed of strong
attractions for metallic bodies and hydrogen, and which
combined with certain inflammable bodies forms peculiar
acids, and which, in consequence of its strong affinities
and high decomposing agencies, it will be very difficult to
examine in a pure form ; and for the sake of avoiding cir
cumlocution, it may be denominated fluorine, a name sug
 gested to me by M. Ampere.
    From experiments that I have made on the composition
of the fluoric combinations, and which I shall soon have
the honour of communicating to the Society, it appears
that the number representing the definite proportion in
which fluorine combines, is less than half the number re
presenting that in which chlorine combines ; and hydrates
in becoming fluates lose weight ; so that on the generally
received idea of the existence of a peculiar acid in the
    Vol. 42. No. 1S8. Dec, 1813.             D d         fluates,

418              A   new Theory        of Light.
fiuates, and of their being compounds of oxides, with an
acid containing oxygen, that acid, according to the law of
definite proportions, must contain more oxygen in pro
portion to its quantity of inflammable matter than water;
which is highly improbable, and contrary to all analogies.
   Dr. Wollaston has found, that the fluoric combinations
have very low powers of refracting light, and particularly
the pure fluoric acid ; so that the refracting powers of fluo
rine will probably be found lower than those of any other
substance, and it appears to possess higher acidifying and
saturating powers than either oxygen or chlorine.
    It is easy to perceive, in following the above theory, that
all the ideas current in chemical authors respecting the
fluoric combinations, must be changed.         Fluor spar, and
other analogous substances, for instance, must be regarded
as binary compounds of metals and fluorine.
   Many objects of inquiry arise, likewise, from these new
views : the topaz contains the fluoric principle ; but new
experiments are required to show whether that gem is a
true silicated fluate of alumina, or a compound of the in
flammable bases of alumina and silica with fluorine.
   I have ascertained that the chryolite yields no silicated
fluoric gas, when acted on by sulphuric acid ; but merely
pure fluoric acid : but I have not continued the research so
far, as to determine whether it contains fluorine united to
inflammable matter only, or fluorine and oxygen.
LXIX. A new    Theory of Light ; with Experiments to prove
  that Blackness arises from the Reflection of Indigo and
  Red-orange on the seven prismatic Rays       Light. By
                                                   of'
  Joesph Reader, M.D.
                         To      Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —  On   looking over my library,     find that Sir Isaac
                                               I
Newton took his ideas of blackness or darkness from Des
Cartes, who observed * " that black suffocates or extin
guishes the rays that fall upon      whereas white reflects
                                        it
         Mr. Boyle taking up this opinion says, " Many
                                           ;
them."
learned men supposed that snow affects the eyes not by
                        bynative one; but having placed         a a
borrowed light, but          a
quantity of snow   in  room,
                        a      from which all foreign light
was carefully excluded, neither he nor any other person
could perceive it." To try whether white bodies reflect
more light than others, he held    sheet of white paper in
                                       a                        a
                        * Dioptricks, p. 50.
                                                         sun-beam

                     A   new Theory         of Light.                          419
 sun-beam admitted into a darkened room, and observed
  that it reflected a far greater light than a paper of any other
 colour, a considerable part of the room being enlightened
 by it.    Further to show that white bodies reflect the rays
 outwards, Mr. Boyle adds, that common burning-glasses
 will not of a long time burn or discolour white paper.
 When he was a boy, he says, he took great pleasure in
 making experiments with these glasses : he was much sur
 prised at this remarkable circumstance, and it set him very
 early upon guessing at the nature of whiteness, especially
 as he observed that .the image of the sun was not so well
 defined upon white paper as upon a black one; and as,
 when he put ink upon the paper, the moisture would be
 quickly dried up, and the paper which he could not burn
 before would presently take fire.        He also found that, by
 exposing    his  hand  to the sun,  with  a thin black glove upon
it,   it  would be suddenly      and   more    considerably heated
 than  if   he held his naked hand to the rays, or put on                         a
 glove of thin white leather.       To prove that black          the re
                                                                      is
 verse of white, with respect to its property of reflecting the
 rays of the sun, Mr. Boyle procured                  large piece of
                                                           a
 black marble   ;    and having got     ground
                                           it    into   the form of               a
 large spherical    concave  speculum,    he  found  that    the image
 of the sun reflected from        was far from offending or daz
                                  it
 zling his eyes, as  it   would have done from another specu
 lum  ;   and though this was larger, he could not in              long    a
 time set   a  piece of wood on fire with            it,
                                                  though        far less
                                                                     a
 speculum of the same form, and of            more reflecting sub
                                                a
 stance,    would   presently have    made      flame.
                                                    it      To satisfy
 himself still further with respect to this subject; he took                      a
 broad and large tile, and having made one half of its sur
 face white, and the other black, he exposed              to the sum
                                                               it
 mer sun    ;  and having let      lie there some time, he found
                                   it
 that while the white part remained cool, the part that waa
 black was grown very hot. For his further satisfaction, he
 sometimes left part of the tile of its native red, and a,fter
exposing the whole to the sun, observed that this part grew
 hotter than the white, but was not so hot as the black part*.
     Mr. Boyle not being aware of the fact, lately ascertained
by the experiments of Herschel and other scientific men,
that luminous and calorific rays are separate and distinct,
and as all his reasoning depends on the identity of heat and
light we must look on his facts and experiments as in-
      ;
                         •
                             Boyle's Works, p. 6.
                                  D    d   2                        conclusive,

420                  A new   Theory    of Light.
 conclusive, especially when opposed to those direct one*
 on which I found my opinion.
     In my last paper sent to Nicholson's Journal, I men
 tioned mv having formed a perfect black, by mixing the
 seven different colours of the rainbow in different         propor
 tions; and that after drawing lines with this composition,
on white paper, I analysed them by means of a powerful
 plano-convex lens or prism into indigo and orange, which
two colours contain the three primary rays,. red, yellow,
and blue, from which all the others might be formed.
    Sir Isaac Newton, in looking through a telescope at a
black body, observed those colours ; but he was so impressed
with his own beautiful theory, that he superficially ex
amined the circumstance : he says, " If a black object be
surrounded with a white one, the colours which appear
through the prism are to be derived from the light of the
illuminated one spreading into the regions of the black } and
therefore they appear in a contrary order to that in which
they are seen when a white object is surrounded with a
black one*." To show the fallacy of this reasoning, I made
the following experiments:
    Experiment 1. — I drew a line with a perfect black ink
on a sheet of red paper, and, on applying my prism, ana
lysed it into a beautiful deep blue and orange.             The red
rays reflected from the illuminated paper added         to the bril
liancy of the orange.       Whence was the indigo derived ?
Certainly not from the red paper.            If Sir Isaac Newton's
theory were correct, nothing but red, which is a primary
colour, spreading into the regions of the black, should have
met the eye.
    Experiment 2. — I drew a line with black ink on a sheet
of yellow paper, and, on analysing it in a similar manner,
perceived an indigo, orange, and a beautiful green; the yel
low ray3 of the illuminated paper had blended with the
blue of the indigo, and formed a green.
    livperiment 3. — I drew a line with black ink on a blue
paper, and obtained only indigo and orange.
    Experiment 4. — Having clung two pieces of transparent
white paper, of a similar size, on a large pane of glass at
the window, I applied my prism, and perceived a fringe
of blue, red, and yellow, forming a beautiful artificial rain
bow of a light tinge.        If  Sir Isaac Newton's theory of
light   were  correct, it is obvious     that, as I increased the
                      * Newton's
                                 Optics, p. 141.
                                                             opacity

                          A new    Theory   of Light.                     451
opacity or blackness of the one by successive layers of
white paper, the fringe of reflected ra^ s should be lighter,
as the rays, instead of being reflected, would be absorbed.
But in full confirmation of my own theory, every layer of
white paper that I pasted on increased the depth of colour
in the fringe of blue, red, and yellow, until at length the
paper appeared perfectly black, and tben the fringe was a
deep indigo, red, and yellow. From this experiment, which
is simple and conclusive, we must infer that, in proportion
as a body becomes dark, it reflects the more condensed
light.
    Experiment 5. — I made two dots about the size of a
garden pea, the one of black, the other of white paint, on
a sheet of white paper.            On applying a prism according to
Sir Isaac Newton's theory, I might expect that the white
painted spot, which appeared of a light gray, would have
reflected a much deeper fringe of colours than the black,
because it should reflect not only its own colours, but also
the borrowed colours of the white illuminated paper ;
whereas, on the other hand, the black spot, absorbing the
rays of light, should only bring into view the pale tints of
the illuminated paper, spreading (according to the words of
 Sir Isaac Newton) into the regions of the black, a non
entity *.       But, on applying my prism, I found the reverse.
The black reflected a beautiful deep indigo, red, and yellow ;
the white spot only reflected a very pale tinge of blue, red,
and yellow.         The fringe reflected from the black was ex
actly similar to that reflected from the opake white paper
on the window.                                                  '
    From these experiments, and many others which the
shortness of this communication will not allow me to enu
merate,     I  venture to conclude, that blackness, or darkness,
arises from the condensed reflection of indigo and orange,
which I look on as the only primary colours, which being
tlended in different proportions form the five others.
Thus black and white are produced by the reflection of the
same colours in different quantities ; and I hope, in my
next communication, to be enabled to prove by experiments.,
that there is no absorption of the rays of light in the re
flection of any colour. It often occurred to me, that how
ever beautiful the Newtonian theory of light, it was inade
quate to account why a candle placed in a room entirely
   * How is it
                 possible that a negative property shouifl produce a positive
effect ? or how could black, a non-entity, act like a prism to separate white
light into its primary colours 1
                                    D   d 3                             lined

422 Some Particulars respecting tfie present Slate            of Persia.
lined with black, should enable a person to see the different
shades and angles; if the light were absorbed, the room
should be invisible. The Newtonian doctrine does not ad
mit of a perfect black. It also appeared surprising that,
on blowing put a candle, a room full of fluid light, however
attenuated or subtle, should vanish, or be absorbed into the
pores of the surrounding objects, and that without any
change of chemical property.            It likewise must appear sur
prising,    if not  impossible,    to  any thinking mind, that the
sun, eternally emitting an amazing large quantity of fluid
light, should never be exhausted ; and on the other hand,
that those bodies receiving such a supply should never be
increased in size.         If my ideas of light should be adopted,
they account in a satisfactory manner for these incongrui
ties. Let us suppose the earth constantly surrounded with a
large quantity of fluid light : the sun rises, and, communi
cating radiant caloric, modifies it into visible light: he sets,
and condenses it into the blackness or darkness of night.
               Sir, I have the honour to remain
                                Your obedient servant,
Cork, Dec. 4, 1813.                         JOSEPh READER,       M.D.
LXX.       Some    Particulars     respecting the present State of
    Persia.      Commimicated       in a Letter to the Hon. Colonel
    Greville Howard.               By Sir Gore Ouseley*.
                               IGehran,
                                  have    just  been
                                                          Nov. 22, 1812.
                                                       made happy by
the receipt of your letter of the 4th of July last, and, with
my wife, beg you will accept our thanks for giving us the
pleasure of knowing that Mrs. Greville Howard and your
self were well.
    Just after the despatch of my last letter to ypu, my busi
ness with the Shah and his ministers commenced ; and al
though I have travelled over a good deal of Persia since, I
have been too constantly occupied with Government affairs
                                                       I
to have time to arrange what little research have been able
to make.        I have not, however, been idle entirely ; and            I
flatter myself that my journal and sketch-book will one of
these evenings by the fire-side at Claramont afford you and
Mrs. Greyil|e Howard             a   few   hours'   occupation, if no$
 amusement.
    In March       last  I  concluded    a definitive   treaty with the
   * Printed among intercepted correspondence  in an American newspaper.
                                                                   Shah*

Some Particulars respecting the present State        of Persia. 423
Shah, by which the paramount influence of the English at
this Court is, I trust, ensured for ever.    Ere this, my brother
Sir William has reached England with       it,   and he probably
before  I reach home will have given his researches to the
world.  I   sent him into Mazinderan on the banks of the
Caspian, and gave him every opportunity, whilst with me, of
rooting- up such precious remains of antiquity as yet are       al
lowed to exist      by
                     the present race of barbarians.       But  I
much fear that there       little to be seen in Persia which can
                          is
properly be called antique, except the ruins of Persepolis,
and of another ancient city (name unknown) near Murghat,
and the tomb of Solomon's mother.            The characters and
sculptures in both the above are evidently coeval       ;the for
mer, as yet undecyphered,       are the arrow-headed     charac
ters delineated in Bruyn, Kempfer, Chardin, and other tra
vellers.
   There are    set of sculptures and inscriptions to be found
                a
in Persia in tolerably good preservation, from 12 to 1500
years old, all appertaining      to the Sassaman dynasty of
Persian kings, cut on the native rock near Persepolis, at
Shafur, Bisitun, Gehran, Shiraz, and other places; but, as
far as have been able to decypher them, they do not con
        I
tain more than De Sacy has very ingeniously given to the
world. The language          the old Persian, and the character
                              is
Pehlevi. The sculptures are very spirited and as Shafur
                                                 ;
(Sapores) conquered the Roman emperor Valerian,               it   is
more than probable that he made some of the captive Greeks
or Romans exert their talents to immortalize him.
   The more modern remains scarcely deserve notice, except
as proofs of the magnificence and power of the Changizian
princes and those of the Sefevi dynasty.        Some of the for
mer, of     6and 700 years standing, surpass any structure of
the present day, and might at       trifling expense be repaired.
                                       a
But, unfortunately,      it not the fashion to repair or finish
                              is
the buildings of other princes; and therefore the most beau
tiful mosques, palaces, and baths of Shah Abbas, Tahmas,
and others, are gradually giving way to the temporary struc
tures of the Kajars built with sun-burnt bricks, and totally
devoid of taste or convenience.
    In short, the sun of Persia has set. Science        confined
                                                       is
to the modest few.      The arts are totally lost, and there       is
not public spirit or munificence enough to encourage the
 revival of them.    I have been greatly disappointed, as you
may imagine, having conceived so much more exalted an
idea of Persia from their own books, even after making
every allowance for the favourite figure of the Persians,
    '
.                                  P
                                   d   4                hyperbole.

424                            On artificial Cold.
hyperbole.    The climate, too, has disagreed with me and
all the gentlemen of my mission, so that I have been obliged
to solicit H. R. H. the Prince Regent's gracious permission
to allow me to return to England in the spring of 1814.
                                                        Gore Ouseley.
      LXXI.       On artificial Cold.        By Rd. Walker, Esq.
                                To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Perceiving      that the experiments on artificial cold,
as  prosecuting by several philosophical gentlemen, at this
time, excite a considerable degree of interest, and as the
most favourable season of the year for pursuing such inves
tigation is approaching, viz. January ; I beg leave to pre
sent a brief description of the means I should adopt, were
I  at leisure, and possessed  of a proper apparatus for the
purpose.
    I should attempt to combine all the known powers of pro
ducing artificial cold, thus : Procuring an apparatus, which
I  suppose might be constructed,         in which the power of
condensing the air, and likewise of rarefying
                                                             it it,
                                                        were com
bined in the same glass vessel, or receiver as             called,    is   I
should proceed thus            .:
    The subject, alcohol, or any thing else, to be submitted
to the experiment, being contained in           convenient glass-
                                                        a
tube, or bulb, covered with       single stratum
                                       a             fine lint, and
                                                            of
this placed, in an appropriate cup, containing           portion of
                                                               a
sulphuref        carlon, within the glass receiver—This glass
                  of
receiver     isthen to be cooled as much as possible, or as
much as       isconvenient,   in    freezing mixture, contained
                                         a
in vessel adapted to the purpose.
     a
    When the freezing mixture has produced its full effect —
removing this, the tube, or bulb with         tube to
                                                    a            it,
                                                          immersed
in the sulphuret of carlon,         to he raised out, and imme
                                        is
diately, and as expeditiously as possible, the condensed air
first let out, and then the air, still remaining in the vessel or
receiver, rarefied as much and as expeditiously as possible,
bv means of the rarefying power attached to                 — Thus    it
 changing the air       the receiver,as quickly as possible, from
                          in
a   state of extreme condensation to that of extreme rarefac-
ijion.   I  am,    sir,
                          Your obedient servant,
Oxford, Dec,      13, 1813.                                 RD. WALKER.
                                                                 LXXII.    On

                                   [     425     ]
    LXXII.    On                        Mount Vesuvius.
                    a saline Substance from                                    By
                    James Smithson, Esq. F.R.S.*
    It has very long     appeared to me, that when the earth is
    considered with attention, innumerable circumstances are
    perceived, which cannot but lead to the belief, that it has
    once been in a state of general conflagration. The existence
    in the skies of planetary bodies, which seem to be actually
    burning, and the appearances of original fire discernible on
    our globe, I have conceived to be mutually corroborative
    of each other; and at the time when no answers could be
    given to the most essential objections to the hypothesis, the
    mass of facts in favour of it fully justified, I thought, the
    inference that our habitation is an extinct comet or sun."
        The mighty difficulties which formerly assailed this opi
    nion, great modern discoveries have dissipated. Acquainted
    now, that the bases of alkalies and earths are metals, emi
    nently oxidable, we are no longer embarrassed either for
    the pabulum of the inflammation, or to account for the
    products of it.
        In the primitive strata, we behold the result of the com
    bustion. In them we see the oxide collected on the surface
^
    of the calcining mass, first melted by the heat, then by its
    increase arresting further combination, and extinguishing
     the fires which had generated             it,
                                           and in fine become solid
     and crystallized over the metallic ball.
                                  large body of combustible matter
v
        Every thing tells that     a
     Still remains  inclosed   within  this stony envelope, and of
     which volcanic eruptions are partial and small accensions.
         Under this point of view, an high interest attaches itself
     to volcanoes, and their ejections.      They cease to be local
     phaenomena     ;they become principal elements in the history
     of our globe they connect its present with its former con
                    ;
     dition and we have good grounds for supposing, that in
          ;
     their flames are to be read its future destinies.
         In support of the igneous origin, here attributed to the
     primitive strata,   I wdl observe, hat not only no crystal
                                                     i
     imbedded in them, such as quartz, garnet, tourmaline, &c.
      has ever been seen inclosing drops of water; but that none
     of the materials of these strata contain water in any state.
         a. The present saline substance was sent to me from
     Naples to Florence, where        was, in May 1794, with
                                       I                         re            a
      quest to ascertain its nature.      The general examination
      which
          I    then made of        it,
                                   showed     to be principally what
                                                     it
             *   From the Philosophical Transactions      for 1813, part ii.
                                                                               was

426          On a saline Substance from Mount Vesuvius.
was at that time called vitriolated tartar, and it was in
consequence mentioned as such in an ftalian publication
soon after.     But as this denomination, surprising at that
period, was not supported by the relation of any experi
ments, or the citation of any authority, no attention was
paid to it ; and the existence of this species of salt, native
in the earth, has not been admitted by mineralogists, no
mention being made of            it,
                                  believe, in any mineralogical
                                      I
work published since.
    I.   was informed
         I                       by
                              letter, that       had "flowed out
                                                        it
liquid from      small aperture
                 a                   the cone of Vesuvius," and
                                           in
which    I apprehend to have happened in 1792 or 1793.
    c. The masses of this salt are perfectly irregular, their
texture compact, their colour         clouded mixture of white,
                                            a
of the green of copper, and of rusty yellow, and in some
                                            a
places are specks and streaks of black.
    d.   Afragment melted on the charcoal at the blow-pipe
formed hepar sulphuris.
    e. A piece weighing 9-5 grains was so strongly heated
in platina crucible, that
    a                            melted and flowed level over
                                      it
 the bottom of       it,
                    but did not lose the least weight.
 f.    Not the slightest fume could be perceived on holding
a  glass tube wetted with marine acid over some of this salt,
while triturating in       mortar with liquid potash
                             a                                but      ;        a
similar mixture being made in             bottle, and which was
                                                a
immediately closed with        cork, to which was fixed bit of
                                  a                                     a
reddened    litmus paper,  the   blue colour of the paper was
restored.
   g. Being dissolved in water, there was small sandy resi
                                                         a
due, which consisted of green particles of           cupreous na
                                                              a
ture, of yellow ochraceous powder, and of minute crystals
             a
of  a  metallic aspect of red oxide of iron,            which the by
black spots in the mass had been occasioned *.                  Mr.
Klaproth    found    similar admixture in
                      a                      muriate of  soda  from
Vesuvius      f.
  h. The solution had    feeble green tint.
                              a                               It   did' not alter
blue or reddened turnsol paper.
     Prussiate of soda and iron threw down
    i.                                                         a   small quan
tity of      red prussiate   of copper from it.              Liver of sulphur
and tincture       of galls likewise caused very small precipita
tions.
   * What mineralogists denominate
                                        speculary iron ore, Fer oligiste of Mr.
Hauy, appears to be merely red oxide of iron in crystals; red hematite the
same substance in the state of stalactite;  and red ochres the same in      pul
                                                                            a
verulent form. The hematites which afford         yellow powder are hydrates
                                                    a
of iron.                          ii,
                 f Essavs, vol.    p. 67, Eng. Trans.
                                                                       j.   Car-

        On   a saline Substance   from Mount Vesuvius.        427
      Carbonate of soda, and oxalate of potash, and solu
tions of magnesia, clay, copper, iron, and zinc, either had
no effects, or extremely slight ones.
   k. Solution of sulphate of silver produced a white curd
like precipitate.   Q-35 grains of this salt (the weight of the
insoluble matter being deducted) afforded 105 grain of
slightly melted muriate, or chloride, of silver.      This preci
pitate was equallv produced after the salt had been made
strongly red hot, so that it was not owing to a portion of
sal ammoniac.
   I. Tartaric acid, and muriate of platinum, occasioned
the precipitates in its solution which indicate potash.
   m. Nitrate of lime did not form any immediate precipi
tate in a dilute solution of it ; but in a short time, numerous
minute prismatic     crystals of hydrate of sulphate of lime
were generated.
   n. Nitrate of barytes poured into a solution containing
9-8 grains of this salt afforded a precipitate, which after
being ignited weighed 12-3 grains.        The filtered solution
crystallized entirely into nitrate of potash mixed with a few
rhomboids of nitrate of soda.
   o. Some of this salt finely pulverized was treated with
alcohol.    This alcohol on exhaling left a number of minute
cubic crystals, which proved, by the test of nitric acid, to
be muriate of soda.      Prussiate of soda and iron caused a
red precipitate of prussiate of copper in this alcoholic solu
tion.
    p. The solution of this salt afforded, by crystallization,
sulphate of potash in its usual forms, and some prismatic
crystals of hydrate of sulphate of soda.
    q. To discover what had occasioned the precipitate with
galls, (i) since copper has not this quality, a portion of
this salt, which had been recovered by evaporation from a
filtered solution of  it, was made red not in  a   platina cruci
ble.    On extraction of the saline part  by  water,
                                                   a   very small
quantity of   a  black powder was obtained.       Ammonia dis
solved only part of   it,   which was copper. The rest being
digested  with  muriatic   acid, and prussiate of soda and iron
added,  a  fine Prussian blue was formed.
    r. From several of the foregoing experiments,        it    ap
peared that no sensible quantity of any of the mineral acids,
besides the sulphuric and muriatic, existed in combination
with alkali  in  this volcanic salt. But Mr. Tennant, whose
many and highly important discoveries have so greatly con
tributed to the progress of chemical science, having de
tected disengaged boracic acid amongst the volcanic pro
                                                         ductions

428       On a saline Substance from Mount Vesuvius.
ductions of the Lipari islands, and suggested that it might
be a more general product of volcanoes than had been su
spected *, it became important to ascertain whether the
presence of any in this salt proved Vesuvius likewise to
be a source of this acid.     Alcohol heated on a portion of it
in fine powder, and then burned on                       it,
                                                did not however
show the least green hue in its flame.
    s. To ascertain the proportions of the ingredients of this
saline substance, the following experiments were made                       :
    Ten grains of sulphate of potash of the shops were dis
solved in 200 grains of water, and an excess of muriate of
platina added. The precipitate edulcorated with 100 grains
of water, and dried on water bath, weighed 24' grains.
                               a                                       1
    Ten grains of the saline part of the native salt, treated
precisely in every respect in the same way, afforded 17-2
grains of precipitated muriate of platina and potash.
  If   24*1 grains of, this precipitate correspond to 10 grains
of sulphate of potash, 7'2 grains of correspond to 7*14
                               1                       it
grains of this salt.
    It has been seen (ft) that 10 grains of the saline part of
this volcanic salt would have afforded 12'55 grains of sul
phate of barytes.
    But 7*14 grains of sulphate of potash form only Q'42
grains of sulphate of barytesf, and therefore the remaining
3*13 grains of sulphate of barytes would be produced                             by
the sulphate of soda, and correspond to 1-86 grain of        in             it
an arid state, or uncombined with ice                 J.
    Ten grains of the saline part of this native aalt would
have produced IMS grain of ignited muriate of silver (k).
By accurate experiments 241 grains of ignited muriate of
silver have been found to correspond to 100 grains of                           ig
nited muriate of soda        §.
    Consequently the soluble portion of the present Vesuyian
salt consists of
           Sulphate of potash                      7-14
            Sulphate of soda                        *86        1
            Muriate of soda                       0-46
            Muriate of ammonia               '\
            Muriate of copper .                                0'54
                                         .J V
                                         .
            Muriate of iron ...
                                                               10-00
  t.   The insoluble sandy residue (g) having been thoroughly
 * Trans of    the Geolog.   Soc.            f    Dr. Marcet on Dropsical Fluids.
J    Prof. Klaproth's Essavs, vol. p. 2S2.
                                    i.
 §   Dr. Henry, Phil. Trans. 1810.
                                                                   edulcorated,

On a Phenomenon            of St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall. 429
edulcorated, dilute nitric acid was put to it.  A green solu
tion formed without any effervescence.     Acetate of barytea
scarcely rendered this solution turbid ; but nitrate of silver
produced a copious curd-like precipitate, and iron abun
dantly threw down copper from it.       The green grains in
closed in this native sulphate of potash appear, therefore,
to be a submuriate of copper, of the same species as that
of the green sands of Peru and Chili.
   Muriatic acid dissolved the yellow ochraceous powder,
and prussiate of soda and iron produced Prussian blue.                       J
am inclined to believe this yellow powder to be a submu
riate of iron ; but its small quantity, and the admixture of
the submuriate of copper, were impediments         to entirely
satisfactory results.   Such  a submuriate of iron, though,
if I mistake not, overlooked by chemists, exists ; for the
precipitate which oxygen occasions in solution of green
muriate of iron contains marine acid.
    Possibly this yellow powder, and the crystals of speculary
iron which exist in this Vesuvian salt, have been produced
 by a natural sublimation of muriate of iron, similar to that
of the experiment of the Duke d'Ayen, recorded by Mac-
quer*, and which was known long before to Mr. Boyle
 and Dr. Lewis f.
    This Vesuvian salt, considered in its totality, has pre
sented no less than nine distinct species of matters, and a
more rigorous investigation, than I was willing to bestow
on   it,would probably add to their number.
   JulyS, 1813.
 LXXIII.        On a Vhcenomenon           of   St. Michael's Mount in
   Cornwall.         Bij   J.   A. De Luc, JEsq. F. R.S. &c. &c.
                                To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —     In
            the Number of your Philosophical Journal for
last August, giving the account of      work entitled " Re
                                                 a
marks on the Transition Rocks of Werner,              Thomas    by
Allan, F.R.S. Edinb." you transcribe the following pas
sage: "The importance deservedly attached         Dr. Hutton
                                                           by
to the phaenomena of granite veins gave rise to         variety      a
of hypotheses, among those who were inclined to consider                          -
these rocks as an original deposite, who have accounted for
their formation in different ways.      was first stated, that
                                                It
  * Diet.   de Chimie,  art. Fer.
 t   A Course   of Practical Chemistry, by Win, Lewis, 1746, page en, note   f.
                                                                         they

  430                   On a Phenomenon
  they were formed of newer granite, and, if properly ex
  amined, would be found to cut the old. granite as well as
  the rock which rested on it. This opinion was once very
  strenuously supported in this country; but as facts could
  not hear it out, it was abandoned.     I find however, in a
  recent publication, something similar to it maintained by
  De Luc, who asserts that the veins at St. Michael's Mount
  are not granite, but     mere quartz, which traverses the
 granite as well as the stratified rock. I cannot compre
  hend how De Luc has been so much deceived in this place,
  as simple inspection   of the smallest specimen will prove
 that he was mistaken. — I have only a few specimens to lay
 before the Society, from the veins of St. Michael's Mount,
 but they are really interesting and satisfactory.      One ex
 hibits a portion of kellas, bounded on each side by granite ;
  another of two granite veins, traversing kellas included in
 granite. The simple inspection is sufficient, in the first
 place, to show that the opinion of De Luc is groundless,
 with respect to the substance of these veins. One of the
 specimens also contains two small veins of qiiartz, which
 are of (he kind called contemporaneous : these keep the di
 rection of the seams of the stratified rock, and are cut off
 by granite in the same line without any interruption.''
     This, sir, is what you have extracted from Mr. Allan's
 work concerning me : he says he has found it in a recent
publication, without mentioning which : it must be in the
 account of some inattentive Reviewer ; and if this answer .
 comes to his knowledge, he will be sorry to have thus been
deceived himself ; while he could have seen what         I have
 really  described   in my  Geological  Travels,  published in
London, in 1SU, by Messrs. Rivington, in two volumes. .
This is the authentic document to which I shall refer for
what I have really described.       It was in July 1806 that   I
visited St. Michael's Mount; and as, in all my observations,
I  endeavoured to have the company of some gentlemen of
the country, I had the satisfaction, in these, to be conducted
by two gentlemen as desirous as myself to observe that
island, because they had read Mr. Playfairs account of it.
One of these gentlemen was Davics Giddy, Esq. M.P. who
lives in the neighbourhood at Tredrw, an estate of his
family ; the other Mr.Winicombe, of Oxford, who, used for
many years to spend the vacations with one of his friends
near Mount's Bay, to which belongs St. Michael's Island.
Thus, if Mr. Allan had known my work, he would have
seen that I was not the only observer of the phenomena
which I described.
                                                            The

               of St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall.                      431
     The account of these observations begins at p. 265 of
the 3d volume of this work, and I shall copy such parts of
it as will prove to Mr. Allan, that the source of his infor
mations was spurious.          " Our first remark was, the im
possibility that Mr. Playfair could have seen what he says,
the veins running off from the granite               the mount, and
                                                         of'
 spreading themselves like so many roots fixed in the schistus.
 For, along this side of the island, where the schistus or
 kellas appears, its junction with the granite rock which
 rises above   it,   is
                      absolutely concealed          heap of blocks
                                                    by
                                                    a                    of
 granite of such size, that         was not possible for us to pass
                                    it
 over them     in any part, or even to advance among them suf
 ficiently to discover on what base they lie."
      Continuing the account of our observations, compared
 with what Mr. Playfair says of these veins that in the        :
 smallest the granite     is    very minute, though distinct parts,
                               of
  and that in the largest,      it    more highly aystallized, and
                                     is
is     undistinguishable from the mass             the hill.
                                                    of          "This
(I    say)is   by   no means what we observed          for we saw two
                                                          ;
  kinds of veins, of      a  nature perfectly distinct from each
  other, though intermixed      :  most of these veins are of white
  quartz entirely pure,     whatever    be their breadth, some no
  less than four or five inches          while the few others, not
                                          ;
  larger than the former which are among them, and which
  Mr. Playfair has taken for granite, have but very imper      a
  fect resemblance to that substance; and the following                 is    a
  direct proof that they have not been formed                      by
                                                             an expan
  sion of the granite of the mount               (p. 266).    In consi
  dering the granite rocks which arose above us,             we  saw in
   them the most complete proof that what has the appearance
   of granite in the veins in schistus,       not the same substance
                                              is
   which composes the rocks; for these are themselves in
   tersected   by  the veins of both the above described kinds;
   namely,     of pure quartz, and of what           shall call pseudo-
                                                         I
   granite; the latter being       no  less  distinguishable from the
   grawz/ethrough-which they pass than from schistus. Whence
   itis  evident, that the fissures in the granite must have been
   contemporary with these in the schistus below."             This cir
    cumstance, had Mr. Allan known                 it,reading my own
                                                         by
    work, would have shown him, that the specimen from the
    veins of St. Michael's Mount which he exhibited to the
    Edinburgh Society, instead of proving that             was deceived
                                                               I
  in    that place, confirmed my observations, — with this dif
    ference, that in so small        specimen he could not distin
                                     a
    guish  so  evidently  the  difference   between the substance             of

 432                   On a Phenomenon
  the veins and the granite of the mount, as did three ob
  servers on the spot.
     There is another remarkable phenomenon I have de
  scribed as belonging to these veins, which excludes the idea
  of an injection of soft granite, and places them in the rank
  of all the mineral veins; an object of which I shall speak
  more hereafter j but here it will be sufficient to describe
 that character.     AH'these veins have what is called Sale-
  banque by the mineralogists of the continent, and Capel in
 Cornwall.      This, is a first crust produced on the sides of
 the fissures inp'the strata, before they were filled with the
 substances wfiich distinguish the different kinds of mineral
 veins.    Now, the veins of pseudo-granite in St. Michael's
 Mount which pervade the granite of the mount, have their
 capel of pure white qtiartz, but in the kellas their capel is
 of mica of a very singular kind ; its thickness is about -fa
 of an inch, and its very brilliant laminae are at right-angles
 to its direction.     This capel belongs so essentially to the
 veins, that, wheij they become very narrow, it fills them en
 tirely, without, pseudo-granite between the two crusts.
    AnotheV pbject of my observations in St. Michael's
 Island, more important to geology than that of the veins
 above described, concerns the manner in which our conti
nents, after having evidently been a part of the bed of the
sea, are become dry land.         The main point of my contro
versy   with   Mr.  Playfair  was   this : whether our continents
have been lifted up from the bottom of the sea, which is his
opinion ; or, what I maintained, that, such a part of the
led of the sea having sunk so low that the sea had retired
on  it, another part having been left dry,       become our con
                                                 is
tinents.    In my works already published, have demon
                                                  I
strated the last proposition       by   great number of phaeno-
                                        a
mena, and in particular      by  the situation of the strata along
the coasts and in the bed         of
                                   the sea near them.      To this
subject relate the following observations on St. Michael's
 Island, beginning at p. 267.
    " We followed all the western side of the island, with
out finding any point   by which we could ascend to the foot
of the granite rock;   it being everywhere rendered inacces
sible  by heaps of large blocks of granite.    But the scene
changed on the south side; where the bed of the sea instead
of being formed of schistus (which ought to have been the
uppermost) consists of sunken masses       granite, which are
                                            of
in part  covered  by the high  tides. Here  we saw the same
veins of pseudo- granite and of quartz as in the mount
                                                   Continuing

                of St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall.             433
   Continuing     our walk round      the island, we ascended to
   a certain height   the part of the rock on which lies the way
   to the castle, in order to observe the eastern coast of the
   bay, whence this island is but at a little distance.        Most
   of the clifts on this side are the section of a. very thick
   loose soil ; but beneath their feet are seen masses of
   Schist us in great disorder ; and al l the bed of the sea along
   the clifts presents ledges of the schistose strata descending,
   tinder the water, with an inclination towards the west."
      This appearance seems, at first, to be equally explained
  by the system of the subsidence of a part of the bed of the
  sea, or the lifting up of the part of it which is become our
  continent.    This last being Mr. Plavfair's system, he ap
  plied   it to  the phenomena of St. Michael's Island.        'hut
  I opposed to him, that the operation of lifting up could
  be only effected by the production of an immense quantity
  of elastic fluids under strata already broken - and that these
 fluids making their escape through the crevices, the mass
  then, unsupported, would have fallen down again : an argu
  ment to which he has not answered, and the state of the
  bed of the sea in Mount's Bay shows directly that this
  would have been the effect.
      Another object of my controversy with Mr. Playfair was
  on the nature of granite. In the Huttonian system, gra
 nite is supposed to have been a product of fusion by heat
  under those of the mineral substance, which they acknow
 ledge to have been formed in strata; and Mr. Playfair
 thought to have found a proof on that opinion in the veins
 of St. Michael's Mount, supposing them, as it has been
 seen above, to be real granite.
     The system which I have opposed to that opinion is
 mentioned      by Mr. Allan in these words: "Those (he
 says) who were inclined to consider this rock as an original
 deposite, have accounted for its formation in different ways."
 I think that, as Mr. Allan mentions me for a part of the
 subject, he ought to have expressed not only the way that
 I have explained the production of granite, but the proof
 which he might have found iti my works.           A fact which
 I adduced to Mr. Playfair. to prove that granite is an ori
ginal deposite on the led of the former sea, is, that we find it
in strata as regular as those of all the other mineral sulstances.
This I first stated in a work published in London in )8>,9,
under the title of Elementary Treatise on Geology, in which.
I demonstrated that granite was the first substance pro
duced by chemical precipitation on i he bed of the former sea,
where it was covered by a succession of other strata ; and
     Vol. 42. No. 1S8. Dec. 1813*             Ee              tha*

434                   On a Phcenomenoti
that the    cause of its appearing on our continents is the
catastrophes that all the strata underwent, still on the bed
of the Sea, which have produced our hills and mountains,
where we see the strata of granite broken and strongly in
clined, under those of schisli with which they are parallel
in their different degrees of inclination.
    On this fundamental geological fact, I had referred Mr.
Playfair, not only to my own observations in ihe greatest
chain of mountains of our hemisphere, that of the Alps,
but to those of my justly celebrated countrymanM.de
Saussure, in his Voyages dans lesAl'pes: there he gives not
only exact descriptions but engraved figures of the succes
sive strata of that chain, which show that the central ridge
is composed of much inclined and some almost vertical
strata of granite and its contemporary substances, which
are now visible, because the strata of schisli, lime-stone and
others, which before covered them, are fallen to the out
ward of the chain, by the sinking of that part of the sur
face which now forms — scattered hills and the plain.
     From the above statement may be judged how important
 to geology is that circumstance, which Mr. Allan mentions
 so transitorily, that granite has been deposited in regular
 strata; but if he had known my own works, of which he
had only some erroneous extracts, he would have seen that
 I  had given proofs of the stratification of granite in this
 very island; and first, in the mineral part of Cornwall. On
 this last part, he would have found at p. 202 the following
 account given me by one of the head miners.           " In our
 first conversation (I say) I had spoken to him of the Hut-
 tonian hypothesis, with which he was already acquainted;
 and he had then said, that if Mr. Playfair, in his journey
 through Cornwall, had consulted the miners, he would
 have met with none who would not have told him that
 the granite could not have possiblv been in fusion; since
 the fractures wherein the loads have been formed, pass into
it directly from the kellas.   In order to give me an example
 of this fact, he had chosen a mine into which he had him
 self accompanied . a zealous partisan of the Huttonian
 theory (whom he named tome), who, after having seen what
 I am going to describe, quitted the mine convinced, not
 only that the granite could not have been in fusion when
 the strata underwent their first fractures, but that neither
 the growan (a kind of granite in powder), nor the iand of
 the same kind so abundantly spread over a great part of the
 country, could be considered as decomposed granite," which
was Mr. Playfair's opinion.

                  in St, Michael's Mount in Cornwall.                          435
    The whole of my description of the peninsula of Corn
wall, had Mr. Allan known          would have convinced him
                                              it,
that I  was not the inattentive observer he considered me to
be but
    :       confine myself to the above particulars concerning
            I
the stratification     granite which
                               of        here my object; ana
                                                          is
I  return to the part of Cornwall on the road from the gulf                            •
of Padstow, on the north side, to that of Mount's Bay on
the south.
    From p. 188 of the same volume, describe           hilj near
                                                          I                a
St. Columb, where quarries were open, which at first sight,
and not observing the nature of the stone, would certainly
have been taken for lime-stone or sand-stone quarries, so
regular were the strata, of which were taken stones for
building the fronts of houses.     These strata are much in
clined, and they are lost, on one side, under       thick loose       a
soil    ;while on the other side they present their upper
section toward the surface;      proof that their inclined and
                                              a
broken state has been owing to the catastrophes common
 to all the strata.
    But another circumstance of that hill will further prove
the error of Mr. Playfair on the cause of One of the greatest
geological phaenomena, the great dissemination of Hocks
of  granite on countries far from every mountain of their
kind.     Mr, Playfair supposed that these masses had been
propelled        by
               the streams descending from the mountains                          ;
and he thought that they might be traced up to their
source,      by
              following their tract. But       have shown the  I
illusion of this ideai    describing vast heaps of those blocks
                                    by
in plains at great distances from every mountain and large
stream.     have also proved, bv
            I                          great number of facts,
                                                      a
that these masses must have been thrown up in the very
places where they are found,         the explosion of the air
                                                    by
compressed in the caverns in which sunk the parts of the
strata that have disappeared outwards.
   Now there        remarkable circumstance on
                      is   a                            hill near          a
St. Columb, described in      194.  Afterp.  having observed  the
quarries,   walked
            I        some way up   the  hill         every where
                                                               I it
                                                               :      is
smooth and covered with turf, on which           saw     quantity          a
of blocks of granite, but different from that of the quarries.
The quarryman informed me, that these Hocks were the only
granite known on that hill, and had been many years the
object of his pursuit, till accidentally he discovered the
strata     sounding through the turf with an iron bar, in
            by
order to discover more blocks near the cart road, as he had
exhausted all those that were visible on the surface.         He
                                          E   e   2                            still

436                      On a Phenomenon
 still used these blocks for some particular purposes, as they
are harder than the granite of the quarries.
    This is not the only fact which 1 related in the same
volume of my Travels, observed also with Mr. DaviesGiddy,
 embracing all the phseiiomena above described ; viz. The
 stratification of granite, the nature of the veins in St. Mi
 chael's Mount, and (he dispersion of blocks of granite on
 the surface of the soils.    There is a mount named Tregon-
ning*Hill,    about seven miles distant fromMr.Giddy's house,
where he was so good as to carry me in his chaise.         The
 account of our observations begins at p. 270.
    Tregonning Hill, in its highest part, is about six hun
 dred feet above the neighbouring valleys : at its foot, after
having cleared the rubbish from the surface, have been
 found very regular strata of granite of the fame kind as
that of St. Columb : but the workmen told us, that when
they followed them within the hill, they were found to be
insulated masses buried in rubbish.        In some of the exca
vations where similar masses had been entirely taken up,
we saw nothing but rubbish in the place where they had
Jain. This phenomenon, of which I have given instances
in my Travels, concerning masses of regular strata, both of
schistus and limestone, buried in rubbish, is an evident
proof, that the valleys around have been produced by the
subsidence     of part of the strata, at the same time that
the parts remaining outwards were broken and inclined in
various manners j which is one of the greatest geological
facts.                                         "
    After these observations, we ascended the hill towards a
signal-post, which is on the highest part. The observa
tions we made on (his hill begin at p. 273. We saw on
the turf, more or less covered with grass, a great number
of masses of the same granite as Mount St. Michael, with
all the veins which had been the object of our observations
in the island, but with more variety.         These veins were
even observable in such small fragments as I could carry
with me. — One of these specimens, the two outsides of
which are of the same granite as that of the mount, has a
vein of pseudo-granite one inch and half in thickness, with
its cape I of c/uartz as in the mount; the quartz is grayish
at its contact with the pseudo-granite : there is no mica in
the latter, though there is mica in the granite on the sides ;
a difference of which Mr. Playfair had not taken notice,
since he asserted " that it is undistinguishable from the mass
ef the hill."—Another mass which has also granite on both

             ira St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall.           437
                                                                 '
sides, has a vein of quartz an inch thick, gray at its con-
tact with the granite, and brownish towards the middle. —
A third mass, still with granite on both sides, contains a
vein of white quartz confusedly crystallized. — In a fourth.
mass, the capels of quartz have their surface covered with
small crystals, against which, on each side, has been formed
a stratum of quartz confusedly crystallized.. — Lastly, a^ifth
specimen, the vein of which is an inch and half in breadth,
has the true character of mineral veins, that of symmetrical
deposites on both sides of the fissures.    Similar coatings of
white quartz have advanced on both sides,'; but not having
every where united in the middle, they are covered in the
intervals with small crystals.
    If Mr. Allan had seen my own work, he would not have
thought I was mistaken ; since I have not only described
myself the very phenomena that he opposes to me as ob
served in the specimen which he laid before the Edinburgh
Society, but this is only a very small part of the geological
circumstances which I have described in that country. The
principal of them, against the Huttonian system, were :
the stratification of granite ; the broken and shattered state
of its strata, no less than those of kellas by the same cause ;
that of the subsidence of part of them ; and the evidence of
the wins of St. Michael's Mount having all the character
of mineral veins, on which the Huttonian system had spread
many errors: an object to which I shall particularly come,
after having mentioned my la,st publication of two volumes
 of Travels in some Parts of Switzerland, France, and Ger
 many.
   One of the objects which is there completely elucidated
is the stratification of granite, exemplified in some moun
tains of Upper Lusatia, called the Giant's Mountains.
These I have described, not only a very extensive and high
ridge composed of granite strata, and their contemporary
of gneiss, with the strongest characters of dislocation ; but
many mounts on the outside of the chain formed of the
same strata, visibly by subsidence.       And besides, I have
described, in the whole course of these Travels, instances of
the great phenomenon of enormous blocks of granite and
other contemporary substances.        Mr. Playfair supposed,
as I have already mentioned, that they had been propelled by
 the streams descending from the mountains; but I have
 described, in a great many places, heaps of them on very
 high hills, and for instance over the high ridge of Mount
 Jura. — But this subject is sufficiently elucidated, and      I
 come to that of the mineral veins.
                                Ee3                        *The

438                    On a Phenomenon
    The system of Dr. Hutton, and also of Mr. Playfair in
 his Illustrations of this system, is ; that the mineral veins
 have been produced by substances proceeding from lelow
 the strata, and injected when softened by heat, in the frac
 tures of the strata, in the same manner that Mr. Playfair
supposed that the veins of St. Michael's Mount had been
produced.
    I was too well acquainted with mineral veins, not to see
the error of that system of Dr. Hutton ; having gone down
the greatest and deepest mines in the mountains of the
Hartz, with the best guide for such observations, Baron de
Rheden, the chief director of these mines ; and I have
published these observations since 1780. Thus, before this
last journey in Germany, we had coincided in the same
opinion, the celebrated M. Werner of Freyberg in Saxony
and myself (without having yet any knowledge of each
other), that mineral veins had been successively filled by de
posits of chemical precipitations on the sides of the fissures
in the strata, from the liquid of the former sea.
    This coincidence made me desirous of a personal ac
quaintance with M. Werner : therefore, being arrived at
Dresden, I wrote to him to inquire whether he was at
Freyberg, and could help me in my wish to study that ce-
hrated mineral country.      Instead of answering, M.Werner
came to Dresden, with the intention to be himself my
conductor.
   This journey begins    at p. 455 of the 1st volume.    Un
der such auspices, every part of our observations is inter
esting to geology, not only with respect to the nature of
mineral veins, but on Mr. Allan's principal subject, an
nounced in these words: Remarks on the Transition Rocks
of Werner. The observations we made in that journey, in
which M. Werner himself pointed out to me disturbances,
dislocations, changes of original relative position of the
different kinds of strata, entirely agreed with the descrip
tions which I had already published of these phsenomena,
as may be seen in the account of this journey; but I shall
confine myself to the object of mineral veins, which is par
ticularly described in pp. 446 and 447 j of which I shall
give only extracts.
    " On this subject M. Werner supplied me with an im
mediate proof, that the veins, within each particular di
strict, are not of the same date : some of the veins here
had already been filled with their gangue, when fresh cata
strophes produced new fissures which passed across the for-
me|j yet still at so early a period, that the last veins were

              in St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall.          43Q
filled with nearly    the same gangue as the others : but the
gangue of the last     is continuous and uninterrupted ; while
it cuts that of the preceding, and hence their comparative
dates are known.       The same is observed in all the inter
sections of veins, which in this country are very numerous."
    That situation of the veins themselves certifies the re
peated catastrophes of the strata, by the successive fissures
in which they were produced.
    On the manner in which the veins were formed, stfhich
 is here the main point, on which M. Werner and myself
agreed against the Huttonian theory, the subject begins at
p. 448, of which the following is an abstract : " It was in
the side of this valley that M. Werner pointed out to me
the principal phenomena which had convinced him that
the veins were fissures filled up with substances precipitated
against both sides of the space thus opened : this pheno
menon is precisely the same which had led me also to that
opinion. — In all veins, these new substances have been de
posited in symmetrical layers on both sides ; and the in
terval between them having been gradually narrowed by
their accumulation, they have at last united towards the
middle, where however there still remain some vacancies
lined with small crystals. — Now in the small veins just de
scribed, Mi Werner showed me a remarkable circumstance,
which at once proves the symmetrical accumulation of the
substances on the opposite sides of the fissures, and the
catastrophes undergone by the veins themselves after having
received their first gangue.    These fissures have been evi
dently enlarged by a new subsidence of the strata, more
considerable on one side than on the other,' which has di
vided the first gangue in many places along the line of its
first junction.    Now, the same operation has been recom
menced on both sides of the new fissure thus produced, and
symmetrical layers uniting incompletely towards the mid
dle, have again been formed in the same manner as before."
    Mr. Allan could not be informed of the above observa
tions which T had made with M. Werner himself. But,
sir, if he reads this letter in your Journal, I hope he will
change the opinion he entertained of me with respect to
accuracy in observations.
                 I have the honour to be, sir,
                             Your obedient servant,
Windsor, December 1, 1813.                     J, A. Dte Luc.
                              Ee4                 LXXIV. An

                                 (   440    ]
 LXXI V. An Attempt to determine            the definite and simple Pro
   portions, in which the constituent Parts of anorganic Sub
    stances are united with each other.             By Jacob Berze-
    lius, Prcfessor of Medicine a/id Pharmacy, and M.R.A.
    Stockholm.
                            [Continued from p. 336. J
                  SECOND CONTINUATION.
[From the original German, as arranged, with soine little Modification  of
              the Author's Subdivisions, by Professor Gilbert.]
  Nitric     Acid and Nitrates, as affording Proofs
       that Nitrogen is not chemicallv simple.
I trust      that in my Essay on definite Proportions, and in
its First Continuation, 1 have completely established the
 doctrine, that all salts are composed of an acid and a base
in such proportions, that the oxygen contained in the acid
is a multiple by a whole number of the quantity contained
in the base. But in these investigations I have not yet
treated of the nitric acid.             I intended not to have made
known my analysis of the nitrates before 1 published my
investigations relating to animal substances; but they may
more properly be introduced on the present occasion, partly
because they confirm the proposition which has been men
tioned, and'partly because they may serve as an addition to
the proofs of the compound nature of nitrogen which have
been stated in the First Continuation of my Essay.
                           I. Nitric Acid.
Attempt     to determine      its Composition     from its Capacity of
                                 Saturation.
    In this investigation      a great difficulty arises from the im
possibility of depriving the nitrates of their water of crystal
lization, without decomposing more or less of the acid; so
that one cannot infer with certainty the quantity of the acid,
from that of the base which is left behind ; a circumstance
which long deterred me from the undertaking.                    But since
it became necessary for the inferer.ces which were to be
drawn from my analyses of animal bodies, to determine
how far nitrogen, from the modification of its electrical
properties, might be considered as a simple body, 1 deter
mined t*fca.tteinpt to overcome these difficulties, and f have
succeeded hi beyond my expectation.                 The nitrates, which
I  chose tor ihi* investigation,         were those of baryta, prot
oxide of lead,' and ammonia.
0
                                                                 Nitrate

                     On definite Proportions.                441
                       Nitrate of Baryta.
    In order to obtain this salt in perfect purity,   I heated it
to ignition in a silver crucible, dissolved it in water filtered
the solution, saturated it with pure nitric acid, and evapo
rated it until it crystallized.     In order to determine the
quantitv   of  water  of crystallization, which I supposed to
exist in the salt, I introduced 10 grammes into a small re
tort, which instead of a receiver was furnished with a tube
filled with muriate of lime. The nitrate of baryta decre
pitated in the heat, and fell into a fine powder : I continued
the heat until the salt was fused, and began to emit oxygen.
The retort had now lost -052 gr. and the tube had acquired
-046. I have shown that the water, which a salt loses by
decrepitation, can be no water of crystallization, but can
only be inclosed mechanically in the crystals; so that it
 can easily be removed by powdering the salt and by drying
it in a warm place. It is also to be supposed, for the rea
sons whi"h have been given, that crystals, which decrepitate
 in the fire, contain no water chemically combined with
them. I therefore consider the result of this experiment
 on the nitrate of baryta as a proof, that it contains no water .
 of crystallization.
    Ten grammes of finely powdered and very well dried
nitrate of baryta were dissolved in water in a platina cru
 cible, sulphuric acid was added, and the mixture was dried
 and ignited. The sulphate of baryta, thus obtained, weighed
 B'867 gr. and, according to the analysis already related,
 contained 5-625 gr. of baryta.      Consequently 100 parts of
 nitric acid  had saturated 140   of  baryta, in which there are
 14*64 parts of oxygen.
    Ten more grammes of nitrate of baryta were dissolved
 in water, and sulphate of ammonia was added to the solu
 tion, whence were obtained S'907 gr. of sulphate of baryta,
 containing 5-846 of baryta ; so that 100 parts of nitric acid
 should saturate 140'73 of baryta, containing 14*73 of oxy
 gen.
                Nitrate of the Protoxide of Lead.
     The same appearances, as have been described with re
 spect to the preceding salt, justify us in concluding with
 respect to this also, that it contains no water of crystalliza
 tion.
     Twenty grammes of finely powdered and very well dried
 nitrate of the protoxide of lead were ignited in a platina
  crucible, and afforded 13 '445 gr. of protoxide.        Conse
 quently 100 parts of this salt contain 67-2225 of the prot
                                                            oxide

   442                   On definite Proportions.
   oxide and 32-7775       of nitric acid; or 100 parts of nitric
   acid saturate 20.5-1  of protoxide of lead, containing 14-66
   of oxygen   :
                 [since this protoxide contains 7-15 per cent, of
   oxygen.    Gilb.]
      These two experiments seem to show, that 100 parts of
   nitric acid saturate as much of a hase as contains 14 «- parts
   of oxygen.      But if this acid is composed of 30-5 parts of
   nitrogen and CQ-5 of oxygen, as Gay-Lussac reports in his
  Essay on the combinations of the gaseous bodies, this quan
  tity of oxygen, 6a-5, is not a multiple by any whole num
  ber of 14-66, but falls between four and five times that
  quantity. If, on the other hand, we consider the nitric
   acid as composed of 100 parts of ammonium and 662 parts
  of oxygen, as I have done, or of 13-12 of ammonium and
   86*88 of oxygen per cent, we have at once 14-66 x 6 = 87-9,
  and the nitric acid contains six times as much oxygen as
  the base with which it is saturated.       The slight difference
  of 1 per   cent,  between the determinations    from the com
  position of the base and from the weight of the gases, oc
  curs also, as we have seen, in the case of the carbonic acid,
  and depends therefore not on an error in principle, but on
  a small inaccuracy in the numbers on which the calculation
  is founded.
     Perhaps it will be objected to me, that although the salts
 here analysed afforded no water of crystallization in their
 decrepitation, they may have retained it so firmly as not to
 have parted with it except together with the acid ; and if
 we allowed that they contained exactly so much water of
 crystallization, as to have its oxygen equal to that of the base,
 [according to the law which will be more fully explained in
 the Third Continuation, G.] the remaining nitric acid, if
 considered as composed of nitrogen and oxygen, would
 contain not quite four times as much oxygen, and if as of
 ammonium and oxygen, exactly five times as much as the
 base. This objection I shall put to the test in the case of
 the following salt.
                        Nitrate  of Ammonia.
     According to the view which has been mentioned, this
 salt must be so composed that 100 parts of ammonia satu
rate 267of nitric acid [since for 100 parts of ammonium am
monia must contain 88 and the nitric acid 662 parts of oxy
gen, G.]. But if we reckon according to the volumes of the
gaseous component parts, as they are assigned by Gay-Lussac,
the nitric acid contains for 100 cubic inches of nitrogen 200
of oxygen, and ammonia for the same measure of nitrogen
                                                              30Q

                      On definite Proportions.                  443
300 of hydrogen gas.        In this case it is evident that the
acid can only contain an integral multiple of the oxygen of
the nitrogen, and not of the whole quantity contained in
the ammonia.         And if such were the true composition 'of
these substances, this would prove nothing for or against
the composition of nitrogen ; but it would demonstrate
that hydrogen contains no oxygen.
     If this statement were true, the nitrate of ammonia when
slowly decomposed by heat, would afford equal parts of
nitrogen and nitrous oxide; for 100 cubic inches of hydro
gen gas take up ISO of oxygen, and the remaining 50 of
oxygen form with 100 of nitrogen 100 of nitrous oxide, and
consequently       100 parts of nitrogen should be disengaged.
But we know that the quantity of nitrogen in the nitrous
oxide obtained from the nitrate of ammonia is not consi
derable, although it is never wholly wanting. Consequently
 this view of the composition of nitrate of ammonia cannot
 possibly be correct.
      Since the nitrate of baryta, which is decomposed by
 mixture with the sulphate of ammonia, does not alter its
 state of neutralisation, it is obvious that ammonia follows
 the same law of saturation with the nitric acid relatively to
 the fixed bases of salts as with the other acids.       Hence it is
 clear, that since 100 parts of nitric acid are neutralised by a
 quantity of baryta or protoxide of lead which contain 1 4*6fi
 parts of oxygen, they must also saturate as much ammonia
 as contains the same quantity of oxygen.             The nitrate of
 ammonia must therefore be thus constituted :
           Nitric acid .. . 76*18          lOO'OOO       320
            Ammonia....        23-8-2        31*266      100
      But since the nitrate of ammonia cannot be obtained
 without water of crystallization, this determination cannot
 be directly confirmed.       It may however be supposed, that,
  like the muriate of ammonia, it contains a quantity of wa
  ter of which the oxygen is equal to that of the base, and
  that consequently in the nitrate of ammonia one third part
  as much water of crystallization is contained as it is capa
  ble of producing when decomposed by oxidation.            Accord
  ing   to  this, 100 parts of   nitric acid,   with 31*266 parts of
  ammonia, and 16 61 of water, must represent the crystal
  lized salt; and 100 parts of crystallized nitrate of ammonia
   must consist of
                    Nitric acid               67 6-25
                    Ammonia                    21*143
                                            *
                    Water                      11-232
      In order to examine this more particularly, I mixed in a
                                                                small

 432                       On a Phenomenon
   the veins and the granite of the mount, as did three ob
  servers on the spot.
     There is another remarkable phenomenon I have de
  scribed as belonging to these veins, which excludes the idea
  of an injection of soft granite, and places them in the rank
  of all the mineral veins; an object of which I shall speak
  more hereafter; but here it will be sufficient to describe
 that character.     All'these veins have what is called Sale-
  lanque by the mineralogists of the continent, and Capel in
 Cornwall.      This, is a first crust produced on the sides of
 the fissures in the strata, before they were filled with the
 substances wnich distinguish the different kinds of mineral
 veins.    Now, the veins of pseudo-granite in St. Michael's
 Mount which pervade the granite of the mount, have their
 capel of pure white quartz, but in the kellas their capel is
 of mica of a very singular kind ; its thickness is about -fe
 of an inch, and its very brilliant laminae are at right-angles
 to its direction.     This capel belongs so essentially to the
veins, that, wheij tfiey become very narrow, it fills them en
 tirely, withoatAseudo-granite between the two crusts.
     Another phject of my observations in St. Michael's
 Island, more important to geology than that of the veins
 above described, concerns the manner in which our conti
nents, after having evidently been a part of the led of the
sea, fire become dry land.        The main point of my contro
versy   with  Mr.   Playfair  was   this : whether our continents
have been lifted up from     the  bottom of the sea, which is his
opinion ; or, what I maintained, that, such a part of the
led of the sea having sunk so low that the sea had retired
on  it, another part having been left dry,        become our con
                                                     is
tinents.    In my works already published, have demon I
strated the last proposition           bygreat number of phaeno-
                                            a
mena, and in particular          by
                                 the  situation of the strata along
the coasts and in the bed             of
                                   the sea near them.       To this
subject relate the following observations on St. Michael's
Island, beginning at p. 267.
   " We followed all the western side of the island, with
out finding any point       by
                         which we could ascend to the foot
of  the granite rock   ;being everywhere rendered inacces
                           it
sible by heaps of large blocks of granite.  But the scene
changed on the south side; where the bed of the sea instead
of being formed of schistus (which ought to have been the
uppermost) consists of sunken masses    granite, which are
                                                of
in part covered      by  the high tides.  Here we saw the same
veins   of   pseudo-granite and  of quartz as in the mount
                                                          Continuing

                of St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall.             433
   Continuing our walk round the island, we ascended to
   a certain height the part of the rock on which lies the way
   to the castle, in order to observe the eastern coast of the
   bay, whence this island is but at a little distance.       Most
   of the clifts on this side are the section of a -very thick
   loose soil ; but beneath their feet are seen masses of
   Schistus in great disorder ; and aU the bed of the sea along
   the clifts presents ledges of the schistoie strata descending,
   under the water, wiih an inclination towards the west."
      This appearance seems, at first, to be equally explained
  by the system of the subsidence of a part of the led of the
  sea, or the lifting up of the part of it which is become our
  continent.    This last being Mr. Playfair's system, he ap
  plied   it to  the phenomena of St. Michael's Island. 'But
  I opposed to him, that the operation of lifting up could
  be only effected by the production of an immense quantity
  of elastic fluids under strata already broken ; and that these
 fluids making their escape through the crevices, the mass
  then, unsupported, would have fallen down again : an argu
  ment to which he has not answered, and the state of the
  bed of the sea in Mount's Bay shows directly that this
  would have been the effect.
      Another object of my controversy with Mr. Playfair was
  on the nature of granite.     In the Huttonian system, gra
 nite is supposed to have been a product of fusion by heat
  under those of the mineral substance, which they acknow
 ledge to have been formed in strata; and Mr. Playfair
 thought to have found a proof on that opinion in the veins
 of St. Michael's Mount, supposing them, as it has been
 seen above, to be real granite.
     The system which I have opposed to that opinion is
 mentioned      by Mr. Allan in these words: "Those (he
 says) who were inclined to consider this rock as an original
 deposite, have accounted for its formation in different ways."
 I think that, as Mr. Allan mentions me for a part of the
 subject, he ought to have expressed not only the way that
 I have explained the production of granite, but the proof
 which he might have found iii my works.           A fact which.
 I adduced to Mr. Playfair, to prove that granite is an ori
ginal deposite on the bed of the former sea, is, that we find it
in strata as regular as those of all the other mineral substances .
This 1 first stated in a work published in London in 18 09,
under the title of Elementary Treatise on Geology, in which.
I demonstrated that granite was the- first substance pro
duced by chemical precipitation on i he bed of the former sea,
where it w as covered by a succession of other strata; and
     Vol. 42. No. 1S8. Dec. 1813.             Ee              tha

  44fi                  On definite Proportions.
  are however     so far of material value, as they lead us with
  some certainty to the traces of the laws of nature.
     That the ammonium. of the alkali is not here an integral
  multiple of that of the acid, depends on the same cause as
  the apparently anomalous progressions of several combus
  tible bodies, of which I have partly spoken already, and
  shall partly have occasion to speak more particularly in
  treating of the vegetable acids.
     The analysis of the nitrate of ammonia maybe considered
  as a formal proof of the existence of oxygen in hydrogen :
  for there can be no other reason why the oxygen of the
 acid, when considered as formed from nitrogen, should not
 be a multiple of that of the base by a whole number.           But
  this analysis seems at the same time to show, that T have
 estimated the quantity of oxygen, in the First Continuation
 of my Essay, much too high, and perhaps at least four times
 as much as the truth.
     Since I have reason to believe from my investigation of
 the composition of ammonia, and of the neutral nitrates,
 that nitrogen is to be considered as a higher degree of oxi
 dation of the same radical that forms ammonia, I think it
 follows from the same grounds, although not with the same
 force of evidence, that hydrogen must consist of the same
radical in a lower degree of oxidation.        It appears however,
 that   the oxygen   of the  hydrogen should on this supposition
 be a multiple of that of any body with which water can
combine, by some whole number, which lies between those
of the oxygen in water and in the other substance, exactlv
as we shall find that of the oxvgen in nitrogen with respect
to the neutral nitrates.       But this cannot be, if water really
contains only      U|   per cent, of hydrogen.     If on the other
hand water really contained more than            llf  per cent, of
hydrogen,      as  Mr.  Gay-Lussac     has concluded    from some
reasons     with  which  I  am unacquainted, the last-mentioned
number, with which most of the analyses of bodies con
taining water agree best, would belong to the metallic am
monium, and the difference between the quantity of hydro
gen and ammonium in water would depend on the oxygen
of the hjdrogen. If however, as is most probable, future
analyses of water, performed with accuracy proportional to
the present state of the investigations, should still make
the quantity of hydrogen in water accurately or very nearly
1 1*75 per cent., it will be difficult to reconcile the existence
of oxygen in hydrogen with the calculations relating to
multiple proportions.        Since however this, as we shall here
after find, happens also in some cases with respect to the
                                                            oxygen

                            On definite Proportions.                             447
oxygen in nitrogen, it cannot be considered as a decisive
argument against the existence of oxygen in hydrogen.
   [ must   also observe, that it is not yet possible to deter
mine with certainty which series of proportions is the more
correct, that which is determined from the weight of the
gases, or that which is deduced from the analyses of several
saline bases which I have performed. I must however con
fess, that I believe the quantity of oxygen which I have
assigned to these bases is too great : for, if we lessen    the                it,
whole of the results will agree better together, as their dis
cordance      increased
                is         making  by greater. If, for example,
                                                  it
we t3ke ammonia as containing 4G-26 of oxygen, and water
 as composed of U'7-5 of hydrogen and 88*25 of oxygen,
 every thing agrees perfectly with these numbers.
            II. SUBNITRATES AND SuBSUBNITRATES.
        [Transferred by Gilbert from the Third Continuation.]
                     Sulnitrate    of   the Protoxide        of   Lead.
    I   have obtained this salt              by   treating   the neutral       nitrate
 with smaller quantity of caustic ammonia than
        a                                               necessary     is
 for its complete decompositiqn.         The white precipitate,
 which was obtained, being well edulcorated, was strongly
 dried and ignited in    small glass retort:
                               a                 afforded nitrousit
 acid and oxygen gas, without any traces of acid being con
 densed    so that
            ;        contains no water of crystallization.
                          it                                                         It
 left 80-5 percent, of fine lemon-coloured protoxide ot lead:
 so that the salt consists of
            Nitric acid            ....
                                  lg-5       100
            Protoxide of lead     SO-5       413
  But in SO'5 parts of the protoxide there are 5-72 of oxygen,
  and in 19-5 of nitric acid there are 17-096 of oxygen        and              ;
  5-72 x 3= 17' 16: so that         this salt the acid contains
                                             in
  three times as much oxygen as the base, and saturates twice
  as much of the base as in the neutral nitrate of the prot
  oxide.
.   .       Sulsubnilrate     the Protoxide
                                        of       Lead.           of
       Another quantity of nitrate of the protoxide of lead was
    mixed with so much ammonia, that not only all the prot
    oxide was precipitated, but also the fluid, when     had been         it
    digested several hours on the precipitate, remained still                        al
    kaline. The precipitate was washed as long as the water
    continued to dissolve any part of it. The white salt of lead,
    dried in the sun, was then placed in     small retort upon
                                                             a                           a
    strongly  heated sand bath,  so that the water was still more
    thoroughly expelled        then became yellow, but parted
                                  j   it
                                                             only

                                                              #
  448                  On definite Proportions  '.
  only with its water, without suffering a particle of the acid'
  to escape.     The salt, thus dried, left after ignition 90-3
   percent.  of oxide ; and in this process only nitrous vapours
  and oxygen were disengaged, without an atom of liquid
  acid.     These 96*3 parts of protoxide of lead contained
   6-457 of oxygen.      And if we consider the nitric acid as
   consisting of ammonium and 87*88 per cent. of oxvgen,'
  the 9'7 parts contain 8*521 of oxygen, which is much less
  than twice the oxygen     of the base : but if we consider the
  nitric acid  as consisting of 30-5 parts of nitrogen and 69'd
  of oxygen, 9-7 parts of nitric acid contain 6 74 of oxvgen;
  that is, neglecting the small difference of -317, which may
  easily have arisen from an error of observation, a quantity
  of oxygen equal to that of the base.
      This result appeared to be the more striking, as it seemed
  to contradict my earlier ideas respecting the composition of
  the nitric acid ; for I had not here to do with a double sub-
  salt of lead : I had indeed been long acquainted with such a
 subacetate, and I particularly sought for it in this case;
 having observed that if one boils the acetate of the prot
 oxide of lead with more of the protoxide, one obtains a
 combination which does not crystallize, which acts on ve
 getable colours like an alkali, and dries with heat into a
mass of a gummy appearance.           If this combination is di
 gested with still more of the protoxide, the protoxide ex
 pands and becomes white, the solution loses more and
 more of the I^ad that it contains, and retains at last an
 astringent taste, without sweetness.      The white precipitate
 thus formed dissolves in boiling water, and shoots from it
 into feathery crystals with a silky gloss.        I have not yet
 gone so far as to be able to make out with certainty the
composition of this salt ; but I have found that it contains
much more metal than the salt with the appearance of an
extract, and can be converted into it again by the addition
of acetic acid. These two degrees of the subsalts may be
termed subsalts and subsubsalts.
     I by no means expected, from the general law of the
composition of salts which I have developed, that it would
be necessary here to consider the nitric acid as composed
of nitrogen and oxygen. Either (A) the observation must
have bt-en incorrect, or (B) the analysis of the neutral ni
trate of the protoxide of lead must have been inaccurate,
or (C) there must have been some cause, with which I am
unacquainted, that nitrogen is affected in the nitric acid,
                                                                  '
w hen it is saturated with the greatest possible quantity of a
base,   as a simple substance,   not containing any oxygen, or
                                                         \D) the

                             On definite Proportions.                 449
 ft)) the last-mentioned salt may have been a double com
 bination of a subnitrate of the protoxide of lead, differently
 modified, with         a hydrated   protoxide.
    In order to investigate which was the most probable of all
 these  possibilities, I repeated once more the examination of
 this salt. After drying it in a water bath, the water of
 crystallization was driven off in a small glass retort in a
 sand bath.     I call it water of crystallization, because the
 salt changed its colour from white to yellow when it was
 expelled.    It amounted in one experiment to 2-30, and in
 another to 2-32 per cent. The ignited salt left 88*l of prot
 oxide, which was not diminished by fusion. Consequently
 the salt was thus constituted         :
               l       Protoxide of lead         83*10
                 Nitric acid     ..     9*5 [8]
                 Water       . .    . . 2-32
    The view (C) of the composition of this salt I should
 be least of all disposed to admit, and therefore took care
 to examine all the rest before this.      The quantity of the
  protoxide here found contains 6*299 parts o'f oxygen; that
  of the acid either 6*66 or 8*4112, accordingly as we con
 sider nitrogen or ammonium as its radical; and the waiter'
  contains 2 05.      Since neither of the two numbers belong
 ing   to  the  acid    on these different suppositions perfectly
 agrees with the quantity of oxygen contained in the base ;
 I imagined that according to the hypothesis (D) the salt
 might be thus constituted; the nitric acid being combined
 with     of the protoxide, and forming with
         -§-                                            subsalt, in
                                                         it   a
 which the acid contained twice as much oxygen as the
 base, the remaining         might be combined with water as
                             -£                                       a
 hydrate, in which the oxygen of the water and of the prot
 oxide might be equal         :and the whole might in some mea
 sure resemble     adouble salt, in which the oxygen was con
 tained in the smallest quantity            the water, that of the
                                            in
 protoxide being     three  times  as much,   and that of the nitric
 acid four.    This view agrees with the result of the. experi
ment  ;    but that      probably
                        it            not the true one,
                                     is                    am per I
suaded from the consideration            of the other subnitrates,
which rather seem to indicate, that we must consider the
acid in these combinations as having nitrogen for its radi
cal, since on this supposition           would contain an equal
                                           it
quantity   of  oxygen    with  the base, and  the watery as much.
    That this view of the subject, according to which we are
to consider the nitric acid as composed of nitrogen and
oxygen, does not agree with the neutral nitrate of the prot
oxide of lead,     if  this contains 205*1 parts of the protoxide
    Vo).  42.  No.  188.   Dec. 1813.                F   f        t»

                     On definite Proportions.
to 100 of nitric acid, we have already seen in the examina
tion of this salt.   I therefore repeated once more the ana
lysis of the neutral nitrate.
     For this purpose 1 dried the finely powdered neutral ni
trate of the protoxide of lead in the sunshine, and, after
some hours, I exposed ten grammes of it in a small glass
retort to a higher temperature, until the protoxide, deprived
of its acid, was half vitrified, and the retort began to melt.
Neither in the neck of the retort, nor in the receivers, had
a single drop of acid been condensed ; a proof that this
nitrate contains no water.       The weight of the retort was
 now only increased 6- 7 29 gr. by that of the residuum ;
 and it lost nothing more by further exposure to heat, al
though it was now completely flattened by partial fusion.
     I have repeated this experiment several times with the
most careful attention, both in retorts and in a platina
 crucible, and it always afforded results which only varied
from 67-3 to 67*31 of the protoxide of lead for 100 of the
 salt.    This is somewhat more than the 67*222, which I
 had found in my former experiments ; [and hence the neutral
 nitrate contains 205-87 parts of the protoxide to 100 of
 nitric acid, G.] The neutral nitrate of the protoxide of leac!3
 which was employed for these experiments, produced not
 the least turbidness with the nitrate of the protoxide of
 silver, and the remaining protoxide of lead emitted, when
 dissolved in nitric acid, no gas, as would have been to be
 expected from the analogy of the alkaline and earthy nitrates
 which have been exposed to heat. No more gas was evolved
 from 6'73 gr. of half vitrified protoxide of lead than oc
 cupied the bulk of a pea ; I therefore consider this as at*
 mospherical air, which had been mechanically absorbed by
 the oxide in cooling.
      Hence it is most clearly established : Jirst, that if we
 choose to consider the nitric acid as composed of nitrogen
  and oxygen, the acid contained in the neutral nitrate cannot
  possibly contain oxygen in any quantity which is an in
  tegral multiple of the oxygen in the base; and secondly,
  that in the subnitrate here described, the base can be no
  integral multiple of that quantity of the same base with
  which the same quantity of acid is combined in the neutral
  nitrate. Consequently the want of agreement between the
  results cannot depend on errors in the analyses, but the
  last described subsalt is either a double combination with
  the base, or there are some causes for which the nitric acid,
   when united with the greatest possible quantity of the base,
   retains the oxygen in the nitrogen so strongly, that it has

                    On definite Proportions.
tio longer the properties of oxygen, and can therefore no
longer be taken into the account.       The following example
confirms the probability of this last view of the subject J
hut the complete explanation of this phenomenon would
probably lead us a great step further in the doctrine of che
mical proportions.
              Sulnitrate  of  the Oxide  of Copper.
   T have prepared this salt in three different ways: (A) by
gently heating the dry neutral salt, and washing away the
undecomposed portion with boiling water ; (B) by precipi
tation of the neutral nitrate with lime water ; and (C) by-
precipitation with caustic ammonia, which leaves part of
the copper in the solutiou. All these three methods afforded
precisely the same salt.
   I obtained from this salt by ignition, in several experi
ment*, 65-6 to 6'6 per cent, of black oxide of copper, and
the acid disengaged was in great measure liquid.       Conse
quently this salt contains water of crvstallization, and ac
cording to the computation hereafter to be detailed, it must
be thus constituted :
            Nitric acid       . .       ..18-9
            Oxide of copper        . .  . . 6C-0
            Water          ..           ..15-1
   The 66 parts of oxide of copper contain J3'2 of oxygen,
which answer to 18'9 parts of nitric acid, if considered as
composed of nitrogen and oxygen. The remaining i.vi
parts   must   have been water. and have contained       13-32
parts  of oxygen.     If we wished to compute this result ac
cording to another view of the composition of the nitric
acid, we should obtain no relation between the oxygen of
the base and that of the water, that can be expressed by
an integral proportion ; for 13*2 parts of oxygtn would,
according to this view of the subject, be contained in onlv
 15-0-1 partiof nitric acid, and consequently iiie oxygen of
the water would exceed in quantity that of the base. and yet
not amount to twice as much. But if we would assume that
the oxygen of -the acid were twice as much as thai of the
base, the salt would contain 30 08 parts of nitric and, and
3'42 of water, and the oxygen of the water would asrain
observe no integral proportion to that of the base.     And if
we consider the salt as a double combination of snbnitrate
of the oxide of copper with hydrate of the same oxide, we
still obtain no satisfactory explanation.
   The analysis of this salt appears therefore to confirm the
idea before mentioned, that in' the salts in which the nitric
                                Ff  2                     acid

 453                     On definite Proportions.
  acid is saturated with the greatest possible quantity of a
  base, the acid contains an equal quantity of oxygen with
  the base, so far as we consider it as composed of oxygen
  and nitrogen, and do not take into account the oxygen of
  the nitrogen.       We shall obtain another confirmation of
  this statement from the subsubnitrite of the protoxide of
  lead, to which we shall now proceed.
                          III. The Nitrites.
     Since the proofs which, as we have seen, may be derived
 from the analysis of the neutral nitrates in favour of the
 composition of ammonia and nitrogen, are so highly im
 portant and indispensable, and since the ideas, to which
 they lead, are contrary to the older opinions, and will meet
 with much opposition among chemists, I have considered
 it  as essentially necessary    to examine more accurately every
 thing which might appear ambiguous or uncertain in these
 prooTs.      In order to place beyond all doubt the truth of the
 opinion that the nitric acid is composed of ammonium and
 oxygen,     I  resolved to employ an observation which I had
 had occasion to make in the course of my extensive inves
 tigations respecting the salts of lead.
                Sulnitrite of the  Pi otoxide of Lead.
    It is a fact first discovered by Proust, and since universally
understood, that if we boil metallic lead with a solution of
nitrate of the protoxide of lead, the lead is dissolved, and
we obtain a yellow fluid, which shoots into scaly yellow
crystals.      Mr. Proust considered this combination as a salt
in which the lead was reduced to a lower degree of oxida
tion. Dr. Thomson on the other hand calls the same salt,
which he obtained from the nitrate by means of heat, com
mon subnitrate of the protoxide of lead. Neither of these
chemists had directed his attention to the alteration of the
condition of the acid : hence arises the contradiction in
their results, neither of which is more correct than the
other.
    I  had very often found, that when I dissolved lead in
nitric acid, the solution was at last of a lemon colour,
without obtaining from it the scaly salt described by Mr.
Proust. Since these yellow solutions were less disposed to
crystallize than the common ones, and afforded a yellow
salt, I attempted to force them to crystallize by the addi
tion of nitric acid : for it is known that several salts are
precipitated from their solutions in water by the addition of
uncombined acid ; probably because the capacity of the.
                                                           water

                    On definite Proportions.               453
water is diminished by this addition. The colour disap
peared immediately, and nitrate of the protoxide of lead
was crystallized in abundance.      But these solutions mixed
with nitric acid had always so suffocating a smell of nitrous
gas, without however exhibiting red vapours, that I was
obliged to remove them out of the laboratory.    I now poured
nitric acid on a portion of the yellow salt, and gently heated
the mixture : in the mean time small bubbles of gas were
disengaged, which, even at the bottom of the vessel, before
they came in contact with the air, appeared of a red colour.
The acetic acid produced the same appearance. It was there
fore beyond all doubt that this yellow salt contained a com
bination of nitrous acid with the protoxide of lead, from
which it probably derived the yellow colour.
   I immediately determined to examine how the oxygen of
the nitrous acid was related to that of the base, and if this
relation would not afford a new proof my idea of the com
position of nitrogen. For this purpose 1 boiled in a small
glass flask a solution of 20 grammes of nitrate of the prot
oxide of lead with 12-4 gr. of thin hammered lead ; that
is, with precisely as much as the salt already contained.
After some hours, the lead was completely dissolved, and
the solution had assumed a full yellow colour.        While it
was cooling, it congealed completely into a scaly yellow
mass, which allowed a colourless fluid to be pressed out of
it. The solution had a taste rather astringent than sweet,
and acted on reddened litmus paper precisely as an alkali,
This was also the case with the crystals.       Acids evolved
nitrous acid in great quantity from this salt. It is therefore
a subnitrite. of the protoxide of lead.      Hence it appears
that there must be a distinct neutral combination of the
nitrous acid with the protoxide : of this I shall speak here
after, and first endeavour to ascertain the composition of
this subsalt.
   The crystals that had been obtained were levigated, well
dried, then heated in a small glass retort, and atlast strongly
ignited, until no more nitrous gas was disengaged.         The
salt d;d not melt in the heat.      It emitted partly gaseous,
partly fluid, red, smoking nitrous acid, and consequently
contained some water of crystallization.      The part of the
oxide  of lead, which had not been fused, was of a fine light
yellow, and weighed, in different experiments, 79*5, 79*75,
to 80 percent. of the salt which had been employed.
   If we consider the nitrous acid as composed of nitrogen
and oxygen, it contains for 63-1 parts of oxygen 39'5 of
nitrogen.    If, on the contrary, we regard it as composed
                              Ff  3                          of

*34                     On definite Proportions.
of ammonium       and oxygen, it consists of 15- 88 parts of
ammonium      with  84*12 of oxygen in 100.       In the quan
tity of protoxide of lead, which we have obtained in these
experiments,    there are from 5-70 to 5'72 parts of oxygen,
which must be an aliquot part of the oxygen contained in
the 20 per cent. of acid expelled.      If we consider nitrogen
as the radical of the nitrous acid, this acid cannot contain
three times as much oxygen as the base.         The quantity of
nitrous acid which contains twice 5-72 parts of oxygen is
 18-13; and I -87 parts only would remain for the water, which
is manifestly too little, since in the distillation of this salt
the greatest part of the acid is obtained in a liquid form.
   In order to ascertain this point, I dried a quantity of the
subsalt very perfectly, until the acid began to escape, so
that all water adhering to it mechanically must have been
expelled: the salt had assumed a darker colour, and, when
ignited in a retort, gave, as before, liquid acid, leaving 81 '3
per cent, of protoxide.     Since now the 18- 7 per cent, thus
expelled was chiefly liquid, as before, it is utterly impossi
ble, that the nitrous acid should contain twice as much
oxygen as the base of the salt ; for in this case nothing
would be left for the water.      If again it only contained an
equal quantity   of oxygen   with  the base, the salt would con
tain only 10-03 parts of water of crystallization, and the
oxygen of this water would observe no regular proportion
to that of the base. Consequently the composition of this
salt will not in any manner agree with the laws which pre
vail with respect to the other salts, so far as we take nitro
gen for the radical of the nitrous acid.
   If on the other hand we considered the nitrous acid as
-composed        of ammonium and oxygen, and assumed that there
is twice    much oxygen in the acid as in the base that neu
           as
tralises   the quantity of the nitrous acid in this salt would
           it,
amount to 13-57 or 13-6 per cent., and 6-4 to 6°68 would
remain for the water of crystallization.      This water would
contain 5-64 to 5-88 of oxygen.; and       we  may safely con
clude, that the base and the water of crystallization con
tain equal quantities of oxygen, and the acid twice as much,
not reckoning that which belongs to the nitrogen. Hence
the proportions of the component parts of the subnitrite of
the protoxide of lead are nearly these      :
           Protoxide of lead            80-0
           Nitrous acid                  13-6
           Water                   -   . .6*4
                                        *
   We will now, in order to investigate this supposition
more accurately, examine the composition of the subsalt
                                                          more.

                      On definite Proportions.                         455
more minutely.     We have already seen that 100 parts of
nitric acid, with 205*1 of protoxide of lead, afford a neutral
                   If we wish to reduce these 100 parts of
nitrate of lead.
nitric to nitrous acid, we must deprive them of            i
                                                      of their
whole quantity of oxygen, including     that which belongs to
the nitrogen.    Ifnow in all nitrates the oxygen of the acid
is six times that of the base, it must amount in 100 parts
of the nitric acid to 6X 14-66 = 83 parts. Now 9J = 17-6,
and lOOpartsof nitric acid will therefore afford 100— 17*6 =
82-4 of nitrous acid, containing 70-35 of oxygen :       88 —   [or
17-6 = 70-4.]       I must here again remark, that if the quan
tity of the oxygen of the bases has been assumed a little too
great, the error must have a considerable effect here on ac
count of the multiplication by 6 : this however has no effect
on the representation here developed.                 If
                                                      now the lead,
which is dissolved by the solution of the nitrate, on which
we operate, takes up the 17*6 of oxygen, the solution must
contain a quantity of the base of which the oxygen amounts
to 32-26, including the protoxide which was present in the
first instance, containing 14-66. According to the analysis
above related, the nitric acid must contain twice as much
oxygen as this, that     is,  " 64-54." But we have seen that
it  contains in fact 5*48 more, that is, JO'35: [or rather
5  88 more, =70-4 — X 32-26.]
                         2                 If therefore this compu
tation is  correct,a    part of the nitrous acid must at the same
time be decomposed, and consequently nitrous gas or ni
trogen must be disengaged.          This evolution of gas, arising
from  a  dissimilar decomposition of the nitric acid,          denied
                                                                is
by Mr. Proust, and also by Mr. Gehlen.                But. may    not it
actually take place? Or rather, How could the nitrate of the
protoxide of lead be constituted            if  did not take olace
                                                 it                        ?
The nitric acid would otherwise be required to saturate                    a
quantity of protoxide of lead, of which the oxygen amounts
to -kof that of the acid, considered as havinff ammonium
for its radical, or to  \,  as composed of nitrogen and oxygen.
This however would suppose,              my analysis of the nitrate
                                        if
of the protoxide of lead       isat all correct, in the 100 parts of
nitric acid, which saturate 205-1 of the protoxide,        a quantity
of water of which the oxygen             equal to tiiat of the prot
                                        is
oxide ;   since 100 parts of dry nitric acid would he required
to saturate as much of the protoxide as contains 17*59 parts
of oxygen.      But my experiments on the analysis of the ni
trates of the protoxide of lead and of ammonia prove ineon-
trovertibly, as  it   appears to me, that no such water          con
                                                                 is
cealed in the acid.        Consequently the conversion of the
nitrate of the protoxide of lead into          subnitnte
                                                 a          not pos-
                                                           is
                                    F
                                    f   4                        sible

456                     On definite Proportions.
sibfe without a decomposition of a part of the nitrous acidi,
and consequently without evolution of gas.
     On this subject I was satisfied by means of the following
experiment :—I put into a small glass flask 12 "grains" of
nitrate of the protoxide of lead, and JOgr. of lead hammered
thin. I filled the flask with boiled water, and introduced into
its mouth a tube for the reception of gas, filled also with
water.     The flask was slowly heated oyer a spirit lamp, until
the   fluid   came near to the boiling point.            The lead began
by degrees to be dissolved, and a number of very small
bubbles rose from         it, as from     conductor acting on water
                                            a
in the galvanic circuit.         I  did not suffer the fluid to boil                 ;
and in this manner          a quantity of gas was collected, which
.was not condensed in cooling.               Finally      made the fluid
                                                                I
boil,*- and stopped       the  experiment, when        the  lead began to
be covered with         a  yellow brown pellicle.              w^s found
                                                                    It
that 7*64 gr. of lead had been dissolved, and 1*8 cubic
inch of gas had been disengaged the thermometer stand
                                                 j
ing at 12° [54°]. When the gas was mixed with oxygen
 gas, it   was condensed into red vapours, which were wholly
 absorbed by water: consequently                 was nitrous gas.
                                                 it                      In
 other experiments,         inwhich pei formed the solution of the
                                        f
 lead  in   retorts with tubulated receivers luted to them, the
 oxygen gas of the receiver was absorbed, and the water that
 distilled over was very perceptibly acid.             Consequently the
 decomposition       of a  small   part of  the  nitrous   acid, while the
 lead  is    dissolved   in   the nitrate of the protoxide,             put     is
 beyond all doubt by this experiment.
  I    was in hopes of being able to determine the quantity of
  the lead dissolved more accurately,                 by
                                                   allowing the solution
  to boil upon more lead than             ought to be able to dissolve
                                            it
  according to the computation. For this purpose poured on
        "
                                                                        I
  12'5      grains" of very pure lead hammered thin,                   very in   a
  long-necked flask, solution of \0 gr. of nitrate of the prot
                         a
  oxide of lead in 500 gr. of water, and boiled the mixture
  for 12 hours. The orifice of the flask was closed with                             a
   cork, having     a   glass tube fixed                  it,
                                                      which allowed the
                                                     in
   gas  to pass through,        ^fter  twelve   hours,   the solution was
   poured    into
                a    bottle,    which      nearly filled, and then was
                                            it
   loosely stopped.       To my great surprise, only '85 gr. of the
   lead were left undissolved.        The solution, when poured off,
   crystallized in the form of small scales of                brick colour,
                                                                    a
   and the fluid, which remained behind, had lost its colour.
   It was boiled down to           and then, being put into
                                 .§-,                                bottle,a
   deposited    two   different groups     of   crystals.     The  one  was
   the yellow subnitrite of the protoxide of lead, already de,

                         On definite Proportions.                          45?
scribed; the other, which was of the same nature with
the  first deposition, formed small brick-coloured spots,
exactly like the fructifications of fern, which constituted a.
sulsuinilrite of the protoxide.
  By the formation of this subsubsalt, I found myself dis
appointed in my expectation of being able to determine the
quantity of  lead necessary for the formation of the subsalt.
1      therefore obliged to endeavour to determine it by ap
     was
proximation, boiling the nitrate of lead in distilling vessels
with different quantities of lead, and remarking the greatest
quantity that could be formed without the production of
any subsubsalts.     In the first experiment, 10 " grains" of
nitrate of the protoxide of lead dissolved 7$ gr. of lead,
without any traces of a subsubsalt.    I then heated again the
solution which had cooled, and put in 1 gr. of lead, with
which I boiled it for an hour. Of this '£8 gr. were dissolved,
and while the solution was cooling, some groups of sub
subsalt were formed.      Another portion of 10 gr. of nitrate
of lead was boiled with 7*9 gr. of lead, until it was com
pletely dissolved ; while the solution was cooling, some
slight traces of the subsubsalt appeared. A third quantity,
in which 7-8 gr. of lead had been dissolved, showed indeed
no very distinct traces of a subsubsalt; but the lowest part
of the crystallized mass, at the bottom of the vessel, ap
peared to be somewhat redder than the upper part.          And
since the subsubsalt is not completely insoluble in cold
water, I thought I had no reason to expect a more accurate
determination of the question by this mode of approxima
tion.
        It is easy to compute how much lead must be dissolved
    by the nitrate of the protoxide of lead, in oider that it may
    be changed into the subnitrite.            For   if,    according to the
    later analysis already related, the neutral subnitrite of the
    protoxide of lead contains in 305 -87 parts 100 of the nitric
    acid, which,    in   order to become nitrous acid, must give out
    1  7*6 parts of oxygen, or, according to the determination
    from the volumes of the gaseous component parts of the
     nitric acid, 17-393; the protoxide of lead, which               is formed
     (luring   the  process, is  not  sufficient  to  bring    all the  nitrous
     acid  to  the  same   digree  of saturation,    but   thereis   an  excess
    pf 5-74 parts of nitrous acid.          It   will be found        by   very
                                                                           a
     egsy calculatipn, that when nitrous acid becomes nitrous
     gas,  it  loses
                   a    fourth of its whole quantity of oxygen, and
     consequently that two parts of nitrous acid must                be decom
     posed    in  order  to form  the  protoxide    of   lead,  which    makes
     the subsalt with      one  part of the acid [considering the acid
                                            1

458                          On definite Proportions.
in  these salts as containing twice as much oxygen as the
base, G]      Of the remaining 5*74 parts of nitrous acid,
3*826 must therefore have been decomposed, and must have
afforded -805 of oxygen to the lead.    These, added to the
"  17*59" parts of oxygen before mentioned, give "18*375,"
which have been taken up by the lead dissolved ; but 18*375
parts of oxygen combine with 238 8 of lead. If now 305-87
parts of nitrate of the protoxide of lead dissolve 238*8 of
lead, 100 must dissolve 78; and we have seen that in these
experiments the formation of the subsubsalt began exactly
at (his point.
   Perhaps none of the indirect proofs of the true composi
tion of the nitric acid, and at the same time of ammonia
and nitrogen, is stronger than this.    For the observations
here adduced, even if they have no pretensions to the greatest
accuracy, cannot possibly be so erroneous, as to render the
formation of the subnitrite of the protoxide of lead compa
tible with any other idea of the composition and the capacity
of saturation of these two acids.
              2.   Neutral Nitrite of the Protoxide of Lead.
     I
     now wished also to be acquainted with the neutral ni
trite, and for this purpose I adopted the following process :
I mixed a saturated boiling solution of the subsalt with so
much sulphuric acid as was required in order to saturate half
of the protoxide contained in it: I found however that the
experiment must be made in a long-necked flask, for other
wise a part of the nitrous acid will escape in the form of gas..
I  obtained a saturated solution of a golden yellow colour,
which did not crystallize when cold ; and, when I attempted
to concentrate it by evaporation in a sand heat, was partly
decomposed, and afforded subnitrate of the protoxide.             I
therefore left a part of it to evaporate spontaneously ; and
by degrees a dark yellow salt was deposited from          in octa it,
hedral crystals.     The yellow salt thus obtained       consideris
ably more soluble in water than the neutral nitrate.        If              it   is
dissolved       water which has been boiled, and still remains
                   in
hot,     leaves
         it        small quantity of subnitrate, which has been
                        a
formed during the evaporation of the water: in water which
has not been boiled, this residuum       still more considerable.
                                              is
Since   the  salt cannot  be obtained  dry in     state of perfect
                                                        a
purity, we cannot expect its analysis to be completely ac
curate.
   Ten grammes of this salt were exposed to heat in small               a
glass retort.        melted, and in this state resembled the
                        It
muriate of    the protoxide of lead or of silver;    bad assumed
                                                            it
                                                               dark     a

                     On definite Proportions.                             459
a dark   brown colour, and frothed very much while it was
decomposed.      A part of the acid which escaped was in the
form of a gas ; another part was collected as a liquid in the
receiver: the salt contains therefore water of crystallization.
A melted protoxide remained in the retort, weighing seven
"grains" [grammes]. Without doubt this salt contains
at least twice as much acid in proportion to the base, as the
submtrite, and consequently the nitrous acid must saturate
in the neutral salt a quantity of the protoxide containing 4-
as much oxygen as the acid ; that       100 parts of the acid
                                           is,
must saturate 294-1 of the protoxide. This       the less ques
                                                         is
tionable, since the 100 parts of nitrous acid, considered as
composed of nitrogen and oxygen, contain three times as
much oxygen as the 294' parts of protoxide; so that both
                            1                                                   -
views of the subject are consistent with this result.    If now
the water of crystallization contains an equal quantity of
oxygen with the base, the composition of the neutral nitrite
of the protoxide of lead must be this        :
              Protoxide of lead    ..      70*375
              Nitrous acid                 23-925
              Water     ..                  5-700
   In the experiment, the salt left only 70 per cent, of the
protoxide: the slight difference of nearly -r-gVir probably de
pends on the gradual oxygenization of the nitrous acid
during the evaporation, whence the salt must contain                        a
smaller quantity of the base.
         3. Sulsubnilrite   of   ike Protoxide       of   Lead.
    The subsubnitrite of the protoxide of lead            salt but
                                                              is
                                                               is a
little soluble in cold water.     While the solution     cooling,
it  shoots into small crystalline scales of    dark brick colour.
                                                 a
The solution    isdecomposed      by exposure to the air, or by
mixture with unboiled water, and copiously deposits         white     a
powder. The dry salt may be kept in the air without alter
ation.   It  does not melt by heat, and at        temperature not
                                                     a
very high  it   may  be freed   from  all its w.tter, without the
extrication of any part of the acid   so that
                                       ;         seems to con
                                                     it
tain no water of crystallization.   When      ignited 10 gr. of
                                                 I
the subsoibsalt well dried, in   small glass retort,
                                 a                    obtainedI
only gaseous nitrous acid, and 8'9825 gr. of protoxide were
left behind: consequently this salt      thus composed:
                                            is
             Protoxide of lead .     . . Sy825
                                       .
             Nitrous acid                10-175
   We find on computation, that this quantity of nitrous
acid, considered as composed of nitrogen and oxygen, con
tains the same quantity of oxygen with the protoxide,
                                                                   agreeing

 460                  On definite Proportions.
 agreeing almost to the last places of decimals : and that the
 agreement no longer remains, if we take into account the
 oxygen of the nitrogen.        In two other experiments 1 ob
 tained 89'5 and 89 66 per cent, of the protoxide from this
 salt.
    We have here a new confirmation of the idea already
 suggested, that in the suhnitrates, in which the acid and the
 protoxide of lead contain equal quantities of oxygen, the
 nitrogen must be considered in the computation as a simple
 substance.     But when, on the other hand, the nitrous acid
 contains a quantity of oxygen which is a multiple of that
 which is contained in the base, the composition of the salt
 agrees only with the general law on the supposition that
 oxygen is Contained in the nitrogen. Respecting the cause       -
 of this singular circumstance I will not hazard a conjecture.
    If  we calculate the quantity of a base with which 100
 parts of nitrous acid are combined in the three salts here
 described, we find that in the subsalt they take up twice as
 much, and in the subsubsalt three times as much, of the
 protoxide, as in the neutral salt. But in the three combi
 nations of the nitric acid such a regular progression is not
 observable, fpr the quantities of the base combined with,
 100 parts of the acid are represented by 1, 2, and 4-75.
This irregularity can only depend on the compound nature
 of nitrogen, and appears therefore to be an additional proof
of that nature.
    Itis easy to see, that the formation of the subsalt takes
place at the expense of the nitrous acid.      I found by an ex
periment,     that nitrous  gas  was  disengaged in the process,
and in this gas I could find no perceptible trace of nitrogen.
According to the foregoing calculations, the nitrate of the
protoxide of lead, in being converted into subsubnitrite,
dissolves a weight of lead nearly equal to its own.       In one
of the experiments here related, 100 parts of nitrate of lead
had dissolved 116^- of lead; but the experiment was per
formed in a long-necked flask, in which a considerable por
tion of nitrous gas was united with the oxvgen of the air
that forced its way in, and returned into the flask in the
form of nitric acid.      This happens more particularly when
the   subsalt  has been  formed,   since then three parts of the
nitrous acid must be decomposed and converted into nitrous
gas, in order to change one part of the salt into a subsub
salt. This does not happen in an apparatus for distillation,
because in this case the newly formed acid collects in the
receiver; in which the water that is condensed is more or
less acid, for reasons that may easily be imagined, accord

                        On defimte Proportions.                             46!
ingly as the heat has kept up the boiling of the fluid more
or less equably.
  -
    If we boil. a weakly acid solution of nitrate of the prot
oxide of lead in an open vessel, with more lead, we obtain a
yellow solution, which deposits yellow crystals.        I thought
at first that this might be a double salt, containing two
acids, and therefore attempted to analyse it with accuracy ;
but I found that it did not remain always alike, that even
the same specimen was more or less yellow in different
parts, and that the portion last deposited contained the ni
trite in greater quantity than the rest. This salt was there
fore only a contemporary crystallizatioa of the two separate
 salts mixed together.       By powdering        it,
                                               and exposing      to         it
the air,   it loses gradually its yellow colour, and when dis
 solved in water         leaves some subnitrate behind.
                        it                                    If                 it
were really     adouble salt, in which the acids were combined
 each with half of the base,       ought to leave, after ignition,
                                       it
 68'9 per  cent.   of the  protoxide. But     obtained only from
                                                 T
 67-5 to 68'5 per cent., accordingly as examined the earlier
                                             I
 or the later crystallizations.
 I     must also mention another phsenomenon of the neutral
 nitrite    lead, which
           of                 probably exhibits in common with.
                             it
 the other nitrites.     Tf we concentrate    solution of this salt
                                                 a
 by  exposure to heat, the acid becomes more oxygenized                          ;
and since the newly-formed nitric acid then finds           the         in
salt  4-more of the base than    can saturate,
                                        it       of the newly-
                                                           §-
formed salt separate as    subnitrate, while
                              a                  remain in the
                                                           f
solution as neutral nitrate. When the liquid has acquired
                a
a certain degree of concentration, at temperature approach-
                                             a
ing to the boiling point, an effervescence takes place, nitrous
gas   is  discharged, and subnitrate and subsubnitrate       are
formed.
     The neutral nitrite may therefore be decomposed            two     in
ways.       Either the acid     more oxygenized, at the expense
                                  is
of the air, and mixture of -f-of subnitrate and of nitrate
                    a                                            .§-
is   formed or half of the ammonium of the acid
            ;                                           disengaged
                                                                is
 by    the heat, with as much oxygen as          necessary for the
                                                      is
formation of nitrous gas, and the remaining oxygen changes
the other half of the ammonium into nitric acid, so that T40-
of the weight of the nitrous acid escape as nitrous gas, while
-iS-j- are retained  as nitric acid, and form      mixture of
                                                       a          of         £
subnitrate and      J- of the subsubnitrate  of   the  protoxide of
lead.      The fluid remains, as long as         boiling, tolerably
                                                 it   is
clear; but when          cools, the subsalts are deposited.
                        it                                      The
same happens also when the solution           diluted with water.
                                                 is
The transformation of the nitrous into nitric acid,              dif   by
                                                                        a
                                                                            ferent

  46s                  On defimte Proporttonf*
  ferent distribution of tlie oxygen among different portion*
  of the radical, is common to this with the other imperfect
  acids.
                      4.  Other Nitrons Salts.
     I have attempted to prepare other nitrous salts by means
  of the nitrite of the protoxide of le.id, mixing it with various
  sulphates; but I have hitherto obtained little more than a
  conviction of the possibility of their being exhibited. When,
  for example, I mixed the sulphate of the oxide of copper
  with this nitrite, [ obtained a grass green solution, which
  when exposed to the air deposited by degrees subnitrate of
  the oxide of copper, and finally, after several weeks, became
  again blue.     The same happened still more rapidly when
  heat was applied.     I attempted to prepare this salt from the
 nitrate of the oxide of copper, by digesting it on copper j
  but I could not succeed in obtaining a nitrous salt, proba
 bly because the nitrous acid forms no such subsalt with the
.oxide of copper as with the protftxide of lead.
     Nitrite of ammonia, prepared in the same manner as the
 nitrite of the oxide of copper, is a colourless salt, which is
 decomposed at a temperature not verv high.           Between 40°
 and 50° [104° and 122°] the solution continually emits
 bubbles of pure nitrogen ; when heated to the boiling point,
 it froths very considerably, and the extrication of gas is
 more rapid ; and as long as the solution is not too much
 concentrated,     nothing but nitrogen gas is produced, and
 the salt remains in a neutral state.       I attempted to obtain
 it in a dry form, leaving the solution exposed in shallow
 dishes to a current of dry air; and I obtained a saline mass
 indistinctly crystallized, which resembled the nitrate of am
 monia. When melted in a small retort, it afforded much
 gas, and a quantity of water strongly impregnated with am
monia. The gas obtained was not reddened by oxygen, and
had all the properties of the nitrous oxide.
    These appearances are easy to be explained. The nitrous
 acid neutralises a quantity of the base, which contains ^ as
much oxygen as the acid.           The oxygen of the acid, ex
 clusive of that of the nitrogen, is then exactly sufficient to
change into water all the hydrogen which is produced du
ring the further oxidation of the ammonia, while the
nitrogen of the acid and that of the ammonia are disengaged
together in the form of gas.         The nitrite of ammonia is
therefore decomposed, when its solution is not too much
concentrated, into water and nitrogen, and perhaps this salt
affords the cheapest and most certain mode of obtaining ni
                                                           trogen

                      On definite Proportions.                    463
tragen gas in a state of perfect purity.        The acid and the
alkali afford equal quantities of nitrogen, but the alkali con
tains half as much more ammonium as the acid.                When
the dry salt is heated, and then produces, as we have seen,
very different substances, the process may be thus explained :
the nitrite of ammonia is decomposed on one hand, like the
 nitrite of the protoxide of lead, into nitrous gas, nitrate of
 ammonia, and uncombined ammonia, since this alkali
 affords no subsalt ; and on the other hand another part of
 the alkali is resolved into water and nitrogen ; and since
 the nitrous gas and the nitrogen are in contact at the instant
 of their formation, they unite, and constitute nitrous oxide;
 so that the products of this twofold decomposition          are ni
 trous oxide, water, uncombined ammonia, and nitrate of
 ammonia, which, being further decomposed, augments the
  quantity of the nitrous oxide and of the water.
      I believe that these experiments are sufficient in the first
  place to illustrate more fully the doctrine of the composition
  of the nitric acid ; and secondly, to show that the nitrous
  acid is a distinct acid, producing peculiar salts with different
  bases, and neutralising such a quantity of them as contains
 .J-  as much oxygen as itself.       Some modern chemists had
  been disposed to consider this acid as    a   compound of nitric
  acid with nitrous gas, which was destroyed            bythe com
  bination of the acid with       a base.  This opinion   was   how
  ever founded on experiments which          by  no means justified.
   the inference drawn from them.
       The knowledge of the nitrites   is  indispensable to the ex
   planation    of  some  appearances   which  the nitric acid exhi
   bits.It    is well known, for example, that diluted nitric acid,
   formed from concentrated colourless acid,           is
                                                       a  much less
   powerful solvent of many metals than that which           is made
    from the smoking acid.        Tf the smoking nitric acid were
    nothing more than    a   solution of nitrous gas   in nitric acid,
 it    would be inconceivable, how the nitrous gas could be so
    efficacious, as
                  it    cannot be decomposed      by the bodies to be
    dissolved.     Since however we know that the nitrous acid          is
  a    peculiar acid, which  is  more easily decomposed than the
    nitric, thereis    no longer any thing paradoxical in the su
     perior efficacy of the solvent made    by diluting the smoking
     acid.
                   [End of the Second Continuation.]
                                                       LXXV. Final

                             f   464    ]
      LXXV. Final Letter from Mr. William Jones               tid
          Dr. Wollaston'i Periscopic Spectacle Glass.
                          To  Mr. Tillock.
   Sir, — In    your Journal of last month, I observe that Dr.
   Wollaston has continued his effort to impress the minds or.
   your readers with a belief of his discovery of a new and
  'improved form of the spectacle glass, and with an intima
   tion that the eminent writers I quoted, as well as myself, did
  not rightly understand our old acquaintance the Meniscus,
   a lens drawn    from oblivion under his new appellation of
  Periscopic. This merits no reply from me. It certainly
  would be more than " superfluous" for him to make any
  answer to my former palpable refutation and exposure; and
  really, in commiseration for his unfortunate cause, his "si*
  lence" must be more agreeable to me than his contumacy.
      My dissatisfaction with him was not as an intruder merely
  presuming to recommend, but for first in a groundless man
  ner depreciating the double convex or best form of lens,
  advertising the old meniscus form as containing a newly
  discovered optical principle, and then by the name of a
  patent exacting a payment for a t;lass triple the price of the
  common superior or more perfect kind.         In respect to the
 authority   of a Mons. Biot's advertisement  in  a French news
 paper, which Dr. W. has imported and translated as a certi
 ficate to gratify the "best acquainted with the merits of the
 question;" in my opinion, instead of supporting his case, it
 both disgraces and injures it.
     Mons. Biot, no doubt, is a reputable astronomer, and
 an able mathematician; but as a skilful practical optician
 I cannot give him equal credit. He ingenuously states
 that he proposed a trial of the glasses convex without and
concave within to his friend Mons. Cauchoix, and requested
 his opinion on the subject.       The boasted and surprising
effects of a pair of these spectacles are afterw ards stated ;
and Mons. Biot, as a faithful friend to Dr. W., declares he
will never wear any others : but there afterwards pops out an
 " hiconvenience" of an appearance of " a variety of reflected
images leside t/ie principal object viewed, which occasioned
some    confusion."
     Mons. Cauchoix, however, happily hit upon       an expedient
to remove this inconvenience, by diminishing the destructive
concavity of the inner surface; or, in other words, to go
cautiously back towards the double convex form he had
vitiated. — So did Mr. Dollond's workmen : but unhappily
more; for, without waiting for a/tif, and regardless of post

               Observations on Periscopic Spectacles.           465
tive and negative attributes, they snatched up a plane tool
and with barbarous whirls annihilated periscopic.            Mon.
Cauchoix must not do so ; for he no doubt expects to get
some money by the lunettes a la bombee, as well as Dr. W.
for his a la periscopique.
   As I prefer amity to a difference with a French philoso
pher, I shall dispense with adverting to what I know to
be M. Biot's errors and illusion.       He must allow me one
remark, that         is,
                   that his countrymen should witness a per
fectly fair experiment of       comparison between the double
                                     a
convex and his adopted meniscus form of glasses, for me
niscus, periscopic, and bombee, are svnonymous terms.
   There will also be expected from him mathematical or
                                                   a
geometrical demonstration of the superiority of the form he
has pledged himself to; for Dr. W. on his part has not
been able to produce any mathematical demonstration what
ever.    But how           that Dr. W. for these seven years
                           is   it
past has not called to his aid some competent professor or
tutor from the umversity in which he has studied to be his
champion       interest
              of            he surely knows that there are se
                                ?
veral both at Cambridge and Oxford, quite able to decide
upon our trivial scientific question.           Is there no one
among his mathematical friends ^and constant attendants
at the honourable Society to which be is Secrstary) willing
to be an English evidence of his discovery and         awitness to
the surprising field     view gained        the meniscus
                                              by
                                                                Is
                                of                         ?    it
by   a foreigner only that the interest of his cause is to be
espoused maintained and propagated?             In my defence of
the double convex iens,        possess an indubitable authority
                                     I
among others of declarationa             by
                                      that late excellent optician
Dr. Maskeline, that Dr. W's form of lens of the meniscus
kind     the worst of all others for any optical purpose what
         is
soever    !
I    could adduce something still stronger and more conclu
sive ;  but, really, sir, am ashamed to trespass any further
                                 I
on the patience of your readers, and take up more pages of
your valuable Journal. Enough          already before the public,
                                         is
to produce      by
                 an easy experiment       full conviction of the
                                              a
.truth.   I   continue,
                            Sir,
                       Your respectful and obedient servant,
  HoH?orn,    Dec.    IS, 1813.                     Wm. JONES.
Vol.42. No. 188. Dec. 1813.                   Gg       LXXVI.   Re-

                               [    463     ]
  LXXVI.       Researches into the Anatomy of Plants.                   By
        H.   F. Link, of Breslau, formerly of Rostock.
                       [Concluded    from p. 392.]
3. The tracheae are wanting in several plants. T have not
found them in the genera Lemna, Zostera, C/iara, Naias,
Cerutophyllum of the family of the Naiades. We might se
parate these genera from the other plants of this family which
are furnished with them. I have found them, although small,
in the genera Hippuris, Myriophyllum, Potamogeton, Rup-
pia, Zanichellia, Callitriche.           I have not had an opportu
nity of examining the species of the genera Saururus and
Aponogeton in this respect.            The tracheae are wanting in
all the mosses, in the lichens, the algae, and the mushrooms.
It  is not possible that so many plants can be deprived of
the vessels which contain the nourishing sap.                   There are
besides, many large trees        which    grow very fast,    such   are the
firs, the cypress, and the juniper, the tracheae of which are
so small that several authors have denied their existence in
all these trees.    I have seen some, however, particularly in
the young shoots, but so small that they were hardly percep
tible with the best microscopes.             It seems to me littte pro
bable that trees    of  such  a   size  have their nutritive vessels so
 •mall, while plants much smaller contain some of a consi
derable diameter.        The fibrous vessels, on the contrary, are
found in almost all plants, and are only wanting in some
lichens, some algae, and some champignons, in general in
very small plants, and perhaps they exist in these vegetables,
but so' minute that the observer cannot discover them.                   In
the mosses they      are  very distinct : in almost      all   the lichens
 we see twisted fibres, forming a kind of tuft or bur in the
middle of the plant : in iheFuci the fibres are twisted in the
 tame manner, but they are of a gelatinous substance : in
 most mushrooms we see them very distinctly.                  It was only
 in the crustaceous Lichens, the Confervae of Linnaeus, and
 the smallest sized Champignons, that 1 could not find them.
     4. It is not to be presumed that the sap can move through
 the cellular texture ; the partitions would prevent this mo
 tion, which must be very rapid.               Supposing that there are
 pores,   as  M.   Mi.rbel   thinks,     these    pores must be much
 smaller than the orifices of the fibres, and the flowing of the
 sap by these pores must take place very slowly.                Finally, if
 we peel   off  the  bark  of   a  tree,  the   pith of which    is dry, it
 will still vegetate a long time, although there remains but
                                                                       very-

             Researches into the Anatomy     of Plants.      467
vefy little cellular texture dispersed in the wood and in a
compressed state.
   5. The sap cannot ascend in the interval between the
bark and the wood.      I have seen branches issue where this
interval did not as yet exist, and where the bark was strongly
adherent to the wood.       We may strip off a ring of bark all
round   a  branch so as completely to interrupt this interval,
and the branch continues to vegetate and to push out other
branches.     Neither can the sap ascend in the intervals be
tween the fibres, for the^e intervals are extremely small;
smaller than the diameter of the fibres; or rather these in
tervals do not exist, because these fibres are pressed against
each other.
   It is true that coloured liquids, such as tincture of turn
sole, f'ernambouc, &c. are attracted by the tracheae, and
cannot penetrate into the-fiBres.      But the experiment never
succeeds if the branches are not cut, in which case the liquor
may ascend into the trachese, as in capillary tubes.             I
never saw the trachese tinged when I allowed seeds to ger
minate in these liquors, or when I infused plants, the roots
of .which were not at all injured. It is known besides that
the colour of all these tinctures is only visible when we look
at an extended surface : this is the reason why we do not
observe the tincture in the narrow fibres, although it enters
into them, and we see it very well in tracheae, whose dia
meter is greater.
   The fibres, therefore, which I shall call fibrous vessels,
carry the sap wherever it is wanted throughout the plant.
We may prove this theory by a multiplicity of experiments
and observations.     When we insert the end of a cut branch
in water, it pushes out other branches under the same spot.
Succulent plants continue to vegetate when we have cut
their roots ; they flourish frequently in this state, but as
soon as they produce fresh leaves and flowers the old ones
wither and fall off.     It is therefore clear that the sap from
one part is re-absorbed to furnish some to others : one part
serves to nourish the others.     The same thing happens with,
bulbs   when suspended from the cieling; the plant is de-
velopped and flourishes ; but at the same time the bulb
disappears, because it has given up the sap which it con
tained to the stalk to develop and nourish it. This is the
reason why the stipulse are formed before the leaves, and
the leaves before the branches, which are generally found in
the axil Iae of the leaves : it is for the same reason that so
many foliaceous parts issue before the parts of generation.
and of fructification, and that the latter do not attain per-
                               Gg2                        fectior*

468        Researches into the Anatomy          of Plants.
fection when we strip off the leaves.    It is necessary that
the sap should be prepared in these parts, and be reabsorbed
in order to furnish it to other parts more perfect. This-
theory clearly explains many phsenomena which we observe
in plants.
   I do not think that the fibrous vessels derive their nourish
ment directly from the earth. In the hairy part of the roots,
i have not seen them penetrate to the end : we observe on
the contrary, very distinct papillae, formed by the cellular
texture at the extremity of all the roots.         It appears to me,
that these papillae (as Sprengel has suggested) are filled with
the nutritive liquor from the soil ; that the vessels suck it
up and distribute it through the plant.         The fibrous vessels
serve to form the communication between the parts, or
rather between the cellular texture of the parts. This theory
is confirmed by what 1 have observed of succulent plants
and bulbs, where the vessels take up the sap from the cel
lular texture of the leaves in order to carry              to the parts
                                                              it'
which are to be developped.
    The function of the cellular texture           doubtless to pre
                                                    is
pare   and preserve   the   sap.    Succulent    leaves,    bulbs, and
the tubercles of roots, consist almost entirely of cellular
texture.    The cotyledons destined to nourish the embryo
are formed of it: on this account the pith             green and suc
                                                         is
culent in the young branches, which continue to shoot forth,
and dry in the old branches which have ceased to grow, or
which grow more slowly.
    A fibrous vessel does not run through the whole plant
 according to its length     ;   itnot probable that
                                      is                    can extend
                                                               it
from the root to the top of           palm tree.
                                           a          In packet of  a
 fibres, some finish, others commence,             according to ap*-
 pearances, in  a  very irregular way.      The fibres coming from
 the branches fasten upon the fibres of the wood, as              have  I
 proved   by several experiments.       cutI holes  in    large
                                                              a branch
 of tree through the bark and wood dow;n to the pith
      a                                                                      :
 these holes were arranged in          spiral line, one upon the
                                           a
 other, so that no vessel could pass           by
                                               these places without
 being cut. Notwithstanding these wounds, the branch
 continued to vegetate, like the branches which                   bore, it
 until winter, when     it  finally perished.     The   same    wounds
 made in  a  young branch, or in the branch of the same year,
 immediately caused the death of all the part above the
 wounds. These experiments frequentlv repeated, and upon
 several trees, always gave the same result          :   the branches
                                                          in
 of the same year, however large they were, they caused
 death: in the branches of former years they caused no
                                                            remarkable

               Researches into the Anatomy       of Plants.       469
  remarkable accident to the tree         until winter. It   appeared
  that the vessels of one branch of the same year extend, at
  least in general, from the base to the extremity, but that
  the vessels of the branches of different years are fastened to
  each other, and they do not all pass without interruption
  from one branch to the other.
      It is very probable that the sap contained in the vessels,
  as well as in the cellules, passes easily by the pores of the
  membranes in order to pass into other vessels, or into other
  cellules.    It is possible that we may see these pores in some
  plants, but it is certain that we do not see them often, and
  that they are imperceptible like the pores of the membranes
  in animals.      I am of opinion that a relaxation of the mem
  branes produces the flowing of the fluids, while a constric
  tion hinders it. The flowing of the sap, when we slightly
  press the calyx of the lettuce, proves this theory.             Thp
  fibres are rarely dry in the living plant, being always
  moistened with an aqueous fluid. The sap passes therefore
  from one cellule into the other; it passes from the vessels
  into the cellules immediately by the membranes; it flows
  into the intervals of the fibrous vessels, from which other
  vessels reabsorb and carry it further.         Such is the circula
   tion of the sap in plants, if we may use this expression in
   order to indicate the simple manner in which the fluids are
   distributed in plants.       We might call it transvasation , be
  cause the sap is conducted by the vessels every where, and
  because it penetrates the membranes wherever vegetable or
   ganization requires it. The vegetable kingdom, intermediate
   between unorganized          bodies and inanimate bodies and
   animals, shows this simplicity in all the functions of the
   plant.
                          III.   The Tracheje.
      The following are the varieties of these organs:
*      1. Vessels with a free spiral.      They consist of a lamina
   turned spirally which is easily unfolded.          This lamina is
   sometimes composed of several others ; I have counted
   seven.    These vessels represent a straight tube with obscure
   transverse lines, whichr run through the vessels without in
   terruption.      PI. II. fig. 1. is a vessel of this kind unfolded
   at the end, taken from the Cucurbita Pepo: fig. 2. a la
   mina of a spiral vessel, composed of three other laminae
   from the same plant ; I have frequently seen the transverse
   lines divide and pass from one line to the other as observed
    in fig. 3. in a vessel of the same plant.
                                G g 3.                      3. Vessels

470        Researches into the Anatomy       oj Plants.
     2. Vessels with a fixed spiral.      These vessels in the ap-
            resemble the above, bin they cannot be unfolded,
   n the grasses and roots they are frequent.
 ?earance
     3. False trachece.      The transverse lines, which traverse
 the vessels are very much interrupted.            Frequentlv these
 transverse lines are a little undulated: the false trachea,
 PI. II. fig. 4. is taken from the Cucurlita Pepo.
     4. Porous tubes.      The tube is studded with small dark
 points, as we see in fig. 5. PI. II. in a vessel taken from
 the cucurlita pepo.       In the sassafras wood we find porous
 tubes, the dark points of which completely resemble the
 pores, fig. 7.
     5. VesseU with false partitions.        All the above vessels
 are sometimes marked with obscure lines which seem to be
 partitions.    PI. II. fig. 5. exhibits these vessels taken from
 the stalk of abalsamine.        These are not real partitions, for
 I  have seen tincture of fernambouc fill the whole of the
 vessel.   This is rather a derangement of the vessels as we
 see in fig. 5. letter a.
    6. Vessels like a string of beads.      The false tracheae or
 porous tubes sometimes exhibit narrow parts, which almost
 separate them at various parts.       PI. II. fig. 8. exhibits this
 kind of vessel taken from the root of the Symphytum offi-
 cinale.
     7. Vessels with false cellules. The false partitions some
times increase to such a degree, that the vessels resemble a
 cellular texture, studded with pores.         I have seen these
vessels very often in the old stalks of the balsamine, and         I
have exhibited a piece in fig. Q.
    8. Annular vessels.       These consist of several rings sepa
rated from each other.         These vessels are frequently at the   -
same time vessels with fixed spirals, and the rings appear
to be merely the residue of the turns of the spiral lamina.
Fig. 10. is a vessel of this kind taken from the Veltheimia
 Quinetmis.
    All these vessels certainly belong to the same class of
organs, and they probably perforin the same functions.
We may prove this theory several ways. 1st. These vessels
are nearly of the same size in a plant; if the spiral vessels
are large, so are the false trachea:, and vice versa.        2d. If
the spiral vessels are wanting, all the rest of this class are
also wanting, as is the case with the mosses, the naiades,
the algae, &.c      On the contrary, the ferns which are pro
vided with spiral vessels have also false tracheae, porous
         &c. 3d. We see vessels which are at one extremity
tubes^

              Besearches into the dnatomy  of Plants.       471
spiral vessels, and at the other false tracheae or porous
 tubes : the false partitions are formed in every kind of
vessels.
    By a series of experiments I think I have ascertained that
 the spiral vessels gradually pass through all the other grada
tions of false tracheae, &c.
    With respect to the obscure transverse lines or dark
points in the false tracheae or porous tubes, most botanists
thought that they were caused by eminences (courrelets)
distributed over the surface of the vessels, and which had
 a hole in the centre.      The sassafras wood in fig. 7 seems
to support this opinion : but I have been convinced that it
is erroneous by examination with the microscope.
    What is the function therefore of all these vessels ?
They cannot be the sap vessels, for coloured liquids do not
enter into them until they are cut, and form open capillary
Inbes.      I have said that they were always empty.. With
their original discoverers, therefore, we must call them tra-
chece, and I think they contain the air necessary for the
preparation of the sap.        The analogy between plants and
animals teaches us that this idea is correct, in the latter the
blood vessels are accompanied by receptacles for air.
  IV. Vessels proper, Reservoirs of the               Sap, and
                             Lacunae.
    The vessels proper are simple, straight, cylindrical, a
little larger than the fibrous vessels, rarely solitary, being
generally in bundles or fasciculi.       They contain a milky
white, green, yellow, red, or aqueous juice.           They are
easily known if they contain a coloured juice, but it is only
by analogy that we can discover if they contain a green or
aqueous juice.
    The following are the varieties :
    1st. The vessels proper in fasciculi run through the cellu
lar texture, the bark, and sometimes the pith; we find none
in the wood. Asclepiades.
    2d. They accompany the fibrous vessels and the tracheae
in the stalk, but in the root they run through the bark.
Euphorbiaceae, Papavcraceae, Umbelliferae.
    3d. They surround the fasciculi of wood dispersed in the
stalk, but in the root they adhere to the bark. Composite.
    4th. They form a layer almost without interruption
under the bark of the stalk : in the root they follow the same
direction. Ficus.
    All  these organs merit the appellation of vessels, because
they consist of     a proper membrane, but there are other
                             Gg4                         organs

 472         Researches into the Anatomy    of Plants.
 organs which resemble them much externally, although
 they are merely a longitudinal excavation in the form of a
 vessel, made in the cellular texture or in the wood of the
 plant. Such are the vessels proper of several of the Coni-
ftrce which run through the bark, and also the wood of
 these trees.     We even find them in the wood of the same
 year : it is clear therefore that they prove nothing for the
 change of the bark into wood.        The vessels proper of the
 Rhus and of the Scninos belong to this class. As the name
 of vessels does not exactly suit them, I would call them re
 servoirs proper of the sap.
    The sap certainly passes by the membranes of the fibrous
 vessels, or by the partitions of the cellular texture in order
 to reach the vessels and reservoirs proper of the sap.     It is
 a continual filtration which changes and prepares the sap.
 The secretion takes place in the plant in the simplest man
 ner, the slackening and constriction of the membranes. are
 the means resorted to by nature to produce these changes.
 The air of the tracheae contributes to them by oxidation
 or de-oxidation, and perhaps the organs of the plant are
 galvanic machines, similar to the electrical organs of some
 fishes, which seem to be composed of nothing but cellules
 placed by the side of each other.
    There are excavations in the plants which are empty or
 rather filled with air.    Mirbel calls them Lacunce ; a very
 correct expression,     because they are generally the conse
 quence of age. The differences in these Lacuna: may be
 reduced to the following classes.
     1 . Irregular Lacunce. - They are to be found in the heart
 of the leaves ; the receptacles of fruits and some other parts
 which contain abundance of cellular texture.
    2. Fistulous Lacunce. They occupy the middle of the
 stalk, the branches, the petiolse and the peduncles ; they
 are formed by age.
    3. Regular Lacunce. In some aquatic plants, the cellules
 in the middle of the stalks are separated from each other,
 and arranged in a regular and sometimes very elegant
 manner. The stalks of the Scirpus paluslris, S. maritimus,
 and of the Sparganium crectum exhibit examples of this.
    4. Cellular Lacunce. When the stalk of some aquatic
 plants (as the Sparganium erec turn) is cut, large cellules
 are visible to the naked eye.
    The Lacunae supply the place of the tracheae, and carry
 the air where it is wanted.       They are not accidental, but
 necessary organs    of vegetation.
                                                      Y* Pores

             Researches into the Anatomy    of Plants.        473
V. Pores of the Epidermis,      the Glandules, and the Down     of
                              Plants.
     The pores of the epidermis are formed by a small slit,
sometimes open and sometimes close.
     1. These pores exist in all the phanerogamous         plants,
except the Naiades which are almost entirely under water.
     2. They are wanting in the cryptogamia, the ferns ex
cepted, and the apophysis of the capsules in the mosses.
     3. The roots of plants never have any.
     4. They are found in the young and green stalks, when
not under water.
     5. The leaves are generally furnished with them, sometimes
 on the lower side, and sometimes on both. The leaves of
 the aquatics which float on the water, have pores on the
 upper and none on the lower surface.
     6. The bractese are furnished with them, particularly
 those which are green: they are wanting in the dry which
 arc called scarious bractece.
      7. The external coat of the calyx has them.
     8. The parts of the flower called the corolla, and which
 M. Jussieu reckons among the caliccs, have them very fre
 quently which proves their analogy.
      9. The corolla, the stamina, and the pistils almost al
 ways want them.        Some very large corollae only, for in
 stance, those of the Slapelia, have them.
      10. The fruit has them when it is green, in the state of
 maturity it never has.
      1 shall add a fact,   which appears to me to be new.         I
  have seen in some grasses two kinds of pores united at the
  game part of a different size.    In the epidermis of the' leaves
  of rye represented in PI. II. fig.   II. we see very large pores
  at a, and very small ones at b.       I could wish this experi
  ment to be repeated, for the pores at b are so small that I .
  may have been mistaken.
      Some naturalists are of opinion that the organs serve the
  purpose of evaporation while others regard them as adapted
  to attract humidity.     I am of the former opinion for the
  latter is not warranted by my experiments.        ,
       I am convinced that the pores serve the purposes of Se
  cretion, or rather of excretion to the plant. A dark-co
  loured foreign matter frequently fills up the crevices of these
  organs.     In the pines for instance, it looks like small round
  worms; but when the leaves are dipped in boiling water the
  pores immediately become distinct.
   i
      The glandules have similar functions to perform. Their
                                                          structure

    474            Researches into the Anatomy     of Plants.
    Structure is well known to every botanist, and as no vessels
    enter them, secretion and excretion must be performed by
    filtration.
        The hairs or down      are always well known.    From some of
   them oozes a viscous or resinous liquor, and there are others
   (those in the roots for instance) which seem destined to
   suck up moisture.
                     VI.   The Structure of the Stalk.
       The following are the varieties in the structure of the
   stalk of several families of plants :
        1. The stalk consists entirely of parenchyme          in which
   we find scattered pieces of wood : there is therefore no
   bark or pith.        Gramina, Cyperacese.
       I denominale parenchyme every kind of cellular, and I
  call wood a mixture of fibrous vessels and of sap.
       2. A layer of parenchyme forms the external bark, a layer
  of fibrous vessels the interior.           The rest of the stalk is
  composed of parenchyme, in which the parcels of wood
  are dispersed.         There is a bark therefore, but no pith.
  Liliaceae, Cucurbitacea.
       3. The external bark is formed by the parenchyme, the
  internal bark by the fibrous vessels, and the texture of soft
  wood : a layer of wood surrounds the pith.             Most of the
  dicolyledontal plants.
      4. As in No, 3, but in the pith there are scattered pieces
 of wood.
      5. Bark internal and external : the rest of the stalk com
 posed of parenchyme, the middle of which is occupied by a
 piece     of wood.       Some Naiades     and other aquatic    plants.
 Ferns.
      In order    to comprehend       thoroughlv the structure of the
 stalk     we  must   trace  its growth. In PI. II. fig. 12. we see
 a piece of a young branch            of the Platanus orientalis, cut
 transversely.        The interior is composed of parenchyme in
 which we find a circle of packets of wood separated from.
each other.         The bark, letter a, is still in a free communi-
tion      with  the  pith d, by the intervals between the pieces of
 wood, letter e. The pieces of wood consist as usual of
fibrous vessels, letter b, and of tracheae, letter c.           When
we cut the same branch lengthways, we see all the pans
more distinctly.          In fig. 14, the bark is represented at a,
the vessels are exhibited at b, the tracheae at c, and the pith
occupies the middle at d.            The woody pieces are very large,
they consist of fibrous vessels at b, mixed with false tracheae
or porous tubes at c*, the tracheae are at c. By their swel
ling they have compressed the parenchyme which separated
                                                                them,

             Researches   into the Anatomy    of Plants:        47 5
them,   and have left obscure lines at e, which form what
may    be   called the radii of the wood, and which Grew
called medullary insertions. Some authors have attributed
essential functions to these insertions : we see clearly that
here, they are merely compressed parenchyme.
   In order still better to elucidate all these parts,   I cut the
same branch lengthways along the woody parcels.                 We
then see (fig. 15, letter a,) the fibrous vessels of the wood
at b, and the false tracheae or porous tubes at c*.          I then
made another section.         I cut the branch of the half of the
wood to the pith by an obscure line lengthways.             In this
way I most distictlv saw the compressed parenchvme, fig.
 16, letter e : the tracheae at c and the pith at d.       Finally,
I made a third section ; I removed a piece of the surface of
the wood jn order to see the parenchyme, PI. I. fig. 13,
letter b, which is insinuated between the fibrous vessels,
letter a.
   Such is the structure of the stalk in almost all the dico-
tyledontal plants.       The stalk contains parcels of wood ar
ranged    in a  circle, these  approach each other in growing,
they form an entire layer, they compress the parenchyme
which separated them, in this way they form the radii
which we see on cutting the wood horizontally.
    It might be supposed that the parcels of tracheae, fig. 12,
letter c, are pushed towards the middle, fig. 13, letter c, by
the increase of the packets of wood.            But the pith is di
minished by the growth of the stalk without undergoing
any compression,        which must take place, if the tracheae
were pushed towards the pith.          The cellules of the pith are
larger in old than in young stalks.        It is probable therefore
that new parcels of tracheae surrounded by fibrous vessels,
are formed in the parenchyme of the pith, and that they
have compressed the latter towards the sides, without ex
ercising a pressure towards the centre; and consequently,
that the tracheae have been changed into false tracheae, or
into porous tubes.
    We know that the bark is separated from the wood, at
the commencement of summer, and that it remains attached
 to it during the rest of the vear.         This separation takes
place in the wood itself, PI. II. fig. 13, letter     f, where we
see the first porous tubes.       It does not take place in herb*
or in young branches.          When- we separate the bark in the
latter, we only take off the layer of parenchyme which
forms the external bark. It is certain the tracheae or porous
 tubes contribute to this separation; because we do not find
 any in the internal bark which is composed of fibrous ves
                                                                 sels

 470                  On Galvanic Electricity,
 sels   and texture of white wood, and we find it on the
 surface of the wood.      But this is all I can venture to say.
     It is certain that the annual growth of the wood takes
 place chiefly in the external layers; but it is not probable
 that a single layer is formed annually, between the bark and
 the wood.       This is proved by the radii which pass from
 one stratum to the other without the least interruption.        I
 have examined branches of the preceding year almost daily,
 but I never found a line of separation in the wood before
 Easter. After this season, I perceived suddenly in the
 month of July, the line which separated, a new and thick
 layer.      This observation proves that the layer is not
 formed so regularly as generally supposed.         I am of opi
 nion, that the line of separation is produced by a contrac
 tion of the interior wood, a shrinking which renders the
 interior more compact, and which separates it a little from
 the external layer without detaching it entirely. We may
 therefore say, that every year a new layer is formed, but the
 growth does not take place in layers. The growth does
 not differ from that of the monocotyledontal plants : it
 takes place wherever the parts are still soft and tender: a
 vessel is developed among the rest, as a cellule is formed
 among other cellules. All organized bodies increase in
 this manner: the development of new organs always takes
 place in the intervals of those which are already formed.
    I  shall treat in a subsequent memoir, of the growth and
origin of the other parts of the plant,        I have discovered
many things which strike me as being remarkable, but thejj
 require still further observation.
                LXXVII.     On Galvanic Electricity.
                          To Mr.  Tilloch.
Sir, Every         admirer of chemical philosophy must have
felt himself much interested, by the communication of Mr.
Walker, in the last number of the Philosophical Magazine.
I assure you that I was exceedingly so, and I hope it will
not be thought, that in making the following observations,
I at all detract from his praise. They certainly corroborate
his opinion.
    It is now seven or eight years since I attended Dr. Wol-
laston's Chemical Lectures at Cambridge, but it will be im
possible for me ever to forget the last that I heard him de
                                                            liver,

                            On Galvanic Electricity*                            47?
liver, on Galvanic Electricity.       Although but a novice at
that time in the study of chemistry, I was much struck by
an opinion which he advanced : and, in my pursuit of that de
lightful science, have had frequent and abundant reason toad-
mire the sagacity which the doctor displayed on that occasion.
His hypothesis was no other than that which Mr. Walker
has so clearly stated in the paper alluded to, but with this
important addition ; that the ponderable base of both oxy
 gen and hydrogen, is water.        Dr. Wollaston exhibited the
ignition ot charcoal by means of the calvanic battery, and
deduced from it the simple, and, 1 think, incontrovertible
conclusion, that the two substances, commonly denomi
nated positive and negative electricity, are, as Mr. Walker
has asserted, the elements of combustion.          On this princi
ple,  he afterwards  explained    the formation   of water, by the
combustion of oxygen and hydrogen gases. Their positive
and negative electricity unite, and form an immense quan
tity of caloric, which is disengaged ; and the base, i. e. the
%vater of each of the gases,     is precipitated. —That this, or
something very nearly resembling                      it,
                                                  the true theory,
                                                            is
there can     think be but little doubt.
               I                                might be corrobo
                                                        It
rated       the statements of -many chemical phaenomena,
             by
which certainly derive considerable light from this subject*.
I shall however leave them to the much abler pen of Mr.
Walker, and merely bring forward one argument             support      in
of it. This argument will perhaps be thought little ex                a
traordinary      some of your readers, but as
                    by                            have the hap    1
piness  of living in Christian country and ant also writing
                                a
to Christians,      should hope that
                        I                will not be altogether
                                                 it
unacceptable.      Every thing that can add confirmation to
the authenticity of theScriptures       assuredly desirable; nor
                                                is
can science be more nobly employed than in the service of
religion.       will readily be perceived that Dr. Wollaston's
                  It
theory     founded
             is       on the supposition that water        simple      is   a
substance, or as      has been denominated from time imme
                            it
morial, an element. Now this, think, may be clearly esta
                                           I
blished from the Mosaic account of the creation.           In the
second verse of the first chapter of Genesis, we meet with
the words Sinn and cron the former of which alludes to
.     *
     It    will explain the small quantity of light which liberated during the
                                                                 is
    combustion of oxygen and hydrogen, notwithstanding the intensity of the
    heat.   It will also explain the generation of heit by friction.  Itwill account
    for the formation of water in respiration   ;   and for the immense quantities
    that are precipitated in thunder storms, and at times, when the atmosphere
    was previously in state of extreme dryness.
                        a                             Will   not also throw light on
                                                            it
    the radiation of cold   ? and, in short, on altmost every abstruse and difficult
    point, as well in  natural as chemical philosophy ?

 478                    On Galvanic Electricity.
   the chaotic mass in general, the latter to the waters in par
   ticular; and these are plainly represented as the materials
  out of which the world was to be formed ; the crude and
  undigested matter, the simple and elementary substances
  which were afterwards to be subjected to general laws and
  combined in the various modes which nature now exhibits.
  We accordingly read in the next verse, of the creation of
  light, or as it might more philosophically be translated ca
  loric, for the word 11k is derived from the root *i« which
  signifies to floiv, and is applied to light en account of its
  extremely subtile and apparently fluid nature ; but how much
  more applicable is it to caloric, the cause of all fluidity.      In
  conformity with this interpretation we find that in the book
  of Job (the most ancient probably in existence,) the same
  word is used to signify lightning ; and in the second verse
  of the fifth chapter of Ezekiel, it is translated by the English
 word fire. The Greek word $cof also, by which it is render
 ed in the Septuagint, frequently means fire ; and of this we
 have a striking instance in the 54th ver. of the ]4th chap. of
 St. Mark, where it is said of Peter that he stood SHppuivofis-
 mos TrposTO tfiu;,
                   "   warming himself at the fire." It is there
 fore plain that the Hebrew word Tin, and the Greek transla
 tion of it <poo{, mean fire as well as light.      If  then in con
formity with the Mosaic account,            we   suppose caloric to
 have been the first created substance, (I mean after the
 formation of the chaotic or elementary mass and of water
 which was a part of
                          it,
                          it     may easily be understood how all
 the various bodies in nature, would instantly assume their
 own proper forms, as      I    have endeavoured to prove,        by
                                                                   an
enlargement of Dr. Higgins's theory,               paper which Mr.
                                            in in
                                               a
Nicholson was so good as to publish               the I42d number
of the Philosophical Journal.          It   would be easy to go
through the whole work of the remaining days of the cre
ation in  a   similar manner, and to demonstrate that             it   is
consonant with the most recent and approved discoveries
in chemical and natural philosophy. — ought perhaps to
                                            I
apologize for this new application of chemistry, but          I hope
that its importance will be deemed sufficient.           It certainly
is   highly interesting, and    a   coincidence    few would have
expected.     It    should  indeed  never  be  forgotten, that the
God of Nature      is  also the God of  Revelation,   and that what
he has revealed cannot be inconsistent with what he has
performed.
                   I    am, sir, your constant reader,
                                                         L. O. C.

                        Royal Society.                             47S
    P. S.— It   is now about a year since your correspondent
Mr.Kirby    attacked an ceconomical lamp which I invented, and
an account of which was published in Nicholson's Journal,
I may take this opportunity of observing, that the reason
of Mr. Kirby's ill success was in a great measure owing to
the distance at which he placed the water to be heated
above the chimney of the lamp.         The directions given in
my paper, were to place it as near as possible without
causing it to smoke.      From subsequent experiments, I am
inclined to think that the principal advantage of the ceco
nomical lamp consists in the shortness of the glass, and
the small diameter of the central aperture.        The Argand
lamp would be much improved for chemical purposes, by
having a shorter glass, and by making the hole of an oval
form or otherwise preventing the access of so much cold
air as constantly flows through   it,  without ever coming in
contact with the flame  :   if  possible  itshould decompose
 the whole of the oxygen that passes through it.' My ex
periments were often repeated, and certainly correct.      mayI
 add,I  have since learnt that Count Rumford has discovered
 that several small wicks placed nearly in contact with each
 other, produce a   greater heat than the same quantity of oil
 and cotton in any other construction.
       LXXVIII.     Proceedings   of    Learned Societies.
                      KOYAL SOCIETY.
   Nov. 25. The Right Hon. President           the chair. The
                                               in
Bakerian Lecture on, some Electro-chemical Phenomena,
by W.T. Brande, Esq. F. R.S. was read. Mr. B. directed
his attention chiefly to the illustration of some apparently
anomalous facts respecting the law that oxygen             at  is
tracted   bythe positive, and carbon     the negative pole of
                                          by
a galvanic battery. This opinion, having been proposed               by
Sir H.Davy, and Dr. Wollaston, Mr.B. wished to esta
blish more generally    by an appeal to facts   he began
                                                 ;                   by
making    some  experiments, proving the identity of galva
nism and electricity, and then proceeded to place        largea
burning candle between the poles of       Voltaic battery;
                                           a                         if
the wick were large and much carbon emitted, the flame
was strongly attracted towards the negative pole        small
                                                          ;   if
the attraction was less powerful.      A piece of inflamed
phosphorus,    on the contrary, was attracted     the positive
                                                     by
pole. The author also burned benzoin and several other
                                                       resins,

 480                     Royal Society.
 resins, all of which evinced the same appearances, and
 obeyed the general law.
    Nov. 30. St. Andrew's day being the anniversary of the
 Society, the members met and proceeded to the election of a
 President and Council for the ensuing year, when the fol
 lowing members were chosen.
                  Council for the year 1813.
 Right Honourable Sir Joseph The Right Hon. the Earl of
    Banks, Bart. K. B. Pre         Morton.
    sident.                      *Thomas   Murdoch, Esq.
 Sir Charles Blagden, Knt.       John Pond, Esq.
Samuel Goodenough, Lord          *Edward Rudge, Esq.
    Bishop of Carlisle, V. P.    *Sir George Thomas Staun
 Taylor Combe, Esq. Sec.           ton, Bart.
 •Astley Cooper, Esq.            Smithson Tennant, Esq.
•George Bellas Greenough,        Rev. William Tooke.
   Esq.                          •William Charles Wells,
•Thomas Harrison, Esq.             M.D.
Samuel Lysons, Esq. Trea         *Giffin Wilson, Esq.
    surer.                       William Hyde Wollaston,
•The Right. Hon. the Earl          M. D. Sec.
   of Mansfield.                 Thomas     Young, M. D.
<U+2666>Francis Maseres, Esq.             Foreign Sec.
   Those marked thus * were not of the Council last year.
   The Council having adjudged the Copleyan medal to
Mr. Brande, for his various papers inserted in the Transac
tions of the Society, the President then delivered it to him
with an eloquent address, in which he took a philosophi
cal and critical review of Mr. Brande's labours, admo
nished him fervently to persevere in his glorious career,
and predicted his attaining the highest eminence in Science.
Sir Joseph, with his usual acuteness and correct knowledge
of men and things, having anticipated the success of this
young chemist, felt himself disposed to encourage his ar
                              -
dour, praise his talents, and exhibit a popular view of the
result of his researches.    The right Hon. President then
noticed Mr. B.'s experiments developing the difference be
tween the various species of urinary calculi ; his experi
ments on the blood, proving that its red colour is not de
rived from iron as commonly supposed, that its serum
contains no gelatine, and his ingenious analysis of the
colouring matter of this vital fluid ; his discovering of the
use of magnesia in calculous diseases, and the effects of acids
and alkalies in such cases ; and his experiments       proving
that alcohol is a product of fermentation and not of distil
                                                        lation.

                           Royal Society.                     481
I.ition.   His first paper on this subject, observed the learned
President "was perfectly satisfactory to men of science ;
but some men of letters having expressed doubts, his se
cond entirely removed them."         Sir Joseph concluded his
elogy by recommending the labours of the Society for im
proving animal chemistry, of which Mr. B. is a member,
and which considering itself a young protegee of the Royal
Society, had furnished the transactions of the latter with
many valuable papers in a department of science almost
entirely new.
    Dec. 9. The Society assembled after the anniversary, and
the minutes of the former meeting were read, detailing the
election of officers, the names of newly elected or deceased
members, &c.
    Dec. 16 and 23. The President in the chair. A long se
ries of experiments on some affections of light was read, in
 a letter from Dr. D. Brewster to Sir Humphry Davy. Dr. B.
in continuation of his experiments on light, and the refrac
 tive powers of different substances, details the result of his
 observations on what he called    " hammer agate," in a plate
 the 1 lOOdth part of an inch in thickness. The experiments
 were extremely minute and numerous, and his observations
 on the polarization and depolarization of light could not
 be rendered intelligible in an abstract of a few lines. Light
 in the rainbow he considers as completely polarized: that
 reflected on the earth with a blue sky is less so.       Iceland)
 spar depolarized the lights which was polarized by the agate.
 He considered the polarizing, depolarizing, and neutral axes
 in the agate as affecting the colours, and producing red,
 green, &c. rays.      N. B. It appears not to have occurred to
 Dr. B., Dr. Herschell, or Mr. Jordan, that the pencils of
  rays and coloured rings depend on the thickness of the glass
  or other transparent bodies used in such experiments.
     Mr. Anthonv Carlisle, in a letter to the President gave
  an account of the family of Zerah Colburn, the mathema
  tical boy, whose father and great-grandmother had five fin
  gers and a thumb on each hand and six toes on each foot.
  The supernumerary limbs are attached to the little fingers
  and little toes of the hands and feet, each of these addi
  tional members having complete metacarpal and metatar
  sal bones.    Zerah Colburn, who is the fourth generation of
  his family known with this appendage, has three brothers
  in the same state, and two brothers and two sisters with
  the regular limbs.    Some of the family have wanted one of
  the supernumerary fingers or toes, but their descent has
  been tolerably uniform. This youth and parents are natives
     Vol. 42. No, 183. Dec. 1813.            Hh                  of

                            Geological Society.
of America, and they know nothing of their family prior
to the great-grandmother of the boy, whose powers of cal
culation -fi|Sfrel!jittracted  so  much attention   and been exhir
bited in this country.
    In  consequence of the Christmas holidays and public
thanksgiving,        the Society then adjourned till Thursday,
Jan. SI.
                         GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
    Dec. 3. — The President in the chair,
    The Ilight Hon. the Earl of Hardwicke,
    George Croker Fox, Esq. of Falmouth,
    William Stewart Rose, Esq. Palace-yard,
    Thomas P. Smith, Esq. of Stoke Newington, were ser
       verally elected Members of the Society.
    A paper entitled " Memoranda relative to the Porphyritic
Veins of St. Agnes in Cornwall," by the Rev. J. J. Cony
beare, M. G. S. was read.
    The veins described in this paper occur on the coast be
tween St. Agnes and Cligsa Point, traversing or lying on
the surface of rocks of tortuous killas.          The veins them
selves vary in thickness from forty feet to half an inch.
Their general character is porphyritic, consisting of a base
composed of minutely aggregated quartz, mica, talcite, and
probably felspar, in which are imbedded grains and crystals
of quartz, felspar, chlorite, mica, and talcite in small patches.
Sometimes the porphyritic character is superseded by a
more completely crystalline one, approaching to granite and
containing small veins of tin-stone. Sometimes again the
veins consist of quartz and tourmalines, forming a rock very
nearly resembling that of St. Roche.                          ,
    The killas adjacent to the veins is more crystalline than
 elsewhere,    and sometimes is scarcely to be distinguished.
from gneiss.         Mr. Conybeare considers the veins and the
 rock in which they occur to be of cotemporaneous origin.
    A paper entitled " A Description of some specimens from
 the neighbourhood of Cambridge," by Hen. VVarburton,
 Esq. M. G. S. was read.
    Thc?e specimens formed part of a bed of rubble, povering
 the summit of a hillock of gray or the lower chalk, about
 live miles S.VV. of Cambridge. This hillock, like several
 others in the same county, is situated to the west of the
 great range of chalk, being surrounded by the blue marl or
 gault, as it is provincially termed, from which the overlying
 bed of chalk is separated by a thin bed of green sand. The
 rubble, besides consisting of chalk and flint, also pontains
                                                              Slieli

                                                      '         483
                        Geological Society.
ihell limestone, angular pieces of greenstone,        and contain
organic   remains   belonging to older beds  than the   chalk : but
as all these beds basset more or less to the W.      of   the place
where the fragments are now to he found, the circumstance
is considered by Mr. Warburton as indicating an ancient
current, the course of which was from W. to E.
   A paper entitled     " Observations on Glen Tilt," by Dr.
Mac.Culloch, V. P. G. S. was read.
   That part of Glen Tilt which is the subject of the present
paper, extends four or five miles from Forest lodge to Gow's
bridge.     It consists of primitive schist, assuming the ap
pearance of clay-slate, of mica- slate, and of hornblende-
slate, with which are interstratified various beds of granular
limestone, more or less micaceous.       Near Gow's bridge the
stratification is perfectly regular and uninterrupted, but
higher up towards the lodge it is traversed by granite rock,
and an infinite multitude of granite veins of various size3.
Where this latter rock makes its appearance the even course
of the schisms is interrupted in proportion to the magni
tude of the mass of granite. When the granite, schist, and
limestone are all in contact, a perfect confusion of these
three substances takes place. Where the granite and lime
stone are in contact, the latter is highly indurated and pene
trated by siliceous matter.
   Dec. 17. — The President in the Chair,
   Hutches Trower, Esq. of Upper Harley-Street, was
      elected a Member of the Society.
   The continuation of Mr. Webster's paper on the upper
strata of the S. E. part of England, was read.
   This part of Mr. Webster's paper begins by a description
of* the marine deposit which covers the lower fresh-water
formation in the Isle of Wight. The place where it may
be studied to most advantage is Henden neap Alum Bay.
It here appears about half-way up the cliff, is about 36 feet
thick, and dips a few degrees to the north. The substance
composing the principal part of the bed is a pale greenish
marl, filled with shells chiefly cerithia, cythereae, and oysters,
in a very perfect state of preservation.          The extensive
stratum containing shells, which appears at Woolwich and
in many other parts of the London basin S. of the Thames,
are also considered by Mr. Webster as portions of the upper
marine formation. Beds containing similar fossils occur in
the Pays basin, covering the gypsum and gypseous marls
of the lower fresh-water formation.
   The above strata in the Pam basin are covered by vary
extensive and thick beds of a pure sand, sometimes loose
                             Hh 2                       sometimes

484    Geological Society ; — New Operation    for       Cataract.
sometimes concreted; with which is also connected that
peculiar and valuable mineral known by the name of meuliere
or lurr-itone.    In the Isle of Wight there is nothing to
correspond with these important beds, except a thin layer of
sand : but in the counties round London occurs in detached
blocks a very pure siliceous sandstone, called the gray-
weathers, which has Ween largely employed in architecture,
and which is conjectured by Mr. Webster to be of cotem-
poraneous origin with the French sandstone.
    The upper fresh-water formation, one of the most re*
markable and best characterized of any of the English beds
above the blue clay, is best seen at Headen in the Isle of
Wight. Its thickness is about 55 feet, and though not
subdivided into distinct strata,        it.
                                         varies considerably    in.
texture.   Much of consists of yellowish- white marl, more
                        it
or less indurated, but friable and crumbling        by
                                                    frost.   Many
of the shells imbedded       this stratum are quite entire, con
                              in
sisting of various species of lymnese, planorbes, helices,
and other fresh-water shells.     Over this bed      is stratum of
                                                          a
clay with small bivalve shells, covered        by  bed of yellow-
                                                    a
clay without shells, which latter        iscovered        bybed of
                                                               a
friable calcareous sandstone, also without shells.         To this
succeed other calcareous strata with     afew fresh-water shells,
varying much        compactness from that of chalk to porcel
                   in
laneous limestone.
    This formation appears to have covered nearly all the
northern half of the Isle of Wight.
    In the Paris basin are strata corresponding with these,
both   in their general composition and in the fossils which
they contain, distinguished however by certain peculiar cha
racters that are detailed         by
                               the author of this paper.
      LXXIX.       Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
              NEW OPERATION FOR CATARACT.
An    experiment of the most important kind has recently
been tried upon the pensioners of Greenwich Hospital, by
direction of the honourable Governors' of that Institution,
vi;h view to ascertain the comparative success of the dif
      a
ferent operations for cataract.    The operation of extraction
had been performed,      appears, upon the blind pensioners
                             it
for the last twenty years          by
                                the celebrated oculists the late
Mr. Wathen, and his successor Mr. Phipps, but not,                   it
is   understood,    with very satisfactory    terminations. The
                                                       Governors
                                                -

                       Electrical Phanomena.                                  435
 Governors having now appointed Mr. Adams to be oculist
 to the Hospital, (where all the blind men in the navy are
 sent when invalid), that gentleman has performed a series
 of novel operations for cataract, upon a large number of
 patients with singular success. We have not been informed
 of the peculiarities in Mr. Adams's newest operations, nor
 have accurate intelligence of the results of those compared
 with the old methods; but those results we have learned are
 decidedly in favour of the former.
    Among the curiosities of our day is the application of a
 conductor to convey to the deaf-born the enjoyment of
 musical sounds, which doubtless gives them exquisite de
 light : but Dr. Robertson, late from Dublin, and known by
 the rescue of Romana, hopes that speech may one day find
 its passage through the same or similar channel.
    A character for the use of the blind, palpable on both
 lides of the paper, is another invention, which makes part
 of Dr. R's system of education for the blind, the deaf,
 and the dumb, which he intends to announce in this me
 tropolis.
                  ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA.
    Dear Sin, — The experiments mentioned in my last
  paper* were made about two years ago, and have since been.
 often repeated with uniform results, and consequently, they
 appeared to me as unquestionable facts, though they con
 tradicted the experiments of Professor Robison, and the
 Opinions of some other writers on electricity.
     fn your last number a paper from Mr. Singer appears, in
 which he asserts that I have fallen into error in my experi
 ments, but he has not adduced one fact to prove it.             There
 is, however, one truth in his paper, and that truth render*
 all the rest of his arguments nugatorv.
    Mr. Singer says, "      if,after bringing an electrified body
 near an insulated conductor, on withdrawing                 the insu
                                                                   it
lated conductor remains permanently electrified,                  must  it
 have lost or received electricity."        This     very true.
                                                              is  And
it   is equally   true,   that an  electrified  body   being   brought
near one end of an insulated conductor, electricity flics off
into the air from the other end, and therefore, when the
electrified body  is    removed, the conductor will remain per
manently electrified.        This   is    physical truth which ren
                                           a
ders all opinions and suppositions that may be advanced
against   ittrifling and of no consequence.
                  I      am, dear sir, yours
                                        '       respectfullv,
.Lynn, Not. 18, 1813.                                E.Z. WALKER.
                  *    Phil. Mag.   vol.    ilii.   p. 216.
                                    H   h
                                        i                                    Mr.

*30                        New Publications.
    Mr.   Sowerby has announced to his friends that, as sooti
as   English Botany (an arduous work of more than twenty
years) and British Mineralogy are finished, he will com
mence a work to be written by Dr. Leach of the British
Museum, upon the Malacostraca Britannicaor British Crabs.
He supposes the first number will appear soon after March,
before which time English Botany cannot be finished on
account of the difficulty of procuring the few mosses yet
unpublished.
    The British Mineralogy being nearly completed, it would
be doing the public a great service if mineralogists would
send Mr. Sowerby, for the purpose of figuring, such newly
discovered minerals as may not already have appeared in
that work.        Mr. S. will also feel sincerely grateful to his
friends for any remarks they may wish to make, or any in
accuracies they may point out depending on the rapid im
provement in mineralogical knowledge, made during the pro
gress of this work.        Localities of fossil shells for his Mineral
Conchology        will also  be thankfully received.
    2, Mead Place,  Lambeth.
    A  very useful work has just made its appearance entitled,
A    practical Treatise on Mill-work and other Machinery, in
seven Parts.       By Robertson Buchanan f, Civil Engineer.
    1. On the teeth of wheels and of wheel-work.
    2. On the shafts of mills.
    3. On the longitudinal connexions of shafts denominated
couplings.
    4 On the methods of disengaging and reengaging machi
nery while in motion.
    5. On mechanism for equalizing the motion of mills.
    6. On changing the velocity of machinery while in mo
tion.
    7. On the framing of mill- work.
    The Rev. John Toplis, B.D. Fellow of Queen's College,
Cambridge, has in the press, a Translation of the Treatise-
upon Mechanics, which forms the introduction to the MS-
(kanique Celeste of P. S.% Laplace.           It will be accompanied
by copious explanatory notes and additions, which are in
tended, in some degree, to obviate those difficulties hi the
Mechanique C&leste, the Mechanique Analylique, &c. of
which many readers, who have not been conversant with
the works of foreign mathematicians, complain.
   t  Author of a Treatise on Fuel and the Heating of Buildings by Steam.
                                                              LECTURES,

                     ADVERTISEMENT.
       EAJitT  seventeen years have elapsed since The Philosophical
  Journal     was commenced by Mr. Nicholson, and sixteen .since the
  appearance ot'the first number of the
                                           Philosophical Magazine.
     During this period the sciences and arts have made the most rapid
 progress. Numerous philosophical and mechanical instruments and ma-'
 chines have been invented and improved ; — the theory and practice of
  astronomy has been greatly advanced ; — new planets have been dis
 covered, and the structure of the sun more clearly ascertained.      The
 rays of light have been subjected to new experiments, which have de
 monstrated their separate and distinct powers of illuminating and of
 heating; and that wonderful property upon which the phamomena of
 the island crystal depend, but which is now known to be inherent in
 both kinds of rays, and universally operative in all the cases of re
 flection and refraction.    Chemistry has a second time within the above
 period become a new science — by the discovery of the effects of gal
 vanism upon its processes, and the development of elementary sub
 stances of higher simplicity than were before known; — by the definite
 proportions of the component parts of bodies ; — by the laws of elective
 attractions and of crystalline forms ; — and, even to a certain extent,
 by a discovery of the remoter causes of those laws and formsi The
 cultivators of the sciences, the directors of the operations of the arts,
 with publio institutions and societies, have become every year more
 numerous and rapid in their increase ; at the same time that new roads,
 bridges, canals, and other national works, as well as private under
 takings, have been every where established to an unprecedented extent.
    Under such circumstances of national vigour and exertion, we have
found that the situation of Journalists of the discoveries and improve
ments made by philosophers and men of research in every part of the
 civilized world, is most honourable and truly gratifying.     Public ap
probation, private friendship, and a reasonable remuneration, have con
stituted our reward. Upon many occasions, however, our correspon
dents have complained that the same academical papers, and articles
of information, have been printed in both Journals; and the}' have, in
their separate letters, requested us to consult together upon some means
 of remedying this inconvenience, and increased expense upon many
of our readers. But it seemed impossible to obviate this inconvenience
in two distinct works ; both equally under engagements to present to
the public every thing that might prove new, interesting, and valuable.
We have conferred upon this and other considerations which might
render our intercourse with the public more effectually useful ; and
the result of our deliberations has been that it would certainly be best
that we should unite, and that the joint product of our exertions and
our correspondence should be consolidated in one periodical work ;
affording ail that has hitherto been considered as desirable in the plans
and conduct of both ; but free from the objection just stated, and per
haps one or two more upon which it is needless to enlarge.
    The Philosophical Journal will henceforth be discontinued; and The
Philosophical Magazine will be conducted by William Nicholson
and Alexander Tillocu, in the same manner a; it has always been
carried on; but with every attention to improvement which the joint
exertions of the Editors, and the communications of their friends and
correspondents can afford.
    Communications, addressed to the Editors, Picket Place, Temple
Bar, will meet with due attention.
   London,  Dec. 31, 1813.
Vol.    42.]                       a

                   CONTENTS
                            OF THE
         FORTY-SECOND VOLUME.
MEMOIRS of the Life nndWorks           of the late Dr. MasKE-
  lvne ;     read at the Public Meeting    of the National In*
  stitute of France                                                 3
Remarks on the Transition Rocks     of Werner       . .      1 5, 91
Discovery of the Composition of the Arragonite . .         ...     25
Report of the National Vaccine Establishment . . 27, 133
On the Production of the brown Oxide of Lead, under Cir
  cumstances which have not leen hitherto observed                35
On Electrical Influence                                   36, 261
On a supposed Error     in M.   Laplace's    " Mecanique Ce
  leste"                                                           38
An Attempt to determine the definite and simple Proportions,
   in which the constituent Parts of unorganic Substances
   are united with each other 40, 135, 171, 265, 371, 371,
                                                                 440
Description of     an Almometer,    and  an   Account      of   some
   Photometric, Hygrometric, and. Hy groscopical Expert-
  ments                                                            44
Cursory Geological Observations lately made, in Shrop
  shire, Wales, Lancashire, Scotland, Durham,                  York
  shire N.R., and Derbyshire.       Some Observations on Mr.
  Bakeivell's Geological Map, and on the supposed Identity
   of the Derbyshire
           '
                       Peak, and the Craven Limestone Rocks,
   <&c.                                                            53
Case of Spina Bifida and Hydrocephalus Internus .           .      6o
The Bakerian Lecture.      On the elementary Particles       of cer
   tain Crystals                                                   61
On the line Arts: an Essay founded on           a  Dbcourse       de
   livered by the Cavaliere Ferro e Fkrro, President of
   the Accademia del Decernimenlo of Trapani              . .      81
Observations, in Objection to some new Arrangements, and
   Simplifications of the Strata of England, proposed by
   Mr. Bakewell. — A Defence of the Reulily and Cir
  cumstances slated, respecting three great Faults or Dis
   locations of the Strata in and near Derbyshire. — On
  Mr. Silverwood's         intended  Section   of ell    the Der
   byshire Strata.— -On    Mr. Hall's   Survey    and   Models      of

                           CONTENTS.
   the   high Peak of Derbyshire. — The Slate of Cltarnwood
-
   Forest not stratified,   isfc.&c                              103
On Freezing of Alcohol                                           117
On a Systematic Arrangement of Colours              .. 119,327
Mr. Bakewell in Reply to Mr. Farev, on the Great Der
   byshire   Fault                                               121
Description     of a Lake    of Sulphuric Acid at   the Bottom      of
   a Volcano    of Mount    Idienne, situated in the Province of
   Bagnia-Vangm,        in the Eastern Part of the Island of
    Java                                                   126, 182-
On Electricity                                                    161
Mr. Farev's Reply       to Mr. Bakewell's Letter on the great
   Derbyshire    Fault.  —  Mr. B's Lectures. — Stage-coach Geo
    logy.  — The  great  Southern  Denudation. — Limestone rest
                   —
    ing on Slate. The great Limestone Fault, &c. . .              1 64-
Inquiry concerning Magnesian Limestones in Somersetshire,
    Shropshire, and Nottinghamshire                               189
On a neiv detonating Compound                                     190
Particulars of the successful Treatment of a Case of Hydro
   phobia; with Observations, &c                                  194
Experiments on capillary Syphons with electrified and with
    heated   Liquids                                              202
 On a Substance from the Elm Tree, called Ulmin             . .   20-1
 On the Duration of the germinative Faculty of Seeds              208
 Additional Remarks on the State in which Alcohol exists in
   fermented Liquors                                              211
 On. Electricity by Position or Induction                         215
 An Account of a Journey by the Gentlemen attached to the
     New York Fur Company, from the Pacific Ocean to the
     Missouri                                                     217
 Observations on the Stratification of Slate         . .    . .   223
 Memoir on the Usefulness of Time-Keepers            in  the   Service
     of the Navy ; and a Plan for introducing them with the
     best Prospect of Success to ensure their Accuracy at the
     least Expense                                                 24 1
  Notes and Observations on Mr. Robert Bakewell's " In
     troduction to Geology;" — embracing incidentally, several
     new Points of Geological Investigation andThemy 246, 356
  Researches into the Anatomy of Plants         . .  276, 390, 466
  On a Method of Freezing at a Distance                            282
  Climate and Diversions in the Northern Paris of British
     India                                                         284
  On   some  Properties of Light                                   266
  On changeable Colours and Glories                                >2Q>1
  Researches upon the Heat developed in Combustion, and in
     the Condensation of Vapours                                   2{}G

                             CONT ENTS)         .
   So?ne further Observations on a new detonating Substance 3q{
   On a new systematic Arrangement           of Colours      . .      327
   Observations relative   to the near and distant      Sight of difi
     ferent Persons . .     *                                   *. 330
   An Appendix to Mr. Ware's Paper on Vision                    . .   343
   The Correctness of popular Observations illustrated in the
      Directions commonly given for making Tea .                . .   345
   Additional Observations on the Effects of Magnesia in pre
      venting an increased Formation of Uric Acid ; with Re-
      marks on the Influence of Acids upon t/ie Composition of
      the Urine                                                       347
   A short Account of some Discoveries in Chemical Philosophy
                                                                      367
  Letter from Dr.    Wollaston        on the Periscopic Construction
v     of  Spectacles ; with   Observations by     M. Biot    on a neiu
      Kind of Spectacles  invented    by Dr-   Wollaston             38?
  Description and Use of an Instrument called           "   The Secto-
     graph," principally intended for the Purposes of dividing
     right Lines into equal Parts, measuring Angles, and in*
     scribing Polygons in the Circle, &c. &c                         401
  Some Experiments and Observations on the Substances pro*
     duced in different cliemical Processes on Fluor Spar 407
  A new Theory of Light; with Experiments to prove that
     Blackness arises from the Reflection of Indigo and Red-
     orange on the seven prismatic Rays of Light             . .     418
  Some Particulars respecting the present State of Persia 422
  On artificial Cold       . .                                       424
  On a saline Substance from Mount Vesuvius             . .   .  .   425
  Final Letter from Mr. Wm. Jones on Dr. Wollaston's
    Periscopic Spectacle Glasses                              . .    464
  On Galvanic Electricity         . .   »                            4"0
  Notices respecting New Books                          69, 392, 486
 Proceedings of    Learned    Societies   ..  ..   72,142,393,       479
 Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles 76, 144, 224, 307,
                                                             399, 484
 List of Patents       ..      .,     .. .. 76, 151, 138, 399
 Meteorological Table         . ,     80, ICO, 240, 320, 400, 469
                                                                    THE

                          Lectures,                       487
    '                     LECTURES.
    Mr. Singer will commence his Lectures on Experimental
 and Chemical Philosophy, to a limited number of Sub
 scribers, on Tuesday the 18th of January.
    A Prospectus may be obtained of Mr. R. Triphook,
 Bookseller, 37, St. James's Street.
    Middlesex Hospital. — Dr. Merriman will recommence hit
 Lectures on the Theory and Practice of Midwifery, at the
 above Hospital, on Monday, January 24, at half past Ten
 o'clock.
    Dr. Clarke's and Mr. Clarke's Lectures on Midwifery,
 and the Diseases of Women and Children.
    Dr. Clarke and Mr. Clarke will begin their third Course
 of Lectures on Midwifery, and the Diseases of Women and
 Children, on Monday, January 24, 1814. The Lectures
 are read at the house of Mr. Clarke, No. 10, Upper John
 Street, Golden Square, every Morning from a quarter past
 Ten till a quarter past Eleven, for the convenience of Stu
 dents attending the Hospitals.
    Further particulars may be known by applying to Dr.
.Clarke, No. 1, New Burlington Street, or to Mr. Clarke, at
 the Lecture Room.
    Theatre of Anatomy, Bartlett's Court, Holborn. — Mr.
 Taunton will commence his Winter Course of Lectures on
 Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, and Surgery, on Saturday,
 January 22, 1814, at Eight o'clock in the Evening precisely,
 and be continued every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday,
 at the same hour.
     Particulars may be had, on applying to Mr. Taunton,
 Greville Street, Hatton Garden.
    Mr. Brookes's Spring Course of Lectures       on Anatomy,
 Physiology,    and Surgery, will  commence    on  Monday the
 24th   of January,  at Two  o'clock, at the Theatre of Anato
 my, Blenheim-Street, Great Marlborough- Street.
                                                      Meteora-

                                    t    488      ]
     Meteorological Olservations made at Tunlr'ulge Wells, Kent,
        from the 20th to the 26th of Sept. ly T. Forster,E*j7.
         Sept. 20. — .Warm       day, with clear distances, cumuli of
     smallish form, with cirri above ; and some cirrocumulus
     mixed. By sunset long and straight cirrostrati in horizon.
     Clear night with a few light clouds and falling stars : soma
     moved almost horizonally and left small trains behind*.
         Sept. 21. — Fair day, with a breeze ; cumulus and cumu-
     loslralus with cirri and cirrostratus towards evening. The
     cumuli to day were well defined, and the air pleasant and
     warm like yesterday.
         Sept. 22. —Showers very early ; much cloud of cumu-
     Instratus, &c. through the day; sun out by times; nimhi
     towards evening.
         Sept. 23. — Fair morning and a breeze; much cumulus
     and cumuloslralus ; nimhi formed again in different places,
     and showers finished the day with light gales of wind.
         Sept. 24. — Still showery weather, rather cooler, and the
    sky generally clouded over, though there was not much rain
     fell. The evening was clear with a fine breeze, and 1 noticed
     some fine red tints in the clouds while riding at Langton.
         Sept. 25. — Finemorning,sma!lish and well defined cumuli,
-
    with a stiff breeze below ; the clouds increased after noon,
    obscured the sky, and the night became dark and windy.
         Sept. 26. — Dark overcast morning, when the cloudi
    broke the sun came out by times, and we had a shower ;
    extensive and irregular masses of cloud followed.                        The
    evening was very fine; the cirrus above showed a fine red
    light, while some lower down were darkish ; some cumuli
    still appeared at sunset, and the sky exhibited fine and va
    rious tints in different places : just above the set sun a fine
   yellow fading into an indescribable hut beautiful whitish
 ,  colour; in an opposite part of the horizon a purplish hue
    appeared in the haze; near the zenith a rich clear light
    blue, fading into a greenishvcolour.
       * Mr. Howard mentioned to me that these meteors usually happened, in
   his opinion, when there was cirrattralus in the atmosphere, although scanty
    and not so as to obscure much of the sky.    I have generally noticed this to
   be the case, and frequently cirrocumulus too when the more brilliant kind
   happen.    The very slanting, indeed almost horizontal, stiir which I noticed
   tonight, shot in a direction opposite to the wind below then blowing
   from the westward, and it seemed low in the atmosphere.        This was a ci:-
   cumstance reconcileable   with Mons. De Luc's hypothesis of the cause of
   these meteors, of which I have given an account in my Researches about
   Atmospheric Phenomena, p. 92. But the rapidity wiih which these stars
   move, seems almost an objection to the notion of their being caused by the
   retrograde motion of an elevated column of phosphorific gas, set on fire at
   the top, with the burning ball returning down the column.           This seems
   nften to be forcibly thrown along like ignited bodies projected by mechanical
   force; or as having acquired velocity by gravitation iu filling from a great
   ^eighth.                                                         METEORO-

                                        Meteoroldgy.                                                       489
                             meteorological table,
                 By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                  For Decemler 1813.
                     Thermometer.
                                                                ofDry-
                 ^2 ho                      Height of          Leslie's             neter.
 Days of         u a               y   *i
                 °                 £ j=     the Barom.                                          Weather.
 Month.                =
                             §     CJ
                                             Inches.
                                                                 L
                                                              >u >> 0
                 o'C
                       Mot         'oZ                        Degre
                                                                                     Hygr
                 8                                            ness
Nov.    27       37          41    35       3005                18                           Fair
        28       35          39             29'92               10
                                   37                                                        Cloudy
        29       34          33    32       3000                16                           Cloudy
        30       31          33    28       29-70               12                           Cloudy
Dec.       1     30          37    35         -56               14                           Fair
           e     35          39    39         -25                                            Rain
                                                                  5 0 0 5 0 0 0 0
           3
                 39          41    40          -27                                           Rain
           4     41          41    40          -38                                           Rain
                 40          40    40          -57                                           Foggv
           6 5
                 40          43    39          '(0                                           Cloudy
                 38          40    40          -81                                           Rain
           8 7   40          41    40          -83                                           Rain
           9     40          43    40          -91'                                          Cloudy
        10       40          42    39       30-10               11                           Cloudy
        M        37          40    36         -11               12                           Fair
        12       34          36    32          -10              10                           Fair
        13       29          30    30       29-84               10                           Cloudy
        14       26          30    37         -90                    7                       Foggy
        15       25          30    30          -86                                           Fair
                                                                  0 0 8
        16       35          38    46          -45                                           Cloudy
        17       45          50    49          -24                                           Rain
        18 47                51    47          -20                                           Fair
                             48    40          -20                  5 7
        19 47                                                                                Cloudy
        20       38          42    36         -35                                            Cloudy
                                                                   6 5 0 7
        21       30          46    40          -48                                           Rain
        22       40          45    40          -50                                           Fair
        S3       40          42    44          -85                                           Fair
        24       45          50    46         -98                    7                       Cloudy
        25       47          50    49       30-08                 0                          Small rain
        96       42          45    35         -34               16                           Fair
             M. B. The Barometer's           height   is   taken at one o'cl»«k.

                                       C     *90 '3
                     INDEX to VOL. XLII.
AdAMS,         on defects of vision, Sec.       Cartonic arid.      Constituents of, 17S;
                                           70       combinations of,                   371
Agaric.     Intoxicating power of, 314          Carbomc acid in combination. On, 371
Agate, remarkable property of, 287              Carburetted hvdrogen.         Components
 Air, heat, and moisture. Relations of,             of,                                173
                                           44   Corv's Meteorological Tables, 80, 160,
Alcohol.     On freezing of,             117                           240, 320, 400, 489
Alcohol.      Siate of in fermented li          Cassagrane telescope.      Superiority of,
   quors,                                211                                           149
Allan on transition        rocks,  15,    91 .  Cataract.      New operation for, 494
    Reply to,                            429    Chalvbeate spring at Melksham,         145
Ammonia.        Constituents of, 182, 270       Charcoal.       Heat from,             297
Ammonium.         Products of with oxy          Chevereul on oxide of lead,              35
    gen,                                 270    Childreii's galvanic battery,          144
Analvsis of muriate of ammonia, 40 ;            Coal found in Bear Island,             S13
    muriate of lime, 138; lime, 138;            Colhirn, Zerah. On family of, 491
    baryta, 13.8; muriatic acid, 139 i          Cold, artificial.   On, 73, 117, 282, 424
    water, 139; sulphuretted hydro              Cold, intense, to produce,               73
    gen, 140; carbonic         acid, 172;       Colours.        On systematic arrange
    gazeous oxide of carbon,           172;         ment of,                      119,327
    carburetted    hydrogen, 173. — See         Colours.      On changeable,           292
    Normal analyses                             Congelation by cold, 73,         117, 282,
Jlnatomv,                          74, 142                                             424
Anatomv of plants, 276, 390, 474, 366           Creighion on slate,                    224
Antiquities,                 146, 224, 307      Croup.     Specific for,               3 IS
Apartments to cool,                      285    Crvstallization.     New law of,         26
Architecture.     On,                      82   Crystals.      Element. particles of, 61
 Arragonite.     Composition of,           25   Davv on a new detonating substance,
 Arsenic acids. Components of, S75                  72,190,321 ; on fluoric compounds,
Arseniatcs.     On,                      377                                       73, 404
 Arsenites. On,                          S75    Deaf and Dumb.         Tuition of,     485
Arts, fine. Gait on,                       81   Definite proportions.        On, 40, 135,
Astronomers roval,                          9                          171, 265, 371, 440
Almometer.       Leslie's,                 44   De Luc on St. Michael's mount, 429
Azote.     A prize question, 145 i com          Detonating substance. Anew, 72, 190,
    ponents of,                          270                                           321
 Bukewell's Geologv. On, 53, 103, 121 ,         Dispersive powers of doubly refracting
                              164,246,356           crystals,                          290
 Barvta.     Composition of,      138,180       Dividing lines and circles. Instrument
 Bear Island.     Discovery in,          313        for,                               401
 Berzelius on defiuite proportions, 40,         Earthquake at Teneriffe,               316
                  135, 171,265, 371,440         Electricitv . Singer on, 36, 261, 317;
 Biographv.      Maskelyne's life,          3       Walker (E.) on, 161,215,571,485;
 Biot on periscopic spectacles,          388        experiment,                        202
 Blagden on sight,                       343    Elm tree. New substance from, 204
Books, new,        69, 228, 318, 392, 486       Eves.     On diseases of,                70
 Brandt on alcohol,                      21 1   Farir/'s geolog. remarks, 53, 103, 1 64,
 Brande on urinary calculi,          . S47          246, 356; Bakewell's reply to, 121
Brewster on properties of light, 286            Fermented liquors. On alcohol in, 211
 Bndie on muscular motion,               394   Fine arts. Gait on,                       81
 Building.     On,                         82   Firminger on time-keepers,             241
 Carbonate of bnrita, components of,            Filiates.     On,                      417
    179, 372 j of. time ditto, 372; of          Fluo-l-oracic and gas. On,             409
    soda ditto,                          372    Fiuor spar.      Davy on,              407

                                   INDEX.                                              491
fluoric Acid. Davy on,              73,408     Massacre of a ships crew,                315
fluoric compounds.       Davy on,         73   Michamque       CHeM.         On   supposed
 Forster's meteorolog. observ. 78, 155,            error in,                              33
     235, 3)9, 488; systematic arrange         Meteorologv,      78. 80. 155, 1-60, 235,
    ment or' colours,              119,327                       2 to, 3 19, 320, -100, 488
Fossils at Brentford,                     76   Moisture, air, and heat. Relations of,
Frigorifc processes, 73, 117, 282, 424                                                    44
Gait on the fine arts,                    8]   Molvbdic acid.       Components of. 331
 Galvanic ballerv.      Children's,     144    Muriate of ammonia.            Analyses of#
Galvamsm,                          476, 479                                         40, 181
 Gazeous oxide of carton. Components           Muriate; components of,             138, i77
     of,                                172    Muriatic acid        Constituents of, 139
 Geologv,      15,53,91,103,      121,164,     Muscular motion. On,                     394
         223,231,246, 356,395,397, 482         Mushroom.        Intoxicating power of,
Geological societv,                395, 482                                             314
 Germination.      On,                  208    Naphtha.       Heat evolved in burning,
Greenwich, observatory,                     8                                           296
 Hail's models of the Peak in Derby            Navigation.        Advantage       of time
     shire,                             113        keepers to,                          241
Heat, air, and moisture. Relations of.         Nitrates and subnitrates.      Components
                                          44                      of, 441,447, 452, 459
 Heat developed in combustion. On, 296         Nitric acid, an oxide of ammonium,
Honev.       fcxper. on,                S13                                             270
 Hooping cough.       Specific for,     313    Nitrogen.       A prize question, 145;
 Hvdrogen.      On combustions of witfi            an oxide of ammonium,                270
     oxygen and sulphur, 139; an oxide         Normal analvses of stilphuret of sil
     of ammonium,                       270        ver ; protoxide of silver ; muriate
 Hvdrophobia cured,                      194       of ditto, 177; muriateof protoxide
 Hvdnlheic acid. On,                    265        of lead, 178; muriate of baryta;
rHvgromctric experiment,                  44       carbonate of baryta ; sulphate of
 Hvgrosiooical experiment,                44     , baryta, 179i hydrogen; protoxide
 Imperiai Institute of France, 74, 142             of ammonium ; ammonia ; nitro
 India.      Progress Qf vaccination in,           gen; nitrous oxide or protoxide
     134; climate and diversions in, 284           of nitrogen; nitrous acid;         nitric
 Ionian islands. Antiquities in,         224       acid i water, 270 ; carbonates of
 Isle of Wight.      Geology of, 295, 397          lime and of soda, 372; super-car
 Java.      Lake of sulphuric acid in,             bonate of soda, 372 ; phosphorous
                                    127,182        acids and phosphates, 373; arsenic
 Jones (Wm.) on periscopic glasses,464              acids, arsenites, and arseniates,375 ;
 Jones's (T.) sectograph,                401       tungstic and molybdic acids, 381;
                                      On, 38    - muriatic and
 Laplace's Michamque Celeste.                                          hyper-oxymuriatic
 Lapland. Geology of,                    23 1      acids, 382; nitric acid, 440; ni
  Lead.     Brown oxide of,                35       trates, 441; subnitrates, 447; ni
  Learned societies,           73, 392, 479         trites,                        452, 459
  Lectures,                   151,232,497      Norwav. Geology of,                       231
  Leschenault on JaVe of sulphuric acid,        Ouselev on Persia,                       422
                                    127, 182    Oxvgen combined with hydrogen, 139
  Light.     Some properties      of, 286;      Oxvgen.      Products of with ammo
      new theory of,                     418        nium,                                270
  Lime.     Analyses of,                 138   Ptleopolis.      Site of,                 224
  Limestones, magnesian.        Quere. 189      Patents,                 76, 151,318,399
  Link on anatomy of plants, 276, 390,          Periscopic spectacles.     On,     387, 464
                                         466    Persia. State of,                        422
  Leslie's atmometer, &c.                  4-1  Philosophv.      A history of,           230
  Magnesia.      On use of,              347    Plwsphale of barvta ; of protoxide of
  Magnesian limesloiiei.       Inquiry re            lead, components of,                S7S
      specting,                           189   Phosphorous acids. Laws respeeting,
   Marcet on cold by evaporation,          73                                            373
                                          - 3
   'Maskeiyne (Dr.) memoirs of,                 Photometric experiments,                   44

492                                    INDEX.
Phvsiologv,                           74, 142    Saprrcarhonalc ot sedx.     Ce«ponenf»
Plants.     Anatomy of, 276, 390, 466               of,                               372
Pompeia.       Discoveries in,                   Surgical case,                        60
Popular opinions often correct,           345    Svphons capillarv.     Eiper. on,    202
Percvpines      do shoot their quills at         Tallow. Heat evolved in burning, ~!i 7
                                   I
    enemies,                                     Taunton.     Surgical case,            SO
Potass.     Components       of,                 Tea.    On making,                   345
Protozidt of silver.       Components of,        Time-keepers. Utility of,            241
                                           177   Travels in America,                  217
Prize   question.                          145   Tungsttc acid.     Components    of, 381
Publications, new,              69, 228, 393     Ulmin.     On,                       2C4
Reader on light,                           418   Urinarv calculi. On medicines against,
Refractive      power ol several          sub-                          V             347
    stances.                               289   Urine.     Singular use of, 314; in
Rocks.      On,                         16,91       fluence of acids on composition
                      69, 73, 392, 393, 479          of,                     <U+2713>        347
Roval Societv,
Rvmford      on   heat  by combiJltion.296       Vaccine establishment.     Report of, 27,
Saint flilahe on germination,.             208                                         Ki2
Salt, f'esutian.       On,                 425   Walker (E.) on electricity, 161,215,
Sta.     Gaining     on  the land,           5S                                       48.S
                                                                                       367
Sectograph , the. described,               401       on chemical philosophy,
Seeds.     On germination of,              208    Walker (R.) on freezing alcohol, 1 17,
Sight.     On,                             S30       on refrigeration,                 424
 Silicated Jiuoric acid. On,               408    Ware oii sight.                330, 343
 Singer on electricity,          36,261, 317      Water.    Analyses of 139, 270; on.
 Slate.    On stratification of,           223       oxide of ammonium,                270
 Smith's geological map,                     58  .Webster's geology of the Isle of Wight ,
 Smitkson    on   ulmin,                   204                                   395, 397
 Smithson on Vesuvian salt,                425    Werner's transi'ion rocks. On, 15, 91
 Societies, learned, 69, 73^392, 393,479          JVinne's case of hydrophobia,        194
 Soda.     Components of,                  181    ttullaston on crystallization, 61; on
 St. Michael's mount. Structure of, 4-9              freezing at a distance, 282; oa
                                             25      periscopic spectacles, 387 ; instru
 Stromrver on arragonite,
 Strontianite.      On,                      25      ment    for chemical equivalents,
 Subactlale of lead, to form,              2 1'2                                       S9S
 Sulphates.       Components of,            179   Wtod.     Heat from,                 299-
 Sulphur combined with hydrogen,
                                            139   Young on changeable colours and
                  Components      of, 140,177        glories,                          292
 Stil/ihurcts.
 Sulphuretted hvdrogen. Analysed, 140             Zoologv,                         74, IIS
 Sulphuric acid. Lake of,             127. 182
                   END OF THE FORTV-SECOND                      VOLUME.
               Printed   bv Richard    and Arthur Tavlor, Shoe Lane,     Ltudon.



F/ul.Mari.Tol.JULJ'm.








-


DX ODE  Sbb 012
C  y   r  Z/ A


