The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uva.x002266028
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.




•3
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                               JOURNAL:
                           COMPREHENDING
      THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OT SCIENCE,
              THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                           GEOLOGY,
                     AGRICULTURE,
          MANUFACTURES AND COMMERCE.
             BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
       M.R.I.A. MR. AS. Munich,    F.S.A. Edin. and Perth, &
                                                               '  "
For JULY, AUGUST, SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER, NOVEM*
                       and DECEMBER,       1817.
                            LONDON:
     PRINTED BY RICHARD AND ARTHUR TAYLOR, SHOE LANE:
  aid sold by Cadell and Davies ; Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and
      Brown; Murray; Highlet; Sherwood and Co.; Harding;
          Underwood, 'London : Constable and Co. Edinburgh:
            Brash and Reid; Duncan; and Penman, Glasgow:
                   and Gilbert  and Hodges, Dublin.

  \
227554

                      CONTENTS
             OF THE FIFTIETH VOLUME.
Some      new Researches on Flame.             . .      . .   . .    •  .    3
 On Atrial Navigation                                                      27
Remarks on Sir Richard Phillips's New                  Hypothesis'.        35
New Outlines    of Chemical Philosophy.            . .    ..               38
Extract of a   Letter from Colonel Mudge             to William Black
  wood, Esq. relative      to theTrigonometrical Survey.             . .   40
Experiments    on Vegetation,      tending to correct some erroneous
  Opinions    entertained    respecting the Effects of Vegetation on
  the Atmosphere.        . .                                               42
Geological Queries     to  Mr. Westgarth Forster, Mr. Winch,
  Mr. Fryer, <^c. regarding the Basaltic and other Strata of
  Northumberland and Durham, &c                                . .   . .   45
Report  of  the Select Committee appointed to consider of the
  Means    of preventing the Mischief of Explosion from hap
  pening  on board Steam-boats,         to the Danger or Destruction
  of His  Majesty' s Subjects on board such Boats. 50, 83, 167,
                                                                   243, 327
On  the Cause  of Ebbing     and Flowing Springs.              . .   . .   81
Further Considerations on the Doctrine that the Phcenomena of
  Terrestrial Gravitation are occasioned by known Terrestrial
  Motions.     ...                                                        101
On the Oxi-hydrogen       Blow -pipe.     . .   . .                       106
On the Steam- Vessel proposed         to be employed between        London
  and Exeter                                                              114
A  Mathematical Question.           ..                                    115
On the Case of Injustice which Authors sometimes suffer from
  other Writers, and from Annotators ; particularly tile late
  Mr. John Williams, Author of the " Mineral Kingdom" 116
Vol.50. No. 236. Dec. 1817.                       a                        On

                              CONTENTS.
On Vegetation in artificial Media.             .,             '..   '..    121
On the Geology of Northumberland                                           122
On the Advantages that may be expected to result, from the
  Study of the Principles of Stratification ; with Remarks on
  the proper Objects of Inquiry in this important Branch of
   Geology.       ..                                                       124
On the Work entitled         "   Chromatics   ;"   or,    An Essay      on the
  Analogy and Harmony of Colours                                           128
On Iodine.           ..        ..      ..         ..        ..       ..    161
Theorems     for determining the Values           of increasing Life An
  nuities.           ..        ..      ..         ..        ..       ..    164
Memoir of Abraham Gottlob             Werner,         late Professor    of Mi
  neralogy at Frieberg. . .            . .        . .       . .      ..182
Preface   to  "The Natural History of the Mineral Kingdom. 189,
                                                                           274
Geological Queries regarding the Strata           of the   Vicinity of Brid
   lington; and some Acknowledgements                  to Nathaniel John
  Winch, Esq., &c.              ..     ..         ..        ..       ...   200
On the Rotary and Orbicular Motions             of the Earth.        . .   204
On    Mr. Tatum's Experiments on Vegetation.                    . .  .. 206
Remarks on Sir R. Phillips's Defence of his Hypolliesis. 208
On Sir Richard Phillips's supposed Discovery of the Cause
   of the Phcenomena of Terrestrial Gravitation.                      .. 210
The Description of a Safety Furnace for preventing Explosions
   in Coal- Mines.                                                         211
Remarks on      Mr. Murray's       Objections to Experiments         on Vege
   tation detailed in the Phil. Mag. for July                ..      ..    213
Answer to Geological Queries          of"A       Constant Reader."         216
Description of an Apparatus for consuming Fire-damp in the
   Mines without Danger of an Explosion: — Apparatus for re
    lighting the Miners' Davy.        ...          ..       ..       .. 217
On the new Theory        of the System      of the   Universe.        . ,  219
 On Colours — In Answer to Mr. T. Hargreaves's Strictures on
    the Work entitled " Chromatics; or, An Essay on the Analogy
    and Harmony of Colours."            . .        . .       . .      . .   24 1
A    short Account   of Horizontal Water-Wheels                            256
 On Ebbing and Flowing Springs; with Geological Remarks and
     Queries.         ..        ..      .,         ,,        ,.       ,, 267
                                                                             On

                             CONTENTS.
On forming Collections       of Geological        Specimens; and respecting
    those  of Mr. Smith in      the   British Museum.               ..      . .     269
Answer      to (he Letter ofC. of Exeter on Steam-Boats tole used
    in conveying Merchandise by Sea.                  . .         . .       .. 287
On the Cause of the Changes of Colour in Mineral Cameleon.
                                                                                    291
On an apparently new Species           of Wren, discovered at Tunlridge
     Wells             ..       ..        ..          ..          ..                296
On the Question
                     "  Whether Music is necessary to the                 Orator,—
     to what Exlent,and how most readily attainable?"                        ..     321
On extracting Alcohol from Potatoes,                     and preparing Potash
   from Potaloe-tops.                     ..           .  .        . .       . . 337
On the Physiology of Vegetables.                        ..         ..        ..341
"    Delia Purificazione del Mercurio, Memoria del Sig. Dott.
      G. Branchi," &c.                                              ..        . .   348
Answer to W. H. G.'s Observations                 on    Mr. Tatum's Expert-
      mtnls on Vegetation. . .             . .                                . .    353
 Acknowledgements to .Mr. Westgarth Fo rster ; further Geo
      logical Queries, on the Basaltic Strata of Durham and
      Northumberland : and Suggestions regarding the Situation
      of the Granite Patches of the North of England, in its Series
 .
      of Strata                                                                      358
 Geological Observations on Strathearn. . .                         . .        . .   362
 On the component Parts of Light, and the Cause of Colour.                           366
 On the pretended Parallel Roads of Glen Roy. . .                              . .   374
  On Cosmogony.         ..       ..         ..           ..          . .       .,    375
 New Quadratic Theorem.                     . .          . .         . .       . .   378
  On a volatile concreteOil existing in          the  Nut -galls of the Oak .401
  On the Atomic Theory.                 ..          . .         . .       . .         406
   On the Ring     of Saturn.           ..          ..          ..        ..          409
  An     easy, simple, and infallible Method to force every                        Fruit-
       Tree to blossom and to bear Fruit. . .                   . .       . .         411
   On   the Resistance   of Solids; with Tablet of            the specific Cohesion
       and the cohesive Force   of Bodies.           ..         ..         ..         413
   Some further Observations on the Use               of the    Colchicum autum-
       nale in Gout.     . .      . .        . .          . .         . .       . .   428
   Experiments and Observations upon the Stale of the Air in
       the Fever Hospitals of Cork, at a Time when they were
       crowded with Patients labouring under Febrile Contagion. 433
                                                                                     Upon

                           CONTENTS.
 Upon the   Extent of the Expansion and Contraction of Timber
   in different Directions relative to the Position of the Medulla
   of the Tree.     . .     ..       ..      ..      ..     ..   437
On the Nautical    Almanac for    1 S20.     . .    ..      . .  450
Trospectus   of a  new System    of Beaconing.      . .     . .  433
Notices respecting New Books.          65, 130, 224, 297, 379, 449
Proceedings   of Learned  Societies.    69, 146, 220, 293, 375, 456
Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles. 73, 143, 230, 307, 386,
                                                                 458
List of Patents                        76, 154, 235, 317, 391, 466
Meteorological Tables,      77—   SO,   157—160, 237—240,319—
                                         320, 395—400, 470—473
                                                                THE

                                   THE
      PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                    AND JOURNAL.
 I.   Some new Researches on Flame.          By Sir Humphry Davy,
                       LL.D. F.R.S. r.P.'R.L*
 I   have described in three papers which the Royal Society have
 honoured     with a place in their Transactions, a.number of ex
periments on combustion, which show that the explosion of
 gaseous mixtures can be prevented or arrested by various cooling
 influences, and which led me to discover a tissue permeable to
Jight and air, but impermeable to flame, on which I founded the
 invention of the wire-gauze safe-lamp now generally used in all
 collieries in which inflammable air prevails, for the preservation of
 the lives and persons of the miners.       In a short notice published
 in the third number of the Journal of Science and the Arts, edited
 at the Royal Institution, I have given an account of some new
 results on flame, which show that the intensity of the light of
 flames depends principally upon the production and ignition of
solid matter in combustion, and that the heat and light in this
 process are in a great measure independent phenomena.                Since
 this notice has been printed, I have made a number of researches
on flame : and as they appear to me to throw some new lights on
 this important subject, and to lead to some practical views con
nected with the useful arts, I shall without any further apology
present them to the Royal Society.
    That greater distinctness may exist in the details, I shall treat
of my subjects under four heads. In the first I shall discuss the
effects of rarefaction, by partly removing the pressure of the at
mosphere upon flame and explosion.           In the second, I shall con
sider the effects of heat in combustion.            In the third, I shall
examine the effect of the mixture of gaseous substances not con
cerned in combustion upon flame and explosion.             In the fourth,
I shall offer some general views upon flame, and point out cer
tain practical and theoretical applications of the results.
      *  From the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1817, part i.
Vol. 50. No. 231.     July   1817.             A  2                  1.  On

4                  Some new Researches on Flame.
I. On    the Effect  of Rarefaction by partly removing the Pressure
            of the Atmosphere upon Flame and Explosion.
   The earlier experimenters upon the Boylean vacuum observed
that flame ceased in highly rarefied air : but the degree of rare
faction necessary for this effect has been differently stated.
Amongst late experimenters, M. de Grotthus has examined this
subject.     He has asserted that a mixture of oxygen and hydro
gen   ceases  to be explosive by the electrical spark when rarefied
sixteen times, and that a mixture of chlorine and hydrogen can
not be exploded when rarefied only six times, and he generalizes
hy supposing that rarefaction, whether produced by removing
                                                 '
pressure or by heat, has the same effect.
   I shall not begin by discussing the experiments of this inge
nious author.      My own results and conclusions are very different
from his ; and the cause of this difference will I think be ob^
vious in the course of these inquiries.     I shall proceed in stating
the observations which guided my researches.
   When hydrogen gas slowly produced from a proper mixture
was inflamed at a fine orifice of a glass tube, as in the experi
ment called the philosophical candle, so as to make a jet of
flame of about 1 -6th of an inch in height, and introduced under
the receiver of an air-pump containing from 200 to 300 cubical
inches of air, the flame enlarged as the receiver became ex
hausted ; and, when the gauge indicated a pressure between four
and five times less than that of the atmosphere, was at its maxi
mum of size : it then gradually diminished below, but burned
above, till the pressure was between seven and eight times less,
when it became extinguished.
   To ascertain whether the effect depended upon the deficiency
of oxygen, I used a larger jet with the same apparatus, when
 the flame to my surprise burned longer, and when the atmosphere
was rarefied ten times, and this in repeated trials.        When the
larger jet   was used, the point of the glass tube became  white   hot,
 and continued red hot till the flame was extinguished.         It im
mediately occurred to me, that the heat communicated to the
gas by this tube, was the cause that the combustion continued
longer in the last trials when the larger flame was used ; and
the following experiments confirmed the conclusion.           A piece
of wire of platinum was coiled round the top of the tube, so as to
reach into and above the flame.        The jet of gas of 1 -6th of an
inch in height was lighted and the exhaustion made ; the wire
of platinum soon became white hot in the centre of the flame,
and a small point of wire near the top fused : it continued white
hot till the pressure was six times less, when it was ten times it
continued red hot at the upper part, and, as long as it was dull

                  Some new Researches on Flame.                     5
red, the gas though extinguished below, continued to burn in
contact with the hot wire, and the combustion did not cease until
the pressure was reduced thirteen times.
    It appears from this result, that the flame of hydrogen is ex
tinguished in rarefied atmospheres, only when the heat it pro
duces is insufficient to keep up the combustion, which appears
to be when it is incapable of communicating visible ignition to
metal; and as this is the temperature required for the inflamma
tion of hydrogen at common pressures, it appears that its oom-
Zustilility is neither diminished nor increased by rarefaction
from the removal of pressure.
    According to this view with respect to hydrogen, it should
follow that amongst other combustible bodies, those which re
quire least heat for their combustion, ought to burn in more
rarefied air than those that require more heat, and those that
produce much heat in their combustion ought to burn, other
circumstances being the same, in more rarefied air than those
that produce little heat: and every experiment I have made
confirms these conclusions.     Thus olefiant gas which approaches
nearly   to hydrogen  in the heat  produced by its combustion, and
 which does not require a much higher temperature for its in
 flammation, when its flame was made by a jet of gas from a
bladder connected with a small tube furnished with a wire of
 platinum, under the same circumstances as hydrogen, ceased to
 burn when the pressure was diminished between ten and eleven
 times: and the flames of alcohol and of the wax taper which
require a greater consumption of heat for the volatilization and
decomposition of their combustible matter, were extinguished
when the pressure was five or six times less without the wire of
platinum, and seven or eight times less when the wire was kept
in the flame.     Light carburetted hydrogen, which produces, as
will be seen hereafter, less heat in combustion than any of the
 common combustible gases, except carbonic oxide, and which
requires a higher temperature for its inflammation than any other,
had its flame extinguished, even though the tube was furnished
with the wire when the pressure was below l-4th.
     The flame of carbonic oxide which, though it produces little
 heat in combustion, is as inflammable as hydrogen, burned when
 the wire was used, the pressure being l-6th.
     The flame of sulphuretted hydrogen, the heat of which is in
 some measure carried off by the sulphur produced by its decom
 position during its combustion in rare air, when burned in the
 same apparatus as the olefiant and other gases, was extinguished
 when the pressure was l-7th.
     Sulphur, which requires a lower temperature for its combustion1
 than any common inflammable substance, except phosphorus,
                                 A 3                         burned

                      Some new Researches on Flame.
 burned with a very feeble blue flame in air rarefied fifteen times,
 and at this pressure the flame heated a wire of platinum to dull
 redness, nor was it extinguished till the pressure was reduced to
  l-20th*.
     Phosphorus, as has been shown by M. Van Marum, burns in
 an atmosphere rarefied sixty times : and I found that phosphu-
 retted hydrogen produced a flash of light when admitted into
 the best vacuum that could be made, by an excellent pump of
 Nairn's construction.
     The mixture of chlorine and hydrogen inflames at a much
lower temperature than that of hydrogen and oxygen, and produces
a considerable degree of heat in combustion ; it was therefore
probable that it would bear a greater degree df rarefaction, with
out having its power of exploding destroyed ; and this I found
in many trials is actually the case, contrary to the assertion of
M. de Grotthus. Oxygen and hydrogen" in the proportion to
form water, will not explode by the electrical spark when rarefied
eighteen times ; but hydrogen and chlorine in the proportion to
form muriatic acid gas, gave a distinct flash of light under the
same circumstances, and they combined with visible inflamma
tion when the spark was passed through them, the exhaustion
being to l-24th.
    The experiment on the flame of hydrogen with the wire of
platinum, and which holds good with the flames of the other
gases, shows, that by preserving heat in rarefied air, or giving
heat to a mixture, inflammation may be continued when, under
common circumstances, it would be extinguished.               This I found
was the case in other instances, when the heat was differently
communicated : thus, when camphor was burned in a glass tube,
so as to make the upper part of the tube red hot, the inflamma
tion continued when the rarefaction was nine times, whereas it
would only continue in air rarefied six times, when it was burned
in a thick metallic tube which could not be considerably heated
by it.
     By bringing     a little naphtha in contact with      a red hot iron,
it produced      a faint lambent    flame, when there remained in the
receiver only l-30th of the original quantity of air, though with
out foreign heat its flame was extinguished when the quantity
vHas   l-6th.
    * The temperature of the atmosphere diminishes in a certain ratio with
its height, which must be attended to in the conclusions respecting com
bustion in the upper regions of the atmosphere, and the elevation must be
somewhat lower than in arithmetical progression, the pressure decreasing
in geometrical progression.
    There is,, however, every reason to believe, that the taper would be ex
tinguished at a height of between nine and ten miles, hydrogen between
twelve ami thirteen, and sulphur between fifteen and sixteen.
                                                                  I rarefied

                    Some new Researches on Flame.                         7
    I rarefied a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen by the air-pump
to about eighteen times, when it could not be inflamed by the
electric spark.      I then heated strongly the upper part of the
tube till the glass began to soften, and passed the spark, when
a feeble flash was observed not reaching far into the tube, the
heated gases only appearing to enter into inflammation.               This
last experiment requires considerable care.          If the exhaustion is
much greater, or if the heat is raised very slowly *, it does not
succeed ; and if the heat is raised so high as to make the glass
luminous, the flash of light, which is extremely feeble, is not vi
sible : it is difficult to procure the proper degree of exhaustion,
and to give the exact degree of heat ; I have, however, suc
ceeded three times in obtaining the results, and in one instance
it was witnessed by Mr. Brande.
    To elucidate the inquiry still further, I made a series of ex
periments on the heat produced by some of the inflammable
gases in combustion.        In comparing the heat communicated to
wires of platinum by flames of the same size, it was evident, that
hydrogen and olefiant gas in oxygen, and hydrogen in chlorine,
produced a much greater intensity of heat in combustion, than
the other gaseous substances I have named burned in oxygen :
but no regular scale could be formed from observations of this
kind.     I endeavoured to gain some approximations on the sub
ject by burning equal quantities of different gases under the same
circumstances, and applying the heat to an apparatus by which
it could be measured. For this purpose a mercurial gas-holder
was furnished with a system of stop-cocks, terminating in a
strong tube of platinum having a minute aperture.               Above this
was fixed a copper cup filled with olive oil, in which a thermo
meter was placed.        The oil was heated to 212° to prevent any
differences in the communication of heat by the condensation of
aqueous vapour ; the pressure was the same for the different
gases, and they were consumed as nearly as possible in the same
time, and the flame applied to the same point of the copper cup,
the bottom of which was wiped after each experiment.
   The results were as follows :
   The flame from olefiant gas raised the thermometer to 270°
   -                   hydrogen . .          . .     . .      . .  23S
   •— — —— —           sulphuretted hydrogen         . .      . .  232
                  — coal gas                                       236
   —————               gaseous  oxide   of carbon    . .      . .  218
   The quantities of oxygen cousumed (that absorbed by the hy
drogen being taken as one) would be, supposing the combustion
perfect, for the olefiant gas six, for the sulphuretted hydrogen
         * The reason will be obvious from what is stated in
                                                             page 9.
                                    A 4                              three,

8                 Some new Researches on Flame.
three, for the carbonic oxide one.      The coal gas contained only
a very small proportion of olefiant gas ; supposing it to be pure
carburetted hydrogen, it would have consumed four of oxygen.
Taking the elevations of temperature, and the quantities of oxy
gen consumed as the data, the ratios of the heat produced by
the combustion of the different gases, would be for hydrogen
 twenty-six, for olefiant gas 9'66, for sulphuretted hydrogen 6-66,
for carburetted hydrogen six, for carbonic oxide six*.
    It will be useless to reason upon this ratio as exact, for char
coal was deposited both from the olefiant gas and coal gas during
the experiment, and much sulphur was deposited from the sul
phuretted hydrogen ; and there is great reason to believe, that
the capacities of fluids for heat increase with their temperature.
 It confirms, however, the general conclusions, and proves that
 hydrogen stands at the head of the scale, and gaseous oxide of
 carbon at the bottom.       It might at first view be imagined that,
 according to this scale, the flame of carbonic oxide ought to be
 extinguished by rarefaction, at the same degree as that of car
 buretted hydrogen ; but it must be remembered, as I have men
 tioned in another place, that carbonic oxide is a much more
 combustible gas.      Carbonic oxide inflames in the atmosphere
 when brought     into contact with an iron wire heated to dull red
 ness, whereas carburetted hydrogen is not inflammable by a si
 milar wire, unless it is heated to whiteness so as to burn with
 sparks.                                            '
II.   On the Effects    of Rarefaction ly Heat   on Combustion and
                            Explosion.
  The results detailed in the preceding section are indirectly
opposed to the opinion of M. de Grotthus, that rarefaction by heat
destroys the combustibility of gaseous mixtures.    Before I made
any direct experiments on this subject, I endeavoured to ascer
tain the degree of expansion which can be communicated to
elastic fluids by the strongest heat that can be applied to glass
vessels.    For this purpose I introduced into a graduated curved
glass  tube  some fusible metal.    I heated the fusible metal and
the portion    of the tube containing the air included by   it,
                                                              under
boiling water for some time.     I   then placed the apparatus in     a
charcoal fire, and very gradually raised the temperature till the
fusible metal appeared luminous when viewed in the shade.        At
this time the air had expanded so as to occupy 2-25 parts in the
tube,  it being one at the temperature of boiling water.   Another
experiment    was   made in a thicker glass tube, and the heat was
    * These results maybe compared with Mr.Dalton's new System of
Chemical Philosophy ;they agree in showing that hydrogen produces more
heat   combustion than any of its compounds.
      in
                                                                  raised

                    Some new Researches on Flame.                          9
raised until the tube began to run together ; but though this
heat appeared cherry red, the expansion was not to more than
2-5, and a part of this might perhaps have been apparent only,
owing to the collapsing of the glass tube before it actually melted.
It may be supposed that the oxidation of the fusible metal may
have had some effect in making the expansion appear less ; but
in the first experiment the air was gradually brought back to its
original temperature of boiling water, when the absorption was
scarcely sensible.      If M. Gay Lussac's conclusions be taken as
the ground-work of calculation, and it be supposed that air ex
 pands equally for equal increments of temperature, it would ap
 pear that the temperature of air capable of rendering glass lu
 minous must be 1035° Fahrenheit*.
     M. de Grotthus describes an experiment in which atmospheric
 air and hydrogen, expanded to four times their bulk over mer
 cury by heat, would not inflame by the electric spark.                 It is
 evident, that in this experiment a large quantity of steam or of
 mercurial vapour must have been present, which, like other in-
 explosive elastic fluids, prevents combustion when mixed in cer
 tain quantities with explosive mixtures; but though he seems
 aware that his gases were not dry, yet he draws his general con
 clusion, that expansion by heat destroys the explosive powers of
 gases, principally from this inconclusive experiment.                        >
     I introduced into a small graduated tube over well boiled mer
 cury, a mixture of two parts of hydrogen and one of oxygen,
 and heated the tube by a large spirit-lamp till the volume of the
 gas was increased from I to 2-5 . I then, by means of a blow
 pipe and another spirit-lamp, made the upper part of the tube
 red hot, when an explosion instantly took place.
      I introduced into a bladder a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen,
 and connected this bladder with a thick glass tube of about
  I -6th of an inch in diameter and three feet long, curved so that
  it could be gradually heated in a charcoal furnace ; two spirit-
 lamps were placed under the tube where it entered the charcoal
 fire, and the mixture was very slowly pressed through : an ex
  plosion took place before the tube was red hot.
      This experiment shows that expansion by heat, instead of di
  minishing the combustibility of gases, on the contrary, enables
  them to explode apparently at a lower temperature, which seems
  perfectly reasonable, as a part of the heat communicated by any
  ignited body must be lost in gradually raising the temperature.
     • The mode of ascertaining
                                 temperatures as high as the point of fusion
  of   glass by the expansion of air, seems more unexceptionable than any
  other. It gives for the point of visible ignition nearly the same degree as
   that deduced by Newton from the times of the cooling of ignited metal in
  the atmosphere.
                                                                     I made

  10                Some new Researches on Flame.
 I  made several other experiments which establish the same con
 clusions.    A mixture of common air and hydrogen was intro
 duced into a small copper tube, having a stopper not quite tight ;
 the copper tube was placed in a charcoal fire : before it became
 visibly red an explosion took place, and the stopper was driven
 out.
     I made various experiments on explosions by passing mixtures
 of hydrogen and oxygen through heated tubes : in the beginning
 of one of these trials, in which the heat was much below redness,
 steam appeared to be formed without any combustion.          This led
 me to expose mixtures of oxygen and hydrogen in tubes, in which
 they were confined by fluid fusible metal to heat ; and I found
 that by carefully applying a heat between the boiling point of
 mercury, which is not sufficient for the effect, and a heat ap
 proaching to the greatest heat that can be given without making
 glass luminous in darkness, the combination was effected without
 any violence, and without any light: and commencing with 212',
 the volume of steam formed at the point of combination appeared
 exactly equal to that of the original gases.        So that the first
 effect in experiments of this kind is an expansion, afterwards a
 contraction, and then the restoration of the primitive volume.
     If when this change is going on, the heat he quickly raised to
Tedness, an explosion takes place ; but with small quantities of
gas the change is completed in less than a minute.
    It is probable, that the slow combination without combustion,
already long ago observed with respect to hydrogen and chlorine,
 oxygen and metals, will happen at certain temperatures with
most substances that unite by heat.           On trying charcoal, I
found that at a temperature which appeared to be a little above
the boiling point of quicksilver, it converted oxygen pretty rapidly
into carbonic acid, without any luminous appearance, and at a
dull red heat, the elements of defiant gas combined in a similar
manner with oxygen, slowly and without explosion.
    The effect of the slow combination of oxygen and hydrogen
is  not  connected with their rarefaction by heat, for I found that
it took place when the gases were confined in a tube by fusible
metal rendered solid at its upper surface ; and certainly as rapidly,
and without any appearance of light.
    M. de Grotthus has stated, that, if a glowing coal be brought
into contact with a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, it only
rarefies them, but does not explode them ; but this depends
upon the degree of heat communicated by the coal : if it is red
in day-light and free from ashes, it uniformly explodes the mix
ture ; if its redness is barely visible in shade, it will not explode
them, but cause their slow combination: and the general phe
nomenon is wholly unconnected with rarefaction, as is shown by

                  Some new Researches on Flame.                   1 1
the following    circumstance.   When the heat is greatest, and
before the invisible combination is completed, if an iron wire
heated to whiteness be placed upon the coal within the vessel,
the mixture instantly explodes.
    Light carburetted hydrogen, or pure fire-damp, as has been
shown, requires a very strong heat for its inflammation;   it there
fore offered a good substance for an experiment on the effect of
high degrees of rarefaction by heat on combustion.      I mixed to
gether one part of this gas and eight parts of air, and introduced
them into a bladder furnished with a capillary tube.       I heated
this tube till it began to melt, and then slowly passed the mix
ture through it into the flame of a spirit-lamp, when it took fire
and burned with its own peculiar explosive light beyond the
flame of the lamp, and when withdrawn, though the aperture
was quite white hot, it continued to burn vividly.
    That the compression in one part of an explosive mixture
produced by the sudden expansion of another part by heat, or
the electric spark, is not the cause of combination, as has been
supposed by Dr. Higgins, M. Berthollet, and others, appears to
be evident from what has been stated, and it is rendered still
more so by the following facts.     A mixture of hydro-phosphoric
gas (bi-phosphuretted hydrogen gas) and oxygen, which explode
at a heat a little above that of boiling water, was confined by
mercury, and very gradually heated on a sand-bath : when the
temperature of the mercury was 242°, the mixture exploded.
    A similar mixture was placed in a receiver communicating with
a condensing syringe, and condensed over mercury till it oc
cupied only l-5th of its original volume.       No explosion took
place, and no chemical change had occurred ; for when its volume
 was restored, it was instantly exploded by the spirit-lamp.
    It would appear, then, that the heat given out by the com
pression of gases is the real cause of the combustion which it
produces, and that at certain elevations of temperature, whether
in rarefied or compressed atmospheres, explosion or combustion
occurs, i. e. bodies combine with the production of heat and
light.
 III.  On  the Effects of the Mixture   of different Gases in   Ex
                      plosion and Combustion.
    in my first paper on the fire-damp of coal mines, I have men
tioned that carbonic acid gas has a greater power of destroying
the explosive power of mixtures of fire-damp and air than azote,
and I have ventured to suppose the cause to be its greater den
sity and capacity for heat, in consequence of which it might exert
a greater cooling agency, and prevent the temperature of the
mixture from being raised to that degree necessary for com
                                                            bustion.

   12               Some new Researches on Flame.
  bustion.    I have lately made a series of experiments with the
  view of determining how far this idea is correct, and for the pur
  pose of ascertaining the general phenomena of the effects of the
  mixture of gaseous substances upon explosion and combustion.
      I took given volumes of a mixture of two parts of hydrogen
  and one part of oxygen by measure, and diluting them with va
  rious quantities of different elastic fluids, I ascertained at what
  degree of dilution the power of inflammation by a strong spark
  from a Leyden phial was destroyed.          I found that for one of
   the mixture inflammation was prevented by
            Df Hydrogen, about           . .    . .    . .  8
                Oxygen         . .       , .   . .     . .  9
                Nitrous oxide           . .    ..      ..11
                Carburetted hydrogen            . .         1
                Sulphuretted hydrogen           . .    .. 2
                Olefiant gas             . .    ..      . .   |
                Muriatic acid gas        . .    . .    . .  2
                Silicated fluoric  acid   gas  . .     . .    £•
      Inflammation took place when the mixtures contained of
                Hydrogen       ..       . .    . .     . .  6
                Oxygen         . .      . .    ..      . .  7
                Nitrous oxide           ..     . .     ..10
                Carburetted hydrogen           . .     . .    |
                Olefiant gas            . .    . .     . .    ^
                Sulphuretted hydrogen          . .     . .  1£
                Muriatic acid gas       . .    ..     . .   1 \
                Fluoric acid gas        . .    . .    . .     f
      I hope to be able to repeat these experiments with more pie-
  cision at no distant time ; the results are not sufficiently exact
  to lay the foundation for any calculations on the relative cooling
  powers of equal volumes of the gases ; hut they show sufficiently,
  if the conclusions of MM. de la Roche and Berard be correct,
  that other causes, besides density and capacity for heat, inter
  fere with the phenomena.         Thus nitrous oxide, which is nearly
  l-3d denser than oxygen, and which, according to De la Roche
  and Berard, has a greater capacity for heat in the ratio of 1 -3503
  to "9765 in volume, has lower powers of preventing explosion ;
  and hydrogen, which is fifteen times lighter than oxygen, and
  which in equal volumes has a smaller capacity for heat, certainly
  has a higher power of preventing explosion ; and olefiant gas
  exceeds all other gaseous substances in a much higher ratio
  than could have been expected from its density and capacity.
. The olefiant gas I used was recently made, and might have con
  tained some vapour of ether, and the nitrous oxide was mixed
  with some azote, but these slight causes could not have interfered
  with the results to any considerable extent.

                      Some new Researches on Flame.                      13
    Mr. Leslie, in his elaborate and ingenious researches on heat,
has observed      the high powers of hydrogen of abstracting heat
from solid bodies, as compared with that of common air and
oxygen.        I made a few experiments on the comparison of the
powers     of  hydrogen, in this respect, with those of carburetted
hydrogen, azote, oxygen, defiant gas, nitrous oxide, chlorine,
and carbonic acid gas. The same thermometer raised to the
same temperature, J603, was exposed to equal volumes (21 cubic
inches) of defiant gas, coal gas, carbonic acid gas, chlorine,
nitrous oxide gas, hydrogen, oxygen, azote, and air,, at equal
temperatures, 52° Fahrenheit.
     The times required for cooling to 106° were for
Air           ., .. .. 2'0" Oxygen                   ..      .. 1-47
Hydrogen           .. ..        '45     Nitrous oxide*      .. 2-30-2-53
 Olefiant gas      .. .. 1-15 Carbonic acid gas* 2-45
 Coal gas          ...   .. •5.'5 Chlorine .. .. 3'6
 Azote             . .   . .   1 30
     It appears from these experiments, that the power of elastic
 fluids to abstract or conduct away heat from solid surfaces, is in
 gome inverse ratio to their density, and that there is something
 in the constitution of the light gases, which enables, them to
 carry off heat from solid surfaces in a different manner from that
 in which they would abstract it in gaseous mixtures, depending
 probably upon the mobility of their parts f.              The heating o.f
 gaseous     media   by the  contact of fluid or solid  bodies,  as has been
 shown by       Count  Rumford,    depends principally upon the change
 of place of their partieles ; and it is evident from the results
 stated in the beginning of this section, that these particles have
 different powers of abstracting heat analogous to the different
 powers of solids and fluids.          Where an elastic fluid exerts a
 cooling influence on a solid surface, the effect must depend prin
  cipally upon the rapidity with which its particles change their
 places : but where the cooling particles are mixed throughout" a
  mass with other gaseous particles, their effect must principally
  depend upon the power they possess of rapidly abstracting heat
  from the contiguous particles ; and this will depend probably
  upon two causes, the simple abstracting power by which they
  become quickly heated, and their capacity for heat, which is great
  in proportion as their temperatures are less raised by this abs
  traction.
     * These two last results were observed by Mr. Faraday of the Royal In
  stitution, (from whom I receive much useful assistanae in most of my ex
  periments,) when I was absent from the Laboratory.
     t Those particles which are lightest must be conceived most capable of
   ehanging place, and would therefore cool solid surfaces most rapidly: in
  the cooling of gaseous mixtures, the mobility of the particles can be of lit
  tle consequence.
                                                                   Whatever

 14                  Some new Researches on Flame.
    Whatever be the cause of the different cooling powers of the
 different elastic fluids in preventing inflammation, very simple
 experiments show that they operate uniformly with respect toi
 the different species of combustion, and that those explosive mix
 tures, or inflammable bodies, which require least heat for their
 combustion, require larger quantities of the different gases to
 prevent the effect, and vice versa; thus one of chlorine and one
 of hydrogen still inflame when mixed with eighteen times their
 bulk of oxygen, whereas a mixture of carburetted hydrogen and
 oxygen in the proper proportions for combinations, one and two,
 have their inflammation prevented by less than three times their
 volume of oxygen.
    A wax taper was instantly extinguished in air mixed with 1- 10th
 pf silicated fluoric acid gas, and in air mixed with 1 -6th of mu
 riatic acid gas ; hut the flame of hydrogen burned readily in
 those mixtures, and in mixtures in which the flame of hydrogen
 was extinguished, the flame of sulphur burned.
    There is a very simple experiment which demonstrates in an
elegant manner this general principle.      Into a long bottle with
a narrow neck introduce a lighted taper, and let it burn till it is
extinguished ; carefully stop the bottle, and introduce another
lighted taper, it will be extinguished before it reaches the bottom
of the neck: then introduce a small tube containing zinc and
diluted sulphuric acid, and at the aperture of which the hydro
gen is inflamed ; the hydrogen will be found to burn in whatever
part of the bottle the tube is placed : after the hydrogen is ex
tinguished, introduce lighted sulphur; this will burn for some
time, and after its extinction, phosphorus will be as luminous as
in the air, and, if heated in the bottle, will produce a pale yel
low flame of considerable density. •
    In cases when the heat required for chemical union is very
small, as in the instance of hydrogen and chlorine, a mixture
which prevents inflammation will not prevent combination, i. e.
the gases will combine without any flash. This I witnessed in
mixing two volumes of carburetted hydrogen with one of chlorine
and hydrogen ; muriatic acid was formed throughout the mix
ture, and heat produced, as was evident from the expansion when
the spark passed, and the rapid contraction afterwards, but the
heat was so quickly carried off by the quantity of carburetted
hydrogen that no flash was visible.
    In the case of phosphorus, which is combustible at the lowest
temperature of the atmosphere, no known admixture of elastic
fluid prevents the luminous appearance ; but this seems to de
pend upon the light being limited to the solid particles of phos
phoric acid formed ; whereas to produce flame, a certain mass
of elastic fluid must be luminous ; and there is every reason to
                                                             believe,

                  Some new Researches on Flame.                      15
believe, that when phasphuretted hydrogen explodes in very rare
air, it is only the phosphorus which is consumed.           Any other
substance that produces solid matter in combustion would pro
bably be luminous in air as rare, or in mixtures as diluted, as
phosphorus, provided the heat was elevated sufficiently for its
combustion.      I have found that this is actually the case with
respect to zinc.      1 threw some zinc filings into an ignited    iron
crucible fixed on the stand of an air-pump under a receiver, and
exhausted until only l-60th of the original quantity of air re
mained.      When I judged that the red hot crucible miist be full
of the vapour of zinc, I admitted about l-60th more of air,
when a bright flash of light took place in and above the cruci
ble, similar to that whicli is produced by admitting air to the
vapour of phosphorus in vacuo.
   The cooling power of mixtures of elastic fluids in preventing
combustion must increase with their condensation, and diminish
with their rarefaction ; at the same time, the quantity of matter
entering into combustion in given spaces, is relatively increased
and diminished.        The experiments on flame in rarefied atmo
spherical air, show that the quantity of heat produced in com
bustion is very slowly diminished by rarefaction, the diminution
of the cooling power of the azote being apparently in a higher
ratio than the diminution of the heating powers of the burning
 bodies.    I endeavoured to ascertain what would be the effect of
condensation on flame in atmospheric air, and whether the cool
ing power of the azote would increase in a lower ratio, as might
be expected, than the heat produced by the increase of the quan*
tity of matter entering into combustion ; but I found consider
able difficulties in making the experiments with precision.            I
ascertained,   however,    that both the light and  heat of the flames
of the taper, of sulphur and hydrogen, were increased by acting
on them by air condensed four times ; but not more than they
would have been by an addition of 1 -5th of oxygen.
    I condensed air nearly five times, and ignited iron wire to
whiteness in it by the voltaic apparatus; but the combustion took
place with very little more brightness than in the common at
mosphere, and would not continue as in oxygen, nor did char
 coal burn much more brightly in this compressed air than in
 common air.       I intend to repeat these experiments, if possible,
 with higher condensing powers : they show sufficiently that (for
 certain limits at least) as rarefaction does not diminish consider
 ably the heat of flame in atmospherical air, so neither does con
 densation considerably increase it ; a circumstance of great im
 portance in the constitution of our atmosphere, which at all the
 heights or depths at which man can exist still preserves the
same relations to combustion.
                                                                      It

16                Some new Researches on Flame.
   It may be concluded from the general-law,       that at high tem
peratures, gases     not  concerned  in  combustion   will have less
powers of preventing that operation,       and likewise, that steam
and vapours, which require a considerable heat for their forma
tion, will have less effect in preventing combustion, particularly
of those bodies requiring low temperatures, than gases at the
common heat of the atmosphere.                                    >
    I have made some experiments on the effects of steam, and
their results were conformable to these views.        I found that a
very large quantity of steam was necessary to prevent sulphur
from burning.      Oxygen and hydrogen exploded by the electric
spark when mixed with five times their volume of steam; and
even a mixture of air and carburetted hydrogen gas, the least
explosive of all mixtures, required a third of steam to prevent its
explosion, whereas 1 -5th of azote produced the effect.         These
trials were made over mercury; heat was applied to water above
the mercury, and 37-5 for 100 parts was regarded as the cor
rection for the expansion of the gases.
    It \s probable that with certain heated mixtures of gases, where
the non-supporting or non-inflammable elastic fluids are in great
quantities, combination with oxygen will take place, as in the
instance mentioned, page 14, of hydrogen and chlorine, with-
out any light, for the temperature produced will not be sufficient
to render elastic media luminous ; and there are no combustions,
except those of the compounds of phosphorus and the metals,
in which solid matters are the result of combinations with oxyv
gen.      I have shown in the paper referred to in the introduction,
that the light of common flames depends almost entirely upon
the deposition, ignition and combustion of solid charcoal ; but
to produce this deposition from gaseous substances demands a
high temperature.        Phosphorus, which rises in vapour at com-    -
mon temperatures, and the vapour of which combines with oxy
gen at those temperatures, as I have mentioned before, is always
luminous, for each particle of acid formed must, there is every
reason to believe, be white hot ; but so few of these particles
exist in a given space that they scarcely raise the temperature
of a solid body exposed to them, though, as in the rapid com
bustion of phosphorus, where immense numbets are existing in
                                                                .
a small space, they produce a most intense heat.'        .  . :
    In all cases the quantity of heat communicated by combustion,
will be in proportion to the quantity of burning matter coming
in contact with the body to be heated. Thus, the blow-pipe and
currents of air operate.      In the atmosphere, the effect is im
peded by the mixture of azote, though still it is very great : with
pure oxygen compression produces an immense effect, and with
currents of oxygen and hydrogen, there is every reason to believe

                      Some new Researches on Flame,                        17
that solid matters are made to attain the temperature of the
flame.      This temperature, however, evidently presents the limit
to experiments of this kind; for bodies exposed to flame can never
be hotter than flame itself ; whereas in the Voltaic apparatus
there seems to be no limit to the heat, except the volatilization
of the conductors.
     The temperatures of flames are probably very different. Where,
in chemical changes, there is no change of volume, as in the
instance of the mutual action of chlorine and hydrogen, prussie
gas (cyanogen) and oxygen, approximations to their tempera
tures may be gained from the expansion in explosion.
     I have made some experiments of this kind by detonating the
gases by the electrical spark in a curved tube containing mercury
or water; and. I judged of the expansion from the quantity of
fluid thrown out of the tube : the resistance opposed by mercury,
and its great cooling powers, rendered the results very unsatis
 factory in the cases in which it was used ; but with water, cy^
anogen and oxygen being employed, they were more conclusive.
 Cyanogen and oxygen, in the proportion of one to two, detonated
 in a tube of about 2-5ths of an inch in diameter, displaced a quan
 tity of water which demonstrated an expansion of fifteen times
 their original bulk.        This would indicate a temperature of above
 5000° of Fahrenheit, and the real temperature is probably much
 higher ; for heat must be lost by communication to the tube and
 the water.      The heat of the gaseous carbon in combustion in this
 gas, appears more intense than that of hydrogen ; for I found a
 filament of platinum was fused by a flame of cyanogen in the air
 which was not fused by a similar flame of hydrogen.
      IV. Some general Observations, and practical Inferences.
     The knowledge of the cooling power of elastic media in pre
 venting the explosion of the fire-damp, led me to those practical
 researches which terminated in the discovery of the wire-gauze
 safe-lamp; and the general investigation of the relation and
 extent of these powers serves to elucidate the operation of wire-
 gauze and other tissues or systems of apertures permeable to
 light and air, in intercepting flame, and confirms the views \
  originally gave of the phenomenon.
     Flame is gaseous matter heated so highly as to be luminous,
  and that to a degree of temperature beyond the white heat of
 solid bodies, as is shown by the circumstance, that air not lu
  minous will communicate this degree of heat*. When an at
  tempt is made to pass flame through a very fine mesh of wire-
     * This is proved                            of         a fine wire of
                       by  the simple experiment    holding                pla
  tinum about the l-20th of an inch from the exterior of the middle of the
  flame of a spirit-lamp, and concealing the flame by an opaque body. The
  wire will become white hot in a space where there is no visible light.
     Vol.  SO.  No.23   1.  July  1817.              B                  gauze

18                         Some new Researches on Flame.
 gauze at the common temperature, the gauze cools each portion
 of the elastic matter that passes through                        it,
                                                        so as to reduce its
 temperature below that degree at which                 luminous, and the
                                                              it   is
 diminution of temperature must be proportional to the smallness
 of the mesh and the mass of the metal. The power of metal                         a
 lic or other tissue to prevent explosion, will depend upon the
 heat required to produce the combustion as compared with that
 aajaired        the tissue and the flame of the most inflammable
                by                     ;
 substances, and of those that produce most heat in combustion,
 will pass through           metallic tissue that will interrupt the flame
                                   a
 of less inflammable substances, or those that produce little heat
 in combustion.        Or the tissue being the same, and impermeable
 to all flames at common temperatures, the flames of the most
 combustible substances, and of those which produce most heat, will
 most readily pass through              when
                                           it       heated, and each will
                                                        it   is
 pass through        at
                      it     different degree of temperature.
                                   a                              In short,
 all the circumstances which apply to the effect of cooling mix
 tures upon flame, will apply to cooling perforated surfaces. Thus,
 the flame of phosphuretted hydrogen at common temperatures,
 will pass through         tissue sufficiently large not to he immediately
                               a
 choked up           by
                   the phosphoric acid formed, and the phosphorus
 deposited*.          tissue of 100 apertures to the square inch, made
                      A
 of wire of -60th, will at common temperatures intercept .,the
                 1
 flame of       aspirit-lamp but not that of hydrogen} and when
strongly   heated,         will no longer arrest the flame of the spirit-
                              it
lamp.       A tissue   which    will not interrupt the flame of hydrogen
when red hot, will still intercept that of olefiant gas; and heated                a
tissue which would communicate explosion from                    mixture of
olefiant gas and air, will stop an explosion from               mixture of   a a
fire-damp, or carburetted hydrogen.
    The ratio of the combustibility of the different gaseous matters
is  likewise to       certain extent as the masses of heated matter
                          a
required to inflame themf.             Thus an iron wire of l-40th of an
inch heated cherry red, will not inflame olefiant gas, but              will           it
inflame hydrogen gas            and    wire of -8th, heated to the same
                                       ;   a             1
degree, will inflame olefiant gas            but a wire of l-500dth must
                                                ;
be heated to whiteness to inflame hydrogen, though at              low red         a
heat  it will inflame bi-phosphuretted gas but wire of -40th  ;                        1
  •   Ifa tissue containing above 700 aperturfs to the square inch be held
over the flame of phosphorus or phosphuretted hydrogen,       does not trans
                                                                        it
mit the flame till it   sufficiently heated to enable the phosphorus to pass
                              is
through    itin vapour. Phosphuretted hydrogen         decomposed  in flame,
                                                                  is
and acts exactly like phosphorus.
  + It appeared to me these experiments, that the worst conducting and
                                   in
best radiating substances required to be heated higher for equal masses to
produce the same effect upon the gases thus, red hot charcoal had evi
                                                    :
dently less power of inflammation than red hot iron,
                                                                                       heated

                             Some new Researches on Flame.                     19
heated even to whiteness will not inflame mixtures of fire
damp.
    These circumstances will explain, why a mesh of wire so much
finer is required to prevent the explosion from hydrogen and
oxygen from passing, and why so coarse a texture and wire is
sufficient to prevent the explosion of the fire-damp, fortunately
the least combustible of the known inflammable gases.
    The general doctrine of the operation of wire-gauze cannot
be better elucidated than in its effects upon the flame of sulphur.
When wire-gauze of 600 or 700 apertures to the square inch is
held over the flame, fumes of condensed sulphur immediately
come through           and the flame
                         it,            intercepted
                                             is         the fumes con
                                                                 ;
tinue for some instants, but as the heat increases they diminish                ;
and at the moment they disappear, which           long before the gauze
                                                            is
becomes red hot, the flame passes; the temperature at which
sulphur bums being that at which                  it
                                              gaseous. is
    Another very simple illustration of the truth of this view                  is
offered      the effect of the cooling agency of metallic surfaces
              in
upon very small flames.        Let the smallest possible flame be made
by   a single thread of cotton immersed in oil, and burning im
 mediately upon the surface of the oil:            will be found to be
                                                            it
about l-30th of an inch in diameter.            Let fine iron wire of
                                                                 a
 l-180th be made into a circle of 1-1 0th of an inch in diameter,
and brought over the flame.         Though at such distance,     a    willit
instantly extinguish the flume,         be cold: but
                                         if  it            be held above
                                                                 if  it
the flame, so as to be slightly heated, the flame may be passed
through       without being extinguished.
               it                               That the effect depends
entirely upon the power of the metal to abstract the heat of
flame,       shown
              is          bringing a glass capillary ring of the same
                               by
diameter and size over the flame this being   ;        much worse con
                                                                 a
ductor of heat, will not extinguish            even  when
                                                       it   cold.      itsIf
sjze however be made greater, and its circumference smaller,                   it
will act like the metallic wire, and require to be heated to pre
vent      from extinguishing the flame*.
         it
    Suppose      flame divided
                    a                   by
                                    the wire-gauze into smaller flames,
 each flame must be extinguished           passing its aperture till that
                                                 in
 aperture    has   attained     temperature sufficient to produce the
                                    a
 permanent combustion of the explosive mixture.
  A    flame of sulphur may be made much smaller than that of
 hydrogen, that of hydrogen smaller than that of           wick fed with
                                                                     a
  * Let tf small globe of metal l-20th of an inch in diameter made
                                                                          by
fusing tlie end of a wire be brought, near   flame of l-SOth in diameter,
                                                      n                         it
will extinguish    when cold at the distance of its own diameter; let
                        it                                                be
                                                                           it
heated, and the distance will diminish at which     produces the extinction;
                                                            it
and at white heat
          a            does not extinguish
                               it             by actual contact, though at
                                                       it                       a
dull red heat    immediately produces the effect.
                    it
                                        B    2                                 oil,

20                Some new Researches on Flame.
oil, and that of a wick fed with oil smaller than that of car-
buretted hydrogen ; and a ring of cool wire which instantly ex
tinguishes the flame of carburetted hydrogen, only slightly di
minishes the size of a flame of sulphur of the same dimensions.
     Where rapid currents of explosive mixtures are made to act
upon wire-gauze, it is of course much more rapidly heated ; and
therefore the same mesh which arrests the flames of explosive
mixtures at rest, will suffer them to pass when in rapid motion ;
but by increasing the cooling surface by diminishing the size, or
increasing the depth of the aperture, all flames, however rapid
their motion, may be arrested.       Precisely the same law applies
 to explosions acting in close vessels : very minute apertures when
 they are only few in number will permit explosions to pass, which
 are arrested by much larger apertures when they fill a whole
surface.    A small aperture was drilled at the bottom of a wire-
gauze lamp in the cylindrical ring which confines the wire-gauze ;
 this, though less than 1 - 18th of an inch in diameter, passed the
 flame and fired the external atmosphere, in consequence of the
 whole force of the explosion of the thin stratum of the mixture
 included within the cylinder driving the flame through the aper
 ture ; though, had the whole ring been composed of such aper
 tures separated by wires, it would have been perfectly safe.
                                                                      •
      Nothing can demonstrate more decidedly than these simple
 facts and observations, that the interruption of flame by solid
  tissues permeable to light and air, depends upon no recondite or
 mysterious cause, but to their cooling powers, simply considered
 as such.
     When a light included in a cage of wire-gauze is introduced
 into an explosive atmosphere of fire-damp at rest, the maximum
  of heat is soon obtained; the radiating power of the wire, and
  the cooling effect of the atmosphere, more efficient from the
 mixture of inflammable air, prevent it from ever arriving at a
  temperature equal to that of dull redness.     In rapid currents of
  explosive  mixtures of fire-damp,  which  heat common gauze to a
 higher temperature, twilkd gauze, in which the radiating sur
 face is considerably greater, and the circulation of air less, pre
 serves an equal temperature.       Indeed the heat communicated
  to the wire by combustion of the fire-damp in wire-gauze lamps,
  is completely in the power of the manufacturer; for by diminish
  ing the apertures and increasing the mass of metal, or the ra
  diating surface, it may be diminished to any extent.
      I have lately had lamps made of thick twilled gauze of wires
  of 1 -40th, sixteen to the warp, and thirty to the weft, which
  being riveted to the screw, cannot be displaced ; from its flexi
  bility it cannot be broken, and from its strength cannot be
  Crushed, except by a very strong blow,
                                                                Even

                   Some new Researches on Flame.                   21
     Even in the common lamps the flexibility of the material has
 been found of great importance ; and I could quote one instance
 of a dreadful accident having been prevented, which must have
 happened had any other material than wire-gauze been employed
 in the construction of the lamp : and how little difficulty has oc
 curred in the practical application of the invention, is shown by
 the circumstance, that it has been now for ten months in the
hands of hundreds of common miners in the most dangerous
 mines in Britain, during which time not a single accident has
 occurred where it has been employed, whilst in other mines, much
 less dangerous, where it has not yet been adopted, some lives
 have been lost, and many persons burned.
     The facts stated in Section II. explain why so much more heat
is obtained from fuel when it is burnt quickly; and they show
that in all cases the temperature of the acting bodies should be
kept as high as possible, not only because the general increment
of heat is greater, but likewise, because those combinations are
prevented which at lower temperatures take place without any
considerable production of heat : — thus, in the Argand lamp, the
Liverpool lamp, and in the best fire-places, the increase of ef
fect does not depend merely upon the rapid current of air, but
likewise upon the heat preserved by the arrangements of the
materials of the chimney, and communicated to the matters en
tering into inflammation.
 •
    These facts likewise explain the methods by which tempera
ture may be increased, and the limit to certain methods.        Cur
rents of flame, as it was stated in the last section, can never
raise the heat of bodies exposed to them, higher than a certain
degree, their own temperature ; but by compression, there can
be no doubt, the heat of flames from pure supporters and com
bustible matter may be greatly increased, probably in the ratio
of their compression.      In the blow-pipe of oxygen and hydro
gen, the maximum of temperature is close to the aperture from
which the gases are disengaged, i. e. where their density is
greatest.    Probably a degree of temperature far beyond any that
has been yet attained may be produced by throwing the flame
from compressed oxygen and hydrogen into the Voltaic arc, and
thus combining the two most powerful agents for increasing
temperature.
    The circumstances mentioned in this paper,combined with those
noticed in the paper on flame printed in Mr.Brande's Journal of
Science and the Arts, explain the nature of the light of flames
 and their form.    When in flames pure gaseous matter is burnt,
 the light is extremely feeble : the density of a common flame is
 proportional to the quantity of solid charcoal first deposited and
afterwards fourntt The form of the flame is conical, because the
                                 B 3                         greatest

22                .Experiments and Observations
greatest   heat is in the centre of the explosive mixture.            In
looking steadfastly   at flame,  the part where   the combustible   mat
ter is volatilized is seen, and it appears dark, contrasted with the
part in which it begins to burn, that is where it is so mixed with
.air as to become explosive.       The heat diminishes towards the
top of the flame, because in this part the quantity of oxygen is
 least.   When the wick increases to a considerable size from
collecting charcoal, it cools the flame by radiation, and prevents
 a proper quantity of air from mixing with its central part ; in
consequence, the charcoal thrown off from the top of the flame
is only red hot, and the greater part of it escapes unconsumed.
    The intensity of the light of flames in the atmosphere is in
 creased by condensation, and diminished by rarefaction, appa
rently in a higher ratio than their heat ; more particles capable
of emitting light exist in the denser atmospheres, and yet most
of these particles, in becoming capable of emitting light, absorb
heat; which could not be the case in the condensation of a pure
supporting medium.
    The facts stated in Section I. show that the luminous appear
 ances of shooting stars and meteors cannot be owing to any in
flammation of elastic fluids, but must depend upon the ignition
of solid bodies. Dr. Halley calculated the height of a meteor
at ninety miles, and the great American meteor which threw
down showers of stones was estimated at seventeen miles high.
The velocity of motion of these bodies must in all cases be im
mensely great, and the heat produced by the compression of the
most rarefied air from the velocity of motion must be probably
sufficient to ignite the mass ; and all the phenomena may be
explained, iffalling stars be supposed to be small solid bodies
moving round the earth in verv eccentric orbits, which become
ignited only when they pass with immense velocity through the
upper regions of the atmosphere, and if the meteoric bodies which
throw down stones with explosions be supposed to be similar
bodies which contain either combustible or elastic matter.
   Cobham-hull, Kent, Jan. 8, 1817.
Some new Experhnents         and Observations on the Combustion       of
                        Gaseozis  Mixtures,   &c.
 . In a paper read before the Royal Society at their last two
meetings, I have described the phenomena of the slow com
bustion of hydrogen and olefiant gas without flame.         In the same
paper I have shown, that the temperature of flame is infinitely
higher than that necessary for the ignition of solid bodies.          It
appeared   to  me, therefore, probable,   that in certain combinations
of gaseous bodies, for instance, those above referred to, when

              on the Comlustion  of  Gaseous Mixtures.            23
 the increase of temperature was not sufficient to render the
 gaseous matters themselves luminous ; yet still it might be
 adequate to ignite solid matters exposed to them.        I had de
 vised several experiments on this subject.      I had intended to
 expose fine wires to oxygen and defiant gas, and to oxygen
 and hydrogen during their slow combination under different cir
 cumstances, when 1 was accidentally led to the knowledge of the
fad, and, at the same time, to the discovery of a new and cu
 rious series of phenomena.
     I was making experiments on the increase of the limits of the
 combustibility of gaseous mixtures of coal gas and air by in
 crease of temperature.     For this purpose, I introduced a small
 wire-gauze safe-lamp with some fine wire of platinum fixed
 above the flame, into a combustible mixture containing the
 maximum of coal ga3; and when the inflammation had taken
 place in the wire-gauze cylinder, I threw in more coal gas, ex
 pecting that the heat acquired by the mixed gas in passing
 through the wire-gauze would prevent the excess from extirf->
 guishing the flame. "The flame continued for two or three se
  conds after the coal gas was introduced; and when it was ex
 tinguished, that part of the wire of platinum which had been
 hottest remained ignited, and continued so for many minutes,
 and when it was removed into a dark room, it was evident that
  there was no flame in the cylinder.
    It was immediately obvious that this was the result which I
 had hoped to attain by other methods, and that the oxygen and
 coal gas in contact with the hot wire combined without flame,
 and yet produced heat enough to preserve the wire ignited, and
 to keep up their own combustion.        I proved the truth of this
 conclusion by making a similar mixture, heating a fine wire of
 platinum and introducing it into the mixture.       It immediately
 became ignited nearly to whiteness, as if it had been itself in
 actual combustion, and continued glowing for a long while; and
 when it was extinguished, the inflammability of the mixture was
 found entirely destroyed.
    A temperature much below ignition only was necessary for
 producing this curious phenomenon, and the wire was repeatedly
 taken out and cooled in the atmosphere till it ceased to be visibly
 red ; and yet when admitted again, it instantly became red hot.
 •
    The same phenomena were produced with mixtures of olefiant
 gas and air, carbonic oxide, prussic gas and hydrogen, and in
 the last case with a rapid production of water ; and the degree
 of heat I found could be regulated by the thickness of the wire.
 The wire, when of the same thickness, became more ignited in
 hydrogen than in mixtures of olefiant gas, and more in mixtures
 of olefiant gas than in those of gaseous oxide of carbon.
                                   B 4                       When

2-t           ~    Experiments and Observations
    When the wire was very fine, about the l-80th of      an inch in
diameter,   its heat increased  in very  combustible mixtures, so as
to explode them.      The same wire in less combustible mixtures
only continued bright red, or dull red, according to the nature
of the mixture.
    In mixtures not explosive by flame within certain limits, these
curious phenomena took place whether the air or the inflamma
ble gas was in excess.
    The same circumstance occurred with certain inflammable
vapours.     I have tried those of ether, alcohol, oil of turpentine
and naphtha.      There cannot be a better mode of illustrating the
fact, than by an experiment on the vapour of ether or of alcohol,
which any person may make in a minute.          Let a drop of ether
be thrown into a cold glass, or a drop of alcohol into a warm
one.    Let a few coils of wire of platinum of the l-60th or l-70th
of an inch be heated at a hot poker or a candle, and let it be
brought into the glass ; it will in some part of the glass become
glowing, almost white hot, and will continue so as long as a
sufficient quantity of vapour and of air remain in the glass.
   When the experiment on the slow combustion of ether is made
in the dark, a pale phosphorescent light is perceived above the
wire, which of course is most distinct when the wire ceases to
be ignited.     This appearance is connected with the formation of
a peculiar acrid volatile substance possessed of acid properties.
   The chemical changes in general produced by slow combus
tion appear worthy of investigation.      A wire of platinum intro
duced under the usual circumstances into a mixture of prussic
gas (cyanogen) and oxygen in excess became ignited to white
ness, and the yellow vapours of nitrous acid were observed in the
mixture.     And in a mixture of olefiant gas non-explosive from
the excess of inflammable gas, much carbonic oxide was formed.
   I have tried to produce these phenomena with various metals :
but I have succeeded only with platinum and palladium ; with
copper, silver, iron, gold, and zinc, the effect is not produced.
Platinum and palladium have low conducting powers, and small
capacities for heat, compared with other metals; and these seem
to be the principal causes of their producing, continuing, and
rendering sensible these slow combustions.
   I have tried some earthy substances which are bad conductors
of heat ; but their capacities and power of radiating heat appear
to interfere.    A thin film of carbonaceous matter entirely de
stroys the igniting power of platinum, and a slight coating of
sulphuret deprives palladium of this property, which must prin
cipally depend upon their increasing the power of the metals to
radiate heat.
   Thin lamine of the metals, if their form admits of a. free cir
                                                             culation

              o?2 the Combustion  of  Gaseous Mixtures.            25
culation of air, answer as well as fine wires; and a large surface
of platinum may be made red hot in the vapour of ether, or in
a combustible mixture of coal gas and air.
     I need not dwell upon the connection of these facts respecting
slow combustion, with the other facts I have described in the
history of flame.      Many theoretical views will arise from this
connection, and hints for new researches, which I hope to be
able to pursue in another communication.           I shall now con
clude by a practical application.      By hanging some coils of fine
wire of platinum, or a fine sheet of platinum or palladium, above
the wick of his lamp, in the wire-gauze cylinder, the coal miner,
there is every reason to believe, will be supplied with light in
mixtures of fire-damp no longer explosive ; and should his flame
be extinguished by the quantity of fire-damp, the glow of the
metal will continue to guide him; and by placing the lamp in
different parts of the gallery, the relative brightness of the wire
will show the state of the atmosphere in these parts.        Nor can
there be any danger with respect to respiration whenever the
wire continues ignited, for even this phenomenon ceases when
the foul air forms about 2-5 ths of the volume of the atmosphere.
     I introduced into a wire-gauze safe-lamp a small cage made
of fine wire of platinum of the l-70th of an inch in thickness,
and fixed it by means of a thick wire of platinum about two
inches above the wick which was lighted.          I placed the whole
apparatus in a large receiver, in which, by means of a gas-holder,
the air could be contaminated to any extent with coal gas. As
soon as there was a slight admixture of coal gas, the platinum
became ignited; the ignition continued to increase till the flame
of the wick was extinguished, and till the whole cylinder became
 filled with flame; it then diminished.       When the quantity of
coal gas was increased so as to extinguish the flame ; at the mo
 ment of the extinction the cage of platinum became white hot,
 and presented a most brilliant light.     By increasing the quantity
 of the coal gas still further, the ignition of the platinum became
 less vivid.    When its light was barely sensible, small quantities
 of air were admitted, its heat speedily increased ; and by regu
 lating the admission of coal gas and air it again became white
 hot, and soon after lighted the flame in the cylinder, which as
 usual, by the addition of more atmospherical air, re-kindled the
 flame of the wick.
     This experiment has been very often repeated, and always with
 the same results.     When the wire for the support of the cage,
 whether of platinum, silver, or copper, was very thick, it re
 tained sufficient heat to enable the fine platinum wire to re
 kindle in a proper miiturc a half a minute after its light had
                                                                teen

 26          On the Comlustion    of Gaseous Mixtures.
 been entirely destroyed by an atmosphere of pure coal gas'; and by
 increasing its thickness the period might be made still longer.
    The phenomenon of the ignition of the platinum takes place
feebly in a mixture consisting of two of air and one of coal gas, and
 brilliantly in a mixture consisting of three of air and one of coal
gas : the greater the quantity of heat produced the greater may
 be the quantity of the coal gas, so that a large tissue of wire will
burn in a more inflammable mixture than single filaments, and a
wire made white hot will burn in a more inflammable mixture
than one made red hot.         If a mixture of three parts of air and
 one of fire-damp be introduced into a bottle, and inflamed at its
point of contact with the atmosphere, it will not explode, but
 will burn like a pure inflammable substance. If a fine wire of
platinum coiled at its end be slowly passed through the flame',
it will continue ignited in the body of the mixture, and the same
 gaseous matter will be found to be inflammable and to support
 combustion.
    There is every reason to hope that the same phenomena will
occur with the cage of platinum in the fire-damp, as those which
have been described in its operation on mixtures of coal gas. In
trying experiments in fire-damp, the greatest care must be taken
that no filament or wire of platinum protrudes on the exterior
of the lamp, for this would fire externally an explosive mixture.
However small the mass of platinum which kindles an explosive
mixture in the safe-lamp, the result is the same as when large
masses are used ; the force of the explosion is directed to, and
the flame arrested by, the whole of the perforated tissue.
    When a large cage of wire of platinum is introduced into a-
very small safe-lamp, even explosive mixtures of fire-damp are
burnt without flame ; and by placing any cage of platinum in
the bottom of the lamp round the wick, the wire is prevented
from being smoked.        I have sent lamps furnished with this ap
paratus to be tried in the coal mines of Newcastle and White
haven : and I anxiously wait for the accounts of their effects in
atmospheres in which no other permanent light can be produced
by combustion.
'
   London, Jan. 22, 181f.
                  Explanation of Figures, Plate I.
   Fig. A is a small cage made of wire of platinum, of l-70th or
1 -80th of an inch in thickness, fastened to a wire for raising it
above the wick, for giving light in inflammable media, containing
too little air to be explosive.
   Figures B and B are a similar cage for placing in the bottom
of the lamp, to prevent it from being »moked by the wick.
      /••'
 ;                                               •         II. On

                                      [        27   ]
     II.   On Aerial Navigation.               By Sir Gjeorge Caylby, Bart.
                                 To   Mr. Tillock.
    Sir, — Since      my last paper oh Aerial Navigation, several
    scattered observations have been made upon this subject in your
    Magazine ; and although it has not met with all the encourage
    ment it deserves, yet it has received as much notice as can rea
    sonably be expected, when it is considered that it invites its sup
    porters to a subscription, during an unparalleled period of public
    pecuniary privation.    I am glad to find that a gentleman of di
    stinguished literary and scientific reputation has stated to you
    his intention of subscribing fifty pounds towards any experiments
    on this subject, that may be conducted by men of science; al
    luding, I conceive, to the committee proposed in one of my
    papers.    Mr. Evans has likewise signified his intention of sub
    scribing, in conjunction with Mr. Lovell Edgeworth* and myself.
    It therefore becomes necessary to publish the present amount of
    the subscriptions, which I propose, subject to the permission of
    these two gentlemen, may be done in your Magazine for July; by
    -which time I hope a few more names may be added, and a fund
    for experiments on the improvement of balloons be commenced,
    which will in time enable the capabilities of this interesting in
    vention to be properly investigated and ascertained, under the
i   inspection of a committee of scientific persons, acting with the
    advice of the best professional engineers in the country)-. Surely,
    when it is considered that this leading discovery of suspending
    heavy bodies in the air by balloons is but recent in our age ; and
    that the cumbrous and expensive nature of their structure has
    placed the proper scale of experiments far beyond the expense
    that individuals choose to appropriate to such purposes, — it can
    not be deemed absurd, or even unworthy a sense of national
    pride, by a combined effort of intelligence and contribution, to
    rescue this noble invention from for ever remaining a gaudy
    bubble in the hands of exhibition-makers.         All that I ask of
    men of information upon matters of this nature             is,
                                                           to combine,
    and to try such rational experiments, as would show               by
                                                                degrees
     *   Sir George will have learnt      by
                                         this time that the gentleman whom he
    here names  is now no more, lie was the gentleman who had agreed to sub
    scribe tifty pounds. — Euit.                                             .'   ,
    t
    I      stated last year to Mr. Tilloch the amount of my subscription, as
    the original promoter, under certain conditions; for the present I   shall say
    60 pounds; but   I   by
                          no means wish gentlemen disposed to forward experi
    ments on this subject to subscribe upon      high scale, as a greater amount
                                                    a
    may probably be obtained    insubscriptions of from one to ten pounds.
                                                                             how

 28                    On Aerial Nauigalion.
how far it is practicable to guide balloons : —such a committee as
 I propose would never enter into any of those projects which,
whether ultimately false or true, are at present too many steps
m advance to be proper objects of their immediate attention ;
but, commencing with what has been ascertained upon this sub
ject, would advance step by step from that point, as far as the
present state of our knowledge of first moving powers will per
 mit.
    The title and terms of the subscription   I therefore propose to
be as follows :
    WE,   the undersigned parties, enter into the following subscrip
 tion, for the purpose of ascertaining how far the principle of
balloons supporting heavy burthens in the air may he made use
ful as a means of conveyance.
    No person to be called upon for his subscription money till at
least 1000Z. be subscribed for.
    When the subscription has reached this amount, an annual
committee of seven of the subscribers to be elected; — every sub
scriber of one pound and of less than five pounds to have one vote
on this and all other occasions.      Subscribers of five pounds to
have two votes; and subscribers of larger sums to have one ad
ditional vote for every additional five pounds they subscribe.
    No experiments to be undertaken but by order of this com
mittee, who may call in the advice of such civil engineers as
they choose to consult.
    An annual report of the application of the fund, and the result
of the experiments made, to be printed for the use of the sub
scribers.
    These regulations being the basis upon which the subscription
is made, cannot be altered; but subsequent rules not militating
against these, may be entered into at a general meeting of the
subscribers, expressly convened for the purpose.
    Having now stated my sentiments respecting the general bear
ing of this subject, I proceed to notice some remarks that have
been made by others since my late papers.        Mr. Evans has sug
gested as an improvement upon the triple tier of wing waftage
by the steam-engine, that a rotary movement with oblique sur
faces will be preferable, on account of the continual loss of power
which he conceives to take place in putting these surfaces into
motion from a state of rest. This reasoning against reciprocat
ing movements is in general perfectly correct, but in this case
the maxim does not hold good.          The whole power communi
cated to these wafting surfaces is applied in the commencement

                           On Aerial Navigation.                       29
to overcome the vis inertice of the materials of which they are
composed, and the gradually increasing resistance of the air. To
wards the termination of the waft, if the movement be properly
contrived, the momentum accumulated in these surfaces will pro
long the effective waft as much beyond the time when the effort
of the first mover has ceased, as will exactly restore the power
absorbed at the commencement of the action.              Thus the whole
power will have been expended on the resistance of the air, and
consequently in propelling the balloon.
     There are several difficulties of construction which occur in
rotative wafts ; the chief of which are, giving firm support and
communicating motion to the axis at the necessary distance it is
obliged to be placed from the boat ; whereas in the wing waftage
 the hinge is on the solid frame of the boat.            The wing con
 struction likewise offers an advantage of great importance,— that
 of providing, if properly managed, a safe descent in case of acci
 dent to the balloon.        The chief advantage of the rotary move
 ment    is its uniform   action.    I think either construction may be
 made effectual, but I prefer the wing plan as the easiest for our
 first experiments.       Mr. Evans may see in my early papers upon
 this subject, that revolving flyers had not escaped my attention:
 indeed, the first experiment I made upon- the mechanical prin
 ciples of aerial navigation, was successfully executed, though on a
  very small scale and by very simple means, upon this very plan*.
     Some very ingenious observations on the subject of aerial na
 vigation are made by a correspondent in your Magazine for
  March 1817- In the third paragraph, respecting the means of
  vertical motion, the plan of condensing air into a second bal
  loon is adverted to as worthy of particular attention.         This plan
  of increasing the specific gravity by condensation, and lessening
  it again by the escape of the condensed air, was one of the earliest
  suggestions of the balloon-makers; but, though founded on a true
  principle, is quite inefficient in practice.      The elastic pressure
  of air increasing as its density, no cloth is able to bear the force
  required: for instance, if a cloth be capable of resisting a lineal
  tension of five hundred pounds to the foot, let a balloon twenty
  feet in diameter be constructed of this cloth ; it will readily be
  found upon calculation, that only from seventeen to twenty pounds
  of additional air can be pumped into it before it would arrive at
  the proposed tension.          Thus a huge impediment to motion
  would bs added to the machine, besides the additional bulk of
  the supporting balloon necessary to carry the weight of this in
   cumbrance, without gaining any efficient power to compensate
  for these disadvantages.
                *
                  Nicholson's Journal for November 1809, p. 17?.
                                                                         In

so                     On  Aerial Navigation.
    In the second paragraph, respecting lateral motion, it      is ob
served that the tacking plan, though worthy of much considera
tion, is incapable of counteracting any considerable wind, " as a
little calculation will show." I must here remark, that if your
correspondent will honour with his attention my statement
respecting a Montgolfian balloon constructed on the tacking
plan, in your Magazine for March 1816, and will recalculate
the powers of that construction, he will find that the horizontal
speed will be about twenty miles per hour in calm air ; but he
must not, as he proposes, consider the major axis as elevated in
an angle of 45° with the horizon ; but at an angle of 30°, which
will be found to cause the path of the machine to be in the for
mer angle ; 15° or 16" being lost, in what is similar to lee-way
in ships, according to the flatness of the top surface of the bal
loon. Although a velocity of twenty miles per hour will not
overcome some winds, and would scarcely be at par with what
Mr. Smeaton calls "very brisk" in his table ; yet it would over
come what he terms "gently pleasant," at a speed of sixteen
miles per hour ; and what he terms " pleasant brisk," at about
seven and a half.     Very few days in the year have what is thus
called very   brisk wind, and it is even in this case 32 to 1 that it
does not blow from that point of the compass which is the pro
posed direction of steerage.     In most oblique cases the power of
the machine will give a great command of diagonal steerage
within the semicircle opposed to the wind ; on either side it will
be no impediment ; and in the whole semicircle behind the wind
it will add to the velocity required. Hence, as on most occa
sions a choice of time is left, winds will be of infinite use in
aerial navigation, even should twenty miles per hour, in calm air,
prove to be the limit to the velocity of these machines.          The
difference of the currents in the upper and lower strata of the
atmosphere, it is well observed by your correspondent, will lend
great assistance to the steerage of balloons, as will also the sin
gular fact of their following the direction of rivers, which is pro
bably an electric phenomenon, rivers acting like discharging
rods by connecting the opposite electrical states of distant re
gions of the atmosphere, as is exemplified by the greater frequency
of accidents from lightning on their banks than in ordinary si
tuations.
    In the third paragraph your correspondent states the failure
of oars in moving balloons to have arisen from their being ap
plied to the car, in lieu of
                             " their line of pressure passing through
the centre of pressure of the whole system," much of the power
being thus applied towards communicating a rotary movement
of the car round the balloon.       I do not conceive this to be the
                                                                 cause

                         On  Atrial Navigation.                       31
 cause  of failure, but the application of the power of one or two
 men,   with  very ill appropriated means, to perform what required
 the strength of twice as many horses. With respect to the oblique
 force noticed by your correspondent, I wish to refer him to the
 case of a barge drawn along the centre of a canal by a rope to a
 horse on the bank ; — no power is lost by this mode of draft, but
 what arises from the actual path of the vessel not coinciding with
 the line of its major axis, which slight increase of resistance is
 foreign to the case of a spherical balloon, where simple gravita
 tion, and not the pressure of a fluid on an oblique plane, is the re
 straining force.     This is best explained by a figure.
    Let A, fig. 1, Plate I. be a balloon.      B its car, propelled be
 yond the centre of suspension by any given power of waftage ;
 draw AC perpendicular, and CB parallel to the horizon ; and
 let these lines be in the same ratio to each other as the weight
 of the car is to the propelling power ; then the line AB will re
 present the whole action of the car upon the balloon.             Draw
 A D and    B  D, respectively, parallel  to the two  former  lines, and
 it becomes evident that the power of the compound force AB,
 will have the same effect as the two forces A D, equal to C B,
 the propelling power, and AC the weight of the car; which
 being just balanced by the floating power that may be repre
sented by B D, leaves the balloon to be carried along in its hori
 zontal path by the same force, as if dragged in the direct line
of its centre AD. I have been the more particular in my ob
servations on this point, because I wish to show that long bal
loons filled with hydrogen gas may be made use of at any distance
above the car they support, which may be found to render them
safe from the fire of the engine, and yet not be subject to any
loss of power from the waftage being applied to the car in lieu
of the balloon.      Thirty or forty yards, if necessary, may inter
vene between the balloon and top of the chimney of the fire
which works the engine.        Wire-gauze, so celebrated of late for
preventing the communication even of explosive mixtures of hy
drogen with each other, may interpose its magic web to cut off
any danger in this respect ; and as the hydrogen gas balloon
must (for the sake of firm resistance to the external air, so as to
preserve the proper form of the prow) be inclosed in one of
coarser materials, into which common air can be pumped to the
required density between them, it becomes almost impossible
that any accident from fire can take place.          A flexible leather
tube and cordage will thus form the only connection between the
boat and the balloon.       The stupendous bulk of such balloons as
upon calculation appear capable of being made to convey con
siderable burthens with the requisite degree of speed, forms the
                                                                    chief

    32                     On Aerial Navigation.
    chief obstacle to their introduction.      This causes the expense
    attending their structure and inflation, their tremendous power
    if assailed by winds, and the difficulty of disposing of them when
    not employed. The expense of structure would at present be
    about 300/. per ton; but if these vessels became of general utility,
    a much cheaper means of structure would probably soon be
    found out.    The expense of inflating them with hydrogen gas is
    heavy by the present process ; but as water consists of rather
    more than a sixth part of its weight of pure hydrogen* ; and as
    every portion of hydrogen according to its purity gives from
    ten to twelve times its own weight of support in a balloon, it
    follows that every ton of water that is decomposed for this pur
    pose, will suspend very nearly two tons of burthen in the air.
    If this process, as I before suggested, be performed by exposing
    red hot iron to the action of steam, it appears, from the known
    proportion of oxygen in the black oxide thus formed f, that it
-   will take about a ton and a half of iron to each ton of supporting
    power ; and hence an oven of three and a half yards cubed will
    contain sufficient iron drops or borings, allowing one half of the
    space for the free passage of the steam amongst them, to inflate
    the balloon I have described of fifty tons power.       As the oxide
    will be reduced by melting the iron again in the ordinary way,
    no metal would be lost ; and the process would not be expensive
    if conducted where coal and iron ore are found together, as is
    frequently the ease in this kingdom.
        Charcoal will decompose water more rapidly and at a cheaper
    rate; and although the carburetted hydrogen thus obtained is
    generally much too heavy for inflating balloons ; yet as the com
    pound nature of this gas seems to vary according to the quantity
    and circumstances under which the steam comes in contact with
    the ignited charcoal ; and as Lavoisier and Meusnier obtained
    it at the specific gravity of 0-279, air being -1000, or rather
    more than three and a half times lighter than air, it is very pro
    bable that some ready mode may be found of obtaining pure hy
    drogen by the simple action of combustibles upon steam, which
    will render the floatage of balloons cheap enough for that or
    dinary use which, sooner or later, this principle was designed to
    be of to mankind.        Had hydrogen been a scanty substance, to
    be found   with difficulty, its remarkable levity, though attractive
    as a matter of curious chemical research, would only have been
    tantalizing, as exhibiting a means of suspending heavy bodies     ir;
                   *   85 Oxygen,       \   17 Oxygen.
                       15 Hydrogen.         73 Iron.
                     100   Water.         100 Black oxide.
                                                                    the

                        bn Aerial Nhvigatio;).                      33"
the air ; but who will deny that in chemistry, as in every other
branch of natural knowledge, there exist palpable evidences of
design and adaptation, either of man to these elements, or of
the elements to the uses of man.         I do not here allude to those
self-evident and immediate adaptations, such as light to the eye,
the structure of the lungs to the air we breathe, or of the sto
mach to the water we drink; but those more indirectly adapted
to the pleasures, wants and conveniences of life : for instance,
iron, which is certainly the most useful of the metals, i9 the most
plentiful ; its power of being made into steel for tools, capable)
by so simple an art as that of being suddenly cooled, of acquiring
any degree of hardness, so as even to cut steel itself ; — the ex
traordinary power it has of becoming so far in a state of fusion
as to admit of being perfectly united under the hammer in a
Welding heat, without losing the form it had been previously
wrought into, are, in the opinion of every enlightened workman)
evidences of design in its chemical structure as respecting the
wants of mankind.      No one can doubt that water, which seems
to form the basis of all the vegetable arid animal juices, was
likewise designed as furnishing the means of navigation.       Nature
is no niggard of that which she designs for the uses of her crea
tures.    The sun, in lighting up our enamelled acres, far outdoes
the utmost brilliancy of our nocturnal ball-rooms; and to hire
an acre of illumination equal to what this luminary bestows upon
it gratis, would cost from thirty to forty thousand per annum i
 The very circumstance that every ton of water contains a power
 of giving two tons of floatage to heavy bodies within the atmo-*
 sphere, is strong evidence that this may be intended as one of
the uses of the chemical arrangement of this plentiful element.
 -
   The relative power of balloons to break away from their an
chorage in a storm of wind, decreases under the circumstances
of magnitude and oblong structure I have proposed, in the same
ratio with the decrease of their resistance in passing through the
air.   The horizontal drag of the balloon of fifty tons when at
anchor, and exposed to the various degrees of wind in Mr.Smea-
ton's table, will be as follows :
                                      Miles per Hour.    Tons.
            High wind       . .   . .  . .   32±           8
           Very high wind         . .  . .   42f          13*
            Storm or tempest . .        . .  50           19
            Great storm                   .  60           27
   Hence, even in the great storm, if the boat be anchored to
the earth, the wind would only cause the connecting ropes to
incline back to an angle of 33° with a perpendicular, and by ho
means overcome the floating power and beat the balloon to the
earth so as to endanger it; provided the strength of the materials
   Vol. 50. No. 23 1 . July     1817.            C                were

34                     On Aerial Navigation.
 were such as to bear intense condensation sufficient to preseTM?
 the form of the prow under this load of pressure.       This neces
 sity of balloons to bear considerable internal and external pres
sure will oblige these machines to be made of strong materials,
 and to be braced by a wide net of cprdage.      It will likewise be
 necessary to make them in several compartments, like the sto
 machs of a leech, the power of the same cloth to resist conden
 sation being inversely as the diameters of the containing bag.
 This additional weight will of course in the same degree diminish
 the supporting power : however, it may be practicable by means
 of tubes to each compartment, the mouths of which open exter
 nally to any required portion of the whole direct resistance of
 the wind, so to proportion the internal pressure, as only slightly
 to exceed the external in these respective compartments, and
 thus much of the strain may be avoided.       The pressure of the
 atmosphere upon the skin of a moderate sized man amounts to
 about eight tons ; but being balanced by an internal elasticity of
 equal amount, his lungs play without difficulty, and no strain is
 felt on any part of his skin. The necessity of having several
compartments in large balloons, though an evil as to weight, is
 fully compensated for by the additional security it bestows : — by
 this structure, an accidental rupture of one portion would not
 cause a precipitate descent, as the floatage may be restored by a
commensurate discharge of ballast, or of goods, in Case of per
sonal danger to the crew.     The front or prow portion may be
made of the strongest materials, and the hinder and middle por
tion of those duly proportioned to the stress they have to sustain f
whereas, if all the air be in one vessel, every part must be alike
capable of bearing the strongest strain.     I would not have en
tered so minutely into these points, so much in advance of the
present experimental state of the subject, were it not that the
reluctance that is felt by some persons to aid experiments upon
balloons, arises from a hasty conviction that the difficulties at
tending this subject are so great as to preclude all hopes of ul
timately overcoming them : I wish to allow all the obstacles their
fair weight, but to meet them by such expedients as their nature
permits of, in doing which I fear I may have already trespassed
too much up<,n your pages ; and shall therefore conclude this
paper with a very brief enumeration of the leading points that
ought to induce experiments upon balloons to be made.           They
offer a direct swift and easy floatage from any one point to every
other on the face of our globe.      Their relative resistance de
creases inversely to their power of support ; so that the large
balloon of fifty tons formerly described, will meet with no more
resistance than the bird from which its form is taken, weight for
weight.    Every ton of decomposed water gives two tons of float-

        Remarks        Oil   Sir Richard Phillips's New Hypothesis.              33
 ng power.     They would keep aloft, and be firm and steady in
their position under anchorage, eveu in storms.     The large bal
loon described, would pack up when out of use in a chamber
within the boat eight yards by four, and thus render the ap
paratus compact on shore; 'and in the atmosphere there is unli
mited space to accommodate any bulk with equal ease, especially
when it is considered that every increase of it implies an increase
of levity, and not of weight.   Their structure being double, like
a leathern foot-ball containing a bladder, the thin silken bag of
hydrogen would not be exposed to any violence ; and this gas
being compressed on all sides alike by the condensed air sur
rounding    it,
              would . have no tendency to escape, during the ac
tion of the wind on the prow, as       would in the case of
                                              it                  com   a
mon balloon,      at anchor or swiftly impelled through the air.
                  if
    Danger from fire may be nearly excluded                  by
                                                     the proper pre
cautions.   The same power that creates their progressive hori
zontal motion will effect their elevation and depression,            the    by
application  of an  horizontal  rudder  or sail, and their  steerage to
either side       by
                 a vertical one.    This will easily be understood
from the sketch, fig.      Plate2,  which represents
                                            I.             side view of
                                                                  a
the arrangement of the moving and steering sails of             balloon
                                                                      a a
on the wing plan.     Fig.    represents
                                     3     an end-view   of     balloon
with rotary flyers. Neither of these sketches shows any of the
 connecting parts belonging to their movements, which would
 have made the drawing confused. -
              I remain, sir,
                        Your obliged and obedient servant^
 Brompton, May  12,1817.                             Geo. CaYLEY.
  HI.   Remarks on         Sir Richard Phillips's New Hypothesis*
                         By Thomas Trbdgolp, Esq.
           •          He his fabric of the heavens
           Hath left to their disputes, perhaps to move
           His laughter at their quaint opinions wide."-*»3f(7<un.
                                     To   Mr. Tilloch.
 Sill, —   A      slight
                       consideration must convince any person,
 that the phenomena of the universe cannot be the result of any
 continued chain of mechanical causes     and that, ultimately, we
                                                     ;
 must arrive at some elements and powers or properties which
 can only be referred to the First Cause,                "
                                             which certainly    not         is
 mechanical."                                                                     .
    Reasoning on mechanical principles can be applied only to
                                            G    2         discover

36      Remarks on      Sir Richard Phillips's New Hypothesis.
discover the proportional effects of modified causes — all sueh
reasoning being made on the presupposition of some active powers-
— which    we know from experience, will produce the same effects
under, the same circumstances, — and when philosophical in
 quirers have traced all the phenomena of Nature to these ori
ginal elements and powers, physical science may then be con
sidered in its most perfect state.       These elements and powers
being the first principles of physical science, the combination and
modification of them producing all the phenomena of Nature, it
is desirable that they should be free from every thing that even
has the appearance of being assumed without a sufficient founda
 tion.
    Attraction   is one of those principles which have from time to
time raised the scruples of philosophical inquirers, and particu
larly that kind of attraction which Newtonians call gravitation.
The cause of attraction — if it has any other than the fiat of the
 Creator — appears to be placed beyond the powers of the human
understanding ; but its existence is proved by an abundant class
of phenomena.         That bodies attract each other when in contact
few will be inclined to doubt; — but this being admitted, is any new
difficulty created by supposing them to act at a distance ? Sup
pose two bodies in contact are held together by attraction, why
should an infinitely small distance totally destroy this force ? Is
it not more probable that the power decreases inversely as some
function of the distance, than that it should abruptly cease at
the instant of separation?         Is it not proved by magnetical,
electrical, chemical, and optical experiments, that attraction ope
rates when bodies are not in contact ? and, does not gravitation
afford a satisfactory solution of the various phenomena of the
solar system? which is not to be obtained by the introduction
of any other principle whatever. This your correspondent Sir
Richard Phillips is disposed to deny; and imagines that he has
discovered the mechanical cause of the phenomena that appear
to be the result of attraction.      But his demonstrations, if such
they can be called, are certainly of a very questionable nature.
    Sir Richard takes it for granted, that the earth is moving in
its orbit — but does not seem to be aware that attraction or some
equivalent force is necessary to produce this motion.        But, to
meet him on his own supposition, let us admit that the elliptical
motion of the earth is fully accounted for, — and then examine
the circumstances which he supposes would have an influence
on the descent of a body to the earth's surface.
  • In the first
                  place, the resistance of the air will not have any
tendency   to  force  the body downwards.      To remove all the cir
cumstances that are not connected with the descent of the body,
                      -     .
                                                                  let

             Remarks on         Sir Richard Phillips's New Hypothesis.            37
     let   us suppose a ball to be dropped from the top of a high tower;
     in this   case the air's resistance will retard the motion of the ball,
      instead of causing it to descend.
          Secondly. The rotation of the earth cannot possibly deflect
      the ball downwards, because that, if the ball were acted upon
      by the rotary force only, it would                 fly
                                                 off in the direction of          a
     tangent to the earth's surface consequently the rotary motion
                                           ;
      of the earth would have an opposite effect to that ascribed to              it
      by Sir Richard.
         Thirdly. That the annual motion of the earth cannot force the
     ball downward Sir Richard must know from the illustrations he has
      cited respecting the falling of bodies on board     ship in motion.
                                                                    a
         And, as none of these forces taken singly has a tendency to
      move the ball towards the earth's surface,          follows from the
                                                                    it
      composition of motion that the joint action of these forces will
      not have any such tendency.
         As to the angle Sir Richard has drawn as the measure of the
      deflective force, he might have made        any thing or nothing —
                                                          it
     just as was most convenient         consequently projectiles,
                                           ;                               his
                                                                             if
     reasoning be correct, would be subject to different laws in dif
      ferent parts of the earth at the same time, and at the same place
      to different laws at different times but do not find that he
                                                    -.         I
      has made any experimental researches on this subject.
-•       Sir Richard's anxious desire to make his hypothesis agree with
     the known phenomena of falling bodies has led him into          trifling
                                                                         a
     geometrical error.     The spaces described               by
                                                       the points     andC        F
      (see his figure, Phil. Mag., No. 230, p. 436,) in the same time
     will be as the circumferences of the circles they move in; and the
     circumferences of circles are as their radii, and not as the squares
     of their radii, as Sir Richard supposes.
        Sir Richard      also incorrect in supposing that the effect of
                           is
     the rotary motion of the earth on falling bodies has not been
     considered   :   was one of the strongest objections that were
                      it
     made against the Copernican system, — that            stone were let
                                                                    if
                                                                     a
     fall from the top of high tower,
                                a          would strike the ground con
                                               it
     siderably to the westward of the foot of the tower.
        And as the experiments and reasonings of Galileo had not yet
     instructed men in the inertia of matter, nor in the composition
     of motion, the followers of Copernicus were unprovided with
     the true answer to this objection; viz. that the stone was a
     part of the earth, and therefore the annual and diurnal motions
     which were natural to the earth, were also natural to the stone              ;
     consequently the stone would retain the same motion with the
     tower, and strike the ground at the foot of it.
       A    more accurate investigation of the subject has led others to
     conclude, that the stone would fall    little to the eastward of the
                                                3 a
                                               C                             point

              New Outlinei      of Chemical Philosophy.
point over which it commenced its motion, in consequence of the
velocity of rotation being greater at the top than at the bottom
of the tower. The celebrated Laplace is said to have investi
gated this effect of the rotary motion of the earth, in the "BuU
letin des Sciences," No. 75.
    The Newtonian theory, on which the whole of physical astro-
nomy is founded, asserts nothing more of gravitation, than that
the result answers to the supposition, in every case, as far as ob
servation reaches.      Gravitation is not an occult quality, but a.
manifest property of matter, its truth appearing from the phe
nomena.      And among these the attraction of mountains is a
most   direct  and decisive proof that every particle of matter is
endued with the power of attraction.
    The effect of the mountain ChimboraQO in Peru, on the plumb-
line of the French philosophers ; the experiments on the moun
tain Schehallien, by Dr. Maskelyne ; the experiments at Mar
seilles, by Baron de Zach ; and the interesting experiments of
Mr. Cavendish*, are each of them an experimental proof that
matter gravitates ; and together form so complete and so con
sistent a body^of experimental evidence, that, were the evidence
derived from theory less perfect than it is, this would establish
the truth of Newton's theory.'
    In a paper which indirectly accuses Newton of superstition,
—rwhich,in the idea of its author, will render it necessary to " re
model" his " Principia," and which professes to develop princi
ples Which will overturn the whole system of modern philosophy,—
we certainly should expect to find something to correspond with
these lofty pretensions, or at least something so plausible that
we might admire even while we were obliged to condemn : but
even in this its author has failed ; he only shows that he is as
imperfectly acquainted with his subject as he is with the subor
dinate sciences; that he knows little of the authors he pretenda
 to refute, and still less of the system they have supported.
    London, July 7, 1317.                                 T. TllKPGOLD.
   IV.   New Outlines of Chemical Philosophy.               By Ezekiel,
                  Walker, Esq. of Lynn, Noifolk.
                     [Continued  from vol. xlix. p. S54.J
The      geometrician always defines the terms that he intends to
use, before he begins to demonstrate a proposition ; and the same
rule ought to be observed in all physical investigations; for, if the
meanings of the terms made use of be not understood, the in
vestigations must be doubtful.
                            <U+2666> Phil. Trans. 1798,
                                                                 According

                   New Outlines    of Chemical Philosophy,               39
   '
        According to the new theory, water consists of two principles,
  hydrogen and oxygen.          Now before we begin to inquire into the
  truth of this theory, it will be necessary to understand the mean
 ings of those terms.         Dr. Henry observes that     " every gas, it
  must be remembered, has at least two ingredients; the one
  gravitating matter, which, if separate, would prohally exist in
 a solid or a liquid form ; the other an extremely subtile fluid,
 termed caloric.        In the example before us, caloric (and perhaps
 electricity and light) is a common ingredient both of hydrogen
  and oxygen gases      ;  but the two differ in having different bases.
  The basis of the       one is called hydrogen, of the other oxygen ;
 and water may, therefore, be affirmed to be a compound, not
 of hydrogen and oxygen gases, but of hydrogen and oxygen *."
        Dr. Murray observes that " the action of electricity affords a
 mode of resolving water into its constituent gases, and of com
 bining those again so as to reproduce itf."
       Now according to these statements, water is a compound
 of hydrogen and oxygen ; — a:ul hydrogen and oxygen are the
 component parts of water ! This is nothing more than arguing
 in a circle ; yet such is the basis on which is built the much
 celebrated fabric of the French doctrine of the composition of
 water.
       As the component parts of water, according to the French
 hypothesis, consist of two ponderable matters, why are they not
 exhibited in a solid or a liquid form, divested of that supposed
'' extremely subtile fluid termed caloric ?" But this, I believe,
has never been effected ; and therefore, till this be done, the ex
istence of those matters can only be looked upon as an ingenious
opinion, founded on conjecture.
       If we were to reason from what we know, we might say that
water is the basis of the two gases ; but if we were to reason
from principles the truth of which we do not know, we might
then indeed conclude with M. Lavoisier and his associates, that
 the bases of the two gases in question are two unknown pon
derable bodies called hydrogen and oxygen J.
      We need only take a transient view of some of the grandest
phenomena of Nature, to be convinced that the decomposition
and recomposition of water are common operations.              The water
which falls from the clouds upon the surface of the earth is fre
quentlv converted into two invisible gases, by the two elements
of combustion contained in the earth or upon its surface ; and
these gases ascending into the atmosphere become a part of it.
     *
        Henry's Elements of Chemistry, vol. i. p. 206.
     +   Murray's Elements of Chemistry, vol. i. p. 304.
     t Dr. Henry observes that
                                " we have no knowledge of the properties of
oxygen in a state of complete separation."— Henry's Chcm. vol. i. p. 17T.
 ...                                 C4                             When

40                   On      the   Trigonometrical Survey.
When the two elements of combustion,          thus carried up into the
atmosphere, come into contact, thunder and lightning are pro
duced ; the light and heat thus generated          off, and the water,
                                                               fly
which formed the bases of the two gases,             recomposed, and
                                                                 is
descends to the earth in shower of hail, rain, or snow.
                                    a                                  .                         ,
    Now    ifwe examine the following experiments on water, we
shall find them exactly similar to those just mentioned          for the      ;
same undeviating    law  which  takes place upon    the  surface   of our
globe, and in the atmosphere that surrounds             obtains   in  it,
                                                                      the
laboratory of the chemist.
   When    a Leyden jar     discharged
                                   is       certain number of times
                                                     a
into a drop of water, this fluid    wholly converted into two gases,
                                               is
which are equal in weight to the drop of water. Now, as no
thing is  present in this experiment, but water and the two ele
ments which were contained in the jar, the two gases are com-                                        .
pounds, consisting of those elements and water.           Thermogen,
the element of heat, converts       portion of the water into an
                                               a                                           in
visible gas   photogen, the element of light, converts the other
                :
part  of the water   into another gas      water being the bases of
                                                    ;
the two aerial fluids.   The two elements are kept separate by
their bases; but an electric spark being passed through them, com
bustion     produced, and the bases of the two gases are resolved
           is
into drop of water, of the same weight as the two gases the
     a                                                                               ;
two elements being imponderable.           think    would be wander
                                                    I          it
ing very far from that simplicity which          every where seen in
                                                          is
the operations of Nature's laws,"to suppose (for         can only be a it
supposition) that the bases of the two gases are not water, but
two new matters       and when the gases are decomposed, these
                         ;
unknown matters are converted into water.
   Lynn, June 30, 1817.                          EzEKIEL WALKER.
                            [To  be continued.]
V. Extract   a letter from Colonel Mudge to William
                    of
  Blackwood, Esq. relative to the Trigonometrical Survey*.
                                                           Edinburgh, June          7,   1817.
     I      have the honour to inform you, that in consequence of
the trigonometrical survey, carried on under my direction, having
been brought on so far into the north as to admit of the descrip
tion of the longest meridional line passing through Great Britain,
M. Biot, under the authority of both the French and English
Governments,      arrived in England for the purpose of doing, in
                    is
the several parts of our arc, the same series of experiments that
had been formerly done                  by
                             himself and the Commission of the
Board of Longitude, at Formentera, one of the Balearic Islands.
         * From     the Edinburgh            Monthly Magazine for June      1817.

                  On the Trigonometrical Survey.                     4   1
in the Mediterranean,      and other stations on the French meridian,
                                                       '
proceeding    from   thence  to Dunkirk.         •
    The object of these experiments       is, to ascertain the force of
gravity  at  certain  parts of  our meridian,    as connected with that
of France and Spain. The pendulum                now erecting in Leitft
                                                is
Fort, where every convenience offers itself for the experiment,
and every wish has been anticipated             the chief engineer, Sir
                                                by
Howard Elphinstone.         When the operations shall be completed,
we propose to proceed to Kirkwall          in   the Orkneys, and near
that place, or some more convenient situation,              any such can
                                                           if
be found, we shall again set up the pendulum, and the ordnance
zenith sector, the workmanship of the late celebrated Mr. Rams-
den.    Thus, while the experiments are carrying on to ascertain
the force of gravity in that quarter, the observations will be made
on proper stars near to the zenith, hereafter to be also observed,
in finding the amplitude of the whole meridional arc. The base,
now nearly completed in its measurement               by Captain Thomas
Colby of the Royal Engineers, in the vicinity of Aberdeen, will
verify the sides of the triangles towards the northern part of out
arc, connecting the Orkney Islands with the main land.              It   is
probable that M. Biot and myself will leave this quarter for In
verness (where the ordnance sector        is now deposited) about the
end of this month  ;    and we think it   likely,    the weather should
                                                     if
be fair, that our operations in the Orkneys will be finished earlv
in August.      When these observations shall be completed, we
shall proceed to Yarmouth, on the coast of Norfolk, which lies
nearly on the meridian of Formentera produced, and there we.
hope to be joined       by  M. Arago, member of the Institute of
France, and one of the Commissioners of the Board of Longitude.
By this co-operation, having accurately ascertained the latitude
of this place, notable addition will be made to the arc running
              a
south from Formentera to Dunkirk, independent of the great
one, running north to the Orkneys; for we hope that the dif
ference of longitude (being only   a   few degrees) will not have suf
ficient influence to interfere with the importance of this last con
nexion.     We will repeat the experiments of the pendulum at
Yarmouth, and afterwards proceed to Blackdown, near Wey
 mouth, to the meridional limit of the English arc, where, having
 again observed the pendulum, and made observations with the
zenith sector, on the same stars as are to be observed in the
 Orkneys, our united operations will close with Messrs. Biot and
Arago erecting their clock at the Royal Observatory at Green
wich.   It  was to be always expected, that whenever peace should,
arrive, the science of France and England would affiliate, and by
the united operations, in this particular, determine the magni
tude »nd figure of the earth, by   experiments carried on on greater
                                                                a

 42                  Experiments on Vegetation.
 scale than could be done individually, and with the utmost nicety
 and exactness.    The whole arc from Formentera to the Orkneys
 will contain nearly 22° of the earth's meridian ; and thence the
 quadrantal arc of the whole meridian, extending from the equa
 tor to the pole, being ascertained, will afford the best of all pos
sible standards of length and capacity, whenever it shall be de
termined by the legislatures of both countries to equalize their
weights and measures by the same common standard.                The
great arc deduced from these operations will be found to pass
over a part of Spain, all France and Great Britain ; Belgium has
already followed the example of France, and has taken the stand
ard from the same natural source. Thus, if by this participation,
the three nations, from their united meridian, should agree to
take the same standard derived from        there seems little reason
                                             it,
to doubt, the rest of the world, without loss of time or difficulty,
would follow their example.                           W. MtJDGE.
VI. Experiments     on Vegetation, tending to correct some er
   roneous Opinions entertained respecting the Effects   Vege      of
   tation on the Atmosphere.    By Mr.    Tatum.
                                              J.
                              To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — THEDpinion          that the atmosphere     is improved     by  vege
tation   htis been supported    by  so  many   celebrated    philosophers,
for the last forty years, that few or none doubt its correctness.
But in spite of authority, having long observed the very great
analogy which exists between the animal and vegetable king
doms in other respects,       Icould not but think that the anomaly
respecting   the effects   supposed to be produced on the atmo
sphere   by vegetation  was   incorrect  ;and that      awish to discover
in Nature method to reconvert the carbonic
           a                                          acid   gas, liberated
by animals, into oxygen, had betrayed the authors of this hypo
thesis into an error.     I shall not occupy your pages       in   particu
larizing their various  experiments,     which   even   militated   against
their own doctrine   ; but  beg  to observe,  that in  general   they  were
not conducted in a manner so natural         and   correct   as to  warrant
the conclusions drawn from them.          To ascertain the effects of
vegetation on the atmosphere,       1contend that the vegetables sub
mitted to experiment ought not to be immersed in pump or car
bonated water, nor in     a carbonated atmosphere, as that         is   by
                                                                         no
means the natural situation of plants, or indeed of any living body.
To expect living bodies to perform their natural functions in
unnatural situations     an absurdity; and to avoid this,
                         is                                    insti
                                                                   I
tuted a number of experiments which        thought more analogous
                                             I

                     Experiments on Vegetation.                   43
lo Nature, in order to determine what were the real effects of
vegetation and vegetables on the atmosphere.
    As germination is the first process of vegetation, I shall com
mence by calling your attention to the effects of that part of the
physiology of vegetation on the air of the atmosphere.
    Exp. I. For this purpose I placed a number of peas, barley,
&c. to germinate in a given portion of atmospherical air in a
glass receiver (the mouth of which was confined by mercury, in a
groove turned in a slab of beech-wood.      My reason for this me
thod was to avoid the action of water on the air of the receiver,
as well as to prevent a large portion of mercury being exposed
to the same. The upper part of the receiver was furnished with
a cock, to which I could attach a syringe, and draw out a por
tion of air to be examined, without disturbing the apparatus; to
which also a funnel was occasionally attached, to supply water
to the plant when necessary).
    After a short time I found germination stop ; but on lifting
up the receiver so as to allow some air to escape and fresh air
 to enter, germination again commenced : this I repeated several
 times with similar results.     Finding that germination ceased
 when seed was so confined, I had no doubt but that some altera
 tion must have been produced on that fluid in which they had
 been inclosed.    My next inquiry was to ascertain what this al
 teration was : for which purpose I agitated the air with lime-
 water. A considerable turbidness was the result; 1- 13th was
 absorbed, and 4 inches of it with 2 in. of nitrous gas occupied
 4-4 in. — but 4 in. of common air and 2 in. nitrous air occupied
 only 3-9 in. ; from which we see that there was an abstraction of
 oxygen from the air of the receiver and a formation of carbonic
 acid gas, — most likely the oxygen of the atmosphere united
 with the carbon of the seed and produced the carbonic acid gas.
     Exp. II. I placed a portion of barley to germinate in a similar
 manner ; and when germination appeared to cease, I examined
 the air. To 2 in. I put 1 in. of nitrous gas, which occupied 3 in.,
 so that no diminution whatever took place; consequently the
 whole. of the oxygen had disappeared and formed some combi
 nation: at the same time 2 in, of atmospherical and I in. nitrous
 air occupied only 1-8 in.
     Exp. III. August 10, 1816, Two small scarlet beans growing
 in a pot, and exposed to the sunshine, were bent under a re
 ceiver and confined by mercury. At the expiration of seven days
 2 in. of the air ami 1 in. of nitrous gas equalled 1-45 in. ; but
  the above quantities of atmospherical air and nitrous gas equalled
  1-42 in., consequently this process of vegetation had somewhat
 jnjured the air by abstracting its oxygen.
    Exp. IV, June 4, 1816. An entire turf composed of Dutch
                                                               clover '

44                     Experiments on Vegetation.
 clover and grass (the area of which was 20 in.) was confined
 under a receiver (whose capacity was 150 in.) over mercury for
 three days, and occasionally watered through the cock at the
 top of the receiver. When the air was examined, 2 in. of it and
 one of nitrous equalled 2-3 in.   But 2 in. of atmospherical and
 t in. of nitrons = 1-9 in.  1 have repeated these experiments at
various periods, and have always obtained similar "results.
    Exp. V. Sept. 6, 1816. A dish containing a portion of stone-
crop in a very healthy state, was placed under a receiver over
mercury; and at the expiration of ten days I found 2 in. of the
air and 1 in. of nitrous gas = 1-47 in., while the same propor
tions of common air and nitrous gas = l-44 in.
    Exp.Vl. July 2.>, lSi6. Several sprigs of bergamot mint
growing in a pot were bent under a receiver as usual ; and in six
days I found 2 in. of the air and 1 in. of nitrous gas =1-42 in.
full; and 2 in. of common air and 1 in. of nitrous gas =1-42
bare.
    Perhaps it may be remarked, that the two last experiments
produced but little effects on the atmosphere : but let it be re
collected that the object of these experiments was to ascertain
whether vegetation improved the air of the atmosphere, by im
parting to it oxygen: and we see that in no instance what
ever was the air of the atmosphere improved by vegetation ;
but on the contrary it was always somewhat injured, and in some
instances the whole of the oxygen disappeared.      Is it not fair
then to conclude that, so far from vegetation improving the at
mosphere, by decomposing the carbonic acid gas generated by
animal respiration and combustion and liberating its oxygen,
it like them combines with oxygen and generates the same kind
of   gas   ?
     Having    so far identifiedthe physiological operations of the
animal and vegetable kingdoms on the air of the atmosphere,
 I next tried the effects of factitious airs on plants, to see how far
they might correspond with the effects       of.the same gases on the
animal oeconomy.
    For this purpose   I selected that plant which  I  could act upon
in the most natural manner.          Experiments   VII.  VIII. and IX.
Three turfs of clover and grass were placed under       receivers (as in
the former experiments).       The first was inclosed in nitrogen gas;
the second in carbonic acid gas; and the third in atmospherical
air (as    standard
           a             which to compare the other two).
                        by
   They   were  all placed in the open air, and exposed to the      vi
cissitudes of day and night, sunshine and cloudy.
   The effect of the nitrogen on the first turf was evident in
one hour, by the leaves of the clover beginning to collapse and
the leafstalks to bend       the leaves became yellow, and in three
                             ;
                                                                   days

     theological     Queries regarding the Strata    of Durham > &c.      45
  tlays the whole turf was completely dead, and when removed
  from the receiver possessed a very offensive and putrid smell.
       The second turf, which was exposed to carbonic acid gas, be
   trayed signs of decay on the second day, similar to the above,
   but not so quick: on the fifth day this turf was completely dead.
       The third turf, which was inclosed in atmospherical air during
   the above time, did not appear altered, except that the grass
  had grown considerably higher than when first introduced.
       We have here further corroborating proofs of the agreement
   of the animal and vegetable kingdoms in the points under ex
   amination. We proved in our former experiments that vege
   tables, like animals, convert the oxygen of the atmosphere into,
   carbonic acid gas; and in these latter experiments we find that
   those very gases which are fatal to animals are equally so to ve
                                                                             -
   getables.
        I could extend this paper to a much greater length, by se
   lections from my Journal of the effects of fruits, flowers, new-cut
  grass, &c. on the atmosphere ; in all of which the air of the at
   mosphere was much injured, and in most cases the whole of the
   oxygen was converted into carbonic acid gas in a few days. But
   fearing that I have already trespassed on the limits of your pub
   lication, 1 conclude,
                                  Yours, &c.
   Dorset-street, Salisbury-square,
                                                            -
                                                               J.  TatUM.
               July  10, 1817.
   VII.     Geological Queries      to  Mr. Westgarth       Forster, Mr.
       Winch, Mr. Fryer, &c. regarding the Basaltic and other
        Strata of Durham, Northumberland, &c. &c.               By A Cor
       respondent.
                                To   Mr. Tilloch.
   Sir, -—     It   has given me sincere     pleasure to observe at length,
   Mr.lVestgarth Forster, becoming a Correspondent in your very
'
   useful Magazine; — I hope that in future he will become, like
   myself, a constant reader of your Work, and that he will often
   repeat his communications          thereto, on Geological and Mining
   subjects.       I beg to thank him for his attention, in p. 401 of
   your last volume, to two of my Queries, in p, 108 of your xlvth
   volume, and to request his early attention*, to several further
       *  I presume to hope and request, that some regular Subscriber to your
   Magazine, who may be in habits of intimacy with Mr. W. F.f or who may
   live near to him, will early inform him of the request now made, and pro
   mote his reply, by the offer of the loan of their copy of your Work, for
                                                        "
   such purpose.
                                                          '
                                                                ',   Queries

46         Geological Queries regarding Basalt,            tfe.
Queries, which I have taken the liberty of putting, in p. T2 of
vour xlviith volume, and pages 122 and 25 1 of your last volume,
and that he will favour myself and many others of your Readers,
to whom I know the same would be highly agreeable, with his
full and explicit answers, to all such of these queries, as his
local knowledge of the northern parts of England, may now, or
hereafter enable him.
    Particularly, as my 2d question intimates, as to the fact, whether
or not, the " great whin sill" or stratum of Basalt (shown in
p. l.r>2 of his
                   " Treatise on a Section of the Strata," &c. a very
useful and cheap Work, printed and sold by Preston, of New
castle) has not such a continuous edge on the surface, as clearly
indicates it to form, like each of the other principal Strata, u
vast extended plane (having curved parts), within the Earth,
 conformably, with its under-lieing and with its over-lieing strata:
although its great variation oj thickness, from eight fathoms to
more than thirty fathoms (as is mentioned, p. 41 of the Treatise)
may occasion its basset-range to assume, locally, the appearance
 of detached and over-lieing masses of Baiult, so as very closely
 to " resemble those of the King's Park at Edinburgh," as Mr,
 Winch has truly observed, in page 101 of your xlviith volume".
     It seems therefore material I should mention here, that since
 Mr. Winch made this remark, the environs of Edinburgh have,
 for the first time I believe, been mapped by an experienced Mi
 neral Surveyor, Mr. John Farey Sen., who is said to have minutely1
 examined every part of the surface of the District; the immediate
 object of which Survey was, to ascertain the situations, extent
 and positions, of the porous and the wattr-tisht Strata or Dykes,
 which supply or intercept the springs of plater, in the district
 around that City ; and from which examination it results, as I
 am informed*, that " the Strata of the King's Park," are now
 divested, of all the peculiarities which, on the one hand certain
 Jamesonian Theorists, from the application of their Geognostic
 Dogmas to insufficient Observations, had inferred and said, as t<*
 the same consisting,of unconformally over- lieing Basaltic masses
 as detached parts, of the most recently formed or latest deposited
  Slrata,of the district ; and on the other hand, what certain Play-
                                                                          fairian
    * Lately, in a Letter from a Friend in Edinburgh, who
                                                             says, tliat a manu
 script copy of auih parts of the Report of Mr. I'arey, as have been delivered
 to the Lord Provost and Corporation, which describe the Strata and relate
 to the Springs, is in private circulation there. It will remain now therefore
 to be seen, whether the Edinburgians, who hitherto have so readily and
 warmly entered into disputes on Geological Theories, will cause these Icy
 calized descriptions of the principal Strata, and -their very curious ranges
  and positions, in the vicinity of their City, to be published, and candidly
  examined; and whether they will in any way call for, and make the large
  Mineral Map known, from whence, as my Correspondent ssys, these de
                                                                       scriptions

            On the Strata       of the Environs of Edinburgh.               47
fairian Theorists, from Dogmas more wild and fanciful, and from
equally or more superficial Examinations, had inferred and main
tained, as to the King's Park mass, being a heap of Lava, ejected,
in comparatively modern times, with regard to the ages of the
Strata, from the adjacent crater of an extinct Volcano, which had
broken up through those Strata !
    And I doubt not but Mr. Forster and Mr. Winch, and many
others of your Readers will be pleased to hear, that the appli
cation of those simple and almost self-evident principles, on which
intelligent and practical Colliers and Miners are entirely agreed,
throughout Britain, show incontestibly, that these Basaltic Strata,
whose edges in Arthur's Seat Hill in the King's Park (close on the
east side of Edinburgh) are now seen standing, locally, so much
 higher than elsewhere in the immediate vicinity, are the very same
Strata, which form the south-eastern slope and highest parts, of
 the Pentland Range of Hills ; and that these same Basaltic strata,
 regularly under-lie the great Coal Trough, situated to the south
east, east and north-east, presenting their edges all round, from
underneath the same, not only in Edinburghshire, but aqross
the Firth of Forth into Fifeshire : the principal Trough, making
 a turn therein, first NW then W, and then SW, through Clack -
-mananshire, and again across the Forth, into Linlithgow and
 Stirling Counties, and thence towards Glasgow ; which latter
Coal-fields, heretofore thought by many Persons, to be separate
 and distinct ones ; now, not only appear to join, by twice cross
 ing the Forth, but the same Basaltic strata, everywhere appear
rising from under the edges, of this complicated system of very
crooked and branching Troughs* in the strata, in which these
Coal-fields lie ; which principal Trough, sends off other branch
icriptions wrere taken; in order, to examine minutely into, and either ac
quiesce in, or confute and correct, the representations, therein made, by
Air. F. : or, whether the long-promised, and now, as it is said, the forth-
eotning,
          " Illustrations" of Mr. Playfair, and "Geognosy" of Mr. Jameson,
will, in silence pass over these recent Observations; which seem, so strongly
to contradict each of the Theories, which, almost every very modern Writer,
has, untruly, and very improperly, said to be those, in favour of one of
which, every Geologist is now agreed.'/.      By which unworthy artifice, sa
often and unblushingly played off, of late, the task of defending, each their
own set of whimsical Dogmas, against the facts of Nature, and the published
Observations of several Writers, is lessened, into that of confuting, another
imd equally or nearly as absurd a set of Dogmas, which has thus, by themT
selves, mutually, been conjured up into importance, for the mere purpose
of obtaining an easy victory over it ! each, — in the opinions of their own.
partizans.
   • The term Basin, from its almost invariable
                                                      application to something
circular, or near to it,   very inapplicable to these local fields of particular
                           is
Strata, and should cease to be used
•ud accuracy.                        ,
                                        by
                                                           ......
                                           Geologists,, who aim at perspicuity
                                                                    Troughs,

48     Geological Queries regarding the Basaltic and other
Troughs, through Haddingtonshire    to the Coast south-east of
Dunbar, and another through Fifeshire, to the Coast SE of St*
Andrews.
    It is perhaps not less important, that I should mention to Mr.
 Forster, regarding the other comparison which Mr. Winch has
 truly made, in the page already quoted, between the " Great
                                                     and " the Toad-
             "
Whin Sill of Durham and Northumberland,
                        '*
stone of Derbyshire \      viz. that the facts ascertained thereon, in
 1807   to 181 1, by Mr. Farey, and confirmed by subsequent and
more minute observations, made by Mr. Elias Hall, as is stated in
vol. i. of Mr. F's Derbyshire Report, and in pages 113 to 115 of
your xliid volume ; these show, that instead of mere local "wedge-
shaped beds of Basalt or Lava," as the late Mr. Whitehurst (de
luded by the fanciful Plutonic Theory, which he was seeking to
support) has in some parts of his
                                       " Inquiry" stated, to exist, un
derground,^ the Peak Hundreds of Derbyshire, to which represen
tation Mr. Winch seems here alluding; ; that on the contrary, the
 1st or upper Toadsione or Basaltic Rock, to which this " great
whin sill " seems undoubtedly referable, 1 think, is a perfectly con
tinuous stratum, (although, in places, it is very unequally thick,
as well as variable in substance) umler-lieing the adjacent Coal
field, with the intervention of numerous beds of Limestone (of
the 1st Rock, separated by numerous partings and wayboards of
Clav), as is also the case (but with considerable variations in
thicknesses, &c.) completely round, within tbe Basaltic border of
the Lothian, Fife, Stirling, and Lanark, &c. Coal-fields, in the
very extensive and complicated Trough in the Strata, above-
mentioned : as my Edinburgh Correspondent, alluded to in a
former Note, has mentioned, from information he had derived,
from Mr. Farey's recent researches and statements.
    The concluding part of my 2d Query, in page 124 of the last
volume, has in part been answered already by Mr. Forster, in
p. 41 of his
               " Treatise," by his saying, that the " Great whin
Sill," appears at Caldron-snout water-fall, on J^e Tees River :
I shall however, be greatly obliged, by his stating in your work, if
he can, all the requested particulars, regarding its dips there,&c. ? ;
and also, that he will mention, all those particulars, as to the
Strata above or below   it,  &c. which are visible in the upper part
of the Tees valley, from whence he so confidently drew his con
clusion, years ago, that this Basaltic mass in Teesdale,    is  part of
tlw same stratum, which appears at Dufton-fell       ?.
 I    am sorry Mr. W. F. appears formerly to have paid such slight
{attention to the fossil Shells, in the Ironstone balls, in the Shales,
and  in  the Limestone, &c. interlaying the Coal-seams; because,
1  can assure him, that these Shells, may be made the most im
                                                              portant

       Strata, Shells, &c. of Durham, Northumberland, &c.          49
 portant helps towards identifying the Strata, where their actual
continuity, or sufficient of the series of Strata being visible, are
wanting, for so indicating identities ; even, by those Observers,
who, however well and usefully, they may know Shells, by their
appearances, when carefully compared with each other, yet possess
no technical or conchological knowledge, for enabling such per
 sons, to name or describe Shells, in Language or in Drawings,
 which would be definite, or satisfactory, to general Naturalists,
as was the caso with Mr. IVm. Smith, the Mineral Surveyor,
 during many of the first years he was employed, in collecting and
arranging, man]- hundred Shells, and other species of Organic
Remains, each S pecimen properly referred, to its local seat and
stratum; which Specimens, now, that they are lodged in the
 British Museum, for the free use of the Public, others can, with
 the greatest fad lity and satisfaction, depict, name and describe,
 with all due technical accuracy.
     I have mentioned thus much, in hopes of inducing Mr. Forster
 in future, to imitnte Mr. Smith herein, as far as his opportunities
of seeing fossil Shells may extend; and, in order to refer him to
 a Paper on this subject, which you did me the favour to insert
 at p. 274 of your xlvth volume : and particularly, to request his
answers to my 3d head of Queries, already referred to.
      It has given me pleasure, and I doubt not will do so to many
 of your Readers, to see, that Mr. Forster is able, so importantly
 to vindicate the character, for accuracy, of the Section of the
 Strata, which he published in the year 1809, as already men
 tioned, as to asserty that all the latter and lower parts of the
 same, were entirely made from his own observations and admea
 surements, at several mining fields, and bassets of the strata: and
 I beg to remark, thafi1: Mr. F. would confer a further and lasting
 obligation, if he woui'd send for insertion in your Magazine, an
 account of the step3 which he took, whether by comparing the
 overlapping or repetition of his Strata, measured in different
 Mines, Works, or Places', or otherwise, for avoiding errors, in
joining these detached observations together ? : a point on which,
  I think I remember having .read the expression of some doubts,
 particularly as to the junction of the Lead -Series and the Coal-
 series, in some former volume of your Work, but which at pre
 sent I am unable, more particularly to quote.
       Mr, Winch, Mr. Fryer, Mr. Buckland, &c. to whom my
 Queries referred to, were in the first instance more particularly
 addressed, will I hope and truot, excuse the reference also, of the
 same queries to Mr. Forster, so expressly as has now been done ;
 and that the same, may not lessen the chances we had, of any
 answers thereon, from all or any of these Gentlemen, to whom —
     .Vol. 50. No.231. July 1817.               D                Mr.

 50                   Report  of the Select Committee
 Mr. Winch in particular, Geologists are already so dee! ply in
debted, and from whom, still, so much is expected by nlanvf in
•particular by, Sir,
                           Your humble servant,
    July  12, 1817.                            A Constant Reader,
 VIII.    Report    of the  Select Committee appointed to consider of
     theMeans of preventing the Mischief of Expl anon from hap
     pening on board Steam-Boats, to the Danger or Destruction
     of His Majesty's Subjects on board such Boats.
  Y^oua Committee entered on the task assigns d them, with a
 strong feeling of the inexpediency of legislative i interference with
 the management of private concerns or proper ty, further than
 the public safety should demand, and more es-peci;i!lv with the
 exertions of that mechanical skill and ingenuity, in which the
 artists of this country are so pre-eminent, by •which the labour
 of man has been greatly abridged, the manufactures of the coun
 try carried to an unrivalled perfection, and 'its commerce ex
 tended over the whole world.
     Among these, it is impossible for a monricr it to overlook the
 introduction of steam as a most powerful ag ent, of almost uni
 versal application, and of such utility, that fc.ut for its assistance
 a very large portion of the workmen employed in an extensive
tnineral district of this kingdom would be d eprived of their sub
                                                                     ;
 sistence.                                                         ;
     A reference to the evidence taken before y,-our Committee, will
•also show with what advantage this powe/.- has lately been ap
 plied, in Great Britain, to propel vessels both of burthen and
 passage, how much more extensively it has been used in America,
 and of what further application it is certainly capable, if it may
 not be said to be even now anticipated in prospect.             -
-
     Such considerations have rendered your Committee still more
averse than when they entered on the inquiry, to propose to the
 House the adoption of any legislative measure, by which the
science and ingenuity of our artists mi'ght even appear to be fet
tered or discouraged.
                                      ''
                                            v
     But they apprehend that a consideration of what is due to
public safety has on several occasions established the principle,
that where that safety may be enda ngered by ignorance, avarice
Or inattention, against which individuals are unable, either from
the want of knowledge, or of the p ower, to protect themselves, it
becomes the duty of Parliament to interpose.
    In illustration of this principle, many-instances might be given;
                                                                       the

                            tm Steant.-Boats.                      5 1
the enactments respecting party-walls in building, the qualifica
tion of physicians, pilots, &c. the regulations respecting stage
coaches, &c. seem all to be grounded upon it. And your Com
mittee are of opinion, that its operation may, with at least equal
propriety, be extended to the present case, on account of the
disastrous consequences likely to ensue from the explosion of the
•boiler of a steam-engine in a passage-vessel, and that the causes
by which such accidents have generally been produced, have
neither been discoverable by the skill nor controllable by the
power -of the passengers, even where they have been open to ob
servation.
.
     Your Committee find it to be the universal opinion of all per
sons conversant in such subjects, that steam-engines of some
 construction may be applied with perfect security, even to pas
sage-vessels ; and they generally agree, though with some ex
ceptions, that those called High Pressure Engines may be safely
\ised with the precaution of well constructed hoilers, and pro
perly adapted safety-valves; and further, a great majority of
 opinions lean to boilers of wrought iron or metal, in preference
to cast iron;
     Your Committee therefore, in consequence, have come to the
 following Resolutions; which they propose to the consideration
 of the House:
      1. Resolved, That it appears to this Committee,        from the-
>evidence of several experienced engineers, examined before them,
 that the explosion in the steam- packet at Norwich, was caused
 not only by the improper construction and materials of the boiler,
 but the safety-valve connected with it having been overloaded;
bv which the expansive force of the steam was raised to a degree of
 pressure, beyond that which the boiler was calculated to sustain.
     2. Resolve<l, That it appears to this Committee, that in the
 instances of similar explosions, in steam-packets, manufactories,
 and other works where steam-engines were employed, these ac
cidents were attributable to one or other of the causes above al
 luded to.
     3. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Committee, that,
 for the prevention of such accidents in future, the means are
 simple and easy, and not likely to be attended with any incon
 veniences to the proprietors of steam-packets, nor with any such
 additional expense as can either be injurious to the owners, or
 tend to prevent the increase of such establishments.     The means
 which your Committee would recommend are comprised in the
  following regulations :
     That all steam-packets carrying passengers for hire, should
         be registered at the port nearest to the place from or to
                                                           "
         which they proceed-:                          '.     .
                                  D   2                          That

52                Report  of the  Select Committee
   That all boilers belonging to the engines by which such ves
      sels shall be worked, should be composed of wrought iron
      or copper :                                                     .
   That   every boiler on board  such steam-packet    should, previous
      to the packet being used for the conveyance of passengers,
      be submitted to the inspection of a skilful engineer, or other
      person conversant with the subject, who should ascertain,
      by trial, the strength of such boiler, and should certify his
      opinion of its sufficient strength, and of the security with
      which it might be employed to the extent proposed :
   That every such boiler should be provided with two sufficient
      safety-valves, one of which should be inaccessible to the en
      gine-man, and the other accessible both to him and to the
      persons on board the packet :
   That the inspector shall examine such safety-valves, and shall
      certify what is the pressure at which such safety-valves shall
      open, which pressure shall not exceed one-third of that by
      which the boiler has been proved, nor one sixth of that
      which by calculation it shall be reckoned able to site tain.
   Thaft a penalty should be inflicted on any person placing ad
      ditional weight on either of the safety-valves.
   4. Resolved, That the Chairman be directed to move the
 House, that leave be given to bring in a bill for enforcing such
regulations as may be necessary for the better management of
steam -packets, and for the security of His Majesty's subjects
who may be passengers therein.
     June 24, 1817.                                                -  ,
                       Mr. Donkin's     Evidence.
   [Mr. Donkin's description of the construction of the boiler of
the Norwich steam-boat was similar to that given in our for
mer Numbers; we therefore omit it.]
   Is it your opinion, that any boiler    so constructed  was unsafe  ?
—As    a high pressure boiler, certainlv.
   What do you call a high     pressure  ? —I  should call from thirty
pounds upwards high pressure ; the technical phrase is applied to
engines where the motive force is given by the expansive force
of the steam.
   Define what is the technical distinction between high pressure
and low pressure engines ? — When water is made to boil in the
boiler, and confined so as the steam is not allowed to make its
escape, it continues to acquire expansive force as it receives in
crease of heat ; in the high pressure engine, the piston of the
steam cylinder is forced down by the expansive force of the
steam alone, against the resistance of the atmosphere ; when
the piston has arrived at the bottom of the cylinder, a valve is
                                                               opened,

                                     on Steam~Boals,                          53
     opened, and the steam is allowed to escape into the atmosphere,
      and the operation is reversed ; the piston of the cylinder is made
     to ascend by the same kind of force.      In the condensing engine,
     or the low pressure engines, the steam having been once per
     mitted to fill the cylinder, a communication is then made be
     tween the cylinder in which the piston works and the vessel in
     which the steam is condensed: — that is the distinguishing feature
      of the two engines. I will describe a further difference, which
      contingently arises out of the use of the two: that           is,
                                                              in the high
     pressure engines the engineer has        at his option to use what
                                               it
     degree of expansive force he pleases, to convert an engine
     adapted for the power of five horses, or producing the power of
     five horses, to that of ten horses, or to any other extent which
     he may think his materials capable of sustaining.         In the low
     pressure or condensing engines, the steam can never be advan-
     tangeously employed above from two and           half to six pounds
                                                       a
     upon     asquare inch.
        Whatever power there         in what you call
                                     is                 high pressure en
                                                                a
     gine, the pressure in that engine may increase the power beyond
     what     it  calculated for, and
                   is                     bymeans of that may render          it
     dangerous — Certainlv.
                        ?
               your opinion, that     boiler could be made of proper ma
     •
         Is   it                      a
     terials, with  safety-valves, and  under proper guard and direction,
«»   to make that high pressure perfectly safe? — That would depend
     upon the quantity of pressure to be used          safety-valve might
                                                       ;   a
     be carried to three hundred, or to any assignable force.        thinkI
     that a   high pressure engine may be made safe to         certain ex
                                                                    a
     tent, but where they are left ad libitum they never can be per
      fectly safe.
         Do you mean to convey the idea, that       it  impossible or diffi
                                                           is
      cult to adapt to     high pressure engine one or two safety-valves
                            a
     joined with      mercurial gauge, acting at the same point of pres
                        a
     sure, so as to make       equally safe with that upon any other con
                                it
     struction — In answer to the first part of the question, relative
                   ?
     to the safety-valve,      think
                                I     Ihave answered that already; that
     we can apply a safety-valve to any degree of pressure without
      any difficulty, but that the safety of the engine does not totally
      depend upon the safety-valve.
         State upon what other circumstances the safety of the engine
      depends — My idea of the difficulty of obtaining
                   ?                                             proper de
                                                                    a
      gree  of  strength at  all times in  the materials  of which   boilers
      may be made, arises from the constant deterioration      which  those
     boilers must be suffering from the action of the fire, and from
     the various degrees of expansion and contraction operating on
     different parts of the boiler.
               then your opinion, that in high pressure engines carried
         Is
         it
                                          D    3                          to

54                   Report of the Select Committee
to that extent you mention, that danger would always operate ?,
— It would not always operate, but it would be extremely liable
 to accidents.
      In fact, you yourself would not choose to use a high pressure
                                                                 less ? —
 engine, from the difficulty which exists, either more or
                                                                           .
 That is my opinion.
      Have you made any calculation what         would  be  the force   re
                                                       rivers or canals ?.
 quired to be used to propel a boat in navigable
 —This does not admit of a definitive answer. It depends en
  tirely upon opinion, how far one force would be dangerous and
  another not ; but if steam-engines are employed for the purpose,
  of propelling boats, that may be effected with perfect safety by
  the low pressure or condensing engines, where the pressure need
  not exceed six pounds to the inch.
       Of course   that must depend upon the resistance to be made,
  and     the velocity required for the boat ? — Then I must make
  choice of a more or less powerful engine ; I think it just to state
   to the Committee, that there is an advantage to be derived from
   the use of high pressure engines on board boats, which are nc->
   cessarily loaded differently at different times ; this different load
   ing requires a different power in the steam-engine, and the high
   pressure engine is capable of having this additional power given
   to it without any difficulty, whereas in the low pressure engines
   they are confined to the force first assigned to them.
       What is the maximum of the low pressure engines ? — I scarcely
    ever saw them beyond six pounds.
       In high pressure engines there is a great saving of fuel ? — -
    There is in one,    a peculiar kind of those called high pressure
    engines ;    there is a considerable saving of fuel in Woolf 's
    engines;   but in the common ones, I believe there is but little
    saving.
       If therefore the engines were to be used where the saving of
    fuel would be of considerable consequence, high pressure engines
    of a certain construction would be better adapted for that pur
    pose than low pressure engines ?
                                       — Where the saving was of much
    consequence.
        If engines were to be used at sea, it would be of considerable
    consequence, the engine and the fuel being contained in a smaller
    compass ?— Woolf's engine is not in a much smaller compass.
        When you talk of the deterioration of the boiler, how long
    would a boiler, properly constructed and constantly used, be used
    with safety?—. That is extremely uncertain ; I have known one
    boiler worn out in six months, and another used for seven or
    fourteen years ; the strength of cast-iron boilers is extremely
    uncertain; cast iron contracts in various degrees in different
    places, and therefore is liable to break   .
                                                                         You
                                                                             .

                             on Steam-Boals,                        55
     You think that all cast-iron boilers are dangerous ? — Certainly,
when      used for steam  of high expansive force.
     In your former answer, where you spoke of the extreme diffi
culty of so regulating high pressure engines as to insure their
safety, did you mean to speak of those which had cast-iron
boilers, or of both cast and wrought metal ones ? — Chiefly as to.
the cast iron ; it is more practicable to make a boiler of the mal
leable metals to resist a high pressure, as far as the tenacity of
 the metals is concerned ; but another difficulty occurs, whieh-
 prevents the application of the malleable metals to boilers for'
 bigh pressure engines, which is that of rendering the joining of
 the plates secure.
     Do you mean then to say, that wrought-iron boilers are not
 in frequent use to high pressure engines, in point of fact ? — 1 -
 believe they are in much less frequent use than the cast-iron,
 boilers; and in Woolf's engine they are scarcely used at all.
      Is not the cast-iron boiler much cheaper than the wrought? —•
  I can scarcely tell that ; I should think the cast iron would be
 cheaper, if made of equal strength.
     In case of the explosion of a cast- or a wrought-iron boiler,
  which is attended with the greatest danger ? — Cast iron, un
 questionably.
     Why? — From the frangible nature of the metal.
     What do you apprehend to be the common effect, in case of
  the explosion of a cast-iron boiler ? — The metal is broken into
 fragments, and driven off with great violence in various direc
  tions.
     What is the effect when a wrought-iron boiler gives way? —
  Generally a rent ; but I have seen one instance of a wrought-
  iron boiler, where the whole of the upper part was rent from the
  bottom, driven through the house in which it was placed, and
 carried to a considerable distance ; I believe several yards.
     Do you apprehend, that speaking generally, and unless by
  some extraordinary circumstance, such as the wilful shutting of
  the steam-valve, there would be any reason to apprehend such
  an effect as you have just now mentioned, to arise from the rent
  ing of a wrought-iron boiler ? — No, I scarcely think it possible.
      Supposing the boiler to be made of wrought iron, or copper
  riveted, and safety-valves properly adjusted, with a mercurial
  gauge also adapted in its diameter with due regard to the size
  of the boiler, do you conceive that any reasonable apprehension
   could arise respecting the safety of a high pressure engine ? — I
   think there might ; but with less apprehension as to the extent
  of the destructive effect to be produced.
      You speak of less apprehension as to the destructive effect y
  have the goodness to explain that ? — On account that in the
                                   D 4                       malleable

56                Report of the Select Commit lee
malleable metals a simple rending generally takes place, it wouW
seldom happen that the upper part of the boiler would be tortt
off ; but in the cast iron the fragments would be scattered about,
and be more destructive.                                          "\
    Do you not know, that wrought-iron boilers have been used
to all sorts of steam-engines for a considerable time past ? — Yes.
    Did you ever hear of any other than the single instance that
you have mentioned, in which a wrought-iron boiler burst in such
a manner ? — No.
    Do you know what was the occasion of the top being blown
off in the instance you mentioned? — We cannot tell what was
the immediate reason, but I suspected it to arise from the shape
of the boiler.
    What was that shape ? —The bottom was of the usual waggon-
 shape boiler, convex inwards; the concave part of the boiler was
over the fire, and those who examined it with myself imagined
that the engine-keeper had suffered the water to lie expended,
 or the whole of it nearly evaporated, leaving a small portion of
it in the lag of the boiler.
    The boilers invented by Mr. Simms and Mr. Woolf were aU
 of them cast iron? — I believe they were; I never knew them
make any other.
    Mr. Woolf 's boiler has been in use nearlv ten years ? — I be-
lieve it has.
    Did vou ever hear of anv accident happening to their boiler?
 — Yes, I have; I heard it stated the other day, by a brother-in-
 law of mine, Mr. Hall of Dartfoid, that he had known two or
 three accidents, but without any fatal or injurious effects.
    How many engines of the high pressure character have been
 blown up?— I have heard of several.
    Are there more than four ? — A great many more, if there are
 taken into the account those which have exploded in America as
 well as here.
    Do you consider low pressure boilers are safe from explosion
 in all instances? — Used with no further pressure than six pounds.
    What renders them safe? — Because they never employ steam
 of high expansive force in them.
    What are the means by which they are prevented from using
 steam of high expansive force in them ? — Because it would be
 against the interest of the persons using them to employ it.
    Is there any other guard against the condensing engine re
 ceiving such a charge of expansive steam as will burst it, than
 the care of the engineer or the interest of the owner? — Certainly
 none ; because I have known instances where they have used in
 fhe same engine both steam of a high expausive force, and con
 densed it at the same time.

                           on Sleam-Boats.
                             of low pressure boilers blowing up ? —
  '
    You   have never heard
No ; I    have never known    of any explosion with injurious con
sequences ; they give way repeatedly; but do no injury.
    Is there any thing in low pressure boilers which may be de
pended upon absolutely, for preventing the steam acquiring an
expansive force beyond what is intended? — Well regulated safety-
valves; mercurial gauges or water gauges will at all times se
cure it.
    Do those means of limiting the expansive force in low pressure
boilers continue perfectly efficacious under all circumstances of
misconstruction and mismanagement ? — That entirely depends
upon the construction ; I have known safety-valves fail in their
action from bad construction.
    Can such or similar means be applied to high pressure boilers?
Yes, certainly.
    Is not the feeding of low pressure boilers usually done bv a
column of water ; and is not this column the great reason of their
safety ? —That is one reason, but they ought to have a safety-
valve besides.
    Is it not the principal reason of their safety? — It is the most
secure one.
    If the feeding column of water be taken away, is not the se
curity left to depend upon the safety-valve? — Unquestionably.
    Are low pressure bojlers employed in boats always or com
monly fed by a column of water ? — I never saw an instance of it.
    If the mechanical means which are used to render the low
pressure boilers secure succeed, will not similar means render
high pressure boilers secure? — As far as the expansive force is
not permitted to arrive beyond certain limits, so far it will af
ford security.
    At what expansive force are low pressure boilers safe accord
 ing to their usual construction ? — I have seen very few boilers
constructed for the purpose of a low pressure engine, or a con
 densing engine that would sustain a pressure of ten pounds, with
out occasioning considerable leakage, or without forcing the
joints.
    Are they not verv often used with a force to render them un
safe? — I never knew an instance of it.
    Is not the explosion of them likely to do mischief? — Not un
 der the pressure they are capable of sustaining.
    Not even if they are made of cast iron? — Certainly.
    Are they uniformly made of wrought iron ? — No ; several of
them are made of cast iron.
    Are not the greater number of them made of cast iron ? — No ;
 ) apprehend not.
                                                                You

5S                           Report    of the Select Committee
   You cannot then state to the Committee how many instances
of explosion you know of high pressure boilers ? — No, I cannot.
   Are they more than in low pressure boilers ?^— I never heard
of an explosion in the low pressure boiler of any consequence
whatever, merely a giving way of the plates or the wearing out
of the boilers          ;   not such a bursting      as   can be called an explosion.
   May not every instance of explosion of the high pressure boilers
with which you are acquainted, be traced to bad construction,
or palpable mismanagement ? — I have never examined many of                                          •
them, and therefore what they may be immediately traced to I
do not know ; but all the explosions I have heard of have been
occasioned by the use of steam of high expansive force; the one
I    visited at Norwich certainly arose from the defective construc
 tion of the boiler: it was extremely                     ill
                                                  constructed.
      Was       not as well from the palpable mismanagement of the
               it
 engineer?- — That          do not know; we were told that
                             I                                        was;          it           I
have no doubt there had been very great temerity and rashness.
    - Was not that high pressure        boiler which blew up         London         in
the other day at a sugar-house, entirely owing to the most pal
pable misconstruction — saw the boiler after
                                   ?   -I                    had burst and
                                                                      it                 ;
I    certainly should not have made a boiler                    in
                                                        that shape, to have
withstood the pressure which             was intended to bear.
                                                it
      Was not that boiler made of a different thickness one side                    ;
of it- three-quarters of an inch thick, and the other side two
inches thick — Those are very nearly the dimensions; but in
                        ?
addition to that, there was          defect a             in
                                                 the casting, what we call
a cold shut in the iron.
     Is   not the use of high pressure steam completely         its infancy?   in
—Certainly,        its introduction  to  general  use    of much islater date
than the low pressure steam-engines.
  . It    isin fact to be considered as an invention of recent date —                        ?
It    is.
      Have not material improvements taken place in the construe-,
tion and use of high pressure boilers, in consequence of the acci-*
dents which have happened? — conceive Woolf     I              mode of con-?
                                                                          's
structing      boilers  to be a considerable    improvement         verv ma    ;    a
terial one      I have likewise been told, though           have never seen
                                                                      I
one, that Trevethick has invented             a method of making boilers
                                                     ;
by     increasing their length and decreasing their diameter, so as
to render them capable of sustaining pressure to               much greater
                                                                          a
degree than heretofore.
      Have more accidents occurred since the invention of the high
pressure boilers, than might have been expected from the inven
tion of any new system whatever               the mechanical construction
                                                     in
of engines — Perhaps not,
                    ?                                                                        ,
                                                                                         Wkat

                        on Sleam-Tibats.      .   r            5&
    What expansive force of steam is generally employed in those
high pressure engines? — I fancy that is very variable, from
30 pounds to 120 upon the square inch, or even perhaps higher
than that.
    Instances have been known in which a boiler has been worked
at 160 and 180 ; have there not ? — I have heard of such things,
but I never knew of them.
    What is the proof to which high pressure boilers are generally
exposed previous to their being used ? — The most eligible proof
they ought to be exposed to is by water.
    To what pressure ? — I should think double the pressure to
which they are intended afterwards to be subjected.
    What is the estimated force in your opinion, which would
burst a high pressure boiler of the best construction ? — That is
very different, because it depends upon the strength and con
struction of the materials ; I never entered into the calculation.
     Have not the greatest advantages been derived to the mines
 and manufactures from the use of the high pressure boilers ? —
 I believe inestimable advantages.
     Have you any doubt that Cornwall has derived an advantage
 which may be considered as incalculable from them ? — None in
 the world.
     Do you think, from the few accidents which have occurred in
 the use of them, there is any better argument to be brought
 against the permitting them to be employed, than could be de+
 rived from the accidents which have arisen in the explosion of
 gunpowder in the clearing passages in the mines ? — No, not as
 applied to the mines, certainly.
     You have mentioned that security is afforded to the engine by
 feeding the boiler by a column of water; from what does that
 security arise ? — The pressure from the steam in the boiler could
 never rise to a force greater than that which would be equal to
 the pressure of the column of water ; whenever it did arrive at
 that pressure, or beyond that pressure, the water would be blown
 out and the steam would follow.
     You have stated, that in the steam-vessels used upon rivers,
 this precaution is not resorted to ? — I never saw one, and it
  would be extremely inconvenient.
     For what reason ? — On account of the undulations the water
  would be subject to ; it would be thrown out of the pipe from
  the motion of the vessel ; and other inconveniences would arise,
  such as bringing the pipe through the deck of the vessel.
     Do you apprehend that a mercurial gauge would be exposed
  to, the same inconveniences?— Certainly, \ do; the altitude
  would be lessened by every new assumed position <of the vessel ;
 that is,   if   a                                    by
                tube placed vertically at first, should  the action
                                                                 of

    60                 Report of the Select Committee
    of the  vessel assume a diagonal or an oblique position, the alti
    tude of the column would be lessened, and its consequent pres
    sure upon the steam lessened.
       Are you of opinion that there would be much difficulty in
    guarding against such an inconvenience as that? — Yes, 1 think
    there would, generally speaking ; but a well constructed safety-
    valve would answer all the purposes.
       Are not the safety-valves applied to the low pressure engines,
   even when the column of water is used to supply the boiler? —
   Most frequently they are ; I have seen some without.
       Did you never hear of the pressure in a condensing engine
   being raised by mismanagement as high as 19 or 20 pounds
   per inch ? — No ; I do not recollect that I ever met with such a
   circumstance ; I have no doubt that it has taken place.
       If such a circumstance may take place with a low pressure
   engine, do not you think that, according to the general calcula
   tion of the strength of their boilers tp resist the usual pressure
   to whieh they are subjected, more danger would arise than in
   almost any case which could happen to a high pressure engine
  with a boiler properly adapted? — No, decidedly not ; according
   to the general construction of low pressure boilers, they are so
  riveted together to withstand the low pressure they are intended
  to bear, and they always give indications of an increase of pres
  sure long before I should apprehend any danger from it; I mean
  by the joints giving way, and the steam forcing a passage through
  them.
      Do you mean to apply that to the cast-iron boilers ? — No,
  certainly not; to the wrought-iron or copper boilers.
      The question before put was meant to apply to a low pres
  sure engine, fitted up with a cast-iron boiler? — As applied
  to the cast-iron boiler, I should say, that being constructed to
  bear a less degree of expansive force, an explosion would sooner
  take place, and therefore would be less dangerous.
      Less dangerous in comparison with what ? — With a high pres-
, sure boiler.
      Do you mean to say, that an explosion of the cast-iron boiler
  of a low pressure engine which should be burst by an improper
  degree of pressure, would be less dangerous than the rending of
  a wrought-iron boiler, occasioned by a much higher degree of
  pressure ? — I gave my answer as connected with the former
  question, with regard to the liability to danger from low pressure
  boilers ; I take for granted, that if a boiler is constructed to be
  applied to a low pressure engine, that a commensurate strength
  will be applied to the materials of the boiler, and that in the
 -case of applying a boiler to a high pressure engine, an adequate
  strength must be used there to the pressure intended 3 therefore,
                                                                    if

                            on Steam-Boats.                         61
if   the low pressure boiler by any accident should be exploded,
generally speaking, boilers made of the malleable metals must be
much safer on an explosion taking place, at least they are not
calculated to do so much mischief as the cast-iron boiler3.       .
      Have you made any experiments, or are you acquainted ac
curatelv with the effect of such as have been made upon the dif
ferent quantities of fuel consumed in the high and the low pressure
engines, in proportion to the quantity of power produced ? — I
 have witnessed several experiments on Woolf 's engines, where
 the object was to ascertain the comparative expenditure of coals
or fuel in grinding corn between his engines and the low pressure
 or condensing engines, and the results were decidedly in favour
 of Mr. Woolf 's engines.
      You cannot speak as to the high pressure engines commonly
 in use ? — I apprehend there is no saving of fuel, or very little ;
 there may be a little.
      What was the saving of fuel by Woolf 's engine, as compared
 with the other?— The average effect in one case was the grinding
 eighteen bushels of wheat with one bushel of coals; the other
  average effect of Bolton and Watt's engine, or the low pressure
 engines, is the grinding of from ten to twelve bushels of wheat
                                                                  '
  with a bushel of coals.                                              :
      Do you know whether the power of the engines in lifting water,
 may fairly be reckoned at the same proportionable difference ? —
  Yes ; I believe they may. I do not speak from experiments ;
  but I have no doubt as to the effect ; by the reports from Corn
                                                                    '
  wall, I am led to suppose it may be much greater.                   •
      Have you seen any account of the explosion of the steam-
  engine on board a boat in America, within a few weeks past? —
  No ; I have not.      I understand there has been one.
      From any information you received at Norwich, did you hear
  of any conduct of the manager of that boat, which occasioned
  the explosion of the boiler ? — No ; the information      1 did re
  ceive upon    that subject, was since we returned  to London.
                     Mr. Thomas Lean's     Evidence.
       Will you state your profession, and place of abode ? — I reside
  at Crowan in Cornwall, and I am employed by nearly the whole
  of the miners in Cornwall to inspect their engines, and make
   monthly reports of the work they perform.
       You are then well -acquainted with steam-engines of every va
  rious construction ? — Certainly I am ; I see fifty-seven every
   month.
       Do you conceive that there is any material difference in the
   respective safety of those engines ? — Some of the engines are
   certainlv" safer than othei s,
           i                                                          Be

 62                   Report    -of
                                  the Select Committee
      Be                     which, and why? — conceive there
           so good as to state                               J                              is
too danger  whatever  in the use of high pressure steam-engines                             ;
and for this reason, that     general, for an engine that
                                 in                           in                       is
tended to be worked with high steam, the materials are made
.stronger in proportion than the materials used for steam of low
 pressure.
      What are the precautions which you think  necessary to take,
                                                             it
in  order to  render  high steam-engine perfectly safe from acci
                       a
 dent? —  The materials should be made strong enough, and there
is no difficulty in doing that  and there
                                      ;       good deal depend
                                                            is
                                                            a
ing on the construction of the safety-valve, which should be so
constructed as to go quite easy and without any possibility of
sticking.
   Do yon not think     of importance,
                           it              not necessary, that
                                                        if                                  a
boiler should have two safety-valves — Certainly and every high
                                                ?                 ;
 pressure steam-engine that       I attend to has two safety-valves.
     Do not you confine one of those from the engine-man — Not                     ?
 in  any instance.
     Should you or not think        necessary, on board
                                      it                      boat for pas
                                                                     a
  sengers  worked     bya steam-engine,      that  there  should  be an ad
  ditional safety-valve  to the  boilers which      the  engine-man could
  not come at to prevent its operation — That would certainly be
                                                    ?
 very desirable, and should think necessary.
                       I
     Have you any choice, in point of safety only, between            boiler       a
 constructed of cast iron or of wrought iron? — Were              to have                   a
                                                                      I I
-boiler where      wished to have the greatest strength,         would cer
               it I      of
 tainly  have      made     cast  iron     ; have
                                                I   not  one doubt that a
 cast-iron boiler can be made much stronger than                    possible
                                                                         it   is
 to make a wrought iron one           in fact, tire explosions that we
                                       ;
 have had in Cornwall have all been in wrought-iron boilers, but
I   never had one in cast-iron boilers, nor have we had an acci
 dent from high pressure steam         all the accidents have been from
                                       ;
 low pressure steam in Cornwall.
     To what do you attribute that? — attribute that to the
                                                        I
 boilers not having their proportionate strength to the weight                                   '
 they ought to bear, that the high pressure steam-engines have.
    Of what nature are those failures which usually happen in the
wrought iron boilers — The one which
                           ?                      witnessed the explosion
                                                    I
of, threw   oflf the man-hole   door.
    Do you mean that the bolts             by
                                         which the man-hole door was
secured, gave way? — Yes.
    Are there not man-holes to cast-iron boilers — There are.    ?
    Then might not the best constructed and the strongest cast-
iron boilers have been equally liable to the accident you have
been mentioning, from the mere failure of the bolts,                 which     by
the man -hole door was secured ?— Certainly not, and for this
                                                                                   reason,

                             on Steam-Bouts.                                            63
 reason, the man-hole door to a cast-iron boiler is contrived to
  be on the inside ; it does not depend upon bolts at all as they
  are constructed with us, it bears against the side of the boiler.
     Would it not be equally easy to affix man-holes so constructed
 to wrought-iron boilers? — There is no difficulty in doing                              it,
 either one way or the other.
     Supposing a cast-iron boiler and            wrought-iron boiler to be
                                                    a
 exploded      by
                having too great       apressure applied, from which of
 the explosions should you apprehend the greatest danger? —
                                                                  *
                                                                                         I
 think the danger        equal from one as the other.
                        is
     In what manner do you apprehend then, that cast-iron boiler  a
 would explode — Probaby there might be some parts of the
                    ?
 Cast-iron boiler separate; and the wrought-iron boiler would
             rend.
     Should you not then apprehend           greater danger from the ex
                                             a
 plosion   of  a boiler which    burst   into  fragments, than fronf:cne
 which only rent — In every boiler that
                    ?                               built, there one part
                                                        is                    is
 of  it weaker than another, and           it  hardly possible for a boiler
                                                is
 to be thrown about in fragments to do mischief.                 should not
                                                                          I
feel any hesitation to sit on the cast-iron boilers            have seen in
                                                                      I
 Cornwall when an explosion took place                   am convinced the
                                                         ;   I
explosion     would  take place   at  the  under  part.
     Do you think       necessary or advantageous that those boilers
                        it
should be proved at their first erection,            and that that proof
should afterwards be repeated at intervals?—                     It
                                                              certainly de
                                                                      is
sirable   itshould be done at the first erection         they ought always
                                                             ;
to be proved    ;  the cast-iron boilers which have come under my
notice in Cornwall,      Icalculate to be sufficient to resist at least
thirteen times the pressure of steam we have ever used in them.
     To what heat are those boilers usually proved — We work in       ?
general forty pounds to an inch in the high pressure boilers, and
we prove them sometimes as high as three hundred.
     By proof of this nature, so much within the supposed capa
          a
city of resistance of a boiler, you do not apprehend that anv risk
is  incurred of injuring it? — Certainly not.
    And you yet conceive, that the proof            so far beyond the or
                                                        is
dinary resistance which      is required from the boiler, as that there
is  no danger whatever of its bursting with             pressure of forty Or
                                                             a
fifty pounds an inch, when        it has been proved              by
                                                             a pressure of
three hundred? — Certainly not.
    Do you apprehend, that         it   is perfectly easy so to construct
and to    secure   your safety-valves, as that no engine-man, how
ever careless, shall he able to raise the steam beyond the pres
sure of forty or fifty pounds per inch — There certainly
                                                ?                    not the  is
                               •
least difficulty in it:                                                                 '
    Yqh apprehend then, that , with a boiler jo constructed, so
                                                                                   proved,

64             Report      of the          Select Committee on Steam-Boats.
proved, and so guarded against carelessness, there would be no
danger whatever in any situation ? — Certainly not ; neither in a
steam-boat or an engine employed in a manufactory or mines,
or in any manner whatever.
   As to the ceconomy in the use of coals, what is your opinion ?
—My opinion                    is,
                        that the high pressure engines in Cornwall
have saved at least two-fifths of the whole consumption of coals
in   the county    in some instances
                       ;                    has saved three-fifths.
                                                        it
   'What means have you of ascertaining that fact? — In the pur
suance of my ordinary employment,              attend to the various en
                                                             I
gines    in  Cornwall,  and  compute   their duty"; the quantity of coals
that       consumed
          is              the enginesby    rendered to me on oath
                                                     is                                            ;    it
is  the same that        sworn to at the Custom-house. The ascer
                                is
taining the weights which the engine lifts             carefully and coris
rectly measured        and from this
                           ;              calculate the work performed
                                                    I
by   the engines, of which       make     monthly report, and find, that
                                                   a a
                                               I
those engines which work with            high pressure steam are more
ceconomical in their operations than those of the low pressure,
so much so, that were the low pressure steam engines to be in
troduced into the mines of Cornwall,              would stop upwards of
                                                               it
two-thirds of them.
     Is the paper which you have, one of those accounts —                                     ?    It   is
the account for the last month. ,»
     [It was delivered in, and read — Extracts from these Reports
                                                    ;
are given regularly in the Phil. Mag.]
    And this account you declare, upon your own knowledge, to
be accurate as to the particulars          contains ?— do.
                                                     it                      I
    Do you consider           as important to the safety of an engine,
                                          it
that the boiler should be frequently cleansed —                a boiler      ?      If                  is
                                 of      in
                                                              it,
foul,    if there     quantity
                       is
                       a            mud           may prevent the water
                                                              it
from coming in contact with the iron, and in that case the boiler
is  liable to injury;      have known a wrought-iron boiler to burst
                                     I
from that very cause           never knew
                                      ;   I   cast-iron boiler to "explode
                                                          a
in any instance.
     Is there anydifficulty in subjecting the boiler to the usual proof,
every time          cleansed — There
                     it   is                 no difficulty whatever, any
                                               ?          is
other than having the apparatus prepared for                which     very    it,             is
easily done.
     Is that apparatus either expensive, or difficult of construction,
or of application               ?    — No.'
     Can       it   be applied with ease           by
                                   any engine-man or engine pro
prietor, who    at allis
                       acquainted with the construction or working,
of steam-engine?
     a               —  Yes; and the management of          so plain                it   is
that no person can misunderstand                             it,
                                             they are unacquainted if
with all the other parts of the engine.
   In what does this proof consist, and how           performed —        is  it                    ?.
                                                                                                   The
                                                                                              \

                         Notices respecting Neu> Books.                    65
The "proof consists of first filling the boiler with water, and then
loading the safety-valve to any point required ; then injecting
water by a forcing pump, till the safety-valve, with the additional
weight upon        it,
                   raised.
                         is
   Have you-any other suggestions to make on the subject of the
safety of steam-engines, besides what you have already said —          ?
I think not.
                   IX.        .Notices respecting New Books.
                                                                   '
An Inquiry into                    Colonization
                          the progressive         the Earth, and
                                                            of
    t/je 0rigi7t    of      illustrated
                          Nations   ;           Mapby  the Geo
                                                        a         of
    graphy    Ecclesiastical and Ancient Civil History.
              of                                             By
    T. Heming, of Magdalen Hall, Oxon.
Wk       have read this work with attention, and examined the
large map, with which          accompanied, with some degree of
                                  it   is
care. The whole exhibits much patient, and, when the nature
of the inquiry    considered, we may add successful investigation.
                   is
   The title of the work expresses sufficiently its object.     How
ever serviceable detached              "
                               scraps of chorography," embodied
under the name of" an atlas," may be to those who have                 al
ready attained proficiency in the science, there         great incon
                                                             is
venience in being obliged, while reading, to turn from one de
tached survey to another, and so to combine them as to obtain
satisfaction.    To obviate this, "and to facilitate         the most
                                                                  by
approved mode the acquirement of correct ideas, regarding the
circulation of human societies through the remotest periods,               it
was designed to compass, in a general map, the whole scope of
territory connected with the sacred, civil, and profane writings
of antiquity, on such a competent scale as appeared sufficient
for every requisite illustration, from the first colonial migrations
of mankind, to the rise of the present nations of the earth, and
still to confine the same within such     dimension, as might ren
                                               a
der  it convenient for the most ordinary and general application
and reference."
    But the author had first to settle his point of departure — the
second cradle of the human race.        For this purpose the tradi
tions, for they deserve not the name of records, of the Egyptians,
the Assyrians, the Chinese, the Phoenicians, the Scythians, the
 Indians, the Persians, and Arabians and the writings of Ho
                                               ;
mer, Hesiod, Thales, Pythagoras, Plato, Hecateus,             Berosus,
Abydenus, Alexander Polyhistor, Demetrius, Diodorus Siculus,&e.
are examined, and compared with the writings of the Jewish
law-giver.    This subject occupies the author's first chapter, which
he concludes with the following deductions:
 .  Vol. 50. No. 231. July 1817.                     E       " First—

  66                    Notices respecting New Boohs.
       " First —That   there is not to be found, in all the rival mono-'
  ments of antiquity, any authority equivalent to, or that can iri
  the least degree invalidate, the memorial of Moses.
      "   Secondly — That his writings are of so pre-eminent and ext
  raordinary a quality, that the greatest efforts of human subtlety
  and art seem to have been often ineffectually exerted to counter
  feit and nullify them.                                    .
      " Thirdly — That the most profqund sages — the most con-?
  ceited theorists — the most celebrated historians — the most ro
  mantic poets and discursive geniuses of everv pagan age and
  country seem to have resorted to his pages for information, and
  to have borrowed thence their only true notions regarding- the
  primitive affairs of the earth ; and that what they have feigned
  to deny as infidels, theorists, and enthusiasts, they have involun
  tarily admired and espoused as historians, critics, and philoso-v
  pliers.
      "  Fourthly — That the Pentateuch seems ever to have been
  the only source of faithful intelligence respecting the formation
  of the earth, and the rise of human society; and which its most
  illiberal and malevolent adversaries directly or indirectly autheh-1
  ticate.
      " And lastly — That being, as it appears to be, unanimously
  attested by the whole world as the paramount evidence of the
. renovation of mankind after the flood, and of the first dispersion
,?nto colonies,it establishes for us those facts which no other volume
  in the world contains^ and from which the history of the present
  population and political cantonments of the earth must •neces-*
  sarily be derived."
      This leads the author to another inquiry. The testimony of
                                                                         1
  Moses being found more consistent and satisfactory than any
  documents that have been compared with it ; how come the
  moderns so far to disregard his authority as to place Ararat,
  where the ark rested, in Armenia, almost due north of Shinar ?
  Moses says expressly, that the builders of Babel "journeyed
  from the east."       Where then should the Ararat of Moses be
  sought    for ?   To  this inquiry the author devotes the whole of
  his   second   chapter, which we shall quote entire.
  "   Inquiry concerning     the Place of the Mountains   of Ararat.
    . "  'And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth
  day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.' Gen. viii. 4.
       " ' And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that
  they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt there.'
       " But before we proceed to the peak of Ararat, or the sum
  mit of Babel, to mark therefrom the overspreading of the earth
   by the posterity of Noah, we must endeavour to decide the geo^
                                                               graphical

                   Notices respecting New Books.                   G7
graphical position of the former.    With respect to the latter, it
is required to be understood that it is the point uniformly alluded
to when speaking of the plains of Shinar in the future parts of
this inquiry.
    cc
       With regard to the situation of Ararat, even many of the
pious fathers seem to have paid too much attention to legendary
tradition, and too little to the pure fact : for it is certainly not
reconcileable to good faith in Moses to say, that Mount Ararat,
where the ark rested, is north, 01 north-bearing-wcst,    of Shinar,
when he has so explicitly said, that the people came thither from
the east: and how learned and orthodox commentators could
ever have been persuaded to adopt the mountain called Ararat,
in Armenia, as ' the landing place,' is very unaccountable, as
there is nothing but the name and traditionary report to au
thorize such a conjecture; and this quite contrary to the express
words of Moses.      That Ararat was eastward of Shinar, as the
divine historian hath told us, there are many circumstances to
show; but there can be no true judgement without evidence :
therefore we will proceed to examine the authorities on both
sides of the question.
    " Epiphanius, Basil, Jerome, Eusebius, Berosus, Josephus,
Nicholas Damascenus, and more, mention reports that part of
the ark was to be seen in their times on the Gordiasan mountains
which are in the south of Armenia: and the last-mentioned of.,
them says ' that there is a mountain in Armenia called Baris,
which in the Coptic language signifies a ship, ' whither,' as the
tradition goes, ' some persons escaped in an ark, from the great
flood ; and that pieces of the wood were there seen for many
ages after.'
    " Now the positive testimony of either of these men would
have been weighty; but the reports which they have listened to
are nothing more than fume.
    cc
       Elmasinus says, * he went up Mount Gordus and viewed
the place where the ark rested,' but does not say he saw the
ark there.
 •     There are other similar accounts in Bochart, Josephus,
Wells, &c. but they are all equally superficial and unsatisfactory.
    " Herbert says, ' that the highest mountain in Armenia is
called Baris ;' which he imagines is also called Damoan — cthat
it is between Armenia and Media — that he and his company rode
up to the top, whence they had a prospect of the Caspian Sea,
though 160 miles off— that there are numbers of Jews about the
village of Damoan at the foot of the mountain, who say they
are the offspring of those transported thither by Salmonassar,
2 Kings xvii. 6 — that they have never changed their seats, and
that they have a constant tradition that the ark rested upon the
                              E  2                      mountain.'

68                     Notices respecting Neiv Books.
mountain.'         Herbert is here speaking        as though he thought
these Jews really knew something            about   the matter, when they
must be as ignorant on the subject as the people of Del Fuego :
for whether they belonged to the race of Jews carried off by Sal-
monassar, or not, it is just the same, as it was 1600 years after
 the flood that the Assyrian king transported his captives ; so
that, even of traditions, none could be more flimsy — how should
strangers who knew nothing of the country for 1G00 years after
the event get hold of their tradition?
      " Sir John Chardin informs us that Ararat lies twelve leagues
east of Erivan.           He considers it the same as the Gordieau
 Mountains.         ' The Armenians,' says this traveller, ' have a
 tradition that the ark is still on the top of it— ^-the mountain is
totally destitute of inhabitants, and perpetually covered half-way
from the top with snow.'
      " Strays, another traveller thither, is more minute in his ae->
.count of Ararat.         After a description of the stone and minerals
 of the rock, he tells us, ' that he went up the mountain to cure
a hermit who was secluded there,' of a rupture — that it is sur
 rounded by several rows of clouds, the first of which is dark and
thick ; the next extremely cold, and full of snow ; and the third
so intensely cold that he was scarcely able to endure it — that
 above this uppermost stratum, and where the hermit's cell was,
the air was quite mild and temperate — and the recluse declared
to him, that ' he had neither felt a breeze of wind nor a drop
of rain for twenty-five years, which was the time he had lived
upon the rock' — that he further told him, that the air on the
                                                       '
top was much more calm than where he resided— that it was
not subject to change — and that, therefore, the ark continued
undecayed'— that he obtained from the hermit a piece of wood
of a brownish-red colour ; and a piece of the rock on which he
            ' that the ark rested
alleged                              ;' in attestation of which he gave
Strays a certificate to the following effect :
      " ' Certificate. — I with mine own hand cut off from the ark
 the piece of wood made in the form of a cross ; and Inoke off
from the rock, on which the ark rested, that same piece of
stone.'             (Signed)
                                £
                                  Dominicus Alexander Roman vs.
  .
    '
       Dated Mount Ararat, July 22, 1670.'
      " Strays    also  informs us, ' that he was seven days travelling
from Erivan to this mountain ;' and ' that it is an entire rock
without earth, trees, or verdure upon it.' He has given us a
map of the Caspian Sea, from which it appears that Ararat Ts
towards the western coast of that sea, north of the river Kir, and
somewhere about the southern extremity of Caucasus ; being
about 300 miles east-bearing-northward            from Erivan.
      " Thevenot, and other travellers, bring us also reports; but
                                                                     vary

                                    Notices respecting New Books.
*ary in    the position of this mountain ; so that, if any one of
them is right, all the others are wrong: and every thing we are
able to gain from these authors                         is,
                                             in the end, what Moses has
briefly informed us       namely ;  —  that Ararat was the resting-place
of the ark.
   <:
       What in the world could have possessed Mr.Struys             Surely      ?
it was very tame of such an enterprising traveller to turn back —
after having surmounted the regions of clouds, and finding him
self in such a serene climate, not to have visited the stupendous
hulk especially as he had such good surety of its being there,
          !
and in such excellent repair — not to have explored every corner
of that mighty carrack, moored so high, which had once con
tained such an inestimable cargo — not to have followed up the
grand effort, and have pacified for ever the eager solicitude which
must still hang about this interesting mystery — to come away
satisfied, after climbing so high, with that bit of splinter— and,
that piece of stone
   " Wells has inserted Ararat in his maps almost duly north of
                                    !
Babylon, and nearly sixty miles westward of Erivan             but    have
                                                                        ;       I
no idea upon what authorities.
   " Cellarius savs, that most interpreters take the Gordiean
mountains to be Ararat; and which are either a part of Taurus,
or near it.    In the Targum of Onkelos the mountains of Ararat
are translated the mountains of Cardu               and in the Targum of
                                                                   ;
Jonathan they are rendered the mountains of Kadrun.
   *' Many of the other commentators, whose notions are con
fined to Armenia, extend the interpretation, and say, the moun
tains of Ararat — the Gordiean mountains — the Armenian moun
tains—using the plural, as we find              in Genesis, without pre
                                                              it
tending to fix upon any particular tor. But Moses did not speak
obscurely, nor          to be allowed that he spoke insignificantly,
                           is   it
when he said       they journeyed from the east:' therefore, to be
                           *
ferreting about Armenia, for the sake of a string of contradictory
rumours,      tantamount to
                  is                dereliction of faith, and
                                               a                 gross ab   a
surdity; because           following rumour rather than fact: and
                                it   is                                                  it
is pretty certain, that rumour can never cause the sun to rise in
the north, nor the magnet to quit its old propensity.          Indeed               it   is
almost past supposition, that rumour should have withdrawn so
many, from       point so plain and positive. What
                       a                                     categorically
                                                                       is
announced should be literally interpreted :^— let us, therefore, try
the fact against the rumour.
   " In the first place,            far from unlikely that Ararat
                                          it   is                                   js   ^
primitive word, which generated out of the particular circum-.
stance to which        refers  it as the opinions respecting its precise
                                           ;
etymon    and  signification    are  as vague ,and inconclusive as about
jtsplace.     We must notice,        that  Moses applies      extensively,
                                                                       it
      '
              .                                 E   3                               and.

 70                Notices respecting New Books.
 and not locally, by using it in the plural. This word may have
 been afterwards transferred as a name, applicable to Armenia,
 without the slightest reference to the ark: for in the space of
 from 700 to 900 years, which elapsed from the time of Moses to
 the ages of Isaiah and Jeremiah, great changes in countries must
 have taken place ; and in those early establishments, nothing
 was long durable.     As to names, they were the most fickle parts
 belonging to countries; for a name was easily carried from place
 to place, though a territory could not ; so that, analogy of name,
 though found in Scripture, is no demonstration of identity; and
 Isaiah and Jeremiah allude to very foreign matters, in their men
 tion of Ararat, to what Moses did.    Indeed we might as well look
 for Damascus in the Desert of Arabia, as for the ark in Armenia;
 for the land of Uz is in the Arabian Desert, and Damascus is in
 the land of Uz : but we know that Damascus is not in Arabia ;
 and therefore, we reason, that these must be two distant coun
 tries named alike.
     " Now had the two great prophets spoken counter, to Moses,
it would have been much more melancholy and awful ; and which
they would certainly have done, if they had said that the ark
grounded in Armenia : but, they neither wrote to conduct us to
the ark, nor to lure us into any contrary pursuit; and we must
here endeavour to persuade ourselves, that Ararat on the north,
is not Ararat on the east, of Shinar ; and that there is no con
tradiction between Moses and the two prophets ; because, one
event preceded the other nearly 1700 years; and because, the
incidents were as foreign from one another, as they were distant
in time.
    "  In our endeavour, then, to arrive at the truth, we cannot
do better than retrace the geographical rhumb, which Moses has
laid down for us, from Ararat to Shinar.      In our progress along
this track, from the position of the latter place, we come to that
long and elevated range of mountains which some of the ancient
writers have considered to be a continuation of Taurus and
Caucasus ; and which extend, according to Quintus Curtius, in
an eastern direction all through Asia, even to the coast of China.
From this grand ridge, several collateral branches stretch, from
different points, towards the north and towards the south, and
at the western extremity of which are the Gordjean mountains of
Armenia, part of which is supposed, by some of the authors we
have mentioned, to be the Ararat where Noah alighted after the
flood: so that, the resting-place of the ark may yet have been on
these same mountains, though not in Armenia.
       Procopius says, that the Macedonians called the part of these
mountain*, on the eastern frontier of Persia, which had been
previously called Paropamisus, by the name of Caucasus, in com-      i
                                                            plimen^

                     Notices respecting New Books.                   71
   pliment to the victories which their hero Alexander won in
    those parts of the world.
      fi From this it has been erroneously imagined that the moun
  tains of Taurus and Caucasus form a junction towards the south
   west of the Caspian Sea, and continue on to India; and hence
  some have said that the ark rested on Taurus, and others have
   told us that it rested on Caucasus: but Caucasus commences on
   the north-eastern part of the Euxine, and proceeds in a rather
   south-eastern course, to the west shore of the Caspian, near to
   the mouth of the river Kir, where it ceases : and the heights of
   Taurus rise in the west of Asia Minor, and afterwards strike into
   two branches ; one of which terminates at the river Euphrates,
  and the other, running north-east, ceases at the eastern side of
  the Euxine — therefore, if the declaration of Moses is to be veri
  fied, these mountains of Taurus and Caucasus have nothing to
   do with Noah and the ark; and what we find to have been
  falsely called Caucasus, we must, according to the information
  of Procopius, consider to be Paropamisus.
      " It has been alleged by Buno, that these mountains of Persia
   are so high that the sun shines upon the tops of them during a
   third part of the night.
 •    " It is remarked by the H6lstein ambassadors, who visited
  Persia about two centuries ago under Brugman, that Curtius is
  not altogether wrong in saying that these mountains extend all
  through Asia ; ' hecause the heights of Ararat and Taurus so
                                               ' that
  nearly join them/ say these ambassadors,            they appear to
  be one concatenation of mountains.'
      " Wilson's Asiatic Researches record some traditions of the
  Indians respecting the antediluvian ages; the flood; and the
  preservation of the remnant of mankind.        He says, 'there is a
  mountain in the province of 'Candahar, that is called Aryavart,
  pr Aryawart ; on which, the tradition of that country says, the
  ark lodged.'
      " This is a part of the ancient Aria or Ariana,
                                                          (a very ex
  tensive country in the east of Persia, in the earlier ages:) and
  hereabouts wc find several dialects remaining, of the Targuni
  translations of Ararat, before mentioned, attached to different
  parts of the country; as Candau, Candu, Gaur, Goura, Gor,-
  Gorgian, &c.      Here also, besides Aria, Ariana, and Aryavart,
  are Herat, or Harat, Arsarath, Yerac, Herac, &c.      And we may
  further remark, that in the Persian and Indian vocabulary the
  termination at is very frequent ; sk Amadabat, Surat, Guzerat,
  Gehan-ahat, Estarabat, &c.
      " In so obscure a matter we must lay hold of every little light;
 but, were there not evidences stronger than these, our attempt
.would be to' no purpose.     When a strea;n becomes so clogged
                                E 4                                and

    72                          Notices respecting New Books.
    and choked as this       there is, scarcely   possibility of delving
                                                   is                  a
    through all the obstacles with which the versatility of time, the
    roots of prejudice and error, and the fashions and corruptions of
    language have conspired to fill        and though   it
                                                         : may be possi           it
    ble to remove some of the obstructions collected about its source,
    so as to get    to trickle, yet shall we never be able to come ex
                       it
    actly to the fountain-head      and     would be
                                              ;          useless and un
                                                             it                   a
    profitable appropriation of time to attempt       since what     im     it,                     is
    possible cannot be. But, very fortunately for us,       happens thai              it
    such nicety      by no means indispensable to the success of the
                           is
    argument   we  are upon which requires onlv, that we should de
                                         ;
    duce no judgement but what        conformable to the declaration of
                                                   is
    Moses and that, subjecting ourselves to this restriction through
             ;
    out, we should endeavour to work our way, as near as the cir
    cumstances will allow, towards the truth."
                                             [To   be continued.]
         Mr. Accum has in the press,                    "
                                        Chemical Amusement," com,-,
    prising a Series of curious and instructive Experiments in Che
    mistry, which are easily performed and unattended      danger.                         by
        Mr. Newman, Soho-Square, has just published      work enr                           a
    titled v Chromatics or, An Essay on the Analogy' and Harmony
                                  ;
    of Colours."
                                                                                                '
       Speedily will be published, in one volume octavo,     Practical                      A
    Inquiry into the Causes of the frequent Failure of the Operations
    of extracting and depressing the Cataract    and the Description    ;
    of   a new and improved Series of Operations,      the Practice of            by
    which most of these Causes of Failure may be avoided.        Illus
    trated     Tables of the comparative Success of the old and new
                  by
    Operations.   By Sir William Adams.
       The first number of new periodic?,! work, entitled " Journal
                                         a
    of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," has just
    reached this country from America.       contains,            It
                                                          Description                  1.
    of six new species  the genus Firola, from the Mediterranean,
                                 of                                                                      by
    MM. Le Sueur and Peron; with plate.             An account of the
                                                        a                   2.
    new mountain-sheep, On's monlana,        Mr. George Ord; with by                                     a
    wood-engraving of the horn of the animal.     3.    description of             A
.   seven American water and land Shells,       Mr. Tho. Say. The      by
    work ends with an invitation to naturalists to make use of the
    Journal as    medium of communicating science.
                       a
      It   expected and hoped that Mr. Abemethy will publish his
             is
    very excellent observations on the discoveries of the late cele
    brated John Kuuter in comparative and human Anatomy, ~de
                                                                                                livered,

                   '.  Notices respecting New Books.                  73
livered at the College of Surgeons during his Lectures. — This
gentleman has shown that we are in reality indebted to Hunter
for manv facts in natural history, &c. plagiarized by the mor
dern writers on physiology.         The publication of his Introductory
Lectures, relating to Hunter's Theory of Life, &c. &c. were
omitted to be mentioned in the Philosophical Magazine.             They
contained a sort of summary of the physiological opinions of
that acute and truly philosophical reasoner.       Among other things
which the author has ably handled, we may reckon his remarks
 on the vital principle as some of the best,-^-not because any
 theory of life is therein established on demonstrative evidence,
 and placed beyond all controversy — for the obscurity of the sub
ject renders this impossible — but because on a. subject in itself
purely theoretical he has followed a course of ie&&omng founded
 on the observance, and strictly philosophical throughout, and
 Which is more consistent with the common sense of the thinking
 part of mankind in all ages past, as well as with popular feeling,
 than any other modern theory of life, or philosophy of mind.
 It is in this respect eminently contrasted to that confused farrago
 of scarcely intelligible words in which some modern writers have
 attempted, in humble imitation of the French school of philoso
 phy, to convey and establish the gloomy and misanthropic doc
 trine of materialism, and thus confound the distinction of au
 tomatic and animal life — opinions which, however prevalent they
 may still be among the unreflecting pgople of France, are daily
 losing ground in Germany, Scotland, and our own country, and
 are giving place to a more rational philosophy.
     A work is in contemplation, and it will probably be shortly
 laid before the public, entitled " History of the Helvetian, Au
 strian, Apennine, Pyrenean, and Northern Floras," considered
 with respect to the points of origin from which the different
 families of plants have travelled to the valleys and plains, and
 become mixed together ; illustrated by a Botanical Map of the
  regions assigned to each,
             X. Intelligence      and Miscellaneous Articles.
                               To  Mr. Tilloch,
  Sir, — J. write      chiefly with a view to correct the latter para,-
                                  "
 graph of the description of Steele's Nooth's apparatus," which
 should stand thus:
                          "  The impregnation is very soon effected, as
  the pressure  is great   ;  and as the parts are fitted by accurate
  grinding, much      trouble  and inconvenience are saved, from the
  usual method of luting being avoided."
1                                                                I think

                 The Davy.    — Steam-Engines in Cornwall.
       I think it extremely hard that our feelings should be lacerated
   by the obstinacy of prejudice or error in neglecting to use "the
   Davy" in mines subject to the fire-damp. — The accident at the
   colliery near Durham is a sad example of the too palpable truth,
   that we have yet much to encounter in its universal adoption.
   Much pains have been taken indeed, by persons who ought to
   have known better, to unhinge the mind in the belief of its ab
   solute safety.      I am ready at any time to prove, at the risk of
   my life, that it yields a perfect security to the miner.      I have
   lately had a most decided proof of this in one of the collieries
   at the Hurlet near Paisley.        The mine in question had been
   abandoned upwards of twelve months, by reason of the accumu
   lated and still accumulating fire-damp. The experiment afforded
   a spectacle of the most beautiful and impressive kind, — The gra
   dual approach to the confines of the explosive waste was indi
  cated by the included flame of the lamp presenting a lengthened
  spife, so as ultimately to brush the dome of the cylinder ; — on
  passing this boundary the wire-gauze became suddenly red hoi,
  and the flame of the wick was enveloped by the apparition of a
  foreign flame which continued to fill the cylinder — a candle
  here might have proved as destructive as any upon record ; for in
  an extent of three or four acres, it exhibited from the floor up,
  311  explosive medium.        These mines had some years ago to re
 cord an accident by which seventeen human beings were con
 signed to eternity.             .
      There was a phenomenon here which forcibly impressed me.
 The degrees of the fire-damp and explosive measure, as indicated
 by
       "  the Davy," proved that they were not uniform in diffusion^
 but existing in strata or clouds throughout the atmosphere of
  the mine.
      From some recent experiments, on the subject of which I may
 again address you, I am of opinion that the principle of safety
 in this wonderful instrument is to be attributed to the depolari*
 zation of the flame by the wire-gauze.
                     I am respectfully, sir,
                                 Your most obedient servant,
     Greenock,  July  22, 1817.                          J.  MURRAY.
                          PRESERVATION OF MEAT.
     Don Eloy Valenzuela, curate of Buearamanga in South Ame
 rica, has discovered that meat may be preserved fresh for many
 months by keeping it immersed in molasses.
                      STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
     According to Messrs. Lean's Report for May and June, the
.following were the respective quantities of water lifted one foot
                        v                                         high

              Steam E?igines in      Cornwall.— Deaths.                   75
high with one bushel of coals, by the engines annexed, during
these months.
           Work performed in May.                        Load per square
                                      Founds of mater.   "lcn m cylinder.
25 common engines averaged              23,107,534           various,
Woolf's at Wheal Vor                  not reported.
Ditto        Wh. Abraham        . .     52,349,333           15-1    lib.
Ditto         ditto    ..       ..      24,713,750             3-7
Ditto        Wh. Unity          .,      34,928,030           13-1
Dalcouth engine        ..       ..      44, 205, 739         11-2
United mines           ..       ..      36,874,193           16 2
W'heal Chance         ..        ..     39,589,154             130
          Work performed in June.
23 common engines averaged             22,206,996            various.
Woolf's at Wheal Vor            . .     38,438,168           15-4
Ditto         Wh. Abraham ..            40,135,339           15-1
Ditto         ditto    . .       . .    22,577,264             3-7      •
Ditto         Wh. Unity         . .    30,740,843            13-1
Dalcouth engine        ..       ..      41,484,504            11-2
United mines           ..       .. 34,298,994                 17-9
Wheal Chance           ..        ..     32,615,890            13-0
                                  DEATHS.
   It is  with regret we have to announce the premature death              of
our much-valued correspondent George John Singer, esq. author
of "Elements of Electro-Chemistry.
                                          " His death was occasioned
by pulmonary consumption^ and took place on the 28th of June,
in his 31st year. This distmguished philosopher began to teach
the sciences at an age when other men are commencing their
studies. His patient and investigating spirit, combined with great
mechanical skill and unwearied industry, enabled him to make
some very important improvements in the instruments used in
electricity, and that science owes to him some valuable discoveries.
His work, which has received the honours of a double translation
jnto French, will remain a lasting monument of his talent — it
may safely be pronounced the best manual of the subject it em
braces. — In private life Mr. Singer's virtues endeared him to
all who had the honour of his acquaintance, among whom were
some of the most able philosophers of the age.                 This circle
might    have been  greatly enlarged,      but that  he loved   retirement
and privacy,       more than those who delighted in his society-
could have wished.         In him science has lost an arduous and
highly-gifted votary, the community a most valuable member,
his friends an inestimable treasure.
   M. Werner, the celebrated mineralogist, died at Dresden on the
30th of June, at the age of 67.        He has bequeathed his excellent
                                                                 collection

76                              Palenis. — Astronomy.
collection of minerals, consisting of more than 100,000 speci
mens, and valued at 150,000 crowns, to the Mineralogical Aca
demy of Freyberg.
  Dr, Spurzheim having finished his Course of Spring Lectures
on the Brain, set off on Monday the 21st of July for Paris. The
period of his stay in France is uncertain.
                    [.1ST Off   PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Thomas Wedlake, of Hornchurch, Esses, for certain im
provements on ploughs. — Dated 5th July 1817. — To specify in
2 months.
   To David Brewster, LL.D.,. of Edinburgh, for a new optical
instrument called The Kaleidoscope, for exhibiting and creating
beautiful forms and patterns of general use in all the ornamental
arts. — 10th July. — 2 months.
   To Captain Samuel Brown, R.N. , for his improvement in the
construction of a bridge, by the formation and uniting of its com
ponent parts in a manner not hitherto practised. — 10th July.— -
 6 months.
   To William Henry Simpson, of Bickington, Devon, for cer
tain improvements in the machinery for the spinning of wool,
cotton, and other fibrous substances. — 10th July. — 2 months.
   To Richard Farmer Brain, of Salford, Lancaster, brewer, for
an improvement or apparatus calculated to obtain or generate gas
in a more oeconomical manner than heretofore, from coal or any
other article, material, or substance, for lighting or heating
houses, manufactories, or other places where light or heat is re
quired. — 10th July. — 6 months,
   To Henry Tritton, of Clapham, Surrey, for his apparatus for
distilling. — 15th July. — 6 months.
   To Thomas As pin wall, esq. of Bishopsgate Church-yard, Lon
don, for an elliptic valve-pump box, communicated to him bv ^
certain foreigner residing abroad. — 16th July. — 6 months.
                Astronomical Phcenomcna,          August           1   S 17-
 D. H. M.                                   D, H. M.
 3. O. O 5 215 Mayer* 12'              N.   18. 5.25    D    a.    ^
 4.
 A.
 5.
    O. O 5 apogee
    O. O s 223 Mayer * 6
      p.58   I1 c?
                                       N-
                                            1Q. 3. 4
                                            *9- 7-45
                                            20.ig.31
                                                        5
                                                        5    U
                                                             k
                                                     5 GOphiuchi
 6.   4 39    3)    A«                      22. 4. 6 5       <}>
8     0.15   5      125   H                 22.   8,
                                                  2    <r
                                                        ))    ff
 8. 0.16     5132         8                 23. 2. 1 © enters to
14 15.36     5vtt;j                         25.3.11    eV?
                                                        5
                    yir;t                   30.12,19
                                                                         '
15.18.51                                                J>   o     X
         O   J> 5
17. O.              perigee
                                                                               Meleoro-

                                  Meteorology.                              77
M-eteorological      Olservations kept at Wallhamstow, Essex, from
                         June     15 to   July  15, 1817.
{Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
                (a second time) between One and Two P.M.J
Pate. Therm. Barom. Wind.
June
 15     57   30-22       NW. — Sun and cumuli; fine day; fine clear
        64                 evening ; stratus NW.
 16     47' 30-33        N^SE. — >-Very       fine morning; fine, hot, sun
        67                 and wind     ;  stars and cirrostratus*
 17     52   30-1  1     SE — E. — Clear and calm ; very fine day; some
        69                 cirrus at 6 P.M.; clear night.
 18     63   29-77       SE — E. — Clear sunshine ^ cumuli NW hori
 .
        83                 zon ; fine day ; moon, stars ; cumuli E ; and
                           cirrostratus NW.
 19     67   29-77       SE. — Clear and cumuli; fine day; very hot;
        70                 clear and cirrostratus NW.
 20     67   29-78
                      :
                         N—-SE — E. — Clear and hot fine day; re
        84                 markably strong dew till late in the day in
                           the shade; clear, calm night, and very hot.
 21     67   29- SS     N.NE — E. — Hazy and sun; fine hot day;
        86              clears stratus NW; corona round the moon.
 22     67   30-10       N.NW — NE. — Hot sun and windy; fine day;
      •
 „      82                 clear, and cirrostratus.      Moon first quarter*.
 23     63   30- 10         —     —     —
                         N E N. Sun; wind; and cirrostratus;
  -     80                 great wind, and cumuli ; fine day; clear, and
                           cirrostratus.
 24     62   29-98       N — NW. — Hazy         ; no sun visible ; fine hot
        79                 day;     8  PM.   thunder   and great rain; clear,
                           and cirrostratus*
 25     63   29-99       NW — W. — Cloudy; hot sunny day; clear
        77                 moon- and star-light.           '.
 26     58   29-97       NW— SE— NW.— Very hazy; slight rain;
        75                  fine hot day;     clear and clouds.
 27     69   29-65       NE — E — W. — Hot, sun and wind ; sun and
        7(i
              •
                           clouds; 6 P.M. great storm, thunder and
                           lightning; rain and hail, and remarkable
                           sky; black nimbus which hung like a cur
                            tain NW. ; at 7 P.M. the sun shone between
                            the clouds and dark nimbus all around;
                           cloudy night.
 28     59   29 60       NW— W.— Fine,           and clear, and windy ; fine
        70                 day;     showers after 3 P.M. ; clear night at
                            10| P.M.        Full moon.
    * Cats retired under     trees into the shade to sleep (a sign of uncommon
 heat) frequently since die 19th     of this month.
                                                                          June

78                              Meteorology.
June
29     60    29-98      S — SE.-— cumuli, and     clear; fine day; cirro-
       73                 stratus and windy.
30     63    29-76      S.SE — NW — SE. — Cloudy; some showers;
       69                 sun and clear   ; fine day; clear and windy.
July
  1    GO    29-75     SE. — Clear and cirroslratus ; rain after 10
       61                 A.M. and windy, and very damp all day till
                          about   5 P.M.;   cloudy and great wind.
  2    59    29-83      N. — Clouds, and stormy wind; fine day; clear
       66                 and eirrocumuli.
  3    56    29-87     W — SE — E, — Cloudy and hazy; fine day;,
       70                 showers   ; cumulostratus,   and wind.
  4    59    29-65      SE — SW — W. — Rain; clear and clouds; fine
       67                 day;   clear, and cumuli.  .
  5    55    29-65      NW— W— SW.— NW. — Rain               ;  fine day;
       69                 showers ; [a thunder storm        at Clapton] ;
                          clear, and dark stratus high    NW.
  6    55    29-66      S — SW. — Rainy morn; showery;             sun and
       70                 clouds ;vclear, and cirroslratus.      Moon last
                          quarter.
  7    55    29-67      W — W. — Sun and cumuli; fine day; clear,
       68                 and cirrus, and stars.
  8    56    29-88      N. — Clear, clouds, and wind; fine day; star
       69                 light.
  9    59    29-88     W — SW. — Cirrostratus; clear; sun and wind;
       73                  fine day; cirrostratus, and clear.
 10    59    29-88      SE — S.— -Sun and stratus; fine day; some
       77                 drops of rain after 5 P.M.; star-light.
 11    62    29-77      SE — SW. — Clear, and cumuli; fine day;
       70                 star-light and windy.
 12    59    29-78     NW— N. —Slight rain early; sunshine and
       70                 windy; clouds and wind.
 13    59    29-9S      S —   SW — W — SW. — Hazy and sun; fine day ;
       67                 showers     between 4    and 6    P.M.;    cloudy
                          and windy.
 U     55    29-76     S— SW— W. — Hazy             and windy;        slight
       63                 showers and sun; cloudy and windy.            New
                          moon .
 15    52    29-32      SE — NW — N. —Very great rain; Sun and
       64                 showers; black nimbus and fog at 8£ A.M.;
                          showery.
    The wind  is set down by a weathercock accurately fixed to due north and
south, and    not by one fixed by a compass, but by the meridian, by Mr.
Thomas Forster, at the altitude of about one hundred feet.
                                                                METEORO-

                              Meteorologifi                              79
           METEOROLOGICAL       JOURNAL KEPT AT           BOSTON^
                             LINCOLNSHIRE.
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at  1 P.M.]
            \ge of
  1817.      the   Thermo  Baro     State  of the Weather and Modification
            Moon    meter. meter.               of the Clouds.
            DAYS.
June   15       1    58-   30-26 Cloudy
       16       2    64-   30-40 Very fine
       17      3     66-   30-15 Ditto
       18      4     71-   29.86 Ditto
       19       5    82-   29-91 Ditto — thunder storm and heavy
                                       rain at 3 P.M. for half an hour
       20      6     82-   29-95    Ditto
       21       7    78-   30-27    Ditto
       22      8     76.5  30-19    Ditto
       23       9    75-5  30-14    Ditto — rain at night
       24     10     72-   303      Cloudy
       25     11     78-   30-6     Very fine — thunder storm and rain
       26     12     70-5   29-94   Cloudy                          [3 P.M.
       27     13     63-    29-75    Ditto
       28 full       67"5   29' SO   Ditto
       29 15         68-    30-      Very fine
       30     16     58'    29-77 Rain — heavy thunder storm and
                                        violent shower of hail and ice
  July   1    17     64-5   29-77 Rain
         2    18     59-5   2970 Cloudy— blows hard from S.W.
         3     19     69-   29-98 Ditto — rain at night
         4    20      71-   29-71    Ditto         ditto
         5    21      57-   29-70    Ditto         ditto
         6     22     65-   29-76    Showery — ditto
          7    23     68-   29-30    Cloudy
          8    24     62-   29-93    Ditto
          9   25      64-   29-99    Very fine
        10     26     72-   29-94    Cloudy — rain at night
        11     27     66-   29-89    Rain
        IS     28     62-   305      Cloudy — rain at night
        IS     29     63-   30"      Showery — heavy ditto
        14    new     68'    29-70 Ditto
    There has been a great deal of rain fallen since the 1st July; and thun
 der almost every day in the past month. It is to be observed that the
 thermometer is hung against a wall upon which the sun never shines. The
 20th June it rose to 91° in the sun removed from any thing vthich could
 reflect and increase the heat of the air.

so                                                                    Meteorology*
                                               meteorological table>,
                                    By         Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                               For July                  1   817 •
                                                                                                                                             !   ,   ~Z
                                                                                                     1 M
                            Thermometer.
                                                                                                    E
                                                                                Height of           of   Lesl
    Days of
                                                        11 o'Clock,
                                                                                                                Hygrometei
                         o'Clock,
                                                                                                                                    Weather.
                                    Morning.
*                ~                             o    -                          the Barom.
                                                                      Night.
     Month.                                    O                                                         by
                                               53                                Indies.             Degrees
                         8                                                                           ness
     June   27           68                    74        64                     29.55                   52                   Showery
            28           63                    72        58                        •72                  71                   Fair
            29           60                    70        62                        •80
                                                                                             •
                                                                                                        57                   Fair
            30           64                    68        55                       •69                   52                   Showery
     July     1          60                    60        53                       •50                    d                   Rain
                         52                    66        57                       •65                   45                   Fair
            6 5 4 3 2
                         58                    66        57                       •so                   36                   Showery
                         57                    64       54.                       •60                   38                   Cloudy
                         59                    66       57                        •50                   31                   Cloudy
                         57                    67       56                        •62                46                      Fair
              7          61                    67       55                        •73                   55                   Fair
              8          61                    70       61                        •80                   70                   Fair
            0            62                    70       60                        •80                   34                   Fair
            10           62                    74       61                        •78               <67                      Fair   •    -
            11           64                    70       62                        •75                 45                     Fair
            12           62                    76       63                        •90                 37                     Showery
                                                                                                                                                     •>
            13           62                    67       57                        •80                 32                     Showery
            14           60                    64       56                        •58                 32                     Showery
            15           62                    64       54                        •20                 30                     Showery
            16           55                    62       55                        •62                 52                     Cloudy
            17           56                    67       56                        •79                 55                     Fair
            18           55                    63       54                        •78                41                      Fair
            19           56                    66       54                        •88                47                      Cloudy
            SO           60                    67       55                        •88                42                      Cloudy
            2I           59                    69       60                        •86                46                      Fair
            22           60                    67       60                        •80                38                      Showery
            23           60                    68       60                        •84                36                      Cloudy
            24           60                    70       60                        '99                 61                     Fair
            25           62                    70       58                        •92                 62                     Showery
            26           61                    65       57                        •69                    0                   Rain
                                                                                         ;
                        N.B. The Barometer's height                                          is   taken at one o'clock.

                                I  81    ]
5vt. Ob ike Cause     of Elling and Flowing Springs.       By Gavin
                             Inglis, Esq.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch
Sir, —    As     you have again brought into notice the ebbing
and flowing spring of pure fresh water in Bridlington harbour in
the 227th Number of your valuable Magazine, I beg leave to
send the substance of some observations intended to have been
submitted to you at the time Dr. Storer's communication to Sir
J. Banks was published in your xlvth volume, page 432*
   Dr. S., after relating the circumstances which led tothediscovery
of the spring, says: "As soon as the surface water in the harbour
during the flowing of the tide has arrived at a level of 49 to 50
inches lower than the top of the bore, the water begins to flow
from it in a stream equal to its calibre ; the impetus of which is
increased as the tide advances, and may be observed to be pro
pelled with much force after the bore is overflowed by the tide.
 The discharge continues from four to five hours, i.e. till the tide in
returning falls to the same level at which it began to flow. — The
 rule appears to be, that the column of spring water in the bore
 is always supported at a height of 49 to 50 incites above the level
of the tide at any given time." — " Such is the state of facts,"
continues the Doctor ; " and it appears to open a subject of
curious investigation to those whose habits and practical know
 ledge qualify them for it. The appearances seem, not to ad
 mit of any satisfactoryexplanation, without supposing some mode
 of subterranean communication, by which the water of the sea
 and that of the spring in question are brought into actual con
 tact so as to exert a reciprocal action."
    I beg leave to differ from the Doctor in supposing the rise of
 the fresh water above the level of the tide to proceed from these
 waters • coming into actual contact, upon the principle of two
 liquids of different specific gravities in an inverted svphon.
     The facts themselves are at variance with this hypothesis.
    The well-known specific gravity of the German Ocean does
  not so far exceed that of pure spring water as to equal a column
 of 49 to 50 inches of superior altitude. The stratum of very
 solid clay, the tapping of which procured for Bridlington this
 wonderful supply of very fine water, will be found upon examina
 tion to extend not only from Flamborough Head by the Smith-
  wick Sands to SpurnPoint, but to underlie Bridlington, the whole
 Wolds behind, and up the country till it runs out and is succeeded
  by that cretaceous gravelly soil whose dipping stratum occupies
 the intermediate space betwixt the clay and the rock.         To this
 alone is to be attributed the want of water in the Wolds ; the
    Vol. 50. No.232. August 1817.                  F                few

      82             On Ebbing and Flowing Springs.
     few streams or rivulets ; their Jowness in summer and dryness
     in autumn ; their regular supply being only what oozes or per
     colates through the clay.      The substratum of gravel will be
     found to be the common receptacle of all the waters that fall in
     the upper country, and which would otherwise flow in copious
     springs and streams over the wolds, &c.
         The Gipsies will be found mere perforations of the superstratum
     of clay; and one and all of them at some seasons, although di
     stant from the sea, to be less or more ebbing and flowing springs.
     These begin to flow copiously, after the frost has so far pene
     trated the upper mould or turf as to solidify the surface of the
     clay, and prevent all further oozings of the water from below;
    then the accumulation of waters in the substratum must increase
    with great rapidity, become irresistible, and propel themselves
    with force from every opening; which projection will increase at
    all times with the flowing tide, and be at the highest at full sea,
    lessen in proportion as the waters of the ocean recede, leaving
   the flexible clay to give way to the hydraulic pressure from be
   low when freed from the Weight of waters above. Clay, however
   solid (in an unburnt state), when moist is an elastic substance ;
   and, in fact, that whole bed extending from Flamborough Head
   to Spurn Point will be found to rise and fall with the ebbing
   and flowing of every tide.      When the recess of the ocean, as I
  have said above, lessens the pressure upon the upper surface of
   this immense bed of clay, whose extent must in an eminent de
  gree contribute to its elasticity, the hydraulic pressure on the
  under stratum, by waters from an unknown altitude, must raise
  the whole mass in proportion as the force is superior to the re
  sistance.     The return of the tide brings with it the weight and
  altitude of its mass of waters, and unavoidably acts on the flexi
  bility of the clay, as a pressure would on an hydraulic blowpipe ;
  and of course " sets up the Gipsies," whose rise, in a calm, will
  be progressive and smooth.         But in a storm, the clay, shaken
 by the thundering violence and beating of the waves, must occa
  sion the consequent undulation of the water from the springs, by
 its elastic vibrations.     When the collection of waters from above
 is greater than the natural discharge of these gatherings, by the
 fissures in the rock at the back of Smithwick Sands, then the
 Gipsies must get lip, and the springs will naturally flow higher
 and longer every tide, than when the collection is little more
 than the natural discharge.
      To Bridlington this discovery has been of great advantage.
But there is a result of infinitely greater consequence to that
town and neighbourhood than the mere production of pure fresh
water for the ordinary purposes of life.         By sufficient tapping,
the Wolds might be rendered inestimably valuable and produc
                                                                   tive,

           Report of the Select Committee         on Steam-Boats.      88
live, comparatively speaking, by giving free vent to the Waters
 from below the clay, instead of leaving it to ooze through, which
keeps the soil always weeping; — consequently damp, cold, and
unproductive.       In an age of improvement like the present, it is
to be wondered that this has not been attended to. There is no
mode of draining a clay soil equal to boring, particularly when
lying on a substratum of gravel : whenever this is the case, water
 may always be procured by boring in the dipping of the gravel
stratum; on the contrary, by boring in the cross levels, a stream
may be turned into the bore, and disappear.             Hence the Scotch
phrase of " driving the bottom out of a well," by sinking too
deep.
     St. Winifred's or Holy Well in Flintshire is the discharge of
waters collected under similar circumstances ; and probably at
no great distance from its source, the waters being muddy and
whey-coloured after heavy rains.             These waters now, instead
of working miracles, are turned to a more rational though per
haps not a more profitable account, — that of turning useful ma
chinery: and I have no doubt whatever, but by sinking or boring,
and casing with cast-iron boxes, a quantity of water might be
procured, in the neighbourhood of Bridlington, sufficient for,
and which might be most profitably applied to, the working of
even heavy machinery, either by applying the water direct from
the pit or bore, raised sufficiently to cover the wheels of ma
chinery, or by throwing it into reservoirs, and applying it in pro
portion to the weight required for the machinery to be driven.
    It is impossible to conceive to what extent this might be car
ried, and to what a pitch of commercial greatness this simple
discovery may raise Bridlington.
   Strathendry Bleaclifield, Fife, July 22, 1817.
XII.    Report of the Select Committee appointed to consider of
    the Means of preventing the Mischief of Explosion from hap
    pening on board Steam-Boats, to the Danger or Destruction
    of His Majesty's Subjects on board such Boats.
                           [Continued from p. 65.]
                 The Evidence       of Seth Hunt, Esq.
Are       you concerned with the province of Louisiana ? — I have
been in Louisiana ; I formerly was commandant in Upper Loui
siana.
    Can you furnish the Committee with any information in re
spect of the safety of steam-boats ? — In the United States a great
                                      F 2                        number

84                 Report  of the Select Committee
number of steam -boats have been established:          The first wa*
at New-" York ; there are now running between New- York and
Albany, ten boats ; two between New- York and the State of
Connecticut; four or five to New- Jersey 5 besides the ferry-boats
that pass and repass across the river, of which there are four ;
those boats work all by low pressure engines ; no accident has
ever happened to any one of them ; they have been running since
the year 1 807 ; and the boats at Albany perform about forty
trips each per annum.
    What distance is that ? — An hundred and sixty miles. They
go up in twenty-one hours, and come down in nineteen ; some
times a little longer, but never shorter than nineteen ; that is
the quickest passage.
    At what rate per hour do they go ? — Some of them go about
 seven miles an hour in still water ; some boats have gone nine,
ten, or eleven knots ; but that is under particular circumstances.
 They have come from Newhaven to New-. York, ninety miles, in
six hours and a half, without any sail.
    Do they ever make use of a sail ?— They have a sail and a
 mast, which they can lower down and raise up to take advantage
 of a favourable wind, to assist them in their passage.
    Those boats are upon rivers ? — Those which go to Albany riass
 up the North River, and the others to Connecticut pass through
 what is called Long Island Sound, which is forty miles broad in
one prfrt of it.     On the river Delaware there are a number of
boats also established, which ply between Philadelphia and
 Trenton, in New-Jersey; and Philadelphia and Bordenton, in
 New-Jersey; also others between Philadelphia and Newcastle,
 and Philadelphia and Wilmington ; beside ferry-boats which pass
 and repass the Delaware.       Several of those boats have low pres
 sure engines, others have high pressure engines, working the
high pressure engines from 100 to 140 pounds the square inch,
and as high as 160; but those engines are constructed upon
 Oliver Evans's plan, called the Columbian plan.
    Are they of wrought iron ? — Yes ; there are no cast-iron boilers
in America. I presume that may arise from their not having
 foundries in which they can cast them sufficiently large ; they
 are all wrought-iron boilers or copper; all which have to pass
 through salt-water are copper.        The boat Etna, which passes
 between Philadelphia and Wilmington, is a high pressure engine,
 and outstrips all the other boats ; there is no competition at all
between them.       There are boats which pass also on the Chesa-
peak,   which  is there forty miles wide ; they pass from Baltimore
 to French  Town    and   back, regular boats, two lines of boats;
 one leaves Baltimore one day and the other the next ; they pass
                                                                every

                                               1
                         on.    Steam-Boats.                      85
-every other day alternately.           are other boats from Balti
                                     There
more, which go to Norfolk        there they pass a still wider part
                                 ;
of the Chesapeak, which may be sixty miles wide; they have
been to New-London, which is still more exposed ; and have
been up to New-Hertford.
   Are those with high pressure engines ? — No ; low pressure.
On the Potowmac there are also steam-boats, and on the James
River, which pass between Richmond and Norfolk.
   Have any accidents been known to arise on account of the
heavy seas? — No; no accident whatever.        I have not mentioned
the most important circumstance connected with this: — the
Powhattan steam-boat was built at New- York, went into the
open ocean, encountered for three days a very severe gale of
wind, arrived safe at Norfolk and up to Richmond.          The gen
tleman is now in England who navigated her ; and I have heard
him say, that he felt himself as safe as he should in a frigate ;
and he said there wae this advantage, that the steam power en
abled him when they could not have borne sails, to put the head
of the vessel to the sea, instead of lying in the trough of the sea,
being exposed to be over-run by the waves.
   What was her tonnage ?— Two hundred and fifty tons.
   What is the largest steam-boat in America ? —The largest I
have seen are those on the Mississipi, the Etna and the Vesuvius,
-which ply between New-Orleans and the Naches \ they are 450
tons, a«d they carry 280 tons merchandize and 100 passengers ;
.700 b^les of cotton besides the passengers are transported to
New-Orleans.
    Have you any regular allowance of power according to a ton?
—I    believe that after they have proved their boilers, which I pre
 sume should be done in all cases, if they wish to ascertain the
pressure, they work with safety at half that which it has been
proved at.
    Is there any rule according to tonnage established as an usage?
—I am not an engineer, and am not conversant with that sub
ject ; I have passed through the country, and have been on
'board most of those boats, but I am not acquainted with that
fact.
    Have any accidents happened? — Within my recollection only
three accidents have happened to steam-boats in America: the
first happened on the Ohio, and was occasioned, as stated by
the public papers, by the negligence and inattention of the en
gineer, who loaded the safety-valve, and neglected to attend the
fire; all hands were engaged          ,i«
                                       hoisting the anchor, the fire
was in a    very high  state, and of  course  produced a vast deal of
steam that did not escape       bythe ordinary operation of the en
gine, which would discharge         and carry    off.
                                 F it
                                                   it
                                      3                       What

86                 Report    of the Select Committee
    What is called the safety-valve had been improperly loaded
and neglected? — Yes, but that never need happen; the principle
of steel-yards is to put a weight at the end, and if you put no more
than that, it will answer its purpose; — so with a steam-engine;
it may be overloaded, and its effect destroyed. The next acci
dent happened, not from a fault of any body, but from an act of
 God ; it was lightning, as was satisfactorily explained to the
public, both by the passengers and those interested in the boat ;
that was at Charleston in South Carolina; the pipe which carries
the smoke up to the top attracted the lightning, and it went down
and split the boiler.
    It was not considered as at all connected with      the operation
of the  engine? — No,     not at all through negligence. A third ac
cident happened lately to the Powhattan ; she was not in opera
tion when it happened ; they were out of fuel, they stopped their
boat and lay still upon the water while they went after wood ;
still however they kept up their fire, and the steam was high, and
it exploded in that situation, there being no consumption of the
steam as it accumulated.          Those are the only accidents that
ever happened, except such as have happened from vessels taking
fire.
    Were those    vessels   high or low pressure engines ? — All low
pressure engines.     No accident has ever happened in America to
a high pressure engine, either in a manufactory or out of it ; and
there are many engines used in the manufactories, and in flour-
mills and saw-mills, constructed upon the plan of Oliver Evans,
which act on the high pressure principle to 150 pounds an inch;
he has worked 160, but 120 is his constant average. There is not
an old woman in America that is ever frightened at all at a high
pressure engine, any more than they now are at a cannot). There
is a very large engine, about a forty-five horse power, at St. Sen-
nati, on the Ohio River, which moves seven pair of stones in a
flour-mill, a woollen manufactory, and a cotton manufactory
 seven stories high ; it works upon the high pressure, and there
 are saw-mills and grist-mills at various places.
    What is the fuel ? — Wood in most places. At Pittsburgh and
 on the Ohio River it is coal and wood ; at Pittsburgh and at
Weeling, and a hundred other places, there is fifty miles square
 a solid mass of coal ; they drive the shaft horizontally into the
hill, and the coal is abundant above their head in the mountains,
 as fme coal as any in the world ; it is delivered at the houses of
the inhabitants at sixteen bushels for a dollar.
    Is the number of steam-boats now increasing in America? —
Very rapidly.
    Are those that are now constructing upon the high or the low
pressure system ?— Upon both, because there are different in
                                                               terests

                                    on Steam-Boats.                               87
terests and different companies.     Mr. Evans being a patentee,
they  have  to give something   for the use of his patent ; — if they
cannot make their bargain with him they use the low pressure
engine ; but there is a new engine invented in America, a per
fectly rotatory engine, built for one-third of the money, which is
now coming into use in several of the steam-boats ; and it was
supposed when I came away it would supersede all other en
gines.
   Do you know of any particular guard in the construction of
steam-engines used in America to prevent accidents? — I know of
no other than that of properly constructing the safety-valve, and
the manner of loading              it,
                          so that they cannot get on more than
a certain weight   they must
                          ;    of course construct them strong
enough and prove them.
   They are under no Government regulation — They are not.     ?
   Does that with    rotatory motion consume more coals ?—
                              a                                                   It
is supposed to consume less   twelve bushels of coals with the
                                         ;
rotatory motion will perform the same work as the other engine
with twenty.
                     Mr. Timothy         Bramah's         Evidence.
   You are an engineer, at Pimlico ?-rl am.
   You were one of the gentlemen that went to Norwich to in
quire into the explosion of the steam-boat — was.          ?   I
   Did you go at the request of any party, or of your own volun
tary suggestion — went in consequence of my friends, Mr. Col*
                      ?   I
linge and Mr. Donkin, calling upon me to ask my opinion,
whether      would be right for us to interfere upon such an oc
                it
casion;    concurred
               I      with them that     would, and volunteered
                                                     it
to go.
     Your design was to inquire into the causes of the explosion?
— Yes,  and to examine as much of the wreck as we could find.
   State to the Committee to what you attribute the accident?
— The observations made led me to determine
                              I                      was owing to  it
the expansive force of the steam, and the inadequacy of the boiler
to sustain that force.
   Was     a high pressure or
               it                 low pressure engine? —
                                             a               high           A
pressure engine; the boiler was badly constructed and shaped.
   Of what materials was the boiler composed — Of wrought          ?
and cast iron, and     was the cast-iron part that gave way.
                              it
   Those two materials expand in different proportion with the
                                                 a
same degree of heat'? — Yes, they do.
     Is usual to have the boiler of wrought and cast iron ?—
          it                                                                     I
should think     would be avoided on all occasions
                     it                               experienced      by
engineers    but;  have often seen it,
                      I
                                             F   4   „                          This.

88                Report   of ike Select Committee
  This engine was not made so at first, but altered afterwards         f
was it not ? — Yes, in consequence of the other giving way.
  Have you any reason to suppose that the accident might be
attributed    to negligence or mismanagement        in the director   of
it ? — We had verbal testimony, from which I had no doubt the
 steam was at a considerable degree of pressure ; but the end was
 very improperly made.                 >
     Did you ever learn at what rate the man was working? — No,
 I understood he was working at sixty pounds an inch generally,
 probably it might be 120 at that moment ; but I should think it
 not equal to the working of sixty, for it was only three-fourths
 of an inch, and a sixteenth in some places in thickness, and it
 was four feet in diameter at the end ; it was a flat end to the
  cylinder like a drum.
     Is it possible to construct the engines in steam-boats in such
 a manner that there is great improbability of any accident hap
 pening? — I do not know how to answer as to their being per
 fectly safe ; I do not feel that materials, when they are sub
 mitted to so great a pressure, are safe, for we find that very few
 materials will stand a great degree of pressure for any length of
 time ; we often find that a water-press, which has been efficient
 six or seven years together, at length gives way, when the me
 tals are subjected to a very great pressure; it is like a blow with
 a heavy machine for breaking metals, which does not break the
first time, but is constantly tending to loosen the particles.
     Do you think that a high pressure engine, under any guard
 that can be applied to      it,   is issafe engine to use in   asteam
 boat — do not conceive
     ?   I                    it   a a proper engine, or a safe one.
    Did you ever hear of their having been used with wrought-iron
boilers with perfect safety? — No,         have not heard of any com
                                            I
parative statement of either the wrought or cast       ;I    know they
 are usually made with cast.
    Do you consider yourself sufficiently an engineer, with respect
to the construction of steam-engines, to be able to give of vour
own knowledge,     a    decided answer to such questions — Yes,
                                                            ?         I
do conceive1 so; I    have  paid   agreat deal of attention to the sub
ject of steam-engines, and         I believe   know the principle of
                                                I
every one in existence.
  If    ona   certain pressure     in high pressure engine,
                                        a                       asafety-
valve or safety-valves were so constructed, as that they would
open and discharge the steam with             pressure much less than
                                                a
the boiler was calculated for, would not such a boiler be per
fectly safe, admitting  it  to be made of proper materials and pro
perly constructed — Yes,
                   ?          if   itcould be proved that the boiler
was calculated to resist     a   pressure much greater than that to
                                                                  which

                              on Steam-Boats.                      80
which it   was to be subjected       in the ordinary way of business,
and that proper safety-valves were applied, it would be safe as
long as the action of those safety-valves were insured, and so
long as the perfection of the metal could be upheld.-
     If a boiler was found to sustain the pressure of 100 pounds to
a square inch, and such boiler had been tried, and it was found,
 before used, that it would bear a pressure of 200 pounds upon
the inch, would not such a boiler be perfectly safe to be used, if
the safety-valve was so constructed as to open itself at the pres
 sure of sixty? — I cannot pronounce it perfectly safe, and I must
give this reason ; — I think if a boiler was prepared to sustain
 100 pounds, and strained to 200, it might afterwards perhaps
 burst at forty, the straining having injured it.
     In the situation of steam-boats, might not the unskilfulness
 of the sort of persons who manage them render any steam-boat
 unsafe ? — I do not know how that could be the case ; they might
 by wilful perversion of the proper principle of management ren
 der them unsafe to a comparative extent; for instance, if there
 was half the pressure there would be but half the danger under
 like circumstances.
      Do you or not apprehend, that a boiler upon a proper con
 struction, of wrought metal, may be tried with a certain force,
 so small in comparison with that pressure which it is intended to
 bear, as not to incur any risk of being injured in the proof, and
  have a complete surplus of strength, so as to enable it to be af
 terwards used without any danger in the use ? — I should pro
  nounce such a boiler to be perfectly safe, and so long as it main
  tained those properties it would continue so.
      Have you considered how safety valves may be constructed as
  adapted to boilers, so as to put it out of the power of the person
  having the management of them improperly to load them, or to
  alter their nature ? — The most simple mode which has suggested
                it is,
  itself to me      to have   a double safety-valve, and to lock one up
  and to have       examined once       week, or as often as may be ne
             to see that  its actionis a
  cessary,                              perfect.
   If    there were those two safety-valves, one under the manaee-
  ment of the person who had the direction of the boat, and the
   other safety-valve under such guard that he could not prevent
  its action;    such    boiler would, in your opinion, be safe? — That
                          a
   would be more safe than any have ever seen.
                                   I
      Have you ever witnessed the different effects of the explosion
   in cast and wrought iron boilers — No   ?    I
                                                ;     have seen wrought
   iron vessels that have been burst     — torn  out, asit were.
      Did you never see cast-iron vessel burst — Yes, many; the
                              a                     ?
   wrought iron generally tears and opens out, to admit of the fluid
   escapingj    it   generally the fluid which does the mischief when
                     is
                                                                     the

90                   Report of the Select Committee
 the wrought iron is used, and it is both the fluid and the material
 which does the mischief when the cast iron bursts; the effect in
 cast metal is, to carry the pieces of the metal to a considerable
 distance, which is seldom .the case in the wrought, unless where
 there is any cold shut in the metal; the cast bursts like a shell,
 projecting the particles of the metal to a considerable distance.
     If an accident of that nature happens to a wrought-iron boiler,
the mischief would probably be confined to the room in which
 the boiler was placed? — No, I do not conceive that to be the
case ; I have no doubt, if it had been a wrought-iron boiler in
this case, the deck of the vessel would have been blown off ; the
pressure would have been in all places alike; but here it was only
in a lateral direction, and the end of the boiler was blown into
the river, and by its re-action the boiler itself was thrown into
the river on the other side.
    You have said, that you have frequently seen wrought-iron
vessels burst ? — Not frequently in our own experience ; I have
seen copper frequently that has burst.
    Have any fatal or serious accidents happened on those occa
sions? — I have heard of some, but have not witnessed one; the
accidents I have observed have chiefly arisen where cast-iron
boilers have been used.
    In the first instance, when wrought-iron boilers are used, the
injury is sustained by individuals by the fluid escaping? — Yes.
   Where cast-iron boilers have been used, it has been by the ex
plosion of metal ? — Yes ; I do not mean to say it may not be by
the explosion of wrought-iron boilers ; it is very difficult to ob
tain a boiler of perfect metal ; and if there are any cold shuts,
                         it,
or other defects in      it  may explode in the same way.
  Is    copper subject t,o the same evils — No
                                            ?       think
                                                    I
                                                    ;       it   is
                                                              gene»
rally in purer state iron
       a                 ;     is very impure at the best.
                   Mr. John Taylor's Evidence.
   What  is    your profession — My principal pursuit
                               ?                          that of
                                                            is         a
manufacturing chemist, at Stratford in Essex       but  ; have the
                                                            I
control of district of copper mines near Tavistock.
           a
   Have those engagements made you perfectly conversant with
the nature and application of steam-engines? — have attended
                                                        I
to that subject to certain extent
                     a               of late my attention has been
                                        ;
called to high pressure steam particularly, being concerned with
my brother in    apatent for applying high pressure steam to the
boiling of liquids, and using   extensively in our-own manufac
                                it
torv, both in steam-engines and for the purpose of boiling.
   Are you acquainted with the accident which lately happened
to the steam-boat at Norwich — By report only.
                                    ?
   What do you know of that transaction — have heard that
                                                ?   I
                                                                      the

                           on Steam-Boats.                          91
the plate of cast iron was of inadequate thickness for the strain
to be put upon it.      With respect to the impropriety of cast iron
compared    with wrought, we ourselves constructed one of the first
high pressure   boilers  we used, precisely in the same manner with
that on board the Norwich boat; the boiler was proved to 100
pounds a square inch, by the water proof, commonly used with
about forty pounds pressure, but the cast-iron end broke one day
with less than twenty pounds pressure of steam ; the fracture
being caused evidently by the heat expandmg the cast-iron end
unequally, and being kept from going to the form it would
otherwise assume.
   Then you are of opinion it would be improper to make one of
such a construction ? — As far as I at present know, I should say
it was. Upon that we altered our boilers, all having been since
made of wrought iron only.        I have seen most of the high pres
sure boilers which have been made, except Woolf's.          I have seen
Trevethick's old construction, which were cast iron ; his new
construction with his wrought-iron tubes.           The Wells-street
boiler, which blew up, I saw immediately after its destruction ;
 I was surprised to see that it had been made of cast iron, a pan
of eight feet diameter therefore extending the bursting surface
in the proportion of four to sixteen ; it was of unequal thickness,
badly cast, cast from small furnaces, and the contact of the iron
not complete ; it did not meet in fusion.
   Was that a high pressure boiler ? — Yes, intended to boil su
gar; the thickness was intended to be, doubtless, about two
inches or two inches and a quarter, but by inserting the core
unequallv, the thickness on one side was three quarters of an inch,
on the other side the thickness of the metal was two inches and
a quarter, or thereabouts ; therefore to the general objections to
cast iron was added a most improper construction.              I under
stand from   the  men    who  were  working   there  (the Frenchmen)
that there had been something like a mercurial gauge attached
to it, but that the mercury never fluctuated;        it  indicated no
thing that the safety-valve was loaded down with weights, which
 we could not collect, and therefore did not ascertain the pres
sure;   but that  it was probable there was      a   pressure of more
 than 100 pounds per inch.
    Had you ever seen      itworked before — No, nobody was ad
                                             ?
 mitted to see    worked.
                 it
    How many accidents have occurred in the high pressure boiler
to your knowledge — The first ever heard of was one of Treve
                       ?         I
 thick's at Woolwich.
    Was that cast-iron boiler? — was.
             a                     It          In that case the safety-
 valve was  a  very awkward thing, hardly to be called       a   safety-
 valve; he himself was not awakened to the danger till that ac
                                                                  cident

                          Report         of the       Selec1 Commillee
tident happened. The second case that I heard of was in the
North, a propelling engine         was mentioned in all the papers)
                                              a (it
                                                                                                   ;
it  was near Sunderland, of        boiler driving waggons      the facts             ;
of the case know to be these, from the engineer who made the
              I
boiler. — In the first place, they had     smaller boiler to the same
                                                            a
engine; that boiler did not generate steam so fast as the engine
could expand        it,
                   consequently there was never an excess of steam
came out of the safety-valve, the engine-man therefore with im
punity screwed down his safety-valve            was never used.
                                                              ;   itThe
proprietor of the engine wishing to have more power, ordered a
 larger boiler, which had the power of generating nearly double
the quantity of steam      this was sent, and-a caution given
                                ;                                    the                      by
 gentleman   not  to  attach  "it to the  engine  till he arrived    but                     ;
 that was not attended to the boiler was attached to the engine;
                                         ;
the man went to work as before, and he screwed down his safety-
valve, not knowing, that though before he had               deficiency, he     a
had now an overplus         he said he would make
                                ;                         good start of it;a
the boiler exploded, killed several people, and him among the
rest and the force was remarkable, as shown
     ;                                                      the fragments      by
of coal that were driven through the men's clothes or into their
bodies from the tram.        The Wells-street was the third case; the
safety-valve was loaded in this case.           At Norwich       apprehend          I
the safety-valve was loaded.          The only other case was in Treve-
thick's new high pressure boiler, the wrought-iron boiler; that,
1  should say, was something like           boiler formed of two arcs of
                                                        a
circles;  it   burst without doing any hurt, and perhaps the cir
cumstance      is not known to ten people" besides myself.               The
people were near           andit,   did them no hurt.
                                             it             The Reason                             it
burst was, that        man very ignorantly took out bars which he
                          a
should not and altered its construction.           These are the only in
stances know of the high pressure boilers.
          I
    Do you consider low pressure boilers as safe from explosion
 under all circumstances — Only owing to the column of water
                                         ?
 that fills them    ;that    the only reason consider them as safe.
                                    is                            I
     Ifthey are supplied            column of water, then do you con
                                         by   a
 sider them as safe from explosion — do not consider them as
                                                          ?   I
 absolutely safe, because         know facts of their bursting
                                         I                            in case            ;
 of their   not being  fed  with     column   of
                                              a   water they   are  very un*
 safe;  for  the construction    of the  boiler    weak  in itself,
                                                                  is and you
 have no dependence but upon safety-valve, which may be loaded
                                                  a
 improperly.
    Do you conceive that    wrought-iron boiler may be rendered
                                          a
 safe under all circumstances — do consider that  ?  may.
                                                      I                             it
    State how — Principally by the use of column of mercury
                  ?                                                    a                           in
 & syphon or tube, of sufficient size   when that mercury   dis
                                                              ;                              is
 placed   bythe expansive force of the steam, which would be re
                                                                                             gulated

                          on  Sleam-lJoats.
gulated by the height of that tube to admit of the efflux of the
steam from the boiler as fast as it was generated by the fire, in
that case the expansive force could not increase in the boiler, but
the mercury would be blown out and the steam would escape:
that I consider one of the best securities to the boiler.    Besides
the common safety-valve, which may be at the discretion of the
workman, I conceive it essential to have another safety-valve,
which is under the control of the master or proprietor of the
works.     There is another small contrivance, which I consider
very important to the safety of the boiler.      Boilers have been
weakened very much by the water having         been  evaporated too
low, so that the bottom begins to be acted upon by the fire and
weakened.      A hole having been previously bored in the bottom
where the fire acts, may be riveted by a piece of lead, so that
that lead remains perfectly secure as long as it is covered with
 water, but the moment the water leaves it the lead melts ; the
steam is blown out through the hole and puts out the fire { be
 sides giving the signal of what is wanted, it at once puts an end
 to the cause of danger.
     Do you consider that the mercurial gauge acts in any other*
 manner than as a safety-valve, which cannot be stopped or put
 out of order ? — It does not act only in that manner, but it has
 the advantage of exhibiting during all times of the boiler's work
 ing, the state of the steam within the boiler, by the fluctuation
 that takes place in that column, as indicated by the index upon
 the surface of the mercury, and the state of that mercurial gauge
 is observable every moment.      If the mercury becomes stationary,
 one                           that that tube was stopped, therefore
       woi^d strongly suspect
 it would point out itself instantly that it had become not what it
 ought to be ; the safety-valve has not that advantage, as it does
 not indicate any thing till the steam is blown out by raising the
 weight.
     An observation of the mercurial gauge by an intelligent per
 son, would tend to guard against mischief? — Yes, by any per
  son.
     What are the different effects produced by the explosion of
 cast and wrought iron ? — As far as I have stated the fact with
 respect to Trevethick's boiler, which was of wrought iron, a rent
 or fissure was produced, and the form of the boiler was disfigured,
  but no fragments were thrown about so as to produce any serious
  injury.
     Do you conceive that to be the usual effect ? — I conceive it
  would be the effect ; and I conceive further, that one might pre
  dict with some degree of certainty where that fissure would take
  place ; it would take place in that part of the boiler that is most
 exposed to the action of the fire, that growing thinnest.
                                                                 Have

  94                 Report   of the Select Committee
      Have )ou ever seen an explosion of a cast-iron boiler?—
  No,    I have not ; I have seen the effects at Wells-street, I was
  upon the ruins immediately after ; the effect seemed to be tre
  mendous ; there it knocked down the whole building, which was
  a sugar*house of five or six stories high, and fragments appeared
  to be thrown in every direction ; the boiler itself was shattered
 into a great number of pieces.
     If that had been a wrought- iron boiler and had burst, it would
 not have produced the same effect ? — I think not.
    Are you at all aware whether there is any preference of copper
 above iron, in the construction of boilers for high pressure steam-
 engines ? — I should think that copper is the best metal of all ;
 the most ductile. — But I think at the same time, that with good
 wrought iron, boilers may be made perfectly safe up to the esti
 mated strength of from four to five hundred pounds pressure per
 inch.
     Have you formed any opinion respecting the pressure per inch,
 necessary to drive a steam-boat through the water at the highest
 rate at which you have heard of any hitherto having gone? — I
 have not turned my attention particularly to the use of high pres
 sure steam, as applicable to steam-boats.       But being the owner
 of a high pressure engine, I see no advantage at present in go
 ing above forty or fifty pounds an inch in steam-engines.
    Supposing then that a boiler were constructed, with the in
 tention of its resisting a pressure of steam equal to 300 pounds
 per inch, that it should be afterwards proved with a force equal
 to two hundred, and that it should be after that worked with a
pressure under a hundred, do you conceive that any supposable
danger could exist under such circumstances ? — None at all ;
provided the steam was limited to a hundred.
    It is understood of course, that the common precautions of
safety-valves, the operation of which could not be impeded,
should be applied to such boilers ? — Yes ; with respect to the
valve of high pressure steam for working engines, I beg leave to say
generally, that in Cornwall of late a most valuable improvement
has taken place ; and that if it is an object to save coal to steam-
vessels upon a large scale, I do conceive that high pressure steam
becomes an object of great importance to them.          I mean if ap
plied upon     the  principle  that  Mr.  Woolf has in the first place
introduced,     but which   has  been applied by Mr. Sims, and I be
lieve by some others.
    You are of opinion these high pressure boilers might be made
with equal safety as low pressure boilers ? — Quite so.
    Do you know any thing of the saving of coal produced bv high
pressure engines ? — I have in my hand a statement of the work
done by the engines on the principal mines in the county of Corn
                                                                 wall.

                            on Stsam-Boats.                       95
 Wall.    It states the consumption   of coal, and the work done by
 every engine therein named,       from  which it appears that the
 average work of engines now in the county of Cornwall, is to
 raise about twenty million pounds of water one foot high, by the
 consumption of one bushel of coals; that by the introduction
 of high pressure steam under the best mode of management, an
 effect equal to from forty-three to forty-five million pounds of
 water is raised the same height by the same quantity of coal,
thereby producing above double the effect.
    Do you apprehend that condensing or low pressure engines
are liable to be blown up by the carelessness and inattention of
the engineer conducting them ? — I apprehend equally so with
 high pressure engines; and I am of that opinion from facts which
 have reached me.      In France, at Crusoe, some very good engines
Were erected by Mr. Wilkinson, at a very large work.          They
were on Bolton and Watt's principle ; one of them blew up and
killed several people. I have heard of other instances, but they
are not within my own knowledge. ~
    Do you conceive that the mercurial gauge may be applied with
ease to the high oressure boilers, so as to produce safety, as cer
tainly as the column of water, which is in fact a water-gauge,
which is usually applied to the low pressure? — I do most un
doubtedly think that, provided the mercurial gauge be of a
sufficient bore ; and I think, in some respects, it would have the
advantage of the water-gauge, as being less liable to accidental
obstruction.
   Do you conceive that there is any difficulty whatever in con
structing a safety-valve, so as to operate with certainty, and to
be safe   from any impediment which the engineer might inten
tionally place in the way of its operation ? — I do think such a
safety-valve can be constructed.
   Do you sipprehend any additional considerable expense would
be thereby incurred ? — Not any considerable expense ; we have
done it to all the boilers we have lately superintended the erec
tion of, putting them under lock.
                  Mr. John Colunge's Evidence.
   What profession are you of? — An engineer and iron-founder.
   In the course of vour profession, are you conversant with the
nature of steam-engines ? — I have made several.
   Where do you live ? — In Bridge Road, Lambeth.
   I believe you are the patentee of the patent axle-tree ? — I am.
   Did you go to Norwich in consequence of the accident that
happened to the steam-boat there ? — I did, in company with
Mr. Donkiu and Mr. Brown.
   Did you go at the request of any person? — No, it was volun
                                                               tary,

96                  Report  pf the Select Committee'
tary, from an impression the public mind would be alarmed, and
wish to know the cause of the accident.
     Did you see the boiler, or any of the remaining part of that
engine ? — I did.
     Do you attribute the cause of that explosion to the construc
tion of the boiler ?•— I do.
     Be so good as to state what it was ? — The boiler was com
posed entirely of wrought iron, except one end, and that was
capped with cast-iron*
     The cylindrical part was made of wrought iron ? — Yes.
     It was a high pressure boiler ? — It was.
     Originally it had all been wrought iron ? — It had, I believe.
     Rut upon an alteration they put one end of cast iron? — Yes.
     Was not such a conjunction of metals in such a place very
dangerous    ? — Certainly.
     Principally because the expansion of the metal is totally dif
ferent in one and the other ? — Yes.
     What is your opinion, as an engineer, in respect to the ma
terial of which boilers in general should be made ? — Any material
under very severe pressure is liable to fail, and cast iron for this
 reason, because in all large bodies we find that the air cannot
wholly escape in the act of fusion.         I have occasionally had
 large masses of cylinders and pans to break up, and we find fre
quently cells where the air could not escape, so that we are never
certain as- to the solidity of cast iron ; there is certainly a much
greater dependence upon wrought iron or upon wrought metal ;
 perhaps it would be better to include copper.
     In wrought iron there is danger from cold shut ? — Yes.
     Supposing an accident should happen to any boiler, which
 would be most likely to be attended with the greatest mischief,
 a cast-iron or a wrought-iron boiler ? — Cast iron, because cast
 iron flies off in fragments, and wrought, from tenacity, only
 rends.
      Did you ever hear of an accident in a wrought-iron boiler
 when it has exploded, that has done any considerable mischief ?
 — I was almost upon the point of believing, that wrought-iron
 boilers would have resisted a degree of pressure, if properly made,
 beyond what I find they will do; because an accident has oc
 curred at Maiden, where a boiler, nineteen feet long, was blown
 off from the seat of its connexion with the base.      I have, found,
 in making wrought-iron boilers myself, that if I make them of
  metal of a considerable substance, that they cannot be so well
  united to make them steam tight ; it is a very difficult thing to
  do ; how far that is the case with copper, I have no acquaintance,
  but perhaps it would not be precisely the case with copper; the
  rivets that are applied to wrought-iron boilers are put in hot,

                          on Steam-Boats.                          97
 and when they are hammered to secure the joint, they get cold,
 of course they shrink, and do not fill the hole through which they
 have passed.
   The wrought-iron boiler which you stated burst was not ap
plied to a boat ? — No, for a salt-work.
   Is it your opinion, as an engineer, that any boiler, whether of
wrought or of cast iron, but particularly of wrought iron, could
be made, by the construction of safety-valves, so secure that all
danger from it would be almost impossible ? — At present I have
  no conception that any safety-valves could be applied to render
  them perfectly secure under heavy pressure.
      Is it your opinion, that if a boiler was originally constructed
  of wrought iron, to bear a pressure of 100 pounds to the square
  inch, and that such boiler had been tried by experiments, say at
  sixty, and that a safety-valve was applied to it which should open
  at a pressure of thirty, such a boiler would be liable to be ex
  ploded ? — Not unless it had been previously strained by the ex
  periment to render it too weak.
      Cannot a safety-valve be so made that it shall open, and be
 certain to open, at a particular pressure? — The safety-valves
 ought always to open at that pressure ; but from causes that we
  cannot ascertain, that does not happen in cases where accidents
 occur ; it is to be hoped that safety-valves will be contrived to
 answer for high pressure engines.
     .Would it not be possible to apply to such an engine as that a
 tube with a column of mercury? — Yes, and it would be a judi
 cious application ; but it requires such an altitude, I apprehend
 it is not very easily applicable to boats from the agitation of the
 vessel ; but if it could be applied, it is the best application that
 can be made.
     In the low pressure engines the general safety is by a column
 of water ? — Yes.
     That could not be used on board a boat ? — No.
     Then you think the mercurial gauge would be the greatest
 safety for a boat, if it could be applied ?
                                              — Certainly; if it could
 be judiciously applied, it possesses greater safety than any other. -
     Have you seen steam-boats on the Clyde or Humber ? — No.
    You know those on the Thames ? — Yes.
    What is the greatest power that would be reqnired ? — The
condensing-engines should not be more than four pounds to an
inch ; and if the capacity of the vessel allows of  it,  the condens
ing-engines     answer  every purpose,  because  you can  have one on
board more than sufficient for the tonnage   ;    because the making
a   wrought-iron boiler would be on such a scale of thickness,
that if    more than the usual pressure was applied, the rivets would
fail, and constitutea    security against any fatal occurrence.
    Vol.50,No.232.^MiM817.                    G               Could

98                  Report of the Select Committee
    Could not a boiler then be made for what they call a high
pressure engine, equally safe? —-l should apprehend not, for the
reasons I have stated : I have made several boilers, and I find it
the plates are thick beyond the dimension usually employed for
condensing-engines, that thev do not prove equally Steam-tight. .
    Explain whether you mean the plates or the seams ? — I mean
that the seams are not equally steam-tight.
    Did you from any report you heard, besides the bad construc
tion of the boiler at Norwich, discover that any negligence was
imputable to the direction of that engine ? — It was presumed by
report that he was imprudent frequently; for the purpose of im
pelling his vessel with greater force, that he did load his engine
too much.
    Did you see any body who had escaped from that accident
who was on board the boat ? — I did not.
    If there was too much weight added to the valve, would not
that occasion the explosion? — There is no doubt that was the
 case ; but a much smaller degree of pressure would have burst
a boiler so constructed.
    Then if a boiler had been made properly, and a man had been
 so imprudent as to have loaded the safety-valve, the same acci;
 dent might have occurred ? — Certainly.
    You have said, from the power that was wanted with regard
 to steam-boats, you thought condcnsing-engines were the best
 engines applicable for that purpose ? — I think so, no doubt.
    Do you mean the best as applied only to safety, or for use ?—r
 For safety only.
    But if a high pressure engine could be made with equal se
 curity, would not that be more convenient to be used on board a
 boat than a condensing-engine ? — It would take less room.
    Would not it in many cases, as they are now constructed, con
 sume less fuel in proportion to the power ? — I am not acquainted
 with that fact; but I have frequently asked, and I find in the
 common high pressure engine there is no saving in the fuel, but
 they are cheaper and more simple in their construction.
    Do you apply that to the high pressure engine which they call
                           —
 the Trevethick engine ? Yes.
    Not to any other ? — Not to Woolf 's.
    Nor to Simms's ? — I have never seen either one or the other.
    Suppose that a high pressure engine was to be used in a boat,
 what construction of boiler or safety-valve applied to that boiler
 should you advise, in order to give it the greatest possible se
  curity? — I really am unable to answer that question satisfactor ly;
 of course the more safety-valves there are employed, the greater
 security there will be against the chance of explosion; I believe
  that the principal source of the explosion of high pressure en

                                                                                            .
                                   Wi St'eam-BoatS.                      .   ,       .99
girie boilers of cast iron, arises from allowing them to get" cool
too suddenly, and raising the steam too suddenly, the- metal con
tracts and expands at a period when We Cannot investigate its
                  '
occurrence.                                                           >
    Wrought' iron would not he attended with that danger ? — Not
                                                  '            . ' '.
to the same extent ; the rivets Avotild go.
i   But not with the same degree of explosion? — No.
   Would it not be a great safeguard in the construction of a boiler ,
if a safety-valve was so made as to be put.out of the power of the
engineer to get at it ? — No doubt, it ought in all cases to. be so.
    It could be so constructed ?— No doubt ; if the pressure, how
ever, is greater than what the safety-valve is intended to relieve,
 there might be an accident from the causes which I previously
stated; that       is,
                    that a boiler might be defective without its being
known.
    You apply that to Cast-iron boilers — Yes, and in small de
                                                         ?               a
gree to wrought-iron boilers;                    ;   :
   Do you conceive       impossible, or even difficult, to construct
                              it
a  wrought-metal boiler, with safety-valves properly adjusted to
its capacity, and    mercurial gauge, supposing that to be capa
                         a
ble of being applied', which should render        high pressure en
                                                                 a
gine on board        steam-boat what might be called perfectly
                         a
safe — No,
     ?          do not think
                  I             impossible; and
                                        it          hope some time
                                                                 I
or other    will be accomplished.
             it
   Wherein do you apprehend that the difficulty of so construct
ing a boiler would consist — Because?     have found that difficulty
                                                     I
in  making  boilers myself steam-tight, even for condensing-en-
gines,; where the plates were of     thickness fit to undergo high
                                             a
pressure.
.  Do you apprehend that any danger of         fatal accident could
                                                             a
arise from that mere want of tightness in the riveting, which
would permit some steam to escape — That danger would de ?
pend upon the degree of the pressure, and the extent of the
aperture through which the steam escaped.                                                 ,
   What      the species of danger which you would expect to oc
             is
cur in such     case — am not able to answer the extent of
                  a      ?    I                                                           it,
If  the safety-valves acted, of course the danger would be re
moved supposing that the safety-valves are properly constructed,
         ;
and their operation     secured, the danger would not be extremely
                             is
great;   it   only from their defect of action that the danger
              is                                                 to                  is
be apprehended.               -.....>>,        >                  •>
   Then do you mean to say, that          the valves were really in
                                                     if
point of fact performing their functions properly, in that event
you would not consider there was any danger — Certainly not,         ?
if the boiler was adequate to the pressure.                -
                                                                                 ]        ,
   What      the pressure per inch which you conceive
             is                                       to be  ge-
..            • •                       •    G   2       nerally
 v   -\      ,

 100       Report  of the  Select Committee on Steam-Boats,
 nerally used in the condensing-engine? — From two and a half td
 four pounds.
   Do you not apprehend that the strength of the boiler is cal
culated upon what may be required to resist that low pressure ?—
Yes.
    Is it not extremely possible, in the common use of a condensing-
 engine, that by accident, or the inattention of the engineer, the
pressure may be increased very much beyond that which you
have just mentioned ? — No inattention would produce it while
these securities exist ; because the water would be discharged
through the feed-pipe, and the mischief prevented.
   Did you ever know the steam-pipe used in any condensing-
engine on board a steam-boat? — I fancy they never are.
   Did you not hear that the Norwich boiler was blown up by
the very fact of the inattention or temerity of the engineer ? —       I
did hear that.
   Is not that inattention or temerity equally to be applied to a
condensing as to a high pressure engine ? — The engineer may tie
down the valve occasionally; it is very natural to expect it in
steam-boats.       I fancy it is too frequently done; there are in
stances where something of that sort was said in conversation at
Norwich, that where a man waited for passengers, and wanted
to get up with the other boats, he did it.
   Could a mercurial syphon be applied to a boiler, so that it
would meet the observation of all the passengers on board the
boat ? — I should think it could ; but the discharge of mercury,
in case of explosion, might produce very serious effects.
   If the syphon was of a sufficient bore, it would be the means
of preventing the effects you have spoken of? — No doubt.
   In order to give security to the public in travelling by steam
boats, do not you think that it might be necessary to have an
examination of each engine two or three times in a year? — Cer
tainly; once every six months.          I think it would create confi
dence, and that is a great object.
   And that is your opinion, whether the boiler is constructed of
cast iron or wrought metal ?— Yes.
   You think that without this examination a condensing-engine
would be unsafe ? — I think it would be advantageous to have an
examination.
   In your judgement, would an inspection of the boilere of a
steam-engine, of a condensing-engine,          and a high pressure en
gine, be equally necessary, with a view to give security against
accidents by explosion ?—Yes ; both.
   Do you think any danger to lives is to be apprehended from
condensing-engines without examination ? — I do not think any
material danger would arise.
                          [To  be continued.]           XIIJ.  Fur titer

                                               t     101       ]
 Xltl.   Further Considerations on the Doctrine that the Phe
     nomena   of Terrestrial Gravitation are occasioned by known
     Terrestrial Motions.    By Sir Richard Phillips.
           q                              To       Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, — Oince         the publication of the theory which resolves the
  phenomena of weight, and of falling bodies, into the orbicular and
  rotary motions of the earth, objections have been started, by va
  rious persons in conversation, and through the public press —
  which the author's love of truth, and his respect for some of
  the parties, induce him to consider.
      I. It has been doubted whether bodies would fall in the ex
  hausted receiver of an air-pump upon this hypothesis.
     To this it may be replied, that the exhausted receiver, the
  contained vacuum, and the bodies let fall before, and at the in
  stant of fall, are all of them as much the patients of the orbicular
  and rotary motions, as though no such exhaustion had taken
  place.    The orbicular motion was carrying forward the whole,
  and the rotary motion was endeavouring to deflect every part of
 the sustained mass, from the right line of the orbicular motion.
  The difference arising from the absence of the air is the same,
 whatever might be the source of the power which caused the
 bodies to fall ; that          feather would fall in the same time as
                                is,   a
 a guinea, simply because the atmosphere opposed no resistance,
 whether the centripetal force was produced               governing mo  by
           is by
 tions or       attraction.
     II. It objected that projectile would continue to ascend
                                          a
for ever, unless the force attraction drew towards the earth.
                                          of                       it
     To this reply, that the deflective force of the rotary motion
           I
is  equivalent, in the retardation of       projectile, to the supposed
                                                        a
 attraction;    and that, in combination with the resistance of the
 atmosphere, that deflective force produces all the phenomena
 of projectiles, being the orbicular force common to both hypo
theses.
    III. It  has been objected that,          body were let fall in the
                                                       if  a
 atmosphere,       would either go off in
                   it                           tangent into space, or
                                                            a
would move for ever in that place, but for the earth's attraction.
    In regard to the assertion, that       might move off in
                                                       it            tan     a
gent, it   need  only  be  considered, that  no  force has been  given            it
in the direction of such tangent, and that bodies do not move
                                                                                       '
in any required direction without some force exerted in that                      di
rection.
    And that   it  will not move for ever in an unsupported spot in
the atmosphere, arises from the influence of the deflecting rotary
motion, of which         partook when placed there, in which        con      it
tinues, and which       it it
                          also derives from the surrounding medium.
                                               G   3                         IV It.

                                                           '
  102      On the Doctrine that the Phcenomena of Terrestrial
 .  . IV. It is contended that       the  Galilean laws of Jailing bodies
  cannot    be accounted for, except      on the principle of a continually
  acting attraction.
      To this I reply, that the great terrestrial motions are, in like
  manner, continually acting ; and that from like causes they must
  produce like phenomena whenever any body is placed in circum
  stances to become the sensible patient of their activity.
      V. It is urged that local affections of mountains, or other
.masses, can result ~bnly from the attractive influence of those
  masses; and the experiments of Maskelyne and Hutlon, of
   Bouguer, of Zach, and of Cavendish) are adduced as proofs,
      A mighty host, if their acumen and their accuracy bore on
  the question ! But, as I refer all phenomena to a centre of
  motion, and the Newtonians refer them to a centre of attraction,
  and as both centres are generated by the actual dispositions ofall
                                    —
^the masses of the aggregate -so both centres are varied in po
 sition by unequal arrangements of the masses ; and the motions
  on the surface referable to such centres are varied accordingly,
  and in equal degrees, upon both hypotheses. .
      If the earth were an equal and homogeneous sphere, then all
 the phenomena of falling or suspended bodies would have re
 ference to the mathematical centre of the mass, and the plumb-
 line would always hang perpendicularly to the' visible horizon;
  but, if a mountain, or anv unequal mass, be placed on the sur
 face, then on one hypothesis the centre of the motion, or on
 the other the centre of the attraction, will be raised above the
 mathematical centre, in a certain proportion,                  towards that
 mountain, creating a new physical centre ; and all the deflec
 tions of the rotary motion on this theory, or all the attractions
 on the Newtonian theory, will be made with reference to that
 new centre'.      The maximum of variation will take place nearest
 to the projecting mass ; and, if the mass were suddenly created,
 or brought near a suspended plummet, it would turn it aside,
 in a given proportion of the bulk of the mass to the bulk of
 the earth; and, as in Mr. Cavendish's experiment, it might
 perhaps be possible to measure the impulse.                   But, in every
 possible case of such inequalities, the same phenomena must
 and would result from thus varying the centre of the aggregate;
 whether the phenomena were ascribed, as now, to the efficient
 and operative motions of the earth, or, as heretofore, to the
 principle called by the name of attraction*.
                                                                        VI. It
    *  I have taken it for granted that these experiments and calculations are
 correct, because the true results must be included in the laws of motion, as
                                     I
well as those of gravitation ; but remark, with profound deference to the
learned calculators, that the Schihallien result assumes two-thirds of the
circumference for the earth's attraction     as a quantity   admitted; and, in

    Gravitation are occasioned by known Terrestrial Motion.                 10$
-
    VI. It is urged, that, as attraction is admitted to produce
certain phcenomena in electricity, galvanism, chemistry, mag
netism, and optics, .so the attraction of gravitation is but an
analogous power, and might, in like manner, be admitted.
    This argument, to say the least of it, is a very indirect one,
and includes a large appeal to faith.     I say again, and with little
danger of refutation, that the terms attraction and gravitation
were chimeras of the middle ages, growing out of the schools of
astrology and magic; and, in the writings of the illustrious
 Newton, are akin to the ghosts of the equally illustrious Shake
speare, or to the sympathies which filled the heads of all philo
sophers in those days.     They may he used like characters in an
algebraic equation; but it is incorrect to substitute them for real
quantities, or efficient causes, or to set them up in opposition to
the operative powers of nature, when these are found to be suffi
 cient to explain phenomena.         Nothing, in truth, has tended
 more to retard the progress of science than thus stopping at the
phenomena of attraction, and then impiously treating this se
condary cause as the proximate effect of omnipotent agency,
though it is found to act mechanically and subordinately, accord
ing to certain laws of the distance !
    This is not the place to enter into details to prove that the dif
ferent species of mechanical affection, without contact, must all
be created by different actions of the affected bodies on the me
dia which lie between them ; or, mutually, on the surfaces of the
bodies and the surfaces of the media.         I confidently, however,
calculate on the discoverv of the modus operandi by which every
species of attractive phenomena is effected, as among the pro
bable triumphs of experimental philosophy.          I, therefore, con
sider the argument in support of a terrestrial attraction, drawn
from the analogy of supposed local attractions, as irrelevant, be
cause, in the sense in which the terms are used, I believe that
no attraction exists, and that in due time this term will give way
in all the perfect sciences to its explanations or definitions.
    VII. It is objected that this illustration of the cause of ter
restrial gravitation tends to overturn the Newtonian philosophy ,
                                                               '
                                                                 •
which is built on the immutable bases of geometry.
    To this 1 reply, that as the great Newton did not affect to ex*
plain this cause, but merely admitted this name of the effect, so
any hypothesis which seeks to account for it can have no neces-
Mr. Cavendish's leaden-balls' experiment,      the enrtii's attraction is assumed
to be represented by its diameter— that      is,  in both cases, a quantity un
known, and growing out of the hypothesis of gravity,      is    taken for granted
to prove that very gravity.    If   the known bulk, force, and density, of the'
mountain and the balls were, by exact analogy, to be compared with the,
known bulk of the earth, to determine its force and density, then the results,
will be totally different, and the irrelevancy of the experiments be manifest.
                                     G  £                                  sary

 104     On the Doctrine that ike Phcenomena        of Terrestrial    ,
sary opposition to his system.       A? the same time there is a la
tent, though popular error, in confounding physics and geometry,
for all physical effects result from competent proximate causes,
often varying ; and all geometrical laws result from>relations,
always fixed. But, if our excellent philosopher so well accounted
for the phenomena of the solar system by geometry, founded oh
the basis of an occult principle, with how much more satisfaction
would he have done it on a mechanical basis ! The author of
this hypothesis has calculated, however, on no change but in
nomenclature.
    VIII. It    is asserted, that as gravitation is a fiat of Omnipo
tence, so to attempt to account for      it is beyond the due bounds of
philosophical inquiry.
    Without intending any personal disrespect to those who have
used this argument, it may be asserted, that such has been the
prejudice of ignorance from the age in which man first used a
spade to augment the natural productions of the earth, to the
days of Galileo, and even to our time, when Jenner discovered
the means of extirpating a fatal disease.         Shall we more nearly
approach      the  cause- of  causes   in  determining the mechanism
by which a planet is held together, or by which a system moves,
than by investigating the circulation of the blood, or by the che
mical analysis oi' any substance in Nature ?         The causes of mo
tion would still remain behind; and, were a future age to discover
these, the prime mover of all things, the sublime and incompre
 hensible Creator and Preserver, would still be at an infinite di
 stance from the finite powers of man.
    IX. It is asserted that the law of gravitation is not proved
 to le the law of motion.                                          *
    To prove the affirmative of this proposition was, however, the
 entire business of the " Principia" of Newton, and has been the
 employment of all mathematicians from his time to our own. If
 the laws of motion are not the laws of gravitation, then have
 philosophers been dreaming during the last hundred years.              I
 merely identify what they have proved ; and, as mathematicians
 have, by the hypothesis of gravitation, proved the laws of mo
 tion,' I now desire to discard the unknown or assumed quantity,
 and to restore the known motions of Nature in its place — for
 the purpose of explaining the modus operandi by which the
 phenomena are produced.
     It is imagined that I had forgotten the relations of radii ard
 circles :  I  was not, however, alluding to circles, but to the sur
 faces of concentric spheres, which were the objects of discussion,
 and which are to each other as the squares of their radii.          The
 spaces generated on spherical surfaces being to each other is
 the squares of their radii, it follows that the quantities of motion
                                                              generated

jGravitation are occasioned      hj  known Terrestrial Motion.      105
generated in each stratum, and the forces generating those mo
tions, are in the same ratio. On this point there is nothing to
add or to alter.     If the concentric strata were in density recipro
cally   as the squares of their distances, and undisturbed, there
would be no phenomena ; but it is the disturbance of that which
has been in a state of equilibrium (either by distance from the
centre, or by the resistance of friction), which occasions the
sensible phenomena of weight, or of falling bodies.
     I do not, however, consider that these observations conclude
the subject ; for I admit, that all the circumstances which exist
 among the parts of a sphere, moving in an orbit, the momenta
of whose masses in the concentric strata are equalized by a ro
 tary motion, as well as the effects arising from the centre of
 density, not being the mathematical centre; and also from ac
 cidental disturbances in the equilibrium of particular bodies,
 merit the careful analysis of philosopical mathematicians.
     At the same time, although the mathematical laws must ne
 cessarily be the same, it is not indifferent, in human inquiries,
 whether physical phenomena are ascribed generally to gravita
 tion, of which nothing is affected to be known, or to motion, of
 which we may not know the primary origin. We know, at any
 rate, more of motion than we know of gravitation.           Besides the
 laws common to both, we know that motion is an accident of
 bodies which gives them momenta, and causes them to change
 their situations in space ; and we know that some motions are
 general, antecedent, or primary, and that others are local, con
 sequent, or subordinate.      In the, problem before us, we are there
 fore enabled to show that known effects are consequences of se
 veral known motions, thereby attaining a degree of analysis, which
  could never be effected, if we referred the same phenomena to
  the general name of gravitation.
      Conclusion.   These, I believe, are the chief objections which
  have been imagined and promulgated in opposition to a theory
  which substitutes the known motions of Nature as operative
  causes of certain physical phenomena,         in place of an assumed
  principle  called gravitation, by   which,  false analogies have been
  introducetHnto philosophy, and effects ascribed to a cause neither
  proximate nor in contact.      It may be difficult to analyse, in like
  manner, the motions which produce all the celestial phenomena^
  or trace the sources of particular motions ; and it may be im
  possible for man to ascertain any other origin of motion than the
  sublime cause of causes : but we advance another step in hu
  man knowledge when we discover that the two-fold motions of
  a planet are competent to the consolidation and unity of its
  mass, and are efficient causes, by means of which bodies removed
  out of their equilibrium are restored to the mas$.
                                                          '
                                                               XIV. On

                                     [   106     ]
    XIV.     On the Oxi-hydrogen Blow-pipe.                 By   Mr. Robert
                             HarE, of Philadelphia.
                                  To Mr. Tillock.
            I  T.
                                                   Philadelphia, June 27, 1817.
                   is now almost fourteen years since you honoured
 my memoir on the Supply and Application of the Blow-pipe with
 a place in the Philosophical Magazine, vol. xiv.                  In that paper
 it will be seen that the heat, produced by the ignition of the
 gaseous elements of water, was employed by mein 1801-2, in fus
 ing or volatilizing the most refractory earths and metals. A sub
 sequent article, in the sixth volume of the American Philosophical
 Transactions, mentions the fusion of strontites, and complete and
 rapid volatilization of platinum.               Yet Dr. Clarke has lately
 published     a  paper    on  this subject,  as   if it were an original dis
 covery.      I  therefore   inclose  you  a memoir of my friend Professor
Silliman, by which it will be seen how far Dr. Clarke can be
justified for treating his experiments as new. I hope you will
 republish it.        It is a simple act of justice, which I should hope,
 as the editor of a scientific journal, you will render me without
hesitation.         I request any fellow- labourer in the laboratory to
 reflect on the injustice, which is likely to be done, to Professor
 Silliman and myself, in having the facts mentioned by Dr. Clarke
as his own, quoted on his authority instead of ours.
:                      I am, sir3 with due consideration,
                                        Your obedient servant,
                                                               Robert Hare.
Experiments          on the Fusion    of various refractory Bodies, by the
    Compound Blow-pipe of Mr. Hare.                     By Benjamin Silli
    man, Prof. Chem. and Min. in Yale- College*.
    A section of the Pneumatic Cistern of Yare College, with the
Compound Bloiv-pipe of Mr. Hare for burning Hydrogen
mingled with Oxygen Gas, is shown in fig. 1. (Plate II.)
                           References to the Figure.
    AAAA. — The pneumatic cistern, filled with water. For a plate
and full description, see the Boston edition of Henry's Che
mistry.
    B. — A   gas reservoir, of the capacity of twelve gallons, filled
with oxygen gas, either by the action of the hydrostatic bellows
at O, or by a recurved tube passing from above through the
water, and hooked under B: parallel and contiguous to B, on
   * From Memoirs of the Connecticut
                                                Academy of Arts and Sciences,
vol. i. part iii. 1813.
                                              :   '<                , ,       the

                              On the Oxi-hydiogen Blow-pipe    .                  107
  the other side of the cistern, is another gas reservoir, of the
  same capacity, which may be connected with B, or not, at plea
  sure.
     C. — The same, in every respect ; only C is filled with hy
  drogen by hydrostatic bellows at OO, or by a recurved tube, as
.above.
     D. — Copper tubes, half an inch in diameter, furnished with
.stop-cocks at           j\
                      and inserted into the gas reservoirs B,C.
.    E. — Recurved tubes of flexible metal, furnished with double
 screws at F, which connect them with a pair of brass blow-pipes,
  cut off at G, and soldered to two strong cast silver tubes, which
 screw, air-tight, into H, an inverted pyramidal piece of platinum,
  in which two converging ducts as large as a pin are perforated,
  forming a continuation of the tubes, and uniting in a common
  passage, somewhat larger, just before their exit, at the common
  orifice below.     The subject to be operated upon is sustained by
 charcoal, or forceps, and held by the hand, just below the orifice
  in the piece H.
     The gases at BC are under hydrostatic pressure, which is
  easily recruited as the gases run out, either by throwing com
  mon air with the bellows into one of the spare reservoirs, or by
 introducing more of either of the gases into the appropriate re
 servoir, and peculiarly of hydrogen, both on account of the
  facility with which it is obtained, and because twice as much of
it,   in bulk,     wanted as of oxygen.
                    is
     The rapidity of efflux of the gases, and their due proportion,
  are easily regulated,          by
                             turning, more or less, the keys of the stop
  cocks at J'; and the effects of either gas alone, may be observed
 by   shutting the stop-cock leading to the other.
     When the compound flame                 desired, the hydrogen
                                                is                       first
                                                                             is
 let out and fired      the blaze should be somewhat larger than that
                             ;
 of candle the cxygen
      a             ;              then let into the hydrogen till the
                                      is
 effect   is the greatest, which      little habit will soon ascertain.
                                           a
     The flame of the hydrogen            very much narrowed
                                               is                       by
                                                                      the         in
  troduction of oxygen, and there              no appearance of peculiar
                                                    is
  splendour or heat, till some body capable of reflecting the light
  and heat      placed in the focus, which
               is                                  usually about one-fourth
                                                          is
  of an inch below the. orifice.
     All the appavatus below FF            easily detached
                                               is                turning the
                                                                   by
 double    screws   — the; strong  silver   tubes  are  intended  to prevent
  fusion of this part of the apparatus, and to admit of connexion
  with the platinum piece              by
                                     7neans          screw cut on the silver
                                                         of
                                                          a
  tubes
      ;    this obviates the necessity of using a solder, which would
  be very liable to melt, and the platinum piece               is,
                                                               for a similar
  reason, substituted for the silver cylinder originallv used             Mr.by
 Jlare,   as  experience  has  shown that these are liable to fusion.
                                                                                  No

    108               On  the  Oxi-hydrogen Blow-pipe.
      No flux or addition of any kind was employed in the following
   experiments.
     On the Fusion     of various refractory Bodies ly  the Compound
                          Blow-pipe of Mr. Hare.
      The philosophical world behold with pleasure and astonish
   ment the effects produced on the fusion and combustion of
  bodies by a stream of oxygen gas directed upon burning char
  coal.      The splendour of these experiments arrested universal at
  tention; and Lavoisier, with his gasometer, was enabled in this
  manner to produce a degree of heat surpassing that of the most
  powerful furnaces, and even of the solar focus.         Bodies which
  no degree of heat, previously applied, had been able to soften,
  now became fluid, and philosophy appeared to have attained the
  limit of its power in exciting heat ; indeed, it seemed to have
  advanced very far towards realizing the opinion, that solidity and
  fluidity are accidental attributes of bodies, dependant solely on
  the quantity of caloric which they contain, and that therefore
  they may be supposed capable of existing in either of these con
  ditions.
      Still, however, there were, in fact, many important exceptions.
 Of the primitive earths, Lavoisier had been enabled to fuse only
 alumine — while the rest remained refractory, and seemed fully
 entitled to the character of infusibility, usually attributed to this
 class of bodies : many native minerals, and especially those which
 are most distinguished for hardness, beauty, and simplicity of
 composition, maintained the same character, and some of therm
 refused to melt even when heated with powerful fluxes.
     The beautiful invention of Mr. Robert Hare of Philadelphia,
 by which he succeeded in burning, with safety and convenience,,
 the united stream of oxygen and hydrogen gases, greatly ex
 tended our dominion over refractory bodies, alid presented new
 and very interesting results.         Mr. Hare's memoir, originally
 communicated to the Chemical Society of Philadelphia, has been
some years before the public, and has been republished and
handsomely noticed both in Fiance and England.              Still, how
 ever,   his  results have not   found their way into the systematical
books on chemistry," (with the exception of Mr. Murray's sy
stem,) notwithstanding         that some of the European Professors
have availed themselves of Mr. Hare's invention, so far as to ex-
hi rit his most splendid and striking experiments to their classes.
     The writer of this article, although fully disclaiming any share
in Mr. Hare's invention, was early associated with him in his
experiments: they excited in his mind a degree of interest, which
led him to hope that they would he repeated and extended by
others; but as nothing of this kind has appeared in this country^
                                                               perhaps

                   On the Oxi-hydrogen Blow-pipe,               109
 perhaps the Following experiments may not be altogether unin
 teresting, especially as they were performed with an apparatus
 of a construction somewhat more simple than the original.
     It will be necessary to recollect that Mr. Hare not only melted
 alumine, which Lavoisier had done before, but also silex and
 barytes, and by subsequent experiments he added strontites to
 the list of fusible bodies; he was inclined to believe that he had
 volatilized gold and silver, a conclusion which was rendered
 highly probable by his having afterwards evidently volatilized
 platinum.
    The experiments      of Mr. Hare, as will appear below, have
 been repeated by the writer of this paper with success; and many
 other bodies among the most refractory in Nature have been
 melted.      For the sake of showing how far the experiments now
•to be recited have affected our knowledge of the dominion of
 heat, quotations, for comparison, will occasionally be made frora
  one of the latest and most respectable chemical authorities —
  Murray's System, 2d ed.
   Bodies submitted    to the  Heal of the Compound Blow-pipe of
                            ,  Mr. Hare.
                           PRIMITIVE EARTHS.
     Silex — being in a fine powder, it was blown away by the cur
  rent of gas ; but when moistened with water it became aggluti
  nated by the heat, and was then perfectly fused into a colourless
 glass.
     Alumine — perfectly fused into a milk-white enamel.
     Barytes — fused immediately, with intumescence, owing to
  water, as observed by Lavoisier; it then became solid and dry,
  but soon melted again into a perfect globule, a grayish-white
 enamel.
     Strontites — the same.
     Glucine — perfectly fused into a white enamel.
     Zircon — the same.
     Lime — in small pieces, it was immediately blown off from the
 charcoal : to prevent this, as well as to obviate the suspicion
 that any foreign matter had contributed to its fusion, the fol
 lowing expedient was resorted to. A piece of lime, from the
 Carrara marble, was strongly ignited in a covered platinum cru
 cible ; one angle of it was then shaped into a small cylinder,
 about one-fourth of an inch high, and somewhat thicker than a
 great pin: the cylinder remained in connexion with the piece
  of lime : this was held by a pair of forceps, and thus the small
  cylinder of lime was brought into contact with the heat, without
 danger of being blown away, and without a possibility of conta
 mination : there was this further advantage, (as the experiment
                                                                was

J 10               On the Occi- hydrogen Blow'-pipe*
was delicate and the determination of the result might be dull*
cult,) that, as the cylinder was held in a perpendicular position,
if the. lime did really melt, the column must sink and become, at
least to a degree, blended with the supporting mass of lime.
When the compound flame fell upon the lime, the splendour of
the light was perfectly insupportable by the naked eye ; and when
viewed through deep-coloured glasses (as indeed all these expend
ments ought to be) , the lime was seen to become rounded at the
angles, and gradually to sink, till in the course of a few seconds
only a small globular protuberance remained, and the mass of
supporting lime was also superficially fused at the base of the
column, through a space of half an inch in diameter.          The
protuberance, as well as the contiguous portion of lime, was con
verted into a perfectly white and glistening enamel; a magni
fying glass discovered a few minute pores, but not the slightest
earthy appearance. This experiment was repeated several timef,
and with uniform success ; may not lime therefore be added to
the list of fusible bodies ?              .
   Magnesia. — -The same circumstances that rendered the ope
                                                                 .....
rating upon lime difficult, existed in a still greater degree, with
respect to magnesia ; its lightness" and pulverulent form rendered,
it impossible to confine it for    a moment upon the charcoal ; and
as it  has  very little cohesion, it could not be shaped by the knife,
as the lime had been.        After being calcined, at iTril ignition, in,
a covered platinum crucible, it was kneaded with water, till it
became of the consistence of dough.           It was then shaped into a
rude cone as acute as might be, but still very blunt ; the cCme was
three-fourths of an inch long, and was supported upon a spiled
wire. .      .
               '
                 , ,                  '.
    The magnesia thus prepared, was exposed to the compound
                                                                      \ . -
flame : the escape of the water caused the vertex of the cone to>
fly off in repeated flakes, and the top of. the frustum, that thus        \
remained, gave nearly as powerful      a  reflection of light as the lime
had done from the bulk of the piece
          :                                  (it  being now one-fourth
of an inch    in  diameter at the part where the flame was applied)
no perceptible sinking could be expected.           After few. seconds,,
                                                         a
the piece being exaniined with    a   magnifying glass, no roughnesses
or earthy particles could he perceived on the spot, but number o£
                                                             a
glassy, smooth protuberances, whose surface was a perfectly white,
enamel.       This experiment ivas repeated with the same success,
May not magnesia, then, be also added to the table of fusible
bodies?                                                ......
    Yltr'ia — was the only remaining primitive earth; but no speci
men- of  it   could be obtained.                     ....
   Perhaps then we shall be justified in saying, in future, that, the,
primitive earths are fusible bodies, although not fusible in fur-
                                                                   naces,
         '
   ?„

                     On the Oxi-hydregeti        Bhw-pipe'i             II!
;iaoes, in the solar focus, nor (with the exception of alumine, and
possibly barytes,) even by a stream of oxygen gas directed upon
 burning charcoaL
      Platinum — was not only melted, but volatized with strong
 ebullition.     .
                           VARIOUS     MINERALS.
      Rock Crystal-  — transparent    and colourless.     This mineral was
 instantly    melted  into  a beautiful  white   glass.
                                                          " It not only does
 not melt in the focus of the most powerful burning mirror, but
 it remains without fusion, at least when in the state of rock cry^
 stal, in the still more intense heat excited by a stream of oxygen
 gas directed on burning charcoal."             (Murray, ii. 261.)    " It is
 even imperfectly softened by the intense heat, excited by a stream
  of oxygen gas, directed on the flame." (of the blow-pipe lamp.)
 —(Ibid. iii. 513.)
      Common Quartz — fused immediately into a vitreous globule.
      Gun Flint — melted with equal rapidity: it first became white,
 -and the fusion was attended with ebullition and a separation of
  numerous small ignited globules which seemed to burn away as
 they rolled out of the current of flame : the product of this fusion
  was a beautiful splendid enamel. — " It is infusible before the
  blow-pipe, but loses its colour." — (Ibid. 518.)
       Chalcedony — melted rapidly,and gave a beautiful blueish-white
  enamel resembling opal.          " It is infusible before the blow-pipe."
  — (Ibid.    516.)
       Oriental Carnelian     — fused   with ebullition, and produced a
   semitransparent white globule with a fine lustre.
       Red Jasper — from the Grampians, was slowly fused with a
  sluggish effervescence ; it gave a grayish black slag, with white
  spots.
  •    " It is infusible before the blow-pipe,t
                                                     even when the flame is
   excited by a stream of oxygen gas." — (Ibid. 519.)
       Smoky Quartz — or smoky topaz melted into a colourless glo
   bule.
       Beryl — melted instantly into a perfect globule, and continued
   in a violent ebullition as long as the flame was applied ; and
   when, after the globule became cold, it was heated again, the
   ebullition was equally renewed ; the globule was a glass of a
   beautiful blueish-milky white.
       " The beryl is melted with difficulty before the blow-pipe alone,
    but easily when borax is added." — (Ibid. 511.)
       Emerald of Peru. — The same ; only the globule was green,
    and perfectly transparent.
       Olivin — fused into a dark-brown globule, almost black. " It
    can scarcely be melted by the blow-pipe       "     without addition."— r
    (Ibid. 534.)         .     .                                       -    •'
  •.•;••>                                                           Vesuvian

 112              On the Oxi-hydrogen Blow-pipe,
     Vesuvian — instantly melted into a beautiful green glass.       'If
melts before the blow-pipe into a yellowish glass." — (Ibid, h       4.)
    Leuciie — instantly fused into a perfectly transparent i         lite
glass : the fusion was attended with strong ebullition, and ri       my
ignited globules darted from it and burnt in the air, or rollec      out
upon the charcoal and then burned.          Were they not potassi    m ?
This stone contains full 20 per cent, of potash : — This hint        will
be resumed below.
    ££
       It is not fused before the blow-pipe."— (Murray, iii. 534     )
     Chrysoleryl — (Cymophane of Haiiy) was immediately fi
 •                                                                   sed
into a grayish-white globule.        " It is not melted by the bl    w-
pipe."— (Ibid. 499.)
    A crystallized Mineral. — From Haddam, Connecticut ;             ac
cording to the Abbe Haiiy, it is chrysoleryl; according to         I Co
lonel    Gibbs, corundum : it fused with ebullition and scinti Ja-
tions, and produced a very dark globule almost black.
    Topaz — of Saxony, melted with strong ebullition, and bees me
a white enamel.        " It is infusible before the blow-pipe, but
melts when borax is added."— (Ibid. 498.)
     Sappar or Kyanite — perfectly and instantly fused, with ebul
lition, into a white enamel. " It remains perfectly unaltered
before the flame of the blow-pipe even when excited by oxygen
gas."— (Ibid. 499.)
     Corundum — of the East Indies, was immediately and perfectly
fused into a gray globule.
    Corundum — of China, the same with active ebullition. Corun
dum " is not fused by the flame of the blow-pipe on charcoal
even when soda or borax is added to it." — (Ibid. 495.)
    Zircon — of Ceylon, melted with ebullition into a white enamel.
"   It is not melted alone before the flame of the blow-pipe, but
if borax is added it forms a transparent glass." — (Murray, iii.
539. )
    Hyacinth — of Expailly, fused into a white enamel. *' It
loses its colour before the flame of the blow-pipe, but it is not
fused; it melts with borax into a transparent glass." — (Ibid.
540. )
    Cinnamon stone — instantly fused into a black globule with
violent ebullition.
    Spinelle Ruby — fused immediately into an elliptical red glo
bule.     " It does not melt before the blow-pipe, but is fused by
the aid of borax."— (Ibid. 497.)
    Steatite — melted with strong ebullition into a grayish slag. —
'* It does not melt before the
                                  blow-pipe, but becomes white and
very hard."— (Ibid. 482.)
    Porcelain, common pottery, fragments of Hessian crucibles,
Wedgwood's ware, various natural clays, as pipe and porcelain
                                                                  day,

                 On Ike Oxi-kydrogen Blow-pipe.
 clay, fire and common brick, and compound rocks, &c. were
 fused with equal ease.
    During the action of the compound flame upon the alkaline
 earths, provided they were supported by charcoal, distinct glo
 bules often rolled and darted out from the ignited mass, and
 burnt, sometimes vividly, and with peculiarly coloured flame.
 From the nature of the experiments, it will not be easv to prove
 that these globules were the basis of the earths, and yet there is
 the strongest reason to believe it ; circumstances could scarcely
 be devised more favourable to the simultaneous fusion and de
 composition of these bodies ; charcoal highly ignited for a sup
 port, and an atmosphere of hydrogen also in vivid and intense
 ignition ; that the oxygen should be, under these circumstances,
 detached, is not surprising; but the high degree of heat and the
 presence of oxygen necessarily burn up the metalloids almost as
 soon as produced.        If means could be devised to obviate this
 difficulty, the  blow-pipe of Mr. Hare might become an important
 instrument of analvtical research.
    We can scarcely fail to attribute some of the appearances, du
 ring the fusion of the leueite, to the decomposition of the pot
 ash it contains.
    This impression was much strengthened by exposing potash
 and soda to the compound flame, with a support of charcoal ;
 they were evidently decomposed: numerous distinct globules
 rolled out from them, and burnt with the peculiar vivid white
 light and flash which these metalloids exhibit when produced and
 ignited in the Galvanic circuit.     It is hoped that these hints may
induce a further investigation of this subject.
    The experiments which have now been related in connexion
 with the original ones of Mr. Hare, sufficiently show that science
 is not a little indebted to that gentleman for his ingenious and
beautiful invention. — It was certainly <i happy thought, and the
result of very philosophical views of combustion, to suppose that
 a highly combustible gaseous body, by intimate mixture with
oxygen gas, must, when kindled, produce intense heat: and it is
 no doubt to this capability of perfectly intimate mixture between
 these two bodies, that the effects of the compound blow-pipe
are in a great measure to be ascribed. . .
    This communication has already been extended further than
                                          it,
was contemplated ; but on concluding      it      may be allowable to
remark, that there   is   now in all probability no body, except some
of the combustible ones, which    is    exempt from the law of fusion
 by  heat. If    the primitive earths,    and such minerals as several
of those which have been mentioned above, are fusible, no doubt
can be entertained that all other mixtures and combinations of
earths are fusible also for such mixtures and combinations are
                          :
    Vol. 50. No. 232. Jugust 1S17.               H              known

1 1-4     On the Steam- Vessel between London and Exeter.
known to be more fusible than the primitive earths; the metals
arc more fusible than the earths ; and the diamond, along with
carbon in its other purest forms, appears to be really the only
exception ; and it is probable that this is only a seeming one,
 for it is scarcelv possible to expose these bodies to the heat of
 the compound blow-pipe, without at the same time burning
 them upi could the heat be applied without exposing them to
 the contact of oxygen, is it not probable that they also would
 be added to the list of fusible bodies ?
    Yale-Coiiege, May 7, 18 i 2.
     To the foregoing (which has been printed from the published
 Transactions of the Connecticut Academy) the following V. SL
 was added in manuscript :
     " P. S. — In subsequent experiments gold, silver, platina, arid
 most of the metals were not only volatilized but burnt with pe
 culiar flames."
    Some of my readers may be inclined to think that the facts
 do not warrant all that Mr. Hare has stated respecting Dr.
 Clarke's claim as an inventor.        On that point I shall give no
 opinion ; but it should be observed that in Mr. Hare's apparatus
 the gases are not in mixture till they are brought together at the
 piece   H.
     By Mr. Hare's arrangement it       is obvious that the operator is
 completely secured against any danger from an explosion; and
 it must appear equally obvious to any person who shall consider
 the subject, that by having two condensing vessels for the gas-
 reservoirs B and C, everv result can be obtained which the united
            f
 gases from one vessel can possibly yield : for, by means of the
 cocks at       the'efflux of the gases may be regulated, as remarked
 by   Professor  Silliman, till any required degree of mixture oi effect
 is produced. — A.      T.
 XV.     On the Steam-Vessel proposed to be employed lettieen
           London and Exeter. By A Correspondent.
                              To  Mr. Tillocli.
 Sir,   _H      aving been long of opinion that vessels propelled by
steam may be used with advantage for the general coasting trade ;
I  have at length determined, in conjunction with some friends,
who are of the same opinion, forthwith to establish a vessel for
conveyance of goods and passengers from Londou to this port.
The particular advantage such an establishment would have here^
over vessels of the ordinary description, is the degree of cer
tainty attending the setting out and arrival ; the want of whiebe

                        A Mathematical     Qtiestion.                 115
in the usual mode of water-carriage        induces many tradesmen to
have goods by that more expensive conveyance, the waggon ; and
others are subject to much inconvenience by having their goods
detained for a month or six weeks, by the prevalence of westerly
and south-westerly winds.        The only steam-vessels I have had
an opportunity of seeing are those used on the Thames, which
being constructed for passengers chiefly, are not adapted for
goods, being deficient of stowage : — besides, from their having
such an extended width of deck, to cover the paddle-wheels, it
is conceived these vessels, or any enlarged vessel on such a mo
del, would be unsafe in the Channel.          1 have therefore subjoined
a sketch of the plan on which it is proposed to construct our
vessel (see Plate IL figs. 3 and 4).        The form intended is that
which may be most approved for stowage and sailing, or rather
that will move through the water with the least resistance. The
paddle-wheels are proposed to be placed at the stern, for the fol
lowing reasons. First, to obviate the inconvenience of the in
 crease of deck by their being placed over the sides.          Secondly,
by placing    them    at the stern,   the diameter    or breadth  of the
wheels can be much increased without causing the roll such
ponderous weights would occasion when on the sides.              Thirdly,
 the machinery and boiler occupying the aftermost part of the
 vessel, will not interfere with so much valuable stowage. Fourthly,
 the vessel will lie by the side of a wharf for the purposes of
 taking in and discharging her cargo without injury to the wheels.
 And lastly, — and which fortius port, is a matter of more import
 ance than the preceding, having to pass through two locks of a
 navigable river, — the paddle-wheels must otherwise be contrived
 to takeoff, to admit the vessel through. — My object in this ad
 dress is to gain the opinions of your more experienced readers,
 and to adopt such hints as may be gathered from others who
 have made this subject their study.
                              I am, sir,
                                     Your most humble servant,
 Exeter, July 20, 1817.                                                C.
    XYL A      Mathematical Question.         By A Correspondent.
                             To  Mr. Tdloch.
  StR,  — Considering,         how many able Mathematicians           read,
 your truly   scientific Work,  and  often   correspond   with you, it  has
  somewhat surprised me, that so few of them have appeared to
  notice, and take a part in the elaborate and curious researches,
  relating to Musical Intervals, which have been occasionally sent
  to you for insertion, in your last 24 volumes, by Mr. Farey sen.
                                    II 2                            within

1 16          Literary Hardships of practical Authors.
within    the period of the last 10 years ; particularly since ;the
publication of Mr. Liston's Essay, iu 1812, and since the frequent
exhibition of his Euharmonic Organs, have given those .experi
mental and practical illustrations on the subject, which befure
were a good deal wanting.
    In the- hopes of'obtaining answers from several of your Corre
spondents alluded to, I beg to propose to them the following
Question: which I have been enabled myself to solve, principal jy,
through studying the paper inserted in your last volume, p. 4^L2 ;
viz.
    What     are the Batios, Values (in Mr. Farey's Notation), the
Names,      the Vibrations and the Beats in 1" of the three fol-.
lowing Intervals, above Tenor Cliff C, viz. G^'b"^         FNfb4, and
B"*    ?
                         I am, your
                                "     obedient servant,
   July  26, 1817.                                 Pmi.Q-MtJSICUS.
    P. S. It    is a good rule, which  I have observed Mr. Farey and
 other correct Writers follow, of always (or mostly) defming or
expressing Musical Intervals, in more than one mode, for avoiding
 mistakes or ambiguity, through errors of the press, or miscon
 ception. I will therefore here, although the literal designation
 of the three required notes which are given above, are sufficient
 to determine them; further mention, that their ranges or places,
in a sufficiently extended Listonian Tuning Table are, — 12III
 -84V, +2III-37V, andIII + 8V, respectively: and I beg
to add to my Question above proposed, the further request, that
the answers thereto may, mathematically deduce these latter or
                                                                   '
tuneable definitions of the Intervals, from their literal ones.
 XVII.    On the Cases of Injustice which Authors sometimes suffer
   from other Writers, and from Annolators ; particularly the
    late Mr. John Williams, Author of the " Mineral King
    dom:"       By A Corhespondbnt.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, — ~Your          pages, and those of every other independent
periodical Journal, contain frequent instances of living Authors,
seeing just occasion of complaint, on the score of injustice done
to their literary labours, by other more recent Writers ; and some
times also, these complaints are either preferred or seconded by
others, who have a personal friendship, or else a similarity of
thinking and feeling, with the writer agrieved : and not unfre-
quently, persons are 'seen standing forward as the advocates of
the reputation of Authors who are deceased, in cases where roani

              Literary Hardships of practical Authors".            117
fest injustice may have been done or attempted, on the character
of works, whose Authors or their personal friends, can no longer
 defend their writings, either as to the knowledge possessed by
 the writers, or, as to the honesty, ability or care, with which their'
 sentiments were given.
    In most instances, a feeling towards the support of undefended
 merit, as last mentioned, is sufficiently strong, to counteract and
 expose the improper designs or conduct of recent writers ; but a
 case sometimes occurs, in which' a person, not professedly a li
 terary character, composes a Work, towards the close of his life,
containing the results of his own laborious researches and ex
perience, including perhaps, those of some of his friends also, in 1
some practicable art or useful science, the details and principles
of which he may have gone further tn developing, than waS cur
rent at the time, among the professed writers and Book-makers,'
who were his contemporaries, and immediate successors: and
perhaps this person, may happen also, to adopt the expedient, at
all times a hazardous one, of being the publisher of his own work, '
 by subscription, without transferring to a regular publishing and
 advertizing Bookseller, any permanent interest in its literary
                                                                        '
success or general sale: in such last case, it is not uncommon,
that the Writer should be able to print and give circulation only      -
to a limited number of copies, just sufficient to make his work
somewhat known, and began to be inquired after, when the'
Author is deceased and the work out of print, as is said, and no
longer to be procured, but accidentally in the shops of second- '
hand Booksellers.
   After a period of frequent inquiries for a book of the above •
description, it happens that some publishing Bookseller, with
or without the knowledge or concurrence of the surviving rela
tives of the deceased Author, if he has any, entertains the design,
of printing a new Edition of the Book, which seems thus in re
quest ; and in order to secure the chance of a more extended sale,
instead of searching for any surviving friends of the deceased,
who may be eugaged in the same line of pursuit, or other per
sons practised therein, who could supply the illustrative notes or
additions, which the further progress of knowledge since the first
printing, may have shown to be necessary, in the opinions of such
                                                                      '
persons, as were fully conversant in the practical pursuits and views
of the Author, and had visited the places he may have locally de
scribed, and attempting no further alteration of his work: — more
probttbly,some learned Professor is sought for and engaged, in order
to give Sclat to the matter, by his own splendid additions to the
new' and revised Edition : these additions being perhaps, of a.
kind, very different from, and very inferior perhaps, in point of
                                 H 3                             con-

 1 18       Mr. Williams, and his Annotator      Dr. Millar.
 consistency or practicable utility, with the original work, into
 which they were thus to be foisted.
     In this way it is plain, that the generality of the readers and
 approvers of a Work, thus at second-hand, the original of which
 they may have never seen, may have but inadequate notions,
 of the real and comparative knowledge and merits of the de
ceased Author, and his original work, and are thereby prevented
from discovering the full amount of injustice which the Annota
tor or others, may have done the Author ; and under these cir
 cumstances, considerable time may elapse, before any one stands
 forwards, in such works as yours, or otherwise, to vindicate the
 deceased Author's credit, and put the public more fully in pos
session of the results of his labours.
     I have thus far spoken generally, in order now to attempt to
 apply a good deal of what has been said, to the case of the late
 Mr. John Williams, a practical Miner and Collier, who in
 1789, put to press in Edinburgh, near to which city he then re
sided, the result of more than 40 years' experience in his pro
fession, and of unwearied research and inquiry, as to the Geo
logical facts of almost every part of the British Islands, &c. under
              "
the title of The Natural History of the Mineral Kingdom,"
&c. in two volumes, octavo.
    Mr. Williams did not in his day, any more than a great part
of the practical Miners, Colliers and Geologists of the present
day, see, that any great good could result, from going into the
nice technical distinctions of Minerals, under a very great variety
of genera and species, far beyond the purposes of useful Geology
or practical Mining (which Mineralogical refinements were be
ginning to be fashionable about the time he wrote, and have since
greatly increased) ; such as could repay him for the labour and
research necessary for making these distinctions, or for the di
version from his ordinary pursuits, of more practicable and useful
kinds, which such an application to technical mineralogy would
have occasioned.
    Accordingly, most of those who have expected to find in Mr.
Williams's Book, announced as above, any thing like a minera
logical System, or laboured technical descriptions of Minerals,
much less a Geological System founded on nice Mineral distinc
tions, have been somewhat disappointed: the end and aim of the
Author, having been very different, viz. that of detailing in plain
and simple language, the chief phenomena of the Earth, re
garding its Struta (those accompanying Coals in particular)
their contortions, dislocations, and interesting Veins (those con
taining Metallic Ores in particular) Mountains, Volcanoes, &c. &c.
    In the year 1810, a second Edition of Mr. Williams's Book
                                                            •   •
                                                                  was

             Mr. Williams,     and his Amtolator       Dr. Millar.            1   19
was printed in Edinburgh,
                                    "
                                 with an Appendix containing a
Vtore extended view   of Mineralogy and Geology, bv James Millar,
M.D. F.S.A.S. Lecturer," &c.        It appears from Dr. Millar's
                                                                  and
preface, that it was his intention at commencing the work,
until near 50 pages of it were printed off,
                                               " to add  explanatory
Notes to the original text of the Author ;" hut then the plan was
                                                       without com
changed, into that of giving Mr. Williams's Work
ment or illustration, merely divided in a more formal manner
into Chapters, and curtailed of its redundancies ; and the ap-
l>eudix, as a separate work by Dr. Millar,
                                             was to be so enlarged,
as to occupy all but the first 67 pages     of  the second volume :
                                       " independent, so that each
making in fact, two distinct works
                                                               rather
may be perused as a whole," yet thus tacked together,
 too much in the Book-making style*.
    In several careful perusals which I have given this second edi
tion of Mr. Williams's Work, in order to comprehend and trea
                                                                 men
sure up the rich collection of practical facts which he has
                                                            which   he
 tioned, and the many sagacious hints and suggestions
                                                               I  have
 gives, on the objects of my favourite study and pursuit,
                                                                   the
 increasingly on every re-perusal, seen reason, to disapprove
    * In 1802, a Writer in England, Mr. John Mam, eked out a meagre
Octavo, entitled " The Mineralogy of Derbyshire," by 24 pages,
                                                                            of what
           " An Analysis of Mr. Williams's         Work,     entitled  The   Mineral
he calls
                                          of which   " account of Mr. Williams's
Kingdom;" on the frequent perusal
 Book," am unable to discover, any other motives or design the Writer
         I
                                                            and to exidt in his own
 had therein, beyond those hiuted at in the text,
                       as   technical  Mineralogist,   (or describe!' of, and dealer
Assumed superiority,      a
                                                              unmercifully and un
 ia, hand Specimens), and to abuse Mr. Williams, most
                        of  confusion,  and  tedious    prolixity  in his Ideas and
justly, on the score
                                                           to allege, at p. 178, that
 Writings; induing which, he has had the audacity    " are buried in a mass of idle
 Mr. Williams's   " real facts and  observations,"
                                           "                 exceed the prolixity of
  declamation i ;" again, in p. 184, that nothing can
                      "  which rarely present   one   ray  of solid information ! !;"
 his declamations,"
 &c. &c.
   For  such conduct as this, towards his
                                           Author, it might have been ex
                       and  unprejudiced  persons,  that the Editor of Mr.
 pected by impartial
                                             administered,  due cattigatiou to
 Williams's 2d Edition, would therein have
                  would,        account have  omitted, by  notes, on the 6 or 7
 Mr. M. : that be        on no
                                 Williams's copious details)   in which Mr.Mawe
 passages (at the most, in Mr.
                                                 stated by Mr. W. to have vindi
 has expressly contrudicted any of the farts,
 cated him (as   in justice  he might,  on  most           I
                                                  of them believe), and to have
                                              mistakes,    on the others; such for
 properly explained Mr. W's excusable
 instance, as the mighty fault   of saying,the  granite   of Strontian was gray, in
                          istoo evident however to     me,    that this was not done,
 stead of red.', &c. i it.
                                                        critical examination of Mr,
 because Mr. M. and Dr. M., both       entered on  the
                                  real, or practical   knowledge,     of most of the
 W's Work, without sufficient
                                       written          and having very similar
 objects on which Mr. W. had expressly
                                                       ;
                intentions, each  to  raise  their own  reputation and sell their
  feelings and
                                                       done,  to the memory of
  Books, almost regardless of the injustice thereby
                                         truth und  improvement.
  Mr. W., or to the cause of scientific
                                       ft\  4                               tone

120        Mr. Williams,   and his Annotator   Dr. Millar.
tone of superiority, which his Annotator, as abt>ve mentioned*-
seems to assume, over Mr. W. in his various remarks, scattered
through the work ; calculated, too evidently, for lessening the ;
Reader's estimation for Mr. W's knowledge and performance,
and exalting that of the Annotator's own Appendix : which should
have formed a separate publication, and stood on its own ground,'
not on the shoulders of Mr. Williams, as at present.
    I do not wish to be understood herein, as entirely undervaluing
Dr. M's performance, which certainly presents a very copious
and useful collection of extracts, of great pert of what has been
 detailed or written by Geological observers, in the Transactions
of Learned Societies, and in other works of recent date, with
many of the Doctor's own observations, the whole under such an
 arrangement, as would have done him credit in a separate publi-
 tion, and been, perhaps, in every way commendable: but in their
 present situation, the great display made, of the technical know
 ledge of Mmerals in general (the greater part of which, from their
 scarcity, are quite unimportant in a practical point <f view, such
 as Mr. Williams professed to take) arid the almost entire absence
 of proper illustrations, of the obscurities and defects of Mr.
 Williams's text,on the score of technical Mineralogical knowledge,
 which are so often alluded to, have certainly appeared to me, as
 improper, and^have done so to many admirers of Mr. Williams's
 work, with whom I am acquainted.
     It was not until very lately, although frequently inquiring since
 the year 1801, that I could procure a copy of Mr. Williams's first
 Edition, from which, and other circumstances I judge, that they
 must be very scarce.       On perusing this copy, my opinion of the
 impropriety of Dr. M. as the annotator of Mr. Williams's Work,
 has been considerably strengthened, by observing, that the whole
  of Mr. Williams 's Preface, containing 62 pages of curious and
 important matter, has' been suppressed by Dr. M. !
     What renders this omission the more questionable in its cha
 racter,   is,that although Dr. Millar, like many others of the mo
  dern partizans  in   Geology (who are alluded to with just repre
 hension     byone of your Correspondents, in the Note     in p. 47 of
  your  last number)   in  pp. 560  and 565 of his Appendix, gives the
  outlinesof Dr.Huttoris&nA Mr. Werner's Theories,and intimates,
  that the: e, divide the opinions of modern Geologists:   yet he says
  not a, word, that Mr. Williams, on whom he had obtruded him
  self as an Annotator, had examined Dr. Hutton's Theory, when
  recently published, and after his own work was ready for the
  Printer, and had in     the latter 40 pages of his Preface (which
  Dr. M. had suppressed) considered and pointedly refuted, most
  of the leading tenets of this System!
   If it   should be stated in excuse of Dr. M's conduct herein to
                                                                 wards

                  0»  Vegetation in artificial Media.              121
wards    Kir. Williams, and towards Geological truth and' impar
tiality, that his wish was to exclude controversy, and merely-
 state facts and opinions, for the reader's own decision ; then it
should be rejoined, that he ought to have considered, what he
 has denominated       chapter 3 of vol. i. (pp. 449 to 467), as
 among the useless    "  redundancies" of Mr. Williams's Work, be
 cause expressly employed, in considering and refuting the Theory
 of Count Buffon; in the same manner and on the same princi
 ples, as the refutation of Dr. Hutton's Theory, which has thus
unfairly been kept back.
    Conceiving, sir, that many of your Geological Readers, who
 possess Williams's -2d- Edition, would wish to see the suppressed
 Preface to which I have been alluding, circulated, and preserved
 in your pages, in portions, as room from more important matter
 may allow, I have sent you the Preface, and in case you oblige
 me, by its insertion, I propose to send you, occasionally, some
 further particulars, calculated to set Mr-. Williams's labours and
 his work, in favourable points of view ; and am,
                          Your obedient servant,
 Aug. 4,1817.                                        An Engineer.
     [The Preface of Mr. Williams, referred to in the preceding;
 article, will be given in subsequent Numbers.] — Editor.
                                             —        S=      I  . !- .1 -
 XVIII.    On Vegetation in artificial Media.      By Mr.   J. Acton.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
 SiRj   — Observing        some experiments in your Magazine for
 last month, by Mr. J. Tatum, respecting the effects of vegeta
tion on the atmosphere, I beg to call his attention to some
 of my own, made several years ago, with the view of pointing
 out the analogy between the germination of seeds, the vege
 tation of plants, and the respiration of animals; as also of ex
  amining a new theory of the formation of carbonic acid gas in
 peculiar situations by seeds, plants and animals, then lately
 published by Mr. Ellis in a small octavo volume; and which
 experiments were published in tiie late Mr. Nicholson's Journal
 for July and October 1S69.,       Although my subsequent experi
  ence has not led me to make any alteration in the conclusions to
  which my labours at that time led me, I cannot help feeling consi
  derable diffidence with respect to them, from having since been
  compelled by many unfortunate circumstances to relinquish in
  a great degree     pursuits so interesting and congenial to the
  inquiring mind.       I had pledged myself to follow up those
 experiments by     others  particularly relating to vegetation, more
                                                            effectually

 122            On the Geology      of Northumberland.
 effectually to have corroborated those already attempted ; and
 which pleoge I had the sincerest intention of redeeming, had I
not found an absolute necessity for directing all the power of
ray faculties into other less important but more profitable chan
nels. But at all events, as there appears to he a disposition evinced
by Mr. Tatum to pursue these inquiries, I consider it my duty
to point out to him what has been already done — not so much
under the idea of my experiments being of sufficient consequence to
supersede his investigations, as of their being perhaps worthy to
be considered as a land-mark by which he may avoid some su
perfluous trouble ; and be induced, if he thinks proper, to take
some of the most prominent of mine as points whence to set
forward on a fresh career.        1 have not sufficient vanity to be
lieve mine of any great consequence ; but as his pursuits in the
same path appear so nearly allied to those which so greatly en
gaged my attention, I trust he will excuse my officio ivsness for
thus eagerly endeavouring to arrest his further progress till he
has condescended to give them a serious perusal.        If the greatest
assiduity and accuracy may entitle them to notice, 1 feel con
scious no pains were spared in these particulars ; I only lament the
occurrence of those untoward events which induced me to relin
quish their further progress, and I shall experience no small gra
tification if they shall ultimately be found of sufficient conse
quence to facilitate and shorten the labours of others wishing to
aualyse and throw'light upon similar subjects.
    A friend of mine has lately presented me with two specimens
of calcareous matter, taken from the bladders of two of his
horses after they had died from disease, — one weighing nearly
ten pounds, in an irregular form, — the other weighing about ten
pounds and a quarter, of a conic form.          As soon as I can pos
sibly find time for their minute examination, it is my intention to
send you the particulars.
                       I am, sir,
                                   Your most obedient servant,
Ip'wich, Aug. 6, 1817.                                     J. AcTON.
XIX.     On the Geology of Northumberland.          By N. J. Winch,
                                  Esq.      *
                           To Mr.     Tilloch.
Sir, —    In  a memoir on the geology       of Northumberland, Dur
ham, &c. published in the fourth volume of the Annals of Phi
losophy, Dr. Thomson makes the following observation: — In
                                                                  "
the preceding rapid sketch I have taken no notice of small
patches of the newest fcelz-trap which occur towards the north
                                                                   east

                On the Geology  of Northumberland.                  123
east parts    of Northumberland. I examined several of            these
places about four years ago, and found them to consist of green
stone rocks seemingly deposited above the independent coal for
mation.     This is the case with the rock on which the castle
stands in Holy Island.      The basis of this island is limestone.
The same thing occurs at Bamborough Castle, and in several
hills in the neighbourhood of Belford.         These facts may have
some interest to the geologist, though I did not consider them
of sufficient importance to interrupt the general view of the
structure of these counties which I have now given."
   Though it may appear presumptuous to differ from so able a
geologist; yet I am led to think that had Dr. Thomson investi
gated the rocks at Dunstanborough      Castle, at Gunwarden near
Barwesford on North Tyne, but especially at Wratchiff Crag
near Alnwick, the stratification exhibited at these places would
have induced him to draw a different conclusion; for there he
would have seen the basalt alternate with the rocks of which, the
whole district is composed.
   At Dunstanborough the cliffs consist of
            1. Columnar basalt     .. .. S to 10 feet.
            2. Sandstone                        2 feet.
           3. Shale (slate clay) . .    . .     6 feet.
           4. Basalt to below the water's edge.
   At Gunwarden — strata of dark-blueish-gray crystalline lime
stone, from 3 to 4 feet thick, alternate twice with compact ba
salt.   This limestone contains a considerable portion of iron; and
in colour, lustre, and the shape of its fragments, so nearly re
sembles basalt as to render it liable to be mistaken for that sub
stance.    To the lime-burner it is of no use. In the neighbour
ing rivulet casts of the Madrepora Jlexuosa, mineralized by flinty
slate, or more properly indurated slate clay, have been detected.
   But Wratchiff Crag having been quarried of late years to a
considerable extent, and the different beds of which the hill is con
structed laid open to view, strengthens the opinion that no flcetz-
trap formation exists in Northumberland.        The following section,
accompanied by specimens, was communicated to me by a friend
whose accuracy my be depended upon.
    1. Compact basalt, imperfectly columnar              .. 20 feet.
   2. Indurated slate clay, resembling porcelain jasper       3 feet.
   3.  Encrinal   limestone  (containing    also   bivalve "\
       shells) of a dark- brownish gray colour, glim- > 8 feet,
       mering lustre, and splintery fracture       . .   ..J
   4. Slaty marl                                         .. 4 inches.
   5. Crystalline limetone of a light blueish-gray"\
       colour, glistening lustre, and fine granular %- 3 feet-
       texture                                             J   6. Slaty

]<2f-4'    Qn the Study   of the Principles of Stratification.
    6. Slaty marl                                  ..    .. 4 inches.
    7.  Dark  blueish -gray limestone,    resembling  the   }
                                                              3 fee{
           Gunwarden limestone                              $
    8. Disintegrated basalt with calcareous spar        . .   1 foot.
    9. Compact basalt        ..   . .   . .   ,               4 feet.
    10. Slaty marl — lowest.
    Dip south-east at an angle of 8 degrees.
    Before closing this letter, it will not be amiss to notice a few
phenomena usually accompanying basalt in this part of the
kingdom,     which may in some measure serve to develop its
origin.    Limestone is often rendered highlv crystalline and unfit
fbr lime, when in the vicinity of this rock, as is the case of
No. 5 and No. 7, but not Ne. 3 of the foregoing section. Slate
 clay is turned into a substance like flinty slate or porcelain jas
per, No. 2 ; and coal is invariably chai red when in contact with
it. When' basalt occurs in beds, its thickness varies much more?
than that of the rocks between which it is'interposed, forming
wedge-shaped masses rather than regular strata ; and the sand
stone on which it reposes is changed for some depth to a brick-
red colour : pieces of this description of soft sandstone, taken
from below the basalt at Batnborough Castle, broke into spheri
cal fragments on being immersed in water.
                 1 remain, sir,
                             Your most obedient humble servant,
Newcastle-upon-Tyne,   July   20, 1817.                  N.   J. WlNCH.
XX.       On the Advantages    that may expected to result, from
                                           be
   the Study of the Principles of Stratification ; with Remarks
   on the proper Objects of Inquiry in this important Branch of
   Geology.    By Mr. Thomas Tredgold.
"Men    have sought to make a World from their own conceptions, and to
    draw from their own minds all the materials which they employed; htitJ
    if,instead of doing so, they had consulted experience and observation,
    they would have had facts, and not opinions, to reason about, and nii^ht
    have ultimately arrived at the knowledge of the laws which govern the .
    material world." — Bacon.
                              To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —      In
             consequence of the discovery of several facts which
tend to elucidate the principles of stratificfition, the science of
Geology has acquired an additional degree of interest and im
portance.    Geologists have in   great measure abandoned their
                                      a
wild and fanciful speculations — they have begun to make ob
                                     ;
servations, and to register facts respecting the present state of
the surface of the earthy-— and instead- of inventing hypothetical
                                                          solutions

       On the Study          of the Principles of Stratification.   125
solutions of the most apparent phenomena of its formation, they
now attempt to give an accurate description of its structure.
Such materials, at same future period, will supply a mind like that
of Newton, with the means ,of establishing a correct theory; for
the present state of the earth's surface, is certainly not suf
ficiently well known, to admit of a satisfactory explanation of its
origin.
   The knowledge of the relative position of the Strata which
form the external crust of the earth, is one of the most hnportant
branches of this inquiry ; but to render it more useful, there are
other objects which should always be attended to in such re
searches.
    It has been observed, that a stratum does not always consist of
.the same mineral substance throughout its whole extent, — or at
least that it often presents- the same mineral elements in very diffe
rent combinations and states; therefore, in a complete description
of each stratum, all its principal variations of position, of thickness,
of extent and situation of exposed surface, and of mineral character
should be accurately described.       The petrifactions and shells it
contains should be ascertained; and of those that are peculiar to
it, correct descriptions should be given ; — the uses to which its
.minerals are applied should be noticed, and the probability of
obtaining them in other situations, pointed out ; — the nature and
qualities of the soil on its exposed surface should be described,
and the best means of ameliorating or improving            it,
                                                             suggested.
The uses of such information — to the owner of landed property —
to the miner — the agriculturist-'— the engineer — the architect —
the manufacturer; and, indeed, to every branch of civilized so
ciety, are too self-evident to need detail, and of too multifarious   a
 nature to admit of     ithere.    They only require to be known, to
be fully appreciated.
   In this as     other descriptive branches of natural history,
                   in                                                 a
concise mode of expressing the leading characters of each stra
tum, will be necessary,           by
                                which they may be described with
brevity, accuracy, and precision; as by that means the labour of
comparing the facts of different observers will be materially
abridged, as well as that of describing them.       To accomplish         >
this,it  may  be necessary to introduce some  appropriate terms —
for all those which refer to hypothetical notions respecting the
mode of formation, should be carefully avoided; — the use of
hypothesis     unquestionable, but its very nature renders its lan*
              is
guage unfit for descriptive purposes.    Hypothesis may guide us
in our inquiries, and give tenfold degree of interest to our re^
                                 a
searches  ; but still   must rather be considered the instrument,
                        it
than the end of our labours.      To a candid inquirer after truth",
the danger of clothing his descriptions of natural phsenomeutv

  125        On the Study of Ike Prhtciples of Slruli/lchlioti.
  hi the language of hypothesis, must be very evident ; and the
  more so, when he considers the narrow views on which hypotheses
  must be formed, in the present state of geological science.
     It may be difficult to form a regular and general principle of
  classification, independent of some hypothesis respecting the for
 mation of the strata ; — a difficulty perhaps to be removed, only
 by more complete information respecting the stratification of
 other parts of the giobe: however, as far as relates to this island,
  the strata might be arranged, according to the order in which
 they follow one another, beginning at the highest in the series.
 No doubt mistakes will sometimes occur, in assigning each stra
 tum its proper place in the series, but in the progress of the
 science, these will be corrected.      !
     The attention of geologists is earnestlv called to this, or to
 some superior arrangement of the British strata; for were such
 an arrangement once made, and a proper and scientific method
 of describing the phenomena adopted — the number of observers
 would soon increase, and the knowledge of this important branch
 of geology would make rapid advances towards perfection.            -  '
     The landed proprietor will soon find it as much his interest, to
 knoiv the nature of the strata that form his estate, as to know
 the number of acres it contains, and a correct mineral survey of
 his property, will form an useful and valuable appendage to the
 plan of his estate.    And in thus ascertaining the value of his own
 property, he will have an opportunity of forwarding the progress
 of science, by adding the result of his inquiries to the common
 stock ; — every mine that he opens, every shaft that he sinks, will
 either add additional facts or confirm those already known — even
 in digging a well, something worthy of note may be observed.
 And should he previously have made himself acquainted with th2
 principles of stratification, he would then have the pleasure of
 anticipating the general results, while the progress of the work
 would enable him to ascertain the accidental variations which
frequently occur.
    But if the study of stratification afford pleasure and useful in
formation to the settled individual ; how much more must it af*
ford to the well-informed traveller ! — He will no longer need to
confme himself to hasty notices' of those geological subjects only,
that are apparent to the most careless observer — a wider field
will open before him, and the structure and mineral production
of the country will form one of the most interesting objects of
his researc h.     Other travellers have noticed such mineral pro
ductions only, as were in use, or plentifully scattered over the face
of the countries they have passed through ; but the traveller who
knows the nature and principles of stratification will be able, not
only to give more satisfactory information respecting thejninerals
                                                                already

         On the Study   of the Principles of Stratification..      i27
already known, but also to display the apparently hidden re-
sources of other countries, and to furnish those data, which the
extended views of modern science have rendered necessary.
    As the labour of gaining any new source of knowledge never
fails to bring with it its own reward, by a proportional increase
of the sources of pleasure, I hope an attempt to bring that of.
the principles of stratification into more general notice, may not
be without effect.    It is a branfrh of knowledge, which, on ac
count of its useful nature, is perhaps better calculated to become
popular, than any other.       In proof of the truth of this remark
it is only necessary to say, that it includes the principles of the
important art of draining land; — that from it the probability of
obtaining eertain minerals in certain situations may be inferred
from the nature of the superior strata, without the expensive
process of boring ; — that it is calculated to check the delusive
mining projects, which have ruined thousands, and at the same
time to encourage those which are likely to be attended with
success; that it also points out the best methods of working
new mines, as well as the most effectual means of extending old
pnes, with security and profit.      I am, sir, yours, &c.&c.
  London, August 11, 1817.                   THOMAS Trf.DGOLD.
  P.S. As the recommendation of any particular branch of science
may seem imperfect, without saying something on the means of
                  have subjoined the following list of works on the
           it,
obtaining  I
subject of stratification.   Perhaps some of your correspondents
may think proper to extend    it, with critical notices on the com
parative merits of the writers.
   Mr. Wm. Smith's Mineralogical Map of England and Wales:
      and several numbers of the works he      is now publishing, to
      explain it.
   Mr. Farey's Derbyshire Report.
   Mr. Bakewell's Introduction to Geology, 2d edition.
   The articles " Coal" and " Stratification" in Dr.Rees'sNew
     Cyclopaedia.
  Mr. Sowerby's Mineral Conchology.
  Williams's Natural History of the Mineral Kingdom. — And
    several valuable facts are collected,    in
   Mr. Whitehurst's Inquiry into the Original State and Forma
    tion of the Earthy
  Mr. W. Forster's Treatise on Section of the Strata. New
                                    a
    castle. 1809.
  The Transactions of the Geological Society.
  The 25 th and following volumes of the Philosophical Maga
    zine, &c. &c. and The Monthly Magazine.              T, T.
                                                            XXI.    On

                                             t        12S    J
XXI.        On the Work entitled " Chromatics
        the Analogy and Harmony of Colours.
                                                                           f    or,   An Essay
                                                                            By Mr. T. Har-
                                                                                                 on
        GREAVES.
'   '
                                        To       Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,           In
                your last Number vou mentionedthe publication of
     Am Essay    on the Analogy and Harmony of Colours."                On
turning    over   a  copy  of          it,
                                    which     have now by me,
                                                       I            remark,            I
 that not only are the coloured diagrams incorrect, but that they
are at variance with the observations which accompany them.
 In pointing out this incorrectness,               not my intention to de
                                                            it   is
 preciate the work, but to give the author an opportunity in                                      a
 future edition of rendering            more perfect, should he consider
                                              it
  my  remarks     deserving    of  his notice.   My objection lies against
 that part of his work in which he treats on the particular rela
 tions of colours.        His first example of the white, black, and
 gray     correct
          is         ; and in the second,         merely object to the co
                                                             I
lours employed for showing the three primaries, as not precisely
 giving the tones required: — the ultramarine inclines rather to
 purple    ^
            the' Indian yellow to orange          and the red in its darker
                                                             ;
 shade to orange.        But perhaps these colours have been adopted
                             .
 for their durability.-
    My principal objection            against the compound or derivative
                                         is
 tints, given under the denominations of secondaries and tertiaries.
 But before proceed,
                l               may be proper to transcribe two or three
                                  it
passages    from    the work, which are in themselves perhaps unob
jectionable, but with which the examples given are at variance.
    In section       8he says: " By the union of these three positive
 colours (red, yellow and blue) in due subordination, they are
 neutralized," &c.         In section 24 " Perfect neutrality depends,
 hmvever, upon          due subordination
                         a                                   of
                                                   the primary colours in
 which line predommates in proportion to the depth of the com-
pound, and yellow             subordinate to red," &c.
                             is                             Again, in sec
 tion 21, "As the neutralization or negation.of odours depends
upon the reunion of the three primaries,                 evident that each
                                                                      it   is
cf  the primary colours           neutralized
                                  ii               that secondary which
                                                                 by
                 the two other primaries, alternately
                of                                                                               is is
 composed                                                     thus, blue        ;
neutralized or extinguished             orange, red
                                                 by      green, and yellow by
ly      purple."
   Considering all this as correct, and examining the coloured
examples of the secondaries and tertiaries, with reference! to
these principles, they will be found to vary considerably.
   In- the first place, the secondary or intermediate colour of
purple, ought to be such    combination of red and blue, in which
                                   a
the blue should predominate, as when combined with yellow
should become completely neutralized.      But on looking at the
                                                                                        Example,

                  On the Work entitled   " Chromatics."            129
Example No, 3,       we find it besides being very inferior in bril
liancy   to  either the red or the blue, considerably inclined to the
red;    so  that it seems composed of red and a little blue, and
rather neutralized by yellow or black.      By adding yellow, there
fore, it would not become completely neutralized, but incline to
one or other of the tertiaries.
    The orange likewise should be a compound of red and yellow, in
-which the red should predominate ; but in Example 4, it is found
 (assuredly of the colour usually called orange) considerably too
much inclined to the yellow; so that the third primary blue, in
stead of neutralizing, would convert it into an olive or broken
green.
    The other secondary colour, green, in Example 5, is nearly
correct, except that it is rather inferior in brilliancy to either
the blue or the yellow.
    I come now to the tertiaries, by which are meant a combina
tion of two secondaries, so as to produce a colour in which all
the three primaries are united. By this combination it is evident
that an extensive variety of tones may be produced, according
to the different proportions of the two secondaries employed.
But the author means to select such an union of two secondaries,
 as shall produce an exact broken colour of that primary which
 enters into the combination of both the secondaries.        Thus the
 tertiary produced by purple and green is required to be of a
 broken or partly neutralized blue ; which will of course, as im
plied in Section 22, be completely neutralized by orange.          But
 on referring to Example 6, we find that the author has produced
an olive, a colour in which greenish-yellow predominates; which
 might be expected from the incorrectness in the tone of the pur
ple not allowing a sufficient quantity of it to be used for giving
 the tint required.      This olive instead of being neutralized by
 the orange would change into broken yellow.\ Here of course
the error is not confined to the coloured example, but the name
 adopted shows the author himself to be in error.           The other
two tertiaries are likewise incorrect, —  the citrine being rather too
 much inclined to orange ; and the russet is more a broken
 orange, than the partly neutralized red which it ought to be.
 The remaining examples are, of course, infected with the same
 errors, as being composed of the tints and colours already de
                             '
 scribed.                  .
     I do not at present enter into any consideration of the au
 thor's ideas on the harmony of colours, as I have not yet found
 leisure to understand and consider them.          But as I was struck
 with his adoption of the double triangle for the purpose of illus
 tration, and the general agreement of his ideas on colours with
 my own, as inserted in your Number for March 1817, I was
    Vol. 50. No.232. August 1817.               I             tempted

130                      Notices respecting Neiv Books.
tempted to examine that part of his work ; the result of which
examination I here send yon ; and if you consider       as do, of         it,   I
some importance to art,       doubt not of your admitting
                                   I                         to                 it    a
place iu your valuable publication.
                          am, sir, yours, &c.
                             I
Liverpool, Aug. 16, 1817.                  THOMAS HaRGREAVES.
                    XXII.     Notices respecting New Books.
An Inquiry  into the progressive Colonization   the Earth, and       of
     the Origin  Nationsof  illustrated
                                    ;         Map          by
                                                     the Geo-    a         of
    graphy    Ecclesiastical and Ancient Civil History.
                   of                                      By
    T. Heming,    Magdalen Hall, Oxon.
                         of
                                 [Concluded   from   p.   72.]
    The   progress which we have made already assures us that
there are mountains so situated as Moses hath pointed out to us
— that these mountains appear to join the popular Ararat of
Armenia, or the Gordian mountains — that there are traditionary
reports of the ark having lodged upon the mountains of Ariana,
which are a part of the same tract — that there are, about those
parts, names which appear to have generated from. Ararat,
Gordus, and Cardu — :ill which considerations, though they have
a tendency to confirm the declaration of Moses, would be very
much too flimsy and insufficient, without some additional strength.
   " There are some evidences of the early population of these
parts, which may be mentioned as correlative arguments in fa
vour of the general question.     Megasthenes relates, that the old
inhabitants of India were divided into 122 nations, all originally
descended from the sons of Noah, before their journey to the
valley of Shinar.
   " Nearly 2000 years before the Christian era, Semiramis                           in
vaded these eastern settlements with an army of above 4,000,000,
ifCtesias and Diodorus do not exaggerate (though we can hardly
suppose they do not).       Staurobates, the Indian general who
we are told met this enormous force, had, they say, an army
equally numerous, and obtained        complete victory over Semi
                                               a
ramis, who was slain in the fight.       Deduct whatever may be
necessary to reduce these armies, to credible numbers, and then
the population of each of these adjacent countries must have
been, beyond a doubt, exceedingly great — probably, and almost
certainly, greater, at this early period, than any other contem
porary nations of the whole earth.
     "   Itprobable, that had Armenia been the point of disiem-
              is
bajkation, the adventurers would have reached Shinar in much
                                                         .
                                                                           '
                                                              less    ,•        .

                       Notices respecting New Books.                  131
   less than a century; as the routes along the Tigris and Euphrates
   are so accessible and easy: and on the other hand, the distance
   from the east of Persia, and the time of arrival at Shinar, seem to
   be much more proportionate than those of Shinar-and Armenia.
      " It is improbable that the fertile plain of Jordan would have
   been destitute of proprietors for so long a time as 450 years after
   the flood, if the ark had settled so contiguously as the Gordian
   mountains; whence, the descent to Jordan would have been so
   facile and convenient; and we find (Gen. xiii. 11) that the whole
   of this fine country was open to the choice of Lot, who took
   possession of it without opposition: and here may the rapid
   progress of population be particularly instanced; for in a few
   centuries afterwards, this became the most populous district that
   the earth ever contained.
      " It is probable, that if Armenia had been the focal point, Eu
  rope would have been colonized before India; but it is agreed
   beyond dispute, that India was planted much earlier than Europe;
  and it is moreover certain, that the most eastern parts of Europe
  were peopled before the western ; which, had the migration been
  from Armenia, would not have been the case.
      "  It is probable, had the first post-diluvian progress been made
  from Armenia, that Syria and Asia Minor would have become
  famous settlements before Egypt ; because, from their contiguity,
  they could not fail of being soon discovered ; and their inviting
  aspects, both with regard to climate and fertility, would certainly
  have insured the sojournment of whatever colonies chanced to
  come towards them — but it is certain that 'Egypt was overspread
  with inhabitants long before Syria or Asia Minor; and it is
 therefore probable, that the first Egyptian colony proceeded
 coastwise from the Indus ; whereas, had it passed from Armenia,
 it would most likely have gone through some part of Syria, and
 would, of course, have occupied it in the way to Egypt; which
 was not the case.
     "  Although neither the perilous arduities of mountains, nor
 the terrible menaces of oceans, were insuperable and daunting
 to the daring enterprisers; yet the even valleys and less rugged
 tracks of rivers were most readily pervaded: and if we search
the surface of the whole globe, no spot seems to distribute so
 many streams as that part of ancient Asia, whence they issue on
 both sides of the mountains from Herat to Gaur, and run in all
-directiops towards the north and towards the south.
     " This sublime tract of heights, though in themselves steadfast
arid durable as time itself, have, as every latter circumstance
rolled on and involved its forerunner, fluctuated in name with the
successive changes.        By Megasthenes, Strabo, and Pliny, they'
arie called Paropamisus, from the ancient Persian province of
                                     I 2                           that

132                 Notices respecting New Books.
that name.       By Oluveritrs and Mela they are termed Talinrs,
from their being supposed to be a continuation of that mountain
—by Aristotle and Quintus Curtius they are called Caucasus — by
Pliny, Cellarius, and Ptolemy, they are mentioned by the name
of the Hyrcanii Montes, from their passing through the country of
Hyrcania — by Arrian they are designated as Mons Matieni — by
 others they are since called Himmaleh and Hindoo Koh: but
we know that none of these is a genuine name ; indeed, they are
partial only, and such as have accidentally been applied to them ;
 as we learn from many of the Greek authors.        But are we not
to suppose that these important mountains, before any Grecian
 had existence, were denoted by some name ?       And is it not pro
 bable that they were known to the predecessors of Moses by the
 general title of Ararat? Or, may we not justify the presumption,
 that Moses, from an intimate knowledge of their character and
 consequence, endued them with the appellation of the Mountains
 of Ararat   ?
     "  Hareius denominates the whole range from the Euphrates
 to   the         '
          Ganges the Montes Araratis.'
     " Dr. Heylin condemns the opinion of the ark having rested
 in Armenia, and supposes it more likely to have remained on
  some part of the Imaus mountains in India, which are somewhat
 further north-eastward from the spot which we propose to con
 sider as the place of disembarkation.
     "  Dr. Stukely, who has investigated the subject with the sa
 gacity of a philosopher and the discrimination of a critic, con
 cludes the seat of the ark, after the flood, to have been rather
 westward of the head of the Indus, and about the point of each
 longitude to which the map of scriptural and classical geography
  extends.
     ,f
        We might add numerous other conjectures of the. same kind ;
 but the testimony of one commentator who has patience to sift,
 judgement to discern, and impartiality to decide, is of more
 weight and value than a cordon of those who copv one another's
 errors : and as the purpose of this debate will require but few
 more corroborations and arguments, we shall, after advancing
 one or two others which possess, in our opinion, the most con
 sequence, bring the question to an issue.
     " If we search to discover them, there may generally be dis
 cerned some extraordinary signs of divine omniscience and con
 trivance in every act of the Almighty Master ; and it js no less
 than marvellous, that the grand streams of the Indus, Oxus,
 Jaxartes, with some branches of the Ganges, and a great many
 other rivers, derive their sources from about the central district
 of the three principal divisions of the earth, and which is in that
 part of ancient Aria, or Ariana, where we propose to consider
                                                                 that

                    Notices respecting New Books.
that the remnant of the wreck of human nature first released
themselves from the fabric which had saved them from the uni
versal catastrophe.       This situation perfectly accords with the
point to which Moses has referred us; and seems to have other
wise more probabilities in its favour than any other position
which we have seen laid down.
     '•' It is not here
                        intended to be insisted, that probability ought
to be received as proof: but problems of history so intricate and
inexplicable as the present, cannot be solved according to the
principle of mathematical demonstration: proceeding then from
probability to probability is the only way of getting towards the
fact ; and where numerous probabilities corroborate and support
one another, they are, or ought to be, esteemed almost tanta
mount to physical truth.
     " It must be recollected, that the principal object to be es
tablished from the present inquiry         is,that some position, con
sistent with the express asseveration of Moses, be considered as
the resting-place of the ark     :  and that the point to be assigned
must have a much greater eastern longitude than any part of
Armenia; otherwise          itwill be contradictory rather than con
 formable to what Moses has so unconditionally and unequivo
 cally declared.
      " That part of the ancient Persian province of Aria, extending
from modern Herat, or Harat, to the country of the Gaurs, or
 according to the orthography of some, the Giaours, along the
 tract of heights called Hindoo Koh,         is the place to which the
 investigation seems to lead, as having, according to numerous
 probabilities and circumstances, most likely been the receptacle
of the ark, after the secession of the waters from the face of the
 earth — but before we entreat the suffrage of our readers to this
      :
 opinion, we will abstract and arrange, in           brief form^ some of
                                                     a
 the chiefest motives which have contributed to the preference.         •
      " First — Moses declared in perspicuous terms, that the ark
                                                             '
  rested on the Mbuntains of Ararat,' and that the emigrants
    journeyed Jrqm the east till they came to the Plains of Shinar'
 —therefore, finding, as we do, that the mountains of ancient
 Aria in     Persia are, though at a great distance, connected with
 those of Armenia, and that they are relatively situated with re
 gard to Shinar, as stated in the Scripture          these were motives
                                                     ;
 which, in some degree, influenced        the   inducement    to propose
 them as the probable place where the ark rested after the flood.
      " Secondly —It   is  not to be imagined that the emigrants pro
  ceeded in one direct and uninterrupted progress from Ararat to
  Shinar  ;    yet may some idea of the relative distance between
   these places be formed             by
                                      the portion of time which the
journey consumed. Aria           isnot objectionable on account of its
                                  I    3         .               distance

134               Notices respecting New Books.
distance from or contiguity to Shinar, and the migration from
one to the other may very readily be supposed to have required
as much time as the Scripture signifies — this apparent propor
tion of the time and distance was another motive that biassed
the proposal.
    " Thirdly — Some very judicious inquirers on the same subject,
are decidedly of opinion that the ark rested somewhere along this
tract of mountains towards Tartary or India; and their not having
all consented to one spot is no derogation to the main point ; for
they all propose a site eastward of Shinar, and therefore do not
deviate from the Mosaic text.      Along this vast ridge, to which
all ascribe the memorable event, we, for the foregoing and other
reasons, consider Aria to be the most probable point ; and as
this opinion is not incompatible with that of Hareius, Ortelius,
Drs. Stukely and Heylin, Shuckford, Wilson, and other eminent
authorities, we have, with greater confidence, been induced to
propose it.
    " Fourthly — From not having been able to discover any other
primitive name of these mountains, it is conceived that Ararat
ought not to be considered as a term appropriated to any parti
cular part, but to have been much more extensively applied than
has been generally imagined ; and from the many names attached
to places and things, in the vicinity of Aria, that appear to have
some affinity to the word Ararat, additional instances in favour
of the proposal have also been deduced.
   "  Fifthly — This Persian district includes the central point of
the three grand divisions of the earth — that is to say, of Europe,
Asia, and Africa — which, considered as so regarded in the om
niscience of Providence, and thereby suited for promoting in
somewise the great scheme, was also additional weight to the
reasons for the proposal.
•  "  Sixthly — From its seeming compatible with the incompre
hensible wisdom and ceconomy of the Supreme to afford facility
at the outset to the ' overspreading of the earth,' and as the
courses of rivers are most free from impediments, and supply one
of the most essential articles of human subsistence, it is natural
to suppose that the itinerant corps would take their routes along
the tracks of currents; and from the multiplicity of these which
are distributed northward and southward from the central accli
vities of Aria, in a manner not to be found in any other .region
of the earth, it was a consideration that powerfully augmented
the force of the other motives which induced the proposal.
    " Seventhly — Herack, Yerac, or Irac Agemi, signifying the
 country of the mountains, is southward of the Caspian Sea, about
ancient Hyrcania.      No part westward of this can be adopted as
 the place where the ark rested, because the Scripture objects to
                                                                 it;

                              Notices respecting New Books.            135
     it : any where more eastward along the same ridge may, because
    the Scripture allows it.     To say that the ark rested in Armenia
    is therefore dissonant to the prescript of Moses, unless Armenia
    in immemorial ages extended to Hyrcania, which is not alto
    gether improbable; — but it is much more likely that Ararat Was
    of this, and even much greater extent, before it became con
   founded with Armenia; and the identity of these two places,
   which ought to be distinct, has been very perplexing, deceptive,"
   and injurious. — Tenacious, therefore, of a perfect faith in Moses
   and his interpreters, we must reject altogether the pretension of
   the ark having rested northward of Shinar, and adopt the mora
   congruous proposition of the extension of Ararat beyond Aria,
   because there are many reasons to authorize          it,
                                                       and no substan
   tial objection seemingly to the proposal*.
        " Lastly — The tradition mentioned         by
                                                 Wilson, in his Asia
                                                                  '
   tic Researches,' of the ark having lodged upon Aryavart may be
   added, because        itperfectly consonant to Scripture, and be
                              is
   cause it   isof as much consequence as tradition can possibly be,
                                               a
   on account of its derivation from an indigenous source; whereas
   every tradition relative to Armenia      from the report of aliens,
                                              is
   who were unacquainted with the tenitory for full 1700 years
   after the event they presume to recount had taken place.              ,
        *'
           Having now summed up the main arguments which have been
- brought forward in this intricate inquiry; and which, whether
  scriptural, theological, physical, geographical, etymological, testi
  monial, or traditional, have all one uniform tendency — and are
  deemed, altogether, sufficiently cogent to authorize the conclu
  sion, that the country of ancient Aria, in the east of Persia, com
  prehends that part of the mountains of Ararat where the ark
  rested after the great deluge, when Noah and his three sons, with'
  their wives, were all the remnant that survived to repropagate
  mankind, we shall therefore hereafter consider ourselves
                                                            warranted^
  in alluding to this as the focal point whence the whole earth has
  been overspread with all the varieties that have existed, since
  the deluge, of the human race."
       In the third chapter the author treats " of the dispersion
  and several settlements of the descendants of Noah, whom we
  find enumerated in the book of Genesis."          The fourth, which
  concludes the work,        entitled
                               is     " Considerations on the time of
  *   " May   not Ararat and Aria, also Arachosia, Arasacia, &c. have been
 named   to memoralize settlements of the descendants of Jerah, the son of
 Joktan (called     the Arabs Arah or Yarah), as Moses informs us that the
                   liy
 Joktanites were stationed from Mesha (signifying a desert) to Sephar, a
 mount of the East, which Wells places in Persia: and Eustathius, Hierony-
 irius, &c. derive the Bactrians, Hyrcanians, Caramanians, Scythians, &c.
 from the sons of Joktan.
                                       14                             the

136                     Notices respecting New Books.
the general dispersion, and the number of persons that had arisen.
— The   confounding of language. — Genealogy of the Hebrew and
Greek bibles examined. — Original nations founded subsequent
to the first dispersion. — The earliest nations of whom there are
written documents; and the results and connexions relative to
them which may be derived from the foregoing sketches."
   Mr. Heming's valuable map, which should have a place in
every library, will be found a most useful auxiliary to all students
of the Geography of Sacred and Ancient History.
An Essay   on the Nature of Heat, Light, and Electricity.                     By
    Ghari.es Carpenter Bompass, Barrister at Law.                            8vo,
   276 pp.
   This is a work of uncommon merit, and will, we are confident,
be well received by those whose minds have been properly disci
plined by the strict laws of the inductive philosophy.      The author
in his preface apologizes for offering an essay on a branch of
natural philosophy, unsupported by experiments of his own :
but we think the chances are at least equal, that he would not
have produced a more useful work, had he had experiments of
his own to detail, and the results to explain.        He has done bet
ter in founding his observations on the labours which others, " in
return for the honours so justly paid them, have surrendered for
public use ;" — for, had he offered new experiments and new re
sults, the attention of the reader        not his own) would have been
                                             (if
diverted from the main object of the essay; or at least divided,
and the author would have produced less effect.
   The work         divided into chapters, and these into sections.
                   is
Chap.    I.  On  the    Nature of Heat.             On the Materiality
                                                       §   I.
of the Cause of Heat.               On Attraction for Caloric, Latent
                                    2.
Heat, and Evaporation.        § §3. On the Communication of Caloric.
§  4. On the Reflection of Caloric.            5. On the supposed Re
                                                   §
pulsion between the Particles of Caloric — and the Elasticity of
Gases.   .    §6. On the Nature of the Attraction for Caloric. —
Chap.    II.  On    the Nature of Light.               On the Mutual
                                                           §    1.
Relations     of  Light   and  Caloric.       2. On§ the  Reflection of
Light— and Visibility of Bodies.           3. On the Component Parts
                                              §
of Light — arrd the Causes of Colour. Chap. III. On Electri
city.    §    1
              .  On the Formation of the different Kinds of Electri
city.    §     On
              2.     the Nature of Electrical Attraction.         3. On
                                                                     §
the Franklinian Hypothesis.            4. On the Combination
                                         §                        of the
Two Kinds        of  Electricity, and the Identity of the Compound
Ethereal Fluid with Caloric and Light.
    It would not be justice to the author to offer an analysis of              a
work which         wholly argumentative; we shall therefore confme
                   is
ourselves chiefly to     a statement of some of his conclusions          :
                                                                     « Caloric

                                 Notices respecting         New Books,                            137
    "Caloric (tor the reasons adduced)     is certainly contained in every
 body but the coldest,      and,  no  one-will hesitate to conclude from
analogy, in that also.        If then there be in all bodies an invisible
 imponderable fluid or substance, capable of producing all the
 phenomena of heat, it is surely unphilosophical to seek for any
 other cause of          it,
                        where this exists."     The author therefore as
 sumes that this matter          the only source of heat.
                                            is                  He employs
 the name commonly used," caloric," but "without any intention
 to express an opinion that             simple substance." —
                                                 it   is
                                                      a          " caloric               If
 be matter,      possesses inertia; and consequently, when once with
                it
 out motion, unless acted on by some other body,                  would re         it
                                                 "
 main for ever at rest." — The only powers by which matter
 unaided can act upon matter, are attraction and repulsion." —
 Opposite powers in similar bodies where one              sufficient are re
                                                                         is
jected in sound philosophy; — 'but we cheat ourselves with terms.
 What      " radiation" but another name for " repulsion?" — "The
          is
 law is  universal, that all bodies attract caloric — but the degree in
 which they attract           different in different circumstances." —
                                  it   is
"    That which has been called latent heat              only the effect of
                                                                         is
 an increased exertion of the attraction for caloric, produced                                         by
 the modifications of the attraction of cohesion."
     For the reasons stated        the author, " caloric must necessarily
                                                 by
 be imponderable." — Though the passage of caloric                 produced         is
 simply        by
               attraction, the phasnomeua are modified              circum              by
 stances.     " Motion        given to caloric at its issuing from the
                                   is
 heated body.       But the attracting power continues to operate on
 the caloric as       proceeds, and with a force increasing as
                        it                                                ap                  it
 proaches    the  attracting body; consequently        the  motion      con                  is
 tinually and increasingly accelerated.         The ray strikes therefore
 upon the attracting body, with a force greater than the then
  acting attraction,         the sum of the force of all the attraction
                                   by
 preceding.       Suppose the body attracting the caloric to be per
 fectly hard and impenetrable, and the ray 'would rebound or
 be reflected the then exerted attraction which alone would tend
                    ;
  to continue      in contact, being so evidently less than the force
                    it
  of the attraction accumulated through its whole progress. Al
  though no body         impenetrable to caloric,
                             is                                          it
                                                              generally ad    is
  mitted that the particles of every body are so.           All the caloric
  therefore, which should not pass between the particles, but strike
  immediatelv on them, would be reflected as though                impinged         it
  ona   body perfectly hard and impenetrable.            Accordingly,                             it   is
  found    by experiment, that       very large portion of caloric
                                                      a                   re                  is
  flected from some bodies to which              attracted.it   Metals par
                                                                is
  ticularly, attract caloric with considerable force, in proportion to
  their volume but when highly polished,
                    ;                              very small part   a   able                is
                             •
                                                                                                   to

138                Notices respecting New Books.
 to penetrate them.      Suppose then a plate of polished metal, to
 attract caloric from    a  distant object.    The particles of caloric
 will strike upon its surface, but the greater part will be unable
 to enter it.    That part of the ray of caloric therefore, which
 cannot penetrate, impinging upon the polished metal with a
 force greater than the attraction at the surface, and its elasticity
 being perfect, it will rebound or be reflected, with a force equal
 to the excess ; the attraction acting upon it on its return, with
 a continually' decreasing, retarding power.      If, however, another
 body be placed so as to exercise its attraction in the course of
 the reflected ray, the retarding attraction will be opposed by the
 force of that attraction, and tire course of the returned ray will
be continued.      If the heated body be placed in the focus of a
 concave metallic mirror, the caloric would be attracted by it,
 and almost the whole quantity attracted, would be reflected from
its polished surface in parallel lines.     The metal, however, does
rot act with an equally retarding attraction upon, the ray of ca
loric, because a concave mirror will always attract with the?
greater poyver, objects in the line of its focus.     This will be very
evident, if that ray be considered, which impinges upon the ex
treme circumference of the mirror, when it will be perceived,
that on its return, at the sa,me distance from the part on which
it struck, it will be much less under the influence of the attrac
tion of the mirror, than in the heated body situated in t he focus.
This difference of attraction must have a very considerable
effect ; for a small force will convey a ray of caloric to a great
distance, as may be easily imagined from- its usual wonderfully
rapid motion.      And if a small direct force be sufficient, a small
excess over a counteracting force is equally effectual.          If the
retarding attraction therefore, of the first mirror, with all its op
posing circumstances, be but in a small degree less than its ac
celerating attraction, caloric may be conveyed to a considerable
distance.     But the small force with which the caloric passes
from   the  mirror, beyond the distance of the heated body, being
only the excess of the direct over the retarding attraction, does
not lessen the quantity, in the same degree, as it would if it
arose from a small power of attraction.          The quantity passing
is that which is attracted by the mirror from the heated body,
with the deduction of that quantity which the mirror itself re
tains, and that which will be retained by the attraction of the
atmosphere, and other such circumstances.           If a second mirror
be then placed opposite to the first at a moderate distance, the
rays will impinge upon    it,  and most of them be reflected to its
focus.     The second mirror will not only reflect the rays which
                    will also assist their progress by its own attrac
             it,
strike upon  it
                                                                  tion

                     Notices respecting New Books.                                      139
tion for them ; and if its attraction should he great, it would
affect that of the first mirror.          If,
                                       for instance,     piece of ice he
                                                                    a
placed   in  the  focus  of the  second   mirror,  the  ice will rapidly
absorb the rays of caloric, and attract the caloric from its sur
face.    This will increase the attraction of that mirror, and con
sequently increase the rapidity, and the force of the whole pro
cess.   The surface of the first mirror will have its attraction
increased, and the temperature of the heated bodv will more
rapidly fall.    The effect of a single mirror in reflecting caloric,
passing   from  a body placed opposite to            it,
                                               at a moderate distance,
may be explained upon the same principles.         The caloric in that
instance would be simply attracted                  by
                                             the mirror, and reflected
directly to its focus, and would raise a thermometer placed there,
with a    power greater than without the mirror, in proportion to
the concentration of the rays. The same laws which exist in
other cases in the attraction of caloric from body to body, re
gulate its conveyance       these cases from the heated body to the
                               in
mirror, between the two mirrors, and from the second mirror to
the colder body; — the mirror, only being required to be com
posed of substance which attracts caloric, without readily per
           a
mitting its entrance into it."
   The author next examines the supposed repulsion between the
particles of caloric, and the elasticity of gaseous bodies.         The
increase of the volume of bodies               by
                                         the addition of another sub
stance — even   if that substance be caloric —     what ought to take
                                                           is
place, and furnishes no proof of the existence of repulsion. Caloric
causes not repulsion in gases, but expansion           and they obtain
                                                                ;
or retain the substance which causes this expansion              attrac       by
tion. We have no evidence of the existence of             power of re
                                                                    a
pulsion.
   All solid bodies when raised to a certain temperature become
luminous.      Light     communicated with caloric, and
                          is                                      some            in
proportion to it.         must be conveyed either
                          It                                        by
                                                         some affinity
which it   has for caloric, or all bodies must have an attraction for
light,  in  some proportion to that which they have for caloric.
The latter     isthe more probable hypothesis.        Bodies are not
luminous by reflected, but        emitted, light and they emit
                                    by                     ;         in                it
consequence of the attraction of some other body              emitted        if
                       " must probably be by the attraction of
                                                                         :
directly to the eye,           it
the eye.     Nor    isprobable that the quantity of light required
                         it
for vision, can bear more than a very minute proportion, to that
emitted from    aheated body.         probable therefore, that, what
                                     It   is
ever relation light may have to caloric when bodies are luminous,
the light which enters the eye must do so in the same manner
and be governed          by
                       the same laws as the caloric.      But     light           if
be capable of producing expansion, and be attracted, and con
                                                                tained

140                Notices respecting New Books.
tained by all bodies in the same manner and proportions, a*
caloric, what difference can we state as existing between them,
except that motion, by which, whenever possessed by caloric,
bodies are rendered visible ?"
   "Bodies are luminous by light emitted : they are visible by
light reflected from them." — " If a red-hot ball be placed in
the focus of a concave mirror, both the lisiht and the caloric will
be reflected by the mirror, and may be collected by an opposite
mirror and again reflected, in the same manner as caloric has
been before described." — " Bodies are seen by the light which
they themselves attract."      In proof of this—" their colour arises
from the nature of the light which impinges on them.               Thus
a coloured ray, separated by the prism, or other means, gives its
own hue to every object on which it is thrown.              If therefore
bodies had no influence in regulating the nature of the ray of
light which should approach them to be reflected to produce vi
sion, their colour would always depend upon, and varv with,
their situation.     This, however, is shown by every moment's ob
servation not to be the fact.      The experiments last referred to,
are directly adverse to the theory suggested by Sir Isaac Newton
on the subject. He supposed, that all the rays that fell upon any
body might be absorbed, except that part which formed its co
lour; and the reflection of that part of the ray, rather than any
other, he suggested, might arise from the difference in magnitude
of the particles of light. If this hypothesis were just, a sepa-
lated coloured rav ought to be wholly absorbed by every body
not of the same colour, instead of giving them a tinge unnatural
to them. Upon that theory too, no part of a ray of light could
be reflected more than once between bodies of different colours ;
and every kind of body, except that which absorbed the smallest
particles, would reflect, on account of their magnitude, smaller
particles than those which it received.      The division of the solar
ray, however, by that truly wonderful man, has been the chief
discovery yet made respecting the nature of light, and the most
probable guide to all others which may be made in future."
   In the third section of Chap. II. the aim of the author is to
show that light is a compound ethereal fluid composed of only
two simple fluids, combined in different proportions according to
circumstances ; and that caloric is another modification of the
same compound ethereal substance.          We cannot convey an ade
quate   idea of  the  arguments by  which  this is enforced, but by in
serting it entire,   which we shall  do as soon as we can make room
for it.
   On Electricity, the conclusion of the author        is,that the two
kinds of electricity which are known        by the names of negative
and positive are, in their combined state, identically the same
                                                                    fluid

                       Notices respecting New Books.
 fluid with caloric and light: but for the reasoning by which he
supports this opinion we must refer our readers to the work it
self.                                                                .   ,
   ^ Under the title
                        " Conclusion," the author proceeds to con
 sider the " effects of magnetism, which bear so near a resem
 blance to those of, electricity, as to leave little doubt that the
 causes must be very similar."        The explanations offered, assume
 that there are two ethereal fluids — as, in electricity — inferred
from " incontrovertible experiment."
     The following works have just been published :
     The Principles and Application of Imaginary Quantities ; to
 which is added some Observations on Porisnis, being the first of
 a Series of original Tracts on various Parts of the Mathematics.
 By Benjamin Gompertz, esq.
     An unlimited Daily Calendar, serving for every year, before
and after the Christian smooth for the old and new styles.             By
J. Garnett.
     A Treatise, containing the results of numerous experiments
 on the preservation of timber from premature decay, and on the
 prevention of the progress of rottenness, when already com
 menced in ships and buildings, and their protection from the
 ravages of the termite, or white ant ; with remarks on the means
 of preserving wooden jetties and bridges from destruction by
worms.      By William Chapman, M.R.I.A. Civil Engineer, &c.
     Mr. Thomas Forster has just published a Sixth Edition of his
Observations on the Natural History and Brumal Retreat of the
Swallow; illustrated by fine engravings on, wood, by Willis, and
interspersed with Anecdotes.         To which is added Extracts from
a Journal of Natural History, and a Catalogue of Birds which are
found in the Island of Great Britain.
     He has likewise published Observations on the Casual and
Periodical Influence of Atmospherical Causes on the Human
Health, and Diseases, particularly Insanity; with a Table of Re
ference to Authors who have written on Epidemical and Periodi
cal Diseases.      This work is illustrated by some novel cases, and
the author endeavours to place the periods of insanity and other
disorders of the brain and nervous system in the most important
point of view, from the necessity of beginning the curative pro
ceeding at particular stages of the disorder.         He classes the at
mospherical     influence    into two  sorts :  1 . That which appears
casual or happens at uncertain periods, exciting epidemics and
 other atmospherical complaints.           2. That which has observ
able periods : — this he subdivides into annual, monthly, and
daily periods.      He notices also certain other periods which be
long exclusively    to particular diseases.    The tract is interspersed
                                                                    with

  142               Notices respecting New Books.
  with anecdotes, and concludes with some observations on Sui
  cide, which place that crime in a new point of view, considered
  as frequently resulting  from a slow and often unperceived sort   of
  insanity.
     Mr. William Phillips, of Tottenham, has published a small
 work on Astronomy for those unacquainted with the Mathema
 tics.    He therein mentions that a work on Meteorology is forth
 coming from the pen of Mr. Luke Howard.
     Several moTe works from Dr. Spurzheim are expected from
 Paris in the course of a short time to be published in England.
     Decorative Printing. — It is now some-time since Mr. William
 Savage issued Proposals for publishing Practical Hints on De
 corative Printing, illustrated with fac-similes of drawings printed
 in colours by the type-press.     The preparations for this singular
 and unique publication are, we are happy to say, in a state of
 great forwardness.     We have seen some of the embellishments,
 imitations of water-colour drawings, so close as not to be di
stinguished from real drawings.       They are produced by the ap
plication of various tints by means of a succession of blocks, so
managed as to produce all the gradations of light and shade,
without the least harshness or confusion.         By this means the
finest drawings may be multiplied to an inconceivable extent — a
desideratum which promises to be of the greatest advantage to
science, especially iu all the different departments of natural
history; putting it within the power of a traveller, at a compa
ratively small expense, to lay before his readers correct repre
sentations of the various objects with which it may be desirable
to illustrate his work.     But these, though important objects, are
in one sense but secondary in Mr. Savage's work. He not only
shows by his own specimens that all this is practicable; but he
gives the necessary instructions to enable others not only to ex
ecute and apply the different blocks, but to prepare all the va
rious inks and tints necessary for these and for every species of
letter-press printing.     On this point the instruction to be com-,
municated    is most  important, as he has brought to perfection
the art of making printing-inks without the least particle of oil
entering into their composition, or any thing that can sink into
the paper, or spread from the impression and discolour the paper.
This is an object of the greatest value ; for numerous publica
tions, on which every degree of attention has been bestowed by
the printer, are often rendered of comparatively little value, in a
short time, by the discoloration of the paper occasioned by the
spreading of the oil.     We are sorry to observe that Mr. Savage
has limited his impression to what we consider as too small a
number for a work of so much value, 100 large (imperial 4to)y
and 2$0 small (demy 4to) : for, as the blocks are all to be de
                                                             stroyed

                              The Davy.                          143
stroyed as soon as the work is printed, many who may wish af
terwards to possess a copy, and to whom it might prove highly
serviceable, must be disappointed.
     New Variation Chart. — All the variation charts hitherto pub
lished, have been only transcripts of Dr. Halley's original chart,
with few corrections for the change of variation since his time,
and none of them extending beyond the Atlantic and Indian
Oceans. Navigators have therefore long regretted the want of an
accurate variation chart, comprehending the whole circuit of the
navigable ocean and seas of our globe.        To supply this want,
Mr. Thomas Yeates has, with much labour and care, constructed
 a variation chart of all the navigable oceans and seas between
latitude 60'1 north and south, from accurate documents obtained
of Spanish surveys in the Pacific Ocean; journals at the Hydro-
graphical Office, Admiralty; and at the East India House ; col
 lated with tables of the variation recently formed from the ob
 servations of different navigators.   This chart is delineated on
 a new plan, all the magnetic meridians being drawn upon it
 throughout, for every change of one degree in the variation ; and
 it will be elucidated with explanatory notes, and a brief state
 ment of the late discovery of an aberration in the variation, re
 sulting from the deviation or change of a ship's head from the
 magnetic meridian, accompanied by the rules invented by the
 late Captain Flinders for correcting the same.    It is to be pub
  lished by subscription (price half-a-guinea)   at Messrs. Black,
  Parbury, and Allen's, No. 7, Leadenhall-street; Mr. E. Trough-
 ton's, No. 136, Fleet-street; and Mr. Bates's, Poultry.
         XXIII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                         To   Mr. Tilloch.
Shi, —     Ibeg to add something explanatory relative to an ex
pression of  mine in the communication you were pleased to in
sert in your last Number.     I said that the safety promised by
the Davy' was questioned by those " who ought to have known
    '
better." Certainly there never was any thing more unphiloso-
phical than the opposition it met with from them, and this even
continued after it had been proved secure in the mine itself.
Some raised their voice against it who never saw  it, and had only
heard of itthrough the  medium   of imperfect description.  Others,
had seen   it,
            but such had never made the experiment, and they
yet rudely questioned its efficiency. Others still more daring,
subjected  itto experiments totally unconnected with the phe
nomena of the mine; and, determined to pervert its value, gave
                                                           false
                                                             a

144 Poison        of the Viper. — Corrosive   Sublimate.       — Vegetation.
a false estimate of its merits.         Such is literally a portraiture of
the character of the opposition made to the introduction of the
safety-lamp.      I submit it to the liberal and enlightened mind,
whether it would not have been more philosophical to have first
proved whether this instrument, introduced with such important
recommendations, was really so wondrously endowed, and then
to have given their opinion on its value or demerits?
    Having paid considerable attention to the action of vegetable
and animal poisons on the -system, — the article which appeared
in your penultimate Number, On the Poison of the Viper, could
not fail to interest me. I have long believed that animal poisons
could be received into the system without injury, and that to
produce their proper effect they must be introduced into the cir
culation.     The conclusions of the paper in question are beauti
fully corroborated by the following extract from a letter to me,
by Mr. Campbell, the African traveller: ". The Hottentots be
lieve, that if they swallow the serpent's bag of poison, a sting or
bite from a serpent will do them no harm.                  Several of my
Hottentots    assured   me  they   had  done  it ; — one, who    asserted  it,
was  a   Christian, who   I  think would have sooner submitted to
have been torn to pieces          by
                                   a tiger, than to have uttered      a  deli
berate lie so
            :      fully credit it."
                    I
    Trie article in Dr. Thomson's Annals for last month, On the
Test for corrosive Sublimate, &c. calls to my mind                a very ex
cellent   and  delicate  one   for  the detection    of mercurial    salts. —
Rub a little-corrosive    salt  or  calomel  on  a  piece of silver, or suf
fer a  drop of a solution of muriate of mercury to rest upon              it
                                                                          ;
a   stain of    acoppery colour will be left, and this, after         a  very
high     degree   of dilution.
   If.
     I   might be permitted to remark on Mr. Tatum's Experi
ments on Vegetation,      I would say that they are liable to as many
and as great objections as any other that            I have seen detailed.
They   were  subjected   to   a
                                confined   instead  of  a free atmosphere,
and to mercurial effluvia— the temperature of the included me
dium was unnatural, and they would be excluded from those
thousand sources of vicissitude which constitute the spring of all
their beauty.       shall still hold unchanged the opinion
                    I                                                 Ihave
long  maintained    as the  result of  direct  experiment  ;   namely, that
the quantity   of  carbonic    acid  evolved    byplants    will bear but a
pitiful proportion   to the  floods   of  oxygen poured out upon the
atmosphere         the exercise of the vegetative functions — My
                    by
mind therefore rests contented on the experiments of Priestley
and Ingenhousz since corroborated,         in   contradiction to those of
Ellis and Tatum. These observations will receive additional
weight from the following deductions.           It   notorious that oxy
                                                     is
gen  is evolved from plants during the stimulus           oflight, and that
                                                                   vegetation

                    Blou'-ptper — Galvanic Troughs.                 ;145
 vegetation will continue some time healthy in an atmosphere of
 carbonic acid gas.      That the vegetable functions act differently
 from those of animals, is evident from the fact, that until the
 oxides of icon are healthful to the animal (Economy, they are
destructive to the process of vegetation.        If the carbonic acid
 gas was at all equivalent to the oxygen set free, whence comes
 the carbon which builds up the curious structure of the plant ?
 The partial quantity of carbonic aeid which plants respire, is
 evolved during night; and this being condensed by the cool of
 the evening, and mingling with the dews of this season of repose,
 wjll not deteriorate the atmosphere, but be absorbed by the soil
 on whieh it falls, and minister anew to the requirements of the
plant. Besides, in winter, the plant being denuded of its fob*-
age has its inspiratory and expiratory organs comparatively
suspended ; while the period when these powers are uncontrolled
 and most active is marked by a much longer sojourn of the sun,
above the verge of the horizon.       And 1 may add in conclusion,
the sentiment of Brisseau Mirbel ; " In Europe, while our vege
 tables,, stripped by the severity of the season of their foliage, no
longer yield the air contributmg to life, the salutary gas is borne
to us by trade-winds from the southernmost regions of America,
Winds from all quarters of the globe intermingle thus the various
strata of the atmosphere, and keep its constitution uniform in
sail seasons and in all elevations."
     Being in the habit of frequently experimenting with the blow
pipe of condensed oxygen and hydrogen, Dr. Ciarke's late com
 munication in Dr. Thomson's Annals of Philosophy afforded me
particular interest.     Besides oil from its tranquil ebullition af<-
 fording no index of safely, the disadvantage pointed out is as
unexpected as important.        During my course of cbemical' lec
tures at Greenock, I used water in the safety cistern, and my
experiments were splendid and imposing.            In the use of this
instrument at Paisley, in my late lecture, the illustrations were
feeble in effect and unimposing, and I have often since wondered
•at the circumstance; — now at this time I used oil instead of wai
 ter, and Dr. Clarke has fortunately solved the question.       It ap
 pears then that oil will never do.
     I may conclude these miscellanea by adverting to a very cu-^
 f ious circumstance which occurred to me here during my lecture
 on galvanism.      I used three porcelain troughs with triads upon
 the principle of Dr. Wollaston.        The fluid medium employed
 -was diluted nitric and muriatic acids.        I had omitted inad~
 vertently    the beautiful experiment   of the  ignition of platinum
 wire, until the action of the troughs was so feeble that it would
 Mot affect a hair's breadth of the metal.        I immediately pro
posed, by way of experiment,        to withdraw the plates from the
     Vol. 50. No, 232. August 1817.               K        1
                                                                  .cells,

146                                   Water-Spout.
cells, and try the effect            of a few minutes' exposure     to the attno*
sphere:— the effect was singular and interesting : for when the
plates were returned, upwards of six inches of the platinum wire
were instantly exalted to a white heat.     This important result
will immediately bring to your recollection some analogous ex
periments of Mr.Parrett, jun. ; and it follows that by the appli
cation of mechanism to raise and lower the plates*, we can at
pleasure renew if not increase the action, without additional
acid.   I have frequently repeated this since, and always obtained
an increased action.    Your obedient humble servant,
Whitehaven,    Aug. 18, 1817.                                      J.   MURRAY.
                                      WATER-SPOUT.
    It happened to the editor of the Monthly Magazine, on th6
27th of June, about seven in the, evening, to witness the forma
tion, operation, and extinction of what is called a water-spout ;
a phenomenon which in all ages has puzzled philosophers and
encouraged the superstition of seamen and the vulgar.      He was
in the house north of the chapel at Kentish Town, and his at
tention was drawn to a sudden hurricane which nearly tore up
the shrubs and vegetables in the western gardens, and filled the
air with leaves and small collections of the recently cut grass.
Very dark clouds had collected over the adjoining country, and
some stormy rain accompanied by several strokes of lightning;
followed this hurricane of wind.    Tbe violence lasted a few mi
nutes ; and the writer being drawn to the eastern balcony, it was
evident that a whilwind agitated the variety of substances which
had been raised into the air. The storm proceeded from west
to east, that   from Hampstead over Kentish Town towards Hol-
                is,
                                   loway.   In about five minutes,
                                  in the direction of the latter
                                         place, magnificent projection
                                                       a
                                         was visible from the clouds, like
                                         that on the margin             :
                                               descended two-thirds of
                                                  It
                                         the distance from the; clouds
                                         towards the earth, and evi
                                         dently consisted of parts of
                                         clouds descending              in
                                                                a vortex,
                                         violently agitated like smoke
                                         from the chimney of furnace        a
                                         recently supplied with fuel.                   It
                                         then shortened, and appeared
                                         to be drawn up towards the
stratum   of   clouds;     and presently     assumed the following ap
                                               it
                                                                                         -
pearance:
                      *   As   in   Mr. Pepys's Apparatus. — Ed.                .   '

                                          Waler-SpouL                                         U1
                                                              It finally drew itself into
                                                                            the
                                                       but a small cone, or
                                                         cloud    ;
                                             projecting thread, of varying
                                             size and length, continued for
                                             ten minutes. At the time, and
                                             for half an hour after, a severe
                                             storm of rain was visibly falling
    from the mass of clouds connected with                            it,
                                                        the extent being ex
    actly  defined       by
                        the    breadth  of Holloway, Highgate, and Horn-
    sey. About two hours after, on walking from Kentish Town to
    wards Holloway,          was found that one of the heaviest torrents
                              it
    of rain remembered             the inhabitants had fallen around the
                                    by
    foot of Highgate-hill         and some persons having seen the pro
                                    ;
    jecting cloud, an absolute belief existed that           water-spout- had
                                                                            a
    burst at the crossing of the new and old roads.            On proceeding
    towards London, various accounts, agreeing with the superstition
    or preconceived notions of the bye-standers, were given; but hi
    the farm -yard at the three-mile stone          appeared that some hay
                                                           it
    makers were stacking some hay from              waggon which stood be
                                                              a
    tween two ricks, that the same whirlwind which passed over
    Kentish Town had passed over the loaded waggon with an im
    petus sufficient to carry          above twenty yards from its station,
    and to put the men upon              it it
                                       and on the rick in fear of their lives.
     Passing the road,        carried with
                               it                 stream of hay, and nearly
                                                     it   a
    unroofing      shed on the other side, filled the air to
                    a                                             great height      a
    with fragments of hay, leaves, and boughs of trees, which resem
    bled a   vast flight of birds in progress across the interval between
    the London road and Duval's Lane, towards Homsey Wood.
     The family of the writer, from his residence           quarter of mile a            a
     nearer London, beheld the descending cloud, or water-spout,
    pass over the spot; and they saw its train, which, at the time,
     they took to be        flight of birds.
                              a                 They afterwards beheld the
     descending cloud draw itself upward, and they and other wit
     nesses describe      as
                          it    vast mass of smoke working about in great
                                   a
     agitation.    To them         was nearlv vertical, in a northern direc
                                    it
     tion and to persons          quarter of   mile north      was nearly ver
                                                                            it it
         ;                          a                a
     tical in   asouthern direction and all agree that
                                             :                 drew itself up,
     without rain, at      short distance
                              a              to  the  east  of Duval's Lane,
    and that    itwas followed near the earth        the train oflight bodies.
                                                               by
,   It  appeared also^ on various testimony, to let itself down in                              a
     gradual and hesitating manner, beginning with             sort of knob in  a
     the cloud, and then descending lower, and curling and twisting
.    about, till     shortened, and gradually drew itself into the cloud.
                    it
     The inferences', therefore, of the editor, from what' he saw and
     heard, are as follow          :
         ...                                     K   2                                  1.   That

                              tVater-Spoul.
    1. That the phenomenon called a water-spout is a mere col
lection of clouds, of the same rarity as the mass whence they are
drawn.
   2. That the descent is a mechanical effect of a whirlwind,
which creating a vacuum, or high degree of rarefaction, extend
ing between the clouds and earth, the clouds descend in it by
their gravity, or by the pressure of the surrounding clouds or air.
   3. That the convolutions of the descending mass, and the
sensible whirlwind felt at the earth, as well as the appearance of
the commencement, increase, and decrease of the mass, all de
monstrate the whirl of the air to be the mechanical cause.
   4. That the same vortex, whirl, or eddy, of the air, which
occasions the clouds to descend, occasions the loose bodies on
the earth to ascend.
   5. That if in this case the lower surface had been water, the
.same mechanical power would have raised a body of foam, va
pour, and water, towards the clouds.
   6. That as soon as the vortex or whirl exhausts or dissipates
itself, the phenomena terminate by the fall to the lower surface
of the light bodies or water, and by the ascent of the cloud.
    7. That when water constitutes the light body of the lower
surface, it is probable that the aqueous vapour of the cloud, by
coalescing with    it,may occasion the clouds to condense, and fall
at that point,   as through   a syphon.
   8.   That  ifthe descending cloud be highly electrified, and the
vortex pass over a conducting body, as a church-steeple,       it   is
probable      may be condensed
             it                      by
                                      an electrical concussion, and
fall at that spot — discharging whatever has been taken up from the
lower surface, and producing the strange phenomena of showers
of frogs, fish, &c. &c.
    9.  Itappears certain, that the action of the air on the mass of
clouds, pressing towards the mouth of the vortex as to    a   funnel
 (which in this case      exactly represented), occasioned such
                         it
condensation as to augment the simultaneous fall of rain to         a a
prodigy.
  A   water-spout appears, therefore, to be produced by me
chanism easily understood.    But the writer would ask, whether
for important  oeconomical  purposes      may not be possible to
                                          it
imitate this mechanism        by
                            erecting hollow cylinders of wood or
iron, and exhausting them of air          by
                                        vessels in communication
with them, or     heat, so as to produce the vacuum of a whirl
                   by
wind, and, by consequence, the condensation and fall of clouds,
whenever rain might be urgently wanted for purposes of agricul
ture?
                                                            8TEAM

   Sieam-Boat.— Malvern Watersj—Amient                  Coal-Mines,    149
                                 STEAM-BOAT.
   We have omitted in its proper place a note relative to the
Plate given with the article on the Steam-Boat, in the present
Number. The dotted lines at the side of the paddle-wheels are
intended to indicate that the wheels may be made to occupy
the whole breadth of the stern of the vessel.
                            MALVERN WATERS.
   A   correspondent having requested information respecting the
analysis of the Malvern Well, alluded to in p. 231 of our last
volume, we insert the result from Dr. Philip's work on this
subject, published so far back as the year 1805.
   The contents of one gallon of the HolywM water are :
                                                  , ,  0-625
             Muriate of soda                      . .  1-553
                                                      14-6109
   Of the water of St. Ann's Well, Dr. Philip gives the following
as the contents     of a gallon ;
             Carbonate     of soda                         3-55
             Carbonate     of lime                         0-352
             Carbonate     of magnesia                     0-26
             Carbonate     of iron                         0-328
             Sulphate of soda                              1'48
             Muriate of soda                               0-955
                    Residuum                               0-47
                                                           7-395
                           ANCIENT    COAI.-MINES.
    A Dublin paper gives the following account of the ancient
 coal-mines lately discovered at the Giants' Causeway:               c ,:
    " There were five pits of coal opened in Port Ganneye, west of
 the Giants' Causeway;          the westernmost of which is 244 feet
    * This  residuum was found to be insoluble in the sulphuric, muriatic,
 and nitric acids; also in solutions of the alkaline carbonates and of am
 monia, and in alcohol ; but with the assistance of heat dissolved very ra
 pidly in a strong solution of potash or of soda. The author concludes,'that
 this residuum consists of particles separated from the surface of the glass
 retort by the action of the water when boiling, and that the soda is the
 principal  agent in producing this separatiou.
•                                       K  3                          above

150 Steam Engines. — Geological Curiosities at Boughtohtlitt.
above the level   of the sea at half tide, and from thence to the
top  of the precipice 44 feet. .
    " In Port Noffer,east of the Giants' Causeway, there were two
pits; the westernmost 199 feet from the level of the sea — and
from the pit to the top 70 feet.     The distance from the first
altitude taken at Port Ganneye to that in Port Noffer, is 80
perches.
  " The   people who found the coal, with difficulty and in some
places great danger, threw off the pillars to get at        and couldit,
not pursue       further than cleared, as they had no method of
                 it
supporting the vast mass above it.
   " The stratum of coal dips into the land in southerly direc a
tion; and from the altitudes taken       appears that
                                                 it       lowers as it                     it
approaches to the east.
   " Several trials at different places have been made to find coal,
but none worth following, except under columnar basalt, above
which   is  stratum of -irregular whin-stone, then basalt pillars at
             a
the top.   The depth of the good seams of coal         from three to
                                                               is
five feet; the upper coal, on which the pillars rest,             soft      is   a
mossy coal; the wooden coal-         in the clntre, and the best and
                                           is
more solid at the bottom of the pit.      The blocks of wooden coal
lie nearly horizontal, in an east and west direction across the
face of the promontory.       One of those blocks     so large in the
                                                               is
east pit, Port Ganneye, that four men     with two crow-irons could
not turn    out.
           it
   " The land, from the precipice to the southward falls consi
derably."
                         STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
   The following were the respective quantities of water lifted
one foot high with one bushel of coals                 by
                                          twenty-nine engines,
reported-by Messrs. Leans', in the month of July.
                                                               Load per square
                                           Pounds of renter.   inch in cylinder.
21 common engines averaged                      21,077,581           various.
Woolf's at Wheal Vor    . .                     36,345,637           15    4   lib.
Ditto         Wh. Abraham                       44,987,270           151
                                                                                       "
                                 .
                                 .
Ditto            ditto     ..     ..            25,253,888               3-7
Ditto    Wh. Unity                ..            32,590,596           13-1        '.-
Dalcouth engine    . .            . .           43,028,638           11-2
Wheal Abraham ditto               ..            35,0S9,486           10-3
United mines ditto         .
                           .      .
                                  .             32,094,036           17    9
Wheal Chance ditto               .    .         37,888,798           130
             GEOLOGICAL CURIOSITIES AT BOTJGHTON                    HILL.
  The workmen employed                in   cutting through Boughton               Hill,
                                                                                 Kent,

                              New Barometer.                        151
 Kent, have lately found three bullets, nearly thirty feet from the
 surface, in the solid clay; they are of an -oblong form, and the
 lead is so pure that when cut it exhibits a beautiful metallic lus
 tre; the surface is covered with a green colour, resembling in
appearance clay when combined with pyrites.               No probable-
conjecture can be formed as to the manner and time of their de
 position ; for neither local circumstances, nor the primary stra
tum in which they were found, can lead to any satisfactory ex
planation.     Several shells have also been found in the secondary,
stratum, one of which is particularly remarkable, exhibiting in
its interior a mass of minute crystals of selenite, which seems
clearly to prove that the crystallization of this mineral has taken
place subsequently to the deposition of the shell, and therefore
may be considered, comparatively speaking, as of recent forma
tion. The fossils are carefully collected by a gentleman in the
neighbourhood, and are intended to be exhibited at the cottage
ou the hill, whenever their number shall be worthy of notice.        It
is a singular circumstance, that the masses of clay which acci
dentally fall down exhibit, in every instance which has yet oc
curred, an inclined plane of 45 degrees — -and the surface of these
planes, which the workmen call slips, are covered over usually to
the depth of a quarter of an inch, with an exceedingly soft species
of clay, of a blueish colour.    The work on the hill is now going
on very well, considering the difficulty which arises from the
falling in of the earth at the sides from the want of tenacity in
 the clayey soil.
                           NEW BAROMETER.
    We understand    (says an Edinburgh newspaper) that an instru
ment has lately been invented by Adie, optician, Edinburgh,which
answers all the purposes of the common barometer, and has
the advantage of being much more portable, and much less liable
to accident.     In this instrument the moveable column is oil, in
closing   in a tube  a portion of nitrogen, which changes its bulk
according to the density of the atmosphere.         Mr. Adie has given
it the name of sympiesomeler (or measurer of compression). One
of these new instruments was taken to India in the Buckingham
shire of Greenock ; and by directions of Captain Christian, cor
responding observations were made on it and on the common
marine barometer every three hours during the voyage.             The
result, we are informed,     was  entirely satisfactory-— the new in
strument remaining unaffected by the violent motion of the ship.
We may add, that the sympiesometer may be made of dimen
sions so small as to be easily carried in the pocket, so that it is
likely to be become a valuable acquisition to, the geologist.
                                K  4                       I,ECTUnES.

                         •
 152                         Xedurei*
                                         "                           '
                            lectures.                ,
    London tlospital. — Lectures on the following subjects will be
given at this Hospital, to commence in October:
    Anatomy and Physiology, by Mr. Headington ; Surgery, by
Mr. Headington; Midwifery, by Dr. Ramsbottom; Chemistry,
by Mr. R. Phillips ; Materia Medica, and Pharmacy, by Mr.
 R. Phillips.
    Particulars may be had of Mr. Jenkenson, at the London Hos*
 pital.
    Mr. R. Phillips will commence a Course of Twenty-four Lec
tures on Chemistry, at No. 66, Cheapside, on Monday the 6th
of October, at Seven o'clock in the Evening.
    Tickets of Admission and a Syllabus of the Lectures may be
had of Mr. Phillips* No. 1, George -Yard, Lombard-Street, and
 of Mr. Edenborough, 29, Poultry.          >
    St. Geotge's Medical, Chemical, and Chhurgical School. —
The Courses will commence in the first week of October, namely i
    1. On the Laws of the Animal CEconomy, and the Practice
of Physic, (at No. 9, George-Street, Hanover Square,) by George.
Pearson, M.D. F.R.S., Senior Physician to St. George's Hos-
pital, &c. &c. &c.
    2. On Therapeutics, with Materia Medica arid Medical Ju
risprudence, by W. T. Brande, F.R.S., Professor at the Royal
Institution ; and by George Pearson, M.D., &c. &c.
    3. .On Chemistry, at the Royal Institution, by W. T. Brande,
  '
Professor of Chemistry, Roy. Inst.
    4. On Surgery, by B. C. Brodie, F.R.S., Assistant Surgeon
to St. George's Hospital.
  •
    S. Sir Everard Home will give, as usual, Surgical Lectures
gratuitously to the Pupils of the Hospital.
    Anatomical, Chirurgical, and Medical School of St. Thomas's
and Guy's Hospitals. — The usual Course of Lectures at these
 Hospitals will commence in October ; viz.
    At St. Thomas's. — Anatomy and Operations of Surgery, by
Mr. Astley Cooper and Mr. Henry Cline- — Principles and Prac
tice of Surgery, by Mr. Astley Cooper.
    At Guy's.— Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Curry and Dr.
Choi meley. — Chemistry,     by Dr. Marcet and Mr. Allen.—
Experimental Philosophy, by Mr. Allen. — Theory of Medicine,
and Materia Medica, by Dr. Curry and Dr. Cholmeley.— 'Mid
wiferv, and Diseases of Women and Children, by Dr.Haighton.
—Physiology, or Laws of the Animal CEconomy, by Dr. Haighton.
—Structure and Diseases of the Teeth, by Mr. Fox.               ••- .'
    N. B. These several Lectures, with those on Anatomy, and on
the Principles and Practice of Surgery, given at the Theatre of-
St. Thomas's Hospital adjoining, are so arranged that no two of
                                                            them

                                   Leclures.                        153
    them interfere in the hours of attendance ; and the whole is cal
    culated to form a Complete Course of Medical and Chirurgical
    Instruction. Terms and other particulars may be learnt from
    Mr. Stock er, Apothecary to Guy '6 Hospital.
        The following Course of Lectures will be delivered at St. Bar
    tholomew's Hospital, during the ensuing Winter.       To commence
     October the first :
        On the Theory and Practice of Medicine, by Dr, Hue. — On
    Anatomy and Physiology, by Mr. Abernethy. — On the Theory
    and Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Abernethy. — On Chemistry and
    Materia Medica, by Dr. Hue. — On Midwifery, by Dr. Gooch. — •
    Practical Anatomy, with Demonstrations, by Mr. Stanley.
        Further particulars mav be obtained by application to Mr.
    Wheeler, Apothecary at the Hospital; or of Messrs. Anderson
    and Chase, Booksellers, 40, West SmithfiekL
        Mr. J. Taunton, member of the Royal College of Surgeons of
  - London, Surgeon to the City and Finsbury Dispensaries, City of
     London Truss Society, &c., will commence his Autumnal Course
    of Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, and Surgery, on
     Saturday, October 4, 1817, at Eight o'clock in the Evening pre-*
     ciselv, and continue them every Tuesday, Thursday, and Satur
     day, at the same hour*
     .  In this Course of Lectures it is proposed to take a comprehen
     sive view of the structure and oeconomy of the living body, and
     to consider the causes, symptoms, nature, and treatment of sur-
*
    gical diseases, with the mode of performing the different surgi
    cal operations; forming a complete course of anatomical and phy
     siological instruction for the medical or surgical student, the
     artist, the professional or private gentleman.
        An ample field for professional edification will be afforded by
     the opportunity which pupils may have of attending the clinical
     and other practice of both the City and Finsbury Dispensaries.
        Mr. John Mason Good, F.R.S., &c. will commence his Course
     of Lectures on Nosology, Medical Nomenclature, the Theory,
     Principles and Practice of Medicine, on Monday, September 29,
      1817, at the Crown and Rolls Rooms, Chancery Lane.            The
      Course will rather exceed three months, and be repeated three
     times a year.      From the comprehensiveness of the subject a
     Lecture   will be given every day instead of every other day, as is
     the usual practice.     The Introductory Lecture will commence
     at Half past Three o'clock in the Afternoon : the subsequent
     Lectures at Eight in the Morning.       The former will be open to
     the Medical Public, including Medical Pupils, by Tickets, to be
     had gratuitously at any of the Medical Booksellers of the Metro
     polis; where the Terms for the Lectures may also be known.
                                                                    LIST

 154            List of Patents for new Inventions.
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Reuben Phillips, of    the city of Exeter, for his new and im
proved   method   of purifying gas for the purpose of illumination.
— 19th July 1817- — 6 months allowed for lodging the specifica
 tion.
    To George Wyke, of Bath, and Edward Shorter, of Union-
street, Borough, for certain improvements in the construction
 of wheel carriages. — 19th July. — 6 months.
    To Peter Hamden, of Albany-place, in the parish of St. Giles
 Camberwell, Surrey, for his improvement or improvements in the
making a cement or composition for ornaments and statues,
 and for making artificial bricks or an imitation of bricks, tiles,
and stones, and joining and cementing the same, and for erecting,
covering, and decorating buildings internally and externallv ; and
also an improvement or improvements in the mixing, working,
and moulding of the said cement or composition upon any sort
of materials, or in working and moulding whole and entire erec
tions and substances therewith. — 19th July. — 6 months.
    To Frederick Brunton, of Bride-Lane, Fleet-street, London,
for his new mode of employing silk or other materials in the
making of hats and bonnets. — 19th July.— 2 months.
    To John James Alexander MacCarthy, of Millbank-street,
Westminster, Middlesex, for his road or way for passage across
rivers, creeks and waters, and from shore to shore thereof, with
out stoppage or impediment to the constant navigation thereof,
and across ravines, fissures, clefts, and chasms : and a new method
or methods of constructing arches and apertures for the running
and flowing of water through the same, or under bridges to be
used and applied in the construction of the before-mentioned
road or wav, or otherwise. — 28th July. — 6 months.
    To Louis Felix Vallet, late of Paris, but now of Walbrook,
London, for his new ornamental surface to metals or metallic
compositions. — 5th August. — 6 months.
    To George Stratton, of Piccadilly, Middlesex, for his method
of saving fuel by improvements in fire-places, and more effectually
heating and ventilating buildings. — 5th August. — b' months.
    To Charles Attwood, of Bridge-street, Blackfriars,' London,
for his improvement or improvements in the manufacture of
window-glass of the kind or description commonly wrought or
fabricated into crown glass or German sheet glass ; and also in
a certain process or processes in the manufacture of crown glass.
— 5th August. — 2 months.
    To John Hawks, of Gateshead, county of Durham, for his new
                                                              method

                   Brussels        Prize Question. — Astronomy.                            155
method of making iron rails to be used in the construction of
rail-ways. — 5 th August. — 2 mouths.
   To Ludvid Granholm, of Foster-lane, in the city of London,
captain in the Royal Navy of Sweden, for his new or improved
method or methods, process or processes, mean or means, of
preserving such animal and vegetable products or substances se
paratelv or mixed together, as are fit for the food of man, for such
 a length of time as to render them fit for ship and garrison stores.
—5th August. — 6 months.
    To Anthony Hill, of Plymouth Iron-works, for improvements
in the working of iron. — 5th August. — 6 months.
    To John Dickinson, of Nash Mill in the parish of Abbott's
 Langley, Hertfordshire, for his method of manufacturing by means
 of machinery, paper for copper-plate printing ; also paper for
writing, drawing, letter-press printing, and of a thicker sort for
 boards, and similar in texture and substance to card-boards or
 paste-boards ; and certain improvements in his patent machinery
 for rnanuafacturing and cutting paper. — 5th August. — 6 months.
    To Dennis MaeCarthy, of Little Compton-street, St. Ann's,
 Soho, Middlesex, for certain improvements on ploughs of various
descriptions. — 5th August. — 6 months.
                               BRUSSELS PRIZE QUESTION.
   The last branch of the second prize question of the Royal
Academy of Sciences of Brussels, given p. 380, vol. xlix. has been
since amended; and instead of the way in which it is there stated,
now runs thus: " In case of no decision, as to the greater pro
bability, which of the two methods of investigating its nature is
best calculated to simplify the theory of chemical facts?"
          ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA, SEPTEMBER                                   1817.
  D. H. M.                                    D. H. M.
  1. 0. 0      d      in apogee               14.12. 2
  •2.12.46     a      Ay                       15. 9. 5       5    x
  4. 8.54      a      125                      15.13.36
  6.12.53 « v n                               15.17- 8        ([   S ne
  6. 0 0 s 20 dl ffi * 2' S.                  15. 0. 0        S    <     8
                                                                             * 20'
                                                                                   S.
  7. 1.26 d ^ S3                              17.   1 18      <L 0       Ophiuchi
, 7. o. o
                   * N.                                            <f>
           s & S3    7'                       18.   9 42      <r     t
  9- 4-16      4      v   a                   18.   1.34
 10. 0.  0   44 as    41' N.   *              20.   0   0     c?   105       H    *23'S.
 11. 0.30      1 9    e   si                  21.   9.44
 12.         374 Mayer* 26' N.                22.   0.             108             nearly in
         0 0
    0          e                                        0     c?             8
 12. 0.      380 Mayer     26' N.    *                                               contact
               (( 2
 12. 2  50     ttk    y                       23.22.28        O    enters        cat
 12.16.                                       26.i9.5i        <L       K
               c a
         1                                                         0
 13. 0.      in perigee                       29. 0.               in apogee           •
         0 0                                            8 0
                                                              d
 13. 0.      383 Mayer* 24' N.
               9                              29.2O.1         <L   A      «
                                                                                   METEORO

                               Meteorology,
                              METEOROLOGY.
    At Tunbridge Wells, on the night of Wednesday the 30th of
July, about half after eleven o'clock, appeared a beautiful para
selene, or mock moon.          It was at the distance of about 25 de
grees south of the moon, and was highly coloured with red and
yellow, and at length had the addition of a projecting and ta
pering band of light extending in the direction of the halonic
radius.     The phenomenon lasted about three minutes.             The
 sky  was  full of the cirrus  or curlcloud, and  the wanecloud  passed
over in fine veils here and there dispersed in wavy bars.             A
 change had been conspicuous in the clouds to-day.           The long
 lines of cirrus extending to either horizon, large well-defined
 twainclouds to leeward, and waneclouds in the intermediate re
 gion of the atmosphere, formed a character of the sky contrasted
 to the rapid production of rainclouds and showers which had
 gone on almost every day for a week before.— The barometer
 Was stationary nearly all day, and till midnight, at 29'43.
     The Journal of Augsburgh of the 8th ult.         has published the
 following observations made in the Observatory of that city:—*
 ** On the
               7th inst. at 42 minutes past eight in the evening,
  Professor Stark observed, in a serene sky, a luminous band, of a
 colour similar to the Milky Way, in the direction of the head of
  Serpentarius, in the constellation Hercules ; and which passing
 below the Northern Crown, and then between the tail of the
  Great Bear, and the head of the Little Bear, ended in the star
  Alpha of the Dragon. Its length was 7 1 degrees, and its breadth,
  almost every where uniform, was two apparent diameters of the
  Moon. This phenomenon, which had a great resemblance to
  the prolongation which rapidly took place on the 13th of Sep
  tember 1811, in the tail of the great comet, disappeared at
  58 minutes past eight.- From this moment until one o'clock in
  the morning the Professor observed that the nebulous part No. 8,
  of the constellation of the Buckler of Sobiesky, when the lu
  minous band had commenced, seemed to be surrounded with an
  aureola, greater, more lively, and more sparkling than usual.
     The great spot or crevice, which appeared on the 23d of July
  last on the sun's disk, disappeared on the 4th of August.       There
  were afterwards formed a great number of small spots, arranged
  in several groups, which Professor Stark intends to describe in a
  Work which he proposes to publish very soon.
                                                               Melcqro-

                                Meteorology.
Meteorological Observations kept at JValthamstoiv, Essex,from
                      July 15 to August 13, 1817.
^Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
                (a second lime) between One and Two P.M.]
Ilnte. Therm. Barom. Wind-
16^62        29 32     SE—NW—N.NW.— Very rainy;                  very Mack
       oik                nimbus S± A.M.; sun and great         showers all
                          day; stormy; showery.
16     51    29 65     N — NW. — Sunshine,         cirrus and windy; fine
      62                  day; clear and cirrostratus.
17     53    29-S7     NW. — Clear, cirrus, and cirrostratus; fine
       62                 day; rain and wind.
IS     53    29-87     NW'.— Gray and calm; 11 P.M.; wind and
       G8                 cirrus; fine dav; cirrostratus and clear.
19     54    99-98      NW.— Clear, clouds, and wind; fine day;
       68                 moon- and star-light.
20     59    30-00     NW— SW.— Clear and cirrus; fine day; rain
       69                 after 6 P.M.
21     58    29-88     SW— S. —Clouds and wind; fine day; at
       70              . 8 P.M. a mackerel cirrostratus; clear night.
                          Moon first quarter.
22     61    29-77      SW— S— SW.— Rain and hazy; fine day; su*
       65                 and wind ; clear, and cirrostratus.
23     59    29-78     NW— N— NW. — Gray; showers and sun;
       68                 great shower at 3 P.M.; clear and cirro-
                          stratus*.
24     60    30-00      N—SE— SW.— Sun,           and cirrocumulus ;     fine
       73                 day;  clear, and   cirrostratus ; the moon     in a
                          coran a.
25     60    30-00     S— SW.— Gray; slight rain; wind, clouds            and
       66                 some sun ; clear ; cirrostratus.
26     60    29-99      S. — Gray; slight showers; rainy ; clouds        and
       64                 wind.
27     59    2976      SW Clear and cumuli; 10 A.M. thunder
       "57                and rain; stormy showers and sun between
                          them ; clear, and cirrostratus.
28     54    2977      SW. — Clear, clouds, sun, and wind; sunshine;
       67                 after 5 P.M. storms of rain;            star-light.
                          Full moon.
29     58    30-00     W— SW— S        by  ^.—Cumuli; clear, sun and
       69               . wind; fine day; star-light,
   *             a man and a dog were   killed by lightning at SevenoakS in
     Jul)' 23d,
Kent  ; and the steeple of Sunchurch    burnt at the same time.
                                                                        July

 158                          Meteorology \
 July
 30     56  29-77    SE — W. —Sunshine      5 fine day; cirrus and  cti~>
        68             mull ; cloudy.
31     53   29-77    SE. — Sun, and cumuli;         sun and showers;
        67             storm at Tottenham at      8 P.M. ; bright star
                       light.
 August
   1   51   29-76    W.— Clear and cumuli; sunshine, and brisk
       69               wind; clear night.
  2    50   29-87    W by S — NW.YV. — Clear morning; fine day;
        6S             cloudy night.
  3    57   29-86    S — SW. — Cloudy and windy; fine day; star
        64             light ; 1 1 P.M. remarkable cbrocumuli.
  4     53  29-76    SW — W. — Sun; cumuli, and windy; sun and
       67              showers ; cloudy.
  5    56   29-38    N — SE. — Gray morning and windy; fine day;
        68              fine clear star-light night.        Moon last
                       quarter.
  6    57  30-10     SW — S. — Sun and stratus; clear,and cumuli;
       74              clear star-light.
  i     56  29-93    SE. — Gray; no sun till about 1 P.M.; clouds;
        74              some stars.
   8   51   29-54    SW. — Rain early; showers, sun and wind;
        66             fine afternoon; star-light.
"9     •55  29-66    NW — W. — Clear, and windy; a shower at
       68              noon ; fine day; fine star-light night.
 10    57  29-78     W—-SW — NW. — Slight showers, and sun, arid
       66              wind,hazy and sun; showery; clear star-light.
 11    56  29-77     S. — Fine morning; sun and clouds; gray day,
       69              but some sun about 3 P.M. ; slight showers
                       after G P.M.; cloudy.
 12    55  29-43    S. — Sun, wind, and hazy; shower at noon ;
       68              fine day; star-light; rain 10 P.M.         New
                       moon.
13     58  29-32    SW. — Cloudy and great wind; great showers ;
       68              sun and wind; star-light.
 14    60  29-66    SW — S. — Rain, sun, and windy; sun and
       70              clouds, and windy ; showers all day ; mottled
                       cirroslratus at 6 P.M.; rain, and very dark.
 15    60  29-66    S — SW. — Sunshine; fine day; some drops of
       66              rain; star-light.
     The 19th of last June, the 2d time of the Thermometer         was
70, and that was at 8 A.M. ; it was taken again at "3 P.M. and
was then 80, as it was unavoidably missed that day at the usual
time.;-
                                                            MKTEORO

                               Meteorology .                           159
           METEOROLOGICAL JOURNAL KEPT AT BOSTON,
                             LINCOLNSHIRE.
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1  P.M.]
           Age oi
   1817.    the   Thermo    Baro   State of the Weather and Modification
           Moon    meter.   meter.            of the Clouds.
                                                                       •
           DAYS.
July   15     1    54-      29-35 Heavy rain all the day
       16     2    56-5     29-79 Fair — some rain P.M.
       17     3    60-5     29 94  Ditto        ditto
       18     4    63-      29-97 Showery — heavy rain P.M. till the
                                      next morning
       19     5    61-      30-03 Fair
      2O      6    62-      30-05 Ditto
       SI     7    70-      29-90 Ditto — some rain A.M.
       22     8    67-      £9-87  Ditto        ditto
      23      9    63-      30-05  Ditto        ditto P.M.
      24    10     70- .,   30-15  Ditto
      2*    1 1    67-      30-06  Ditto
      26    12     66-      29-83 Ditto
       87   13     62-      29 66 Showery
      28 full      64-5     29-90 Fair
      89 15        68-      30 06 Ditto — rain in the evens and ni^ht
      30 16        70-      29-88 Ditto           ditto
      31    n      66-      29-77  Thunder    storm  — heavy rain
Aug.     1  )8     57-      £990 Showery
         2  19     6P5      30-05 Fair — rain in the evening
         3  20     62-    , 29-72 Showery
         4  Hi     60-      29-SO Ditto
         5  22     63-      30-15 Fair through the day
         6  23     69-      30-14 Ditto        ditto*.
         7  24     66-      29-95 Ditto
         8  25     57-      29-54 Stormy — rain
        9 26       62-      29-72 Showery
       io   27     63-      29-91 Fine all the day
       11   28     62"      29-80 Fair — heavy rain at night
       I2 29       66-      29-50 Ditto — gale from the W.
       13 new      63-      29-49 Ditto            ditto
       14     1    68-      29-77 Showery          ditto          ,
                                                                . *
                                                   .
   The harvest in this neighbourhood will not commence generally for at
least fourteen days.
                                                                METEORO-

 ISO1                               Meteorology.
                          Meteorological table,
                     By   Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                               For August 1817.
                                                      1
                    The rmouieter.
R
                                        Height of
   Davsof                                             Ot-S  2
                                                                    Weather.  .'_
    Mouth.        J2e     O
                          c
                                      die Baroni.
                  p c                    Inches.
                                                      v — £
                                                      — in -ji
                         S5                           a« Jr.
                                                      u u
                                                            >
                                                     Q=~
                                                                                 -
   July     27     61    66      55     29-62           36     Showery
           •28     60    66      59        •80          42     Showery
            2<)    60    67      58        •70         48      Showery
            30     60    f,8     55        •72          58     Fair
            31     58    66      54        •71         42      Showery
     Aug-,    l •
                   57    69      55        •75         51      Showery
              2    55    69      59        •89         65      Fair
              3    55    66    •
                                 55        •70         54      Fair
              4    59    68      56        •72         55      Fair
              5    58    67      59        "95         57      Fair
              e 60        72     58     30(10          65      Fair
            -7 58        73      57     29-79           72     Fair
              «    59    65      55        •50         46      Showery
              0 60       68      55        •70         42      Showery
            10     57    68      56        •80         40      Showery
            11     59    65      60        •65         45      Cloudy
             12 58       60      58        •45         32      Showery
                                                    •
            13 59        66      59        •51         48      Showerv
            14     60    08      57        •67         35      Cloudy
            15 60        68      55        •78         62      Fair
            16 60        69      56        •75         52      Fair
            17 58        62      55        •'80        42      Stormy
            18     57    65      60        •92         43      Cloudy
            19     60    66      60        •68         36      Showery     :
            20     60    68      55        •60         50      Fair
            21     55    58      52        •80         25      Stormy
            22     54    60      53     30-06          47      Fair
            23     51     64     56     29-90          46      Fair
            24     56     60     56        •56         22      Showery
            25     59     57     52.       •16            0    Rain :
            26     55     62     53        •01          15     Stormy
                N.B. The    Barometer's  height is taken at one o'clock.
    Erratum.— In Sir Richard Phillips's              paper, in this Number, at the
 #nd  of the 2d objection,     for "being    the  .orbicular force common/' read
 " the orbicular force being common."

                                  1    ttr    ]
."    XXIV.     On Iodme.      By Andrew Ure, M.D. Professor of
                        Chemistry,   &c. &c., Glasgow.
                                To  Mr. Tilloch.
•   Sir,      The     great trouble and uncertainty attending all the
 1
    processes   which have been prescribed in the scientific journals
    for procuring this interesting elementary body, and the high
    price at which it is sold in Great Britain, induced me about two
    years ago to inquire whether ah easier and cheaper mode Of
   preparing it might not be discovered*.
       As many of the Scotch soap manufacturers use scarcely any
    other- alkaline matter for their hard soaps except kelp, it oc
    curred to me that in some of their residuums a substance might
    be found, rich in iodine.      Accordingly, after some investigation,
    I found a brown liquid of an oily consistence, from which I ex
   pected to procure what I wanted.           This liquid drains from the
 - salt, which
                   they  boil up  and  evaporate to diyness from their
   waste leys for the soda manufacturer.           I instituted a series of
   experiments on the best mode of extracting the iodine. As these
   succeeded far beyond my expectation, I hope the following ac
   count of them will prove not uninteresting to the British chemist.
       The specific gravity of the above liquid, as obtained at different
   times, is very uniformly about 1-374, water being 1-000.              It
'converts vegetable blues to green, thus indicating free alkali.
   Of this the manufacturer is aware, for he returns it occasionally
 into his kelp leys. Its boiling point is 233° Fahr. Eight ounces
 apothecaries' measure require precisely one measured ounce of
  sulphuric acid for their neutralization.        Supposing this quantity
  of acid combined with soda, it would indicate one part of pure
 eoda in eleven by weight of the liquid.          But the greater part of
 the alkali is not uncombined ; for an immense quantity of sul
 phurous acid and a little sulphuretted hydrogen gases escape on
 the affusion of the sulphuric acid. One hundred grains of the liquid
 yield 3-8 cubic inches of gas, chiefly sulphurous acid ; and sul
 phur is at the same time deposited.           From the quantity of sul
 phur, one might expect a larger proportion of sulphuretted hydro
 gen ; but the disengaged gas possesses the peculiar smell and
 pungency of burning sulphur, blanches the petals of the red
rose, but shows hardly any action on paper dipped in saturnine
solutions.       In the instant of decomposition of the sulphite of so-'
da, and hydroguretted sulphuret existing in the liquid,the nascent
sulphurous acid of the former may be supposed to act on the
     * The iodine sold in London is for the most part imported from Paris,
as   I was informed" 'by an eminent practical chemist.
                                                         "
 ,   VqI. 50. No. 233. Sept. 1817.                  h             nascent

 162                            Oii Iodine.
 nascent sulphuretted hydrogen of the latter; their atoms of oxy1-
 gen and hydrogen uniting to form water, while the sulphur of
 both is precipitated.      I cannot in any other way account for the
 very copious separation of sulphur, while very little sulphuretted
 hydrogen appears.        From the excess of sulphite present in the
 liquid, we have a redundant quantity of sulphurous acid evolved.
 From eight liquid ounces, equal by weight to eleven, 213 grains
 of sulphur are obtained.
     The liquid saturated with the sulphuric acid has a specific
 gravity of 1-443, a bright yellow colour, and it does not affect
 the purple infusion of red cabbage.         I distilled eight ounces of
 this in a glass retort.      The stopper of the tubulated receiver
 was frequently blown out by the escape of incondensable gas, even
 after the liquid had been for a long time in ebullition.               This,
 which was probably hydriodic acid gas, continued to be evolved
 to the very last.      In the receiver, which had been kept very
 cool, a colourless and nearly transparent liquid was found.                Its
 specific gravity was 1-054, of an acidulous and acerb taste; it
reddened vegetable blues, and powerfully blackened                     brass.
 From this liquid I could extract only three or four grains of
 iodine, though the viscid black substance left in the retort yielded
more than twenty times the quantity.           We see therefore that by
distillation very little hydriodic acid can be procured from the
saturated liquid.
     In the prosecution of my researches to ascertain the best mode
of extracting the iodine, I at length discovered the causes of the
anomalous results which had not a little perplexed me at first,
rendering the product very uncertain.            The following method
was found to answer extremely well.
     The brown iodic liquid of the soap-boiler was heated to about
230° Fahr.; poured into a large stone-ware bason, of which it
filled nearly one-half, and was then saturated by the proper
quantity of sulphuric acid, as above stated.           The acid ought to
be previously diluted with its own bulk of water*.              On cooling
the mixture, a large quantity of saline crystals is found adhering
to the sides and bottom of the vessel.       These are chiefly sulphate
of soda, with a very little sulphate of potash, and a few beautiful
oblong rhomboidal plates of hydriodate of soda. The precipi
tated sulphur is intermixed with these crystals.
     After filtering the cold liquid through woollen cloth, I add to
every twelve ounces apothecaries' measure, 1000 grains of pow
dered black oxide of manganese.             This mixture is made in a
glass globe or matrasS, over the mouth of which a glass globe is
    * When concentrated oil of vitriol  is added, the effervescence    is very
violent; the liquid reddens wherever the acid falls, and a little of the pur
ple vapour of iodine rises.
                                                                         then

then inverted. The heat of a charcoal chaffer bemg now applied,
the iodine sublimes in great abundance.                To prevent the heat
from acting on the globular receiver, a thin disc of wood, with
a round hole in its centre, is placed over the shoulder of the
 matrass.     As soon as one globe becomes hot, another may be*
substituted in its place ; and thus two or three may serve in ro
tation to condense a very large quantity.             The iodine is easily
washed out by a little water.          It is then drained on glass plates^
and dried.      From the above twelve ounces of liquid I usually
obtained about 200 grains of iodine.             This may be purified by
a second sublimation from dry quicklime.             The most convenient
apparatus is that represented (Plate III. fig. 1.)            It is composed
 Of an exterior vessel b, containing the mixed materials, and an
 interior one a, filled with cold water.        On the outside of a, beau
tiful large crystals concrete, and by lifting up a they may be
 readily detached without breaking them.              If in the operation of
 subliming the water of a should become hot, it is easy to run
 it off with a siphon, and to fill it again with cold, or to put into
 it some ice. I have not seen any such apparatus described be
 fore, and I can recommend it as possessing many advantages
 over the subliming vessels usually employed.
     If the manganese be. increased much beyond the above pro
 portion, the product of iodine is greatly lessened.             If,
                                                                 for example,
 thrice the quantity be used,    a  furious effervescence ensues; nearly
 the whole mixture       is  thrown out of the matrass with            kind of
                                                                        a
 explosive violence  ;   and hardly any iodine         to be procured, even
                                                       is
 though the materials should have been saved by putting them
 into very large vessel. On the other hand, should only one-
     a
 half of the prescribed quantity of manganese be used, much hy-
 driodic acid rises along with the iodine, and washes              perpetually
                                                                  it
 down the sides of the balloon.              Or,  if during the successful
 sublimation of iodine the weight of manganese be doubled, the
 violet vapours instantly cease.            Neither" sugar nor starch re
 stores  to the  mixture   the   power   of  exhaling iodic vapour.
   A   similar interruption of the process        isoccasioned         by
                                                                      using are
 excess of sulphuric acid.       For,if   to the mixture of twelve ounces
 of saturated liquid, and 1000 grains manganese, an additional
 half-ounce measure of sulphuric acid be poured in, the violet
 vapour disappears, and the sublimation of iodine           is
                                                             finally stopped.
  Quicklime, added so as to saturate the excess of sulphuric acid,
 does not renew the process.          In these two different cases, iodic
  acid is  probably formed by the too rapid and copious supply of
  oxygen.     For the due decomposition of hydriodic acid, the oxy
  gen ought to be afforded merely in the quantity requisite to sa
  turate its hydrogen.     ,                                                  :
     The best subliming temperature          is2323 Fahr. though in open
                                                            ;
                                     L   2                                  vessels

   164                    Theorems  for   determining
  vessels it readily evaporates at much lower degrees of heat; even
  at that of the atmosphere.        When it is spread thin on a plate
  of glass, if  the   eye  be brought into the same plane the violet
  vapour is discernibl.' at 100".       It evaporates slowly in the open
  air at 50° of Fahrenheit.       When put into a phial closed with a
  common cork, the iodine soon disappears: it combines with
  the substance of the cork, tingeing it brownish yellow, and ren
  dering it friable.
     240 grains of nitric acid, sp. gr. 1-490, saturate 1000 grains of
  the iodic liquid.     Sulphurous acid is copiously exhaled as before.
  After filtration a bright golden-coloured liquid is obtained.       On
  adding a little manganese to this liquid, iodine sublimes ; but
  the quantity procurable in this way is considerably less than by
  sulphuric acid.
                                       I am, &c.
  Anderson's Institution, Glasgow,                      ANDREW URE.
            August 29, 1817.
  XXV.    Theorems     for  determining    the Values of increasing Life
                 Annuities.      By Mr, J. B. Benwell.
                               To Mr. Tilloch.
            m                                                            f
  Sir, — • 1 he following collection of theorems embraces an ex*
 tension of those communicated in a previous Number of your
 Magazine, being applicable to the valuation of life annuities in
 creasing by certain orders of a constant numerical ratio.
      The several Life Assurance Companies established in the me
 tropolis are occasionally in the habit of granting annuities that
 increase by the scale of the natural numbers as well as the mul
 tiples thereof, and which annuities may be either temporary or
 deferred ; but, in respect I (presume) to those institutions which do
 not possess the proper and requisite aids (in conducting this branch
 of scientific research), it has been represented as a matter of much
 apparent doubt, whether the methods they pursue, in order to
 arrive at the supposed values in these and similar inquiries, be
rigorously exact and unobjectionable, — a circumstance that
 imperiously requires elucidation, because it tends to mliitate
against the avowed professions held out by them, of being guided
by the pure and unerring principles of mathematical truth.          It ia
very probable that the practice of granting progressive life an
nuities might be rendered almost as general as anv other species
of contingent investment; and what seems chiefly essential to
the dissemination thereof, is a commodious and accurate formula
for the solution of the most useful cases. But with the exception
of one for finding the value of a life annuity, increasing according
                                     .   .                             to

                                             the Values          of increasing Life Annuities..                                                 165
                 to  the common scale of notation, (as given in most treatises on
                 the subject,) no others for this purpose, I believe, exist anywhere
                 in print, but in the present work ; in regard to which I have only
                 to observe, they are as simple and concise as the nature of the
                 investigation would possibly admit: and as simplicity and ac
                 curacy w ere objects indispensably in view, so they have not been
                 attained without some efforts of patience and perseverance. My
                 studies are prosecuted under auspices the most unfavourable: I
                 have to lament that my present situation but so ill accords with
                 a disposition for scientific pursuits.
                    The several formule I shall enumerate will apply in the four
                 following cases; viz. when the annuity increases in the order of
                 the numbers (1.3.6. 10. 15) (1.3.5.7.9) by the squares of
                 this latter series, and also by the squares of the series (1.2. 3.
                 4.5.)
                   Then in the first                       case the formula                  exhibiting the value of the
                 annuity will be                                 .                                                                                      \
            -1     ,                                    _a               o                   _.«    /2 + 3x— .    ,
                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                -«             2l               —a
                                 X—    "1.                                                                                                   x—                 —            2i*
         x)+ 6(« +        1) +             (a* + 9a + 10>r + x—              {a* + 3a + 2)x
                                                                                               x~\ x-1.               2.   (x—      x)   +          1       1       r)   +    )
                                                                       1
                                                                       .                                                                                .(
                                                                                   2a.   (x-    1
                                                                                               J3
                        In the second;
                                                                               —a         /         4          — «.             \
                                   «.(x +     1)   + (2a   +
                                                           5   +     x— 1.(2a+ l)x—                       {x—x)       +    x.   I
                                                                        ——     —
                                                                            —
                 And for the two succeeding                              cases     it    will      be respectively,
                                                                     —                                                                   —
                                                                      -                             2-o   /6 + <2x—
                                                                                                                                             x) a
i           2                                                                            2                                 1
)   +   x— ].a +       (4.(6a +   8)   +   x— 1.(4^     + 20o + 17)x +         (x— l)(2«r      +   1).    x{                    .4 (1—              +
                                                                                                                                                        I6.(x       +    1)
                                                                                                                                                                         +     X—1.;
                                                                       a.(x—     1,3
                And,
            1                                           —a                                   _a         /6x-(x-1.2a) _fl
            337_(6(n+l)+                   (a"+ 6a+ 7)x      +   x— l.(a«      +   2a +      l)x+«-l.x-\ (x— I)4 i(x— &)I
                        In   each       of     formule x denotes the ratio or amount
                                             the foregoing
                 of      one pound for year   and   (a) the complement or double the
                                                    a          ;
                 expectation of human life, according as            deduced from any               it    is
                 assigned  table of  observations.
                    The annuity may commence with the addition of some fixed
                 annual payment, still increasing       the same order; as for instance
                                                                                in
                 (11.13.   16. 20)  (11. 13.  15.  17), and so on, for the other series;
                 and thus may be generated various forms of increasing annuities
                 at pleasure. In this case the only difference will be, that we must
                 augment the value previously obtained,          the value of such ad              by
                 ditional annuity on the given life for the total value required.
                    If the annuity, being a deferred one, does not commence until
                 a' given period equal n. years, the quantity (a) znust be deter-
                                                                             "
                                                                         L     3 mined

166   Theorems for determinmg the Values                          of Life Annuities.
mined accordingly; that is, from a life n years older; and after the
proper substitution is made, the result afforded by each particu
lar formula must be combined with the numerical value of the
expression denoting the expectation of the given life receiving
] /. n years hence for the value of the annuity in this case.
    Having thus found the value of an annuity deferred for n years,
we may thence derive the value of a similar temporary annuity
depending on the given life continuing so long in existence.
    I much wish that I could have represented these different
formule by others involving the combination of the equal
single and joint lives. But in each particular instance here ad
duced this object could not well be accomplished.
    I shall here introduce the expressions for the sums of a few
other series that occurred in the course of investigation, and
which may be found useful on some occasions.
    Let X represent
(x—-' + 5x— 2+9.r—>+\3x4-*+l7x— !-f                                      .     '.(4n—3)x— ").
                                                                             . .
Y   (x— *+5x— 1+\2x-s+22x— *+3~>x—                                            . .(£3»*—.l)«— «),
  And, Z (x— ' + 1 7x— 1 + 57x— 5 + 1 -21x— "+209x— ' +                                         ....
     —               " . Then will the
(12«2 20/z -f 9)x                      general expression for (he
sum of each series be respectively,
       a— i
      4 +
      —— —
                      —»        -«     -
                {\-x)—4nx
x=-
      (2 + 3*— I)
          x_l
                       —n
                    0— x)   +   x+
                                     J
                                     i—
                                            —n-     1
                                                 x)— (3n    +
                                                                x~   '
                                                                 2. (3n'2 + 5« +
                                                                                        —.
                                                                                 '2))r
                                         \x-ty
        2x-l)-l — 1
      (6 +                                 —1
                                                        - (4(6a
                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                          —n
Z=
       ~~l •*-(*—*)+             16.(1 +.r) + .r— 1
                                       -       .
                                                                  + 2) + .r—       l.(12«*   + 4n +
                                                    (x-   i)3
   In regard to the practical enunciation of the above theorems,
and generally of any other for summing reciprocal series of this
kind, where the terms of such series are very large, and the rate
of increase also rapid;      may be observed, that the negative
                                     it
powers of (x) should be expanded to proportionally greater ex
                                                        a
tent, in order to obtain   result perfectly accurate.
                                     a
   The facility and marked attention with which mv preceding
communications were inserted in the Philosophical Magazine,
have encouraged me to further prosecution of these subjects
                                     a                                                                ;
and   Iintend at future opportunity (should
                     a                           find means — incli
                                                                  I
nation    Ipossess) to furnish you with a paper embracing the
discussion of some interesting and rather novel points in the,
doctrine of life assurances.
Haberdashers-Place.         tloxtou,                            Jas, BENJ. BeNWEIX.
          .Aug. 15, 181T,                       ;

          Report    of the   Select Committee on Steam-Boats.                 167
     P. S. In my former communication         for April, when stating
the equation which has (although improperly) been made the
principle and derivation of the common rule for equating of
payments, I purposely withheld the following note, with some
additional observations, but which circumstances have not ren--
der.ed necessarv : — still however the insertion of the note is essen
tial, as affordmg perhaps a more simple and decisive confirmation
of the truth of the above rule.
    Since (b.r.t) is the whole accretion derived by A. for the term
 (i), so collaterally will (a.r.t) be that derived by B. in the like in
terval. Now these objects being jointly effected by the rule (as they
ought to be), we need dnly conceive x. to have such a value that
Ir.(t-x) the gain of B in (t — x) time shall equal (a.r.x) his
loss by the detention of the sum (a) for the time x. Yet on the
other hand it may be urged, that (a.r.x), the gain on a in .x. time
is equal br.(t— x) the loss on b. for (t—x); and therefore (b.r.t)
the whole interest must be actually made in such time. Now thus
equating interest with interest in place of discount certainly seems
erroneous; but discard the restriction imposed or applied in this
case [that   of    (a + b) instead   of       + T+7l)>         ^em& tne sum    'n
hand at the end of the first term], the difficulty then vanishes,
and the thing appears, what it really      simply is, deduction ora
corollary from the general expression  and  indicating an equality
between those quantities, but which can have no absolute rela
tion to or dependence on the conditions constituting the right
and interest which    hasA      in
                            the question.
XXVI.      Report    the Select Committee appointed to consider
                    of                                                         of
     the Means    of
                  preventing the Mischief of Explosion from hap
     pening on board Steam- Boats,, to the Danger or Destruction
     of His Majesty's Subjects on board such Boats,
                             [Continued   from p. 100.]
                  Mr. Wiluam Chapman's                  Evidence,
What        is your profession, and place of abode — My profession
                                                              ?
is   civil-engineer; my general place of abode     Newcastle-upon-
                                                          is
Tyne.
    Have you, as engineer, turned your attention to the construc
tion of steam-engines for steam- boats 5—As to steam-boats                    I
have not particularly; but     have been concerned
                                 I                      steam-en      in
gines of every description, from being connected with the col
lieries, where we have many engines.
    Have you any steam-boats upon the Tyne — 'We have.    ?
    Have you seen those steam-boats — Yes;    ?  haver    I
                                     h    4                  How-

rfj8          "    Report of the Select Committee
    How many have you? — I think it is three; but I have only
been in one    of them.
    Do you know the construction of the steam-boats employed
upon the Tyne ? — Low pressure condensing engines.
    Are you aware of any reason which would render it expedient
to forbid the use of high pressure engines on board steam-boats?
—I look upon all engines, whether high pressure or low pressure,
as   dangerous to the passengers, unless due precaution be taken
to emit the steam when exceeding a given pressure ; for in low
pressure engines the boilers are always liable to burst or to alter
their form, when the pressure becomes superior to the resistance ;
all boilers but those that are cylindrical in the section, and with
hemispherical ends or portions of spheres or cones or conoids,
are liable to alter the form by the natural expansive force of the
steam, and therefore all boilers but of those forms owe their
safety to their weakness ; because if weak they will alter their
form without danger, and if strong, they have been known to
bend the iron so abruptly as to break asunder.
    Are you speaking of wrought, or cast iron ? — I speak of wrought
iron ; and consequently they explode, and in many instances have
destroyed several of the passengers; they are so far more dan
gerous to the passengers that they frequently scald them, and do
not actually kill them. There are a description of engines in use
in the counties of Durham, Northumberland, Cumberland, and
York, that are termed loco-motive engines ; the form of their
boilers is cylindrical, with curved ends.
    Are those applicable to boats? — Certainly; they are high
pressure engines working with a force of from fifty to sixty-five
 pounds per inch; and no accident has happened to any of them
 but to one, the safety valve of which was stopped by a man sitting
upon it or holding it down purposelv; he said, "We will have a
 good start and surprise them, we will go off so well ;" — the con
 sequence was, that the boiler blew up and killed and wounded a
 very considerable number of people ; I believe to the extent of
 forty-five, but I am not certain.
     Was that a cast- or a wrought-iron boiler ? — It was wrought
 iron; '
   . Can you suggest the means by which      a high pressure engine
 can be rendered safe on board a vessel?  — It can  only be rendered
 safe by havmg the form of the boiler, such as I have described,
 and the cylindric part of a limited diameter, with a competent
 thickness of wrought metal, either iron or copper, and the plates
 secured to each other by a double line of rivets ; it is also re
  quisite that there should be two safety-valves, each laden with
 any determinate weight per superficial inch of the narrowest part
 pf (he seat of the valve $ one of those valves should be at perfect
   \ . ;                           i  .                        liberty

                          on Steam-Boats.                          16!)
liberty to be raised at the pleasure of the manager, because some
times it is expedient to raise it ; the other should be under a
cover of such description as not to be opened at all, at the dis
cretion of the engineer, but with sufficient apertures for the
emission of the steam, and for any of the passengers to see that
the valve is not made fast. It is also requisite that there should be
a mercurial gauge of not less than an inch in diameter, and whose
longest limb shall not be greater than two inches and one-eighth
for every pound per inch upon the safety-valve ; it is necessary,
by occasional inspection, to take care that the mercury does not
stiffen by oxidation, occasioned by the heat and motion to which
it is in a slight degree liable.
    Do you conceive that a high pressure engine thus guarded
might be used on board a steam-boat with safety to the passen
gers ? — Yes, so long as the boiler is kept in order ; but the boiler's
bottom is liable to erode or consume by the action of the fire,
and therefore requires watching.                                       :
    How long do you think a boiler would last under the action
of fire ?— A boiler may last twelve months safely, provided its
bottom be made of charcoal iron, beat not rolled, because there
is a great deal of difference in the grain.
    Would you not always recommend a boiler to be made of
wrought metal on board steam-boats ? — On board steam-boats
 I would recommend them all to be made either of copper or
charcoal iron plates beat under the hammer and not rolled ; the
resistance of cylindric boilers will be in the inverse ratio of their
diameters.
    [Mr. William Chapman was again called in on a future day, at
his own request, and stated, that when he was asked as to loco
motive engines, he omitted to say that the diameter of their
boiler was in general four feet, little more or less ; that many of
them are formed of cast iron, and several of malleable iron, and
that the ends of several of these latter are of cast iron curved
outwards ; that in no one of them does the fire act upon the ex
ternal part of the boiler, but is placed in a malleable iron tube
which passes through the boiler ; a cast-iron boiler, however,
being found far too heavy, the new loco-motive engines are al
ways supplied with malleable iron boilers.]
                 Mr. Philip Taylor's       Evidence.
    Will you  be so good as to state what is your occupation     ? —A
manufacturing chemist.
  •
    Where do you reside ? — At Bromley in Middlesex.
    You are conversant with the nature of steam-engines? — My
attention has been directed to the use of steam from a desire to

 170              Report of   the Select Committee
apply it in my own business, not as a moving power, but for th&
purpose of communicating heat to different fluids, for which pur
pose I have required high pressure steam.           I have a patent for
a mode of applving high pressure steam to vessels of the largest
capacity; and as in this case all danger depends on the con-,
 struction of the boiler, I should wish to say a little on those boilers
which I have found to be the most trust-worthy.           I come quite
unprejudiced as to any material, and as to any form ; for if I could
meet with a boiler which would answer the purpose I have in
view better than that now used by me, I would adopt it ; there
fore I shall give the Committee only such facts as have come
within my own immediate knowledge.            1 have no wish to re
 commend any particular construction.
    Will you be so good as to state from your knowledge, what
species of boiler for a high pressure engine you would recom
mend in regard to safety ?— I consider the first and most mate
rial point to attend to in the construction of high pressure boilers
is, that the diameter of such boilers should be small in propor
tion to their capacity; and that as small a proportion of the
external surface of the boiler as possible should be exposed to
the destructive action of the fire ; and that the portion of the
boiler so exposed, should be so situated and guarded, that in case
of explosion the least possible mischief would arise. In those
boilers which I have made use of, no portion of the boiler is ex
posed to the action of the fire without its being constantly co
vered with water ; and the fire is applied under an arch of not
more than two feet and a half in diameter; this provides against
any extensive rent taking place in the event of explosion.          The
boilers 1 have generally employed are constructed of malleable
kon, commonly known by the name of charcoal iron, riveted
together and secured by strong wronght-iron belts.            From ob
serving the danger arising from the introduction of flat cast-iron
ends, 1 have terminated the ends of the boilers by wrought-iron
ones nearly hemispherical ; this mode of construction, as far as
my experience goes, combines more strength and durability than
any other.     The precautions I have made use of to guard against
the misuse of such boilers, have been by adapting to them two
safety-valves ; one under the control of the engine-man, the
other secured in a strong cast-iron case, locked down and loaded
with such a weight as would suffer the steam to escape when it
had arrived at an improper degree of expansive force.          In order
to add to the security given by safety-valves, I have likewise in
every instance attached to the boiler a mercurial column, the
bore of which is proportioned to the size of the boiler ; and I
should consider an iron tube of an inch diameter sufficient ta
                                                                  guard

                           on Sleam-Boats.                       171
guard against accident, when applied to a boiler four feet in,
diameter and twenty feet in length, because the limit given by
such a column has always been far within the limit of absolute
safety.    The length of the external limb of the mercurial gauge
has in all cases been proportioned to the strength of the boiler
and the force to be applied, taking care that the expansive force
of the steam would displace the mercury long before any dan
gerous expansive force would arise.        In order to guard against
the  boiler's being* injured by   the action of the fire, from a de
ficient quantity of water in the boiler, I have inserted a leaden
rivet in such a situation that it would melt as soon as it was un
covered by the water, and produce an opening which would suf
fer the escape of the steam. Although I have made use of boilers
of this construction, I consider cast-iron boilers safe, provided
their various parts are made of small diameters in proportion to
their capacity; such for instance as those constructed by Mr.
Woolf.
    From your knowledge of the subject, do you think you can
take upon yourself to say, that a high pressure engine with a
boiler constructed on the principles you have just now detailed,
would be completely safe for the use of passage -boats? — 1
think equally safe with those called condensing engines, because
a greater attention to strength is always paid in the construction
of high pressure boilers than in the construction of low pressure
boilers, in proportion to the pressure they have to sustain.
    Have not very great improvements been recently made in high
pressure engines, by which the general mining and manufac
turing interests of the country have been greatly benefited ? — I
think very important ones : the high pressure engine, as con
structed by Mr. Woolf, employs not only the expansive force of
the steam, but also that power which is acquired by its conden
sation ; and the effect in Cornwall has been, that engines on this
 construction have done double the quantity of work with the
same quantity of fuel.
    Does your own experience lead you to conclude, that the high
 pressure engine in general is less expensive in point of consump
 tion of fuel ? — If well constructed they are decidedly eeconomical
 engines with regard to the consumption of fuel.
     You mean then by this, that the advantage of the high pres
 sure in point of ceconomy in fuel is not confmed to engines of
  anyone particular construction?— Certainly; I mean it is not
 so confined.
     Have you any connexion whatever with Mr. Woolf? — None
  whatever; I am not personally known to him.
     Have you any reason to suppose that the high pressure steam-r
 engines are already arrived at the degree of perfection of which
                                                                 they

1 72                   Report   of the   Select Committee
they are susceptible? — Certainly not; Mr. Woolf's engine has
been much simplified since its first invention, and my opinion is,
it will be still further improved.
   You would then consider any measure which should tend to
impede the use of high pressure engines to be injurious to the
country? — Certainly, I should.
                   Mr. Henry Maudeslay's Evidence.
     What   is   your profession ? — I am an engineer, residing   at Lam
beth.
'
   You construct steam-engines? — Yes, a great many.
   Are you at all acquainted with the circumstances attending
the explosion of the steam-engine at Norwich ? — Yes, I am.
   Have you been there since this accident ? — No.
   Did you know the steam-boats there before the accident?-—
Yes ; because I made a steam-boat for Yarmouth.
   Was the steam-boat you made, a high pressure or a low pres*
sure engine ? — A low pressure engine. .
     Will you be so good as to tell the Committee, what is your
opinion  with  regard to the proper construction of those engines,
to secure the passengers on board those boats ? — I never consi
dered high pressure engines were applicable to boats, because
the purpose of a high pressure engine is to save water, and water
cannot be wanted on board a vessel ; the difference between the
one and the other makes no saving either in the weight or expense,
taking it ultimately, particularly when steam-boats are properly
contrived.    As far as my opinion goes as to steam-engines and
steam-boats, I would not go from here to Margate in a high
pressure boat, because there are many reasons why that may be
come much more dangerous, and no more advantageous to the
public generally or to the individuals.  A low pressure engine is
of very high power ; a high pressure engine has a higher power
in proportion to its height of steam. It is pretty well under
stood, that a gentleman who engages in a steam- boat company
seldom attends to the engine himself, but leaves it to his men.
I built the Regent steam-boat last summer with a low pressure
engine; there was a dispute between two men, and one of them
swore that he would blow his boiler up, but he would beat the
Regent in coming up.       The man certainly did exert himself as
Tnuch'as hecould,and kep this steam as high as lie could get       it,
                                                                 and
itflew out of the safety-valve very frequently,and he hurt his boiler
materially from doing so, but he did not beat the Regent         but
                                                                   ;
if   had been
    it            high pressure engine, he would either have beat
                   a
her or blown up his boiler, because he had" the power in his own
hand.
  Had    it   been   a   high pressure engine, and the boiler properly
     *
\                                                         constructed.

                                  on Sleani-&dats.                     'I                         173
 Constructed, with sufficient safety-valves adapted to                the ope*      it,
 ration of which the man could not impede, would                    have been   it
 liable to accident —     ?   feel some difficulty in answering such
                              I                                                                    a
 question    as  that,  because       am afraid that there are so many
                                       I
 technical terms in engine-making, and reasons why safety-valves
 should be attended to, that            doubt whether they would not go
                                        I
 to more evil        the man not having access to them than bv their
                    by
 being open to him.                                                                                >
     If there was one safety-valve which was not accessible to the
 engineer, and another which was, would not that danger be prei
 vented — would beg to explain,
          ?    I                                 saying, that on board the
                                                       by
 Regent, which has           large boiler,
                              a                  found      necessary to have
                                                                  it
                                                      I I
 two safety-valves, and sometimes               put three safety-valves      to               :
 make     itquite easy for the man to move the valve,              have a sort
                                                                            I
 of bell-pull going down to the place where he stokes, to pull                                     it
 up every hour       ifhe pleases, to keep          in action, because
                                                        it                   »                it
 clear   the  spindle may corrode and stick fast for want of use.
 Supposing     it  not touched once         week, a        not
                                                             it   safety-valve
                                                                  is            a
 any longer, because         very little friction will add a great many
                              a
 pounds weight to the opposition the steam ought to meet with. -
      According to your experience and knowledge, would                    low                a
 pressure engine     be  safe  in   most  cases   that  can  occur? —    never            I
 knew     a low pressure engine unsafe, but                appears that high
                                                                 it
pressure engines have been.
      Would    ahigh pressure engine, under the same circumstances,
be equally safe — Certainly not.
                     ?                                                     -                  .   .
                                                                                                  :
      Do you conceive there         any difficulty
                                   is                        in
                                                       constructing     safety-           a
valve in such       amanner as that the engineer shall be able to keep
it   in constant fitness for its action, without having              power to       a
fasten    itdown and prevent          from acting — conceive that the
                                        it                   ?    I
 same motive which would induce the engineer to work                   with an       it
improper pressure, would induce him to leave                 untouched, that
                                                                      it
it   might have an improper pressure.               beg to state, that there
                                                        I
is  not  that difference   between       high pressure and       low pressure
                                        in is
                                                                            a
engine, as to its power, that           generally supposed; because
                                                                                                  it
                                                                                                  is
understood, that the steam                    a
                                        the boiler       kept at from four to
                                                             is
six pounds upon the inch, but from two and                      half to foura                      is
quite abundant for any use a low pressure engine can be wanted
for: then,     if an engine       in any thing like working order, there
                                  is
is
a      vacuum    formed       bythe engine itself,                by
                                                            the construction,
that causes an addition of ten pounds the inch.                On the lowest
calculation, those two added together, make fourteen pounds                                        ;
if  you take high pressure steam at forty pounds' the inch, you do
not, in my opinion, get additional force in proportion to the risk
incurred; because we well know, that                   the boiler be of fcast
                                                            if
iron, faults will unavoidably arise in. basting which you cannot
*   ,                                                                      see,

174               Report   of the Select Committee
see, which cause explosions or breakings, and which could not               b*
calculated upon.
    Is there any thing which prevents the engineer from fastening'
down or over-weighting the valves of a common condensing en
gine ? — It would he folly for him to do so.
    Is there any thing which prevents him ?— Certainly not.
    Supposing the valves to be so fastened down, does not the
engine immediately become unsafe ? — :Yes, certainly it must; but
it would be folly to fasten it down, because, if the engineer be at
all acquainted with his business, he must know, that if the steam
be raised beyond five or six pounds per inch in a condensing
engine, the power of the engine will not thereby be at all in
creased ; the condensing property of the engine does not consist
in a higher pressure of steam.
    What is your opinion as to the comparative safety of cast and
wrought metal used in boilers ? — I consider that wrought iron is
extremely safe, compared to cast iron.
    Then at all events, it is your opinion, that in steam-boats
boilers of wrought metal should be used in preference to cast ?
— No doubt about it.
    Do you think there is any material difference between the nse
 of copper and wrought iron ? — No, excepting in the greater de*
gree of corrosion to which iron is liable.
     Are you aware of there being any considerable difference in
the consumption of coals, necessary to produce any given power
in condensing and high pressure engines ? — I consider that the
one will work with as little coal as the other ; in all high pres
 sure engines and condensing engines I have heard of, I find little
 or no difference, and those who have them tell me they burn as
 much coal in the high pressure engine as in the low pressure en*
 gine.    I have understood that Woolf's engine does save coal.
     Do you know that to be the fact ? — I do not, because T never
 attended any experiments ; but I have heard it from so many
 people that I cannot but believe the fact    is,
                                               they save coal.
  if  a    high pressure steam-engine had     wrought-metal boiler,
                                           by a
 either of iron or copper, constructed       a competent engineer,
 with safety-valves in proper order, and mercurial gauge, should
                                          a
 you then think yourself in any danger in     steam-boat propelled
                                              a
 by   such  an engine? — Certainly not, if a competent person had
 the superintendence of it.
             Mr. Alexander Galloway's             Evidence.   ..
  What      your profession and place of abode
            is                                         ?—  I       am   a
                                                                            me^
chanist and engineer, residing in Holborn.                    "-'<',.'       '
   Do you know any thing of that paper [showi?ig        a   paper to tke
wittiess]
       i    —I   have seen   it.
                                                                            Do

                                        tin Steam-Boals.                                      .175
    t)d    know by whom it was published? — I do hot know; I
          yott
have heard it was done by the proprietors of some of tlie steam
boats ; the letter I wrote was sent to the Morning Chronicle ;
it was only within the last three days I saw it in that form.
    Have you been employed at all in constructing                              steam-engines
for steam-boats ? — I have not.
   Were you acquainted at all with the accident at Norwich ?—                                           •
No ; but what I have heard.
   The object of this Committee being to insure the safety of the
passengers on board steam-boats, will you favour them with your
opinion as an engineer, what means are best adapted to insure
that safety? — 1 should certainly recommend, that for steam
boats, the condensing engines should be used in preference to
high pressure engines, and I will give you my reasons why I do
so.    In the first place, the great advantage that has been pro
mised from a high pressure engine                 that     is,
                                                           can be worked in a
                                                                 it
situation where water cannot be procured, and therefore, under
this circumstance              for such
                              it   is         situation
                                                      a     valuable machine;
                                                                 a
but in situations where water can be readily procured,                       not    it       is
so. And in reference to the comparative price between a high
pressure engine and             low pressure engine, and in reference to
                                    a
the space that       occupies, and in reference to the superintendence
                         it
that  it requires,       am decidedly convinced no oeconomy
                          I                                                 pro          is
duced.      Speaking     to     as it matter of safety,
                                            a                  will be necessary
                                                                      it
for me to sav, that experience has fully proved, that the maxi
mum of force to be obtained
                                                      by
                                               condensing engine,
                                                      a                    when         is
the steam        rarefied from three to six pounds on the inch; the
                 by is
                 far more efficient than when the steam                  rarefied  is
engine     is
up  beyond;      and      willitappear   equally    clear,   that  whether     be             it
a  cast-iron boiler or         wrought-iron
                                   a              boiler,   or    copper  boiler,
                                                                           a
the force of the engine              better performed
                                         is                            by
                                                                steam at three
pounds and a half, than                  at any increased expansive force;
                                            it   is
the boiler being subject only to three instead of six pounds,                                      it
must be less liable to explode or burst at that than at an increased
expansive force.           should further say, that every man that
                              I                                                                    is
called to work        condensing steam-engine, knows, that when his
                         a
steam     isat three pounds and           half,  a  performsit    greater quan
                                                                           a
tity of labour than at any other time; for                  you increase
                                                                 if           you            it
throw     avast labour on the air-pump and the condenser, and retard
the engine       :therefore,      man has no inducement to increase the
                                        a
expansive     force  of the   steam,   he knowing that no useful end can
be obtained           so bydoing,    but   giving himself additional labour
and consuming more fuel, and performing less work.                        should    I
also wish to state, that           yesterday made
                                        I                  sketch of what ap
                                                                 a
peared to me to be          proper and efficient boiler for
                               a                                     steam- boat,
                                                                               a
                                                                         without

    1 ?6             Report of the Select Committee
    without reference to the character of the engine at all, whether*
-it    was a condensing or high pressure engine.          All boilers on
: board steam-boats       should have the fire in the, interior of the
   boiler, because it is of very little importance, when you are upon
. the subject of
                  safety, whether the passengers are to be endangered
   by an explosion, or whether the vessel is to be weakened in its
• timbers or essential securities by the
                                             improper application of the
   Sre to the boiler : therefore, I invariably recommend, that the
•
   fire should be contained in the interior of the boiler, and that
  there should be an additional safety-valve, which should be solely
  subject to the superintendence of the proprietor, and that the
  manager of the machine should have no possible access to it.
       That you mean to apply, whether high pressure or low pres
  sure boilers are used ?' — Both ; because I am quite aware, that
  if a boiler in a steam-boat is to have the fire to operate upon it
  externally, although you may not explode the engine, you may
  so far destroy the vessel that carries the engine by burning its
  timbers, without the knowledge of the individuals to whose care
 the boat is intrusted, as to be highly injurious and mischievous
  to the safety of the passengers.       I should certainly recommend
  a wrought-metal boiler in preference to a cast-iron boiler ; and
 the reason is clear, that the operation of casting, however skil
 fully managed, is always an uncertain process. An occurrence
 took place a few days ago, which very much staggered me; I
 had a large press of cast iron, which it was necessary to break
 up, and in the interior of a bar which was probably eight inches
 by twelve, there was a cavity in the centre of four inches dia
 meter, with no external communication.
      Do you think that a safety-valve may not be so constructed,
 as that its operation shall not be impeded in any degree by the
 engineer to whose care the vessel is committed, and yet with a
 tolerable certainty of its operating to all its proper intents and
 purposes ? — If an additional safety-valve was applied to a boiler,
and that safety-valve placed beyond the power of being inter
 fered with by any person but the proprietor,           then the boiler
would be secure from explosion, if the safety-valve should be
judiciously loaded ; but if that safety-valve was even placed be-
vond the reach of the operator, and at the same time injudiciously
loaded, a calamity might take place the same as if no such se
curity existed.
      Allowing that under all possible circumstances a condensing
engine should be the most safe, what is your opinion as to the
sufficient safety of a high pressure engine, of which the boiler and
safety-valves should be constructed in the manner which you
have just now described ? — 1 should consider a high pressure enT

                          on Steam-Boals.                       127
gine,   under such circumstances using the expansive force to
Forty pounds to the inch, and not beyond forty pounds, would
be a safe and efficient engine.
   Under all the circumstances which at present exist in the ma
nufacture and management of a condensing and high pressure
engine, with a view to the safety of passengers in a steam-boat,
which of them would you recommend ?— Under all the circum
stances of the case, I should most decidedly recommend a con
densing engine, a condensing engine with a wrought-iron boiler;
because when cast iron becomes subject to high expansion and
contraction, the constant repetition of these effects in a very
great degree impairs the strength of the boiler.
   That mischief would not be incidental to a wrought-iron
boiler ? — Certainly not.   I should venture to sav, that all en
gines in steam-boats should be subject to regulation and inspec
tion by competent persons; — a steam-boat must have a register,
and before such register should be granted, the engine should be
inspected, to see whether it is of a character to deserve its being
considered safe.
   What is your opinion as to the expediency of adding a mer
curial gauge ? — By no means do I consider it an efficient and
convenient apparatus on board a boat ; it would be constantly in
the way, and it would require a great column of mercury to make
it safe ; and that such a quantity may be liable to do mischief if
blown out.
   Has it ever happened to you, to form any calculation of the
proportion which a mercurial gauge ought to bear to the dia
meter of a boiler ? — I have not ; but it will depend upon the
expansive force to which the boiler is to be brought up, as well
as to the capacity of the boiler ; because, if you were to put a
mercurial gauge to give merely the pressure on the boiler, that
would not be adequate to carry off the quantity of steam that
may be generated in a mischievous way.
   What is your opinion as to the comparative consumption of
coals in condensing and high pressure engines, with respect to
the work produced? — I am quite satisfied, that taking for granted
that both engines were judiciously formed, the one would take
as much fuel as the other, there would be no material saving, if
any; but if you associate the two principles together, as in the
case of Woolf's engine, there will be a considerable saving ; unite
the high pressure with a condensing engine, and there is a great
saving, but in their abstract characters there is none.
              Mr. John Braithwaite's Evidence.'
   What is  your profession and place of abode ? — 1 reside in New
Road, Fitzroy-square, and am an engine-maker and engineer.
   Vol. 50. No.233. Sept. 1817.              M                 The

1/3              llepo>±of 'the Select Committee
   The Committee      being desired to report upon the safety of
 steam-boats, and upon the safety only, they will be much obliged
 to you to communicate what you know upon the subject ? — Re
specting high pressure steam, which I shall confine myself to at
 t his moment, I will engage to make aboilef, or direct one to be
 made, which I will defy any engineer or other person to blow up
 or burst ; and I have lately erected five boilers ; and I am ready
 to prove to any gentleman, and even to any engineer, that they
 cannot destroy them.
     Upon what principle were those boilers constructed ? —Those
 boilers that I have fitted up, with the different apparatus for
 making them secure, were made of wrought iron ; but I do not
 mean to say cast-iron boilers cannot be made secure.        I recom
 mended to Mr. Martineau, for whom 1 erected them, that a»
 there had been an accident in his neighbourhood, he ought to
 have a boiler to bear three times the pressure he meant to put
upon it; and if it did bear that pressure, and they applied two
safety-valves with a mercurial steam-gauge, properly weighted
 and adjusted (one of those safety-valves should be at the will of
 the person about the boiler, and the other no man should be
able to get at), it would be impossible to explode a boiler of that
description.    1 saw the boiler after it was exploded at Wellclose-
square, and also conversed with one of the men that was saved,
who told me, that he had carried an additional weight to put on
the safety-valve just before it exploded, that the mercurial gauge
there was plugged up, so that it was useless : besides which, in
stead of the safety-valve being weighted equal to forty- five pound*,
they added a double weight which increased it to ninety pounds
weight upon an inch, and the boiler was very improperly made.
 I conceive that a steam-engine boiler, constructed as it ought to
be constructed (I dd not mean to say if you put a boiler into the
hands of men not acquainted with     it,  without the proper safety-
valves, there may not be danger) — but     if   properly constructed
there is  no danger.
     Would you not recommend on board steam-boats, wrought-
nietal boilers to be used in preference to cast — Certainly;
                                                  ?              I
have made some discoveries myself in the boilers   I    have put up,
which makes them perfectly safe.
    Do you know any thing respecting the comparative comsump-
tion of coals in high and low pressure engines ?— Not from my
own actual experience, only from what gentlemen have told me
where I   have done business.
                  Mr. John Hall's Evidence.
  Where do you    live — At Dartford.
                       i
  What are you    by profession I— An engineer and millwright.
                                                              Have

                          on Sleam-Boais.                       179
  J
    Have you given any attention to the construction of engines
for steam-boats   ? — I never have ; I have made steam-engines,
but not for steam -boats.
    The object of this Committee being to inquire into the con
struction of engines for steam-boats for the safety of passengers,
have you any thing to communicate to the Committee on that
subject ? — I have only to observe, that I make them in cast iron,
and I have proved them by an hydraulic press made for the pur
pose, and have gone as high as 250 pounds to an inch, and that
I considered enough ; nothing happened ; and I mean the next
time to try what they will bear, and I have no doubt they will
hear from 700 to 1000 pounds to an inch, for I believe they can
be made now stronger than wrought-iron boilers ; wrought-iron
boilers being riveted together, cannot be so strong as those cast
in a solid mass. ,
    May not there be some imperfection in cast iron, which may
not be discoverable without an accident happening ?— - It is
scarcelv possible, if it undergoes the trial I speak of by pressure
before it is put to work.
    May not that trial to which it may be exposed, though no ac
cident happens immediately from the trial, be injurious to the
boiler itself? — If it is made so as to be strong enough to stand
the pressure of 500 pounds upon the inch when it only wants
fifty, I suppose that proves it to be quite out of danger.
    Are you aware that there is a difference between trial made by
water-pressure at a certain temperature, and the exposure of
cast iron to the action of fire repeatedly, by which the metal
is heated to a very high degree, and consequently expanded and
then cooled agaii> down to a temperature very far indeed below
that which it was before exposed to ? — I have seen the effect of
that ; a boiler I have made has been composed of three tubes,
one a large one and two smaller ones below ; those lower tubes
which are exposed most to the fire have cracked generally by
cooling after the engine has done working ; I have known that
in three or four instances; perhaps, in an hour after the engine
has done working, the tubes below have cracked and the other
not.
    Are you not aware that the tubes which were so cracked by
the application of fire, might have stood the water-pressure of
which you before spoke, to almost any conceivable amount ?—
Yes, I suppose they would.
    In case of explosion, — which would produce the greatest mis
chief, that of a cast or of a wrought-iron boiler ? — I suppose the
greatest danger would be in the wrought-iron boiler.
    For what reason ? — Because the cast iron uniformly cracks at
the bottom underneath the large part of the boiler; the bottom
                                M 2                           tubes

ISO             Report   of the Select Committee
tubes have cracked on the under side, so that the water Went
away.
   Did you never hear of any instance where a cast-iron boiler
has exploded in another way ? — I have heard of the late misfor
tune at Norwich, and that has been sufficiently accounted for to
me, by its being made so very improperly.
   Have not you heard of other instances of cast-iron boilers ex
ploding ? — I believe only one.
    Is not a cast-iron boiler liable to be exploded in fragments ^
— 1 should think it would never happen, if it was made as cast-
iron boilers ought to be made; I suppose we might make a cast-
iron boiler that would explode, and go to pieces in that way, if
it was done on purpose.
    Have you any other suggestions to make to the Committee         f
 — As to safety-valves, they may be made as safe as can be con
 ceived of, because they will let the steam escape when it is of an
improper height, and these engines I am making will save in fuel
very materially; they are on Woolf's principle; they will save
 two-fifths of the fuel.
     Is it not easy to adjust a safety-valve to a boiler, which shall
not be accessible to the engineer directing the machinery, which
 shall sufficiently protect the boiler from mischief? — Yes, it is
quite practicable.
   And so to adjust it that it will always act ? — Once adjusted it
will always act, and always be to be depended upon.
   Then you would recommend, in any boiler, such a safety-
valve to be employed ? — Certainly.
   Besides another under the direction of the man who works the
engine ? — Yes.
              Mr. Alexander Tilloch's        Evidence.
   Will you state where you reside? — At Islington.
   And what is your profession? — I am editor of the Philosophical
Maga?ine, and sometimes I am called on to act as an engineer ;
and I am editor and proprietor of the Star newspaper.
   Will you be so good, as you know the object for which we are
met, with regard to the safety of persons in steam-boats, to men
tion what suggestions you have to make to the Committee on
the subject? — My opinion     is,
                                that attending to what should be
attended to in every steam-engine, and employing proper en
gineers, a steam-engine would be perfectly safe, whether with
high pressure or low pressure.   The boilers ought always to be
furnished with safety-valves ; and  if they suspect the possibility
of having stupid man, one of the valves should be covered and
          a
out of his reach with  a box over   it,but perforated so that you
may see when the steam operates on it.         A mercurial valve  h
                                                               also

                             on Steam-Boats.                                            181
 also very good ; that is ah inverted siphon, with a column of
  mercury proportioned to the purposes for which it is to be em
  ployed.
     Do you apprehend much danger to arise, in case of explosion,
 from that mercury if it was employed? — No, because the tube is
  always perpendicular, and if the mercury shoots out, it goes away
 and falls down in rain ; I am of opinion, a boiler may be made
 safe either of wrought or cast iron, but for great strain I would
 prefer cast iron, contrary to the opinion of many people, and the
 reason I would prefer it is the same for which it is preferred in
 making cannon.      It is not possible to get thick plates of wrought
 iron perfect throughout, and you trust at last to rivets in joining
 them, but cast-iron boilers can be made of any strength you
 please ; instead of having a boiler that will stand sixty, it may
 be made to stand six hundred, of either wrought or cast iron.
 Another reason why I would prefer cast iron            that the sheet
                                                                is,
 iron corrodes much quicker and destroys                  by
                                                  oxidation, so that                    a
 boiler may be safe when first set up and stand its proof, but very
soon become unserviceable, or at least comparatively so. Boilers
 should always be cylindrical tubes, and for an obvious reason,
 capacity should be got      bylength and number rather than                            by
 diameter.    There    isno more danger to be apprehended from
steam as to bursting, than from the employment of condensed
 air, only that the water may scald but as to the danger of the
                                            ;
 fragments being scattered about,       it the same with air as with
                                                is
 steam, and yet all the engineers constantly employ cast-iron re
ceivers, condensers, or air-vessels where pressure        wanted.     is
   Is  not cast iron liable to suffer some material injury from the
contraction and expansion          heat and subsequent cooling —
                                  by                                                ?
Whether boiler be made of wrought or of cast iron the metal
          a
expands and contracts, and expansion or contraction            more or     is
less injurious in proportion as   it  often repeated, but
                                       is                     does not     it
prejudice a   boiler made of cast more than one made of wrought
iron.
            more injurious to cast than wrought-iron boilers —
   I Is
      not it                                                                        ?
No, do not think       is.
                       it
   In case of accident      by
                           explosion in  cast and wrought-iron
                                                     a
boiler, which, in your opinion, would be attended with the
greatest mischief to the persons about       — an actual explo
                                                     it
                                                      ?    If
sion takes place,  I should think from the cast iron       but   con   ;        I
ceive that     'properly
               a          constructed  cast-iron    boiler  would   be
stronger,  and  therefore  would  not explode    so  soon.      boiler          A
should be proved with cold water,           ifto be applied to high,
                                                 it   is
pressure.
   Are you not aware that cast iron, notwithstanding the greatest
ppssible attention of the founder,     liable to cavities in the in-
                                            is
                                 M      3                       terior

182            Memoir of Abraham Gottlob Werner,
terior substance of the metal, which renders it uncertain when
exposed to great degrees of heat ? — There may be cavities in cast,
iron, but a boiler being proved to a strain beyond that it is tQ
be exposed to by heat, the safety of the boiler is secured ; for
the temperature never can be at that point which will endanger
a fracture from that circumstance.
   Do you mean by that answer, to say that the rarefaction of
the air. in that cavity may not be so great by the heat as to oc
casion its bursting ? — It never can, because the air that produced
that cavity was at a white heat at the time the iron closed upon
it, and  it  never can be brought to such       a heat in working   a
boiler; — my opinion
                                     it, by
                               is,
                            that      a very high proof at the com
mencement, and attention to            you may always have    a safe
boiler of cast iron.
                          [To be continued.]
XXVII. Memoir          Abraham Gottlob Werner, late Professor
                   of of
                       Mineralogy at Frieberg*.
Abraham Gottlob Werner               was born on the 25th of Sep-r
 tcmber 1750.       His father, who was inspector of an iron-work
 at Wehrau,-on the Queiss, in Upper Lusatia, intended him frpm
his early youth for a similar vocation.       He first went to school
 at Bunzlau, where he received however but very scanty instruc
 tion. In order fully to qualify himself for his intended pro-:
fession, he went first for some years to the Mineralogical Aca
 demy at Frieberg, and then to the University of Leipsig, where
 he applied himself to the study of natural history more than to,
 that of jurisprudence     and in respect to the former used to boast
                           ;
ia later years of his intimacy with two distinguished naturalists
                                                                      "
or' Leipsig, Mr. John Charles Gehler, and his brother John Sa-
r.iuel Traugott Gehler.      Even while at the University he em
ployed himself on the doctrine of the external characteristics of
fossils, in which a   singular quickness of perception was of great
use to him ;     and published there, in the year 1774, the well-
known work (on the external characteristics of fossils) which      is
t.till considered as the basis of his whole oryktognosis, but of
which he could never be induced to print a new and enlarged
edition, because he feared disputes, and had not in fact con
cluded his researches. Soon after he was invited to Frieberg,
to have the care of the cabinet of natural history there, and to
read lectures upon it.     Here his mind, which was early exercised
in observation and classification, found the most welcome ma
terials.    Here, daily extending the bounds    pf   his science, and
                   *   From The Literary Gazette.
                                                          supporting

             late Professor   of Mineralogy at Frielerg.          183
supporting its foundation by the surest external distinctive marks,
he formed that system which, afterwards embracing also the
geognosis which was peculiarly his own, and forming an intimate
connexion with all branches of the art of mining, gradually con
quered all opposition, and raised its inventor to the rank of the
creator of a new mineralogy, which might be supported and ex
tended, but not rendered useless by the crystallographic theory
of Haiiy, and the chemical theory of Vauquelin and others.     Hi*
peculiar talent for observation was animated by the most lively
fancy, assisted by the most extensive reading in every branch of
knowledge connected with his own, and excited by dailv inter
course with ingenious travellers and foreigners, who chiefly vi
sited Frieberg on Werner's account.      (We may instance only
the Englishman     Hawkins ) The classification in genera and
species, and for the most part ingenious appellations of minerals
down to the newest egron, is peculiarly his,     " Werner," says'
Leonhard, in his eloquent lecture on the state of mineralogy,
" was for the doctrine of the recognition of simple fossils, em
bracing with uncommon ingenuity all the experience of his age,
what Winckelmann     had been to the arts.   What, before him,
were all the endeavours of Wallerius and Linneus !" How soon
was he obliged to give up Cronstedt, who is no where satisfac
tory ! Only too scrupulous, conscientiousness prevented him
from publishing the oryktognostical tables, which have been
finished, and quite ready for the press these four years.        The
attempt    of the ingenious Berzelius, of Stockholm, at classifica
tion by discovering the laws of combination of the elements, did
not indeed shake his belief in the method of recognition by means
of the external characteristics ; yet he at last thought that a
mutual conciliation was possible, and reserved the first analysis
of the latest writings of Berzelius, for the next winter.    Block's
work   was  known   to him.   He approved  of his ingenious scholar's
 (G. H. Schubert's) essays [Ausgleichun^sversuclie) .         In the
geognosis, first systematically deduced by him from the rough
mass, crystalline structure, and the chemical relations of the
contents, may be called in, together with the ties of external af
finity; but the method created by Werner is the only satisfactory
one, however much may yet be wanting to       it,  to become  a com
plete system of the earth.     His predecessor Charpentier's doubts
respecting Werner's theory have never been able to shake it.
His idea of formations, one of the most fruitful of consequences,
and the most ingenious,    in   Werner's geognosis, has been ad
mirably developed    by   his scholar Steffens in Breslau ;  and his
formation of the floetz mountains of Thuringen, well supported
by  the excellent Von Freiesleben, in the theory of the copper-slate
mountain (Kupferschiefergebirge).        Werner sustained an obs-
                               M4                             tinate,

184             Memoir of Abraham Gottlol Werner,
tinate} but for that reason the more honourable contest with the
volcanists.         Now, no well-informed person will consider the ba
salt and other fleetz mountains as of volcanic origin.                 Werner's
theory       of the  older   and  newer     formation    of mountains,    by the
waters,       stands  immoveable;      and   a satisfactory link  between   them
is afforded in the mountains of the interval of transition.                 Even
the new chemical discoveries             of  the kalimelals    may   be made    to
accord with it. Another science, Mining, on which Werner used
also to lecture, was rendered extremely clear to the attentive
scholar, by his luminous explanation and by the reduction of the
most complicated machinery to the most simple propositions, at
 the same time drawing all the figures on his table.               Indefatigable
 application, insatiable thirst of knowledge, enriched his retentive
 memory with every thing that history and philology, in the most
 expensive sense, can offer to the attentive inquirer.                No science
 was foreign to him.            All served as a basis to his studies, which
 were constantly directed to natural philosophy, and the know
 ledge of the earth and its inhabitants.               He always advanced be
 fore his age, and often knew what others only presumed.                     After
  1779 and 1780, when he first lectured on oryktognosis and
 geognosis, at Frieberg, he was heard with gratitude by scholars
 from all parts of Europe.             Never contented with what was dis
  covered, always seeking something new, he rather formed
  scholars who wrote than wrote himself.                But many MSS. almost
  wholly ready       for  the press  are  included   in his fine library, collec
 tion of       coins   and   MSS.   bequeathed on the day of his death to
 the
  LUC Mineralogical         Academy, for 5000 crowns.            In his lectures
      h; i
 he had only heads of the subject before him.                   In lecturing he
  used to abandon himself, as he was accustomed to say, to the
  inspiration of his mineralogical muse; and when his spirit ho
  vered over the waters and the strata, he often became animated
  with lofty enthusiasm.           But he caused his lectures to be written
  out by approved scholars; and by revising himself what they had
    "
      ius written after him, made      it,     properly speaking,   a   MS.      A
       eat many parts of his lectures have been made public             byothers,
        ong which may be reckoned what Andic, at Brunn in Mo-
        ia, has published in the valuable journal Hesperus.              But no-
       ing bears the confirmation of the seal of the master.             What    is
         ticularly desirable is      the publication of his manuscript on
       ineralogical Geography (which he only once drew up for a
   particular lecture), and upon the Literature of Mineralogy, in
   which he solved the difficulties of the ancient classic mineralogy,
   and gave incomparable illustrations of Pliny's Natural History.
   He was like   a       father to all his scholars, to whom he was          amo
   del not only as    a       man of science, but as a moral character,
   Ha
   "aving filled, from the year 1792, a high situation in the Council*

             lale Professor  of Mineralogy     at Frielerg.         185
r>f    the Mines, he had a great share in the direction both of the
Mineralogical Academy and of the administration in general.
Two things must be mentioned here with particular honour — the
works begun in 17S6, to furnish a great part of the deeper mines
with water, in order to get water for driving the wheels. This
 astonishing aqueduct, particularly the artificial canal of Doer-
 renthal, with its subterraneous bricked channels, already extend
 ing above a league, are in the main due to him, though Scheuch-
 ler made the plan, and Lampe the calculations.             By the con
 tinued support of the ever active king of Saxony, this great work
 still proceeds in the most prosperous manner. The Amalgama
 tion works, twice built by the excellent Charpentier, chief of the
  Council of the Mines, (the first building was maliciously burnt
 down,) and for ever secured by most ingenious fire-engines from
 similar accidents, are indeed unique: — a miracle to all who be
 hold them, and a jewel in the crown of the Saxon art of mining,
 and of the unostentatious energy with which the sovereign of
 Saxonv caused the most expensive undertakings to be executed
  in silence.    Less known and visited by foreigners, though on it
  depends the continuation of the mining in Saxony, is this un
  dertaking of canals and aqueducts, which has already cost above
  half a million of crowns, and on which more than a thousand
  men are employed.        The mineralogical survey and description
  of all Saxony, divided into districts, which has been prosecuted
  for these twenty years, under scholars of Werner, and includes
   the forest of Thuringen, and even a part of the Harz, uniting
  too with the mountains on the frontiers of Bohemia and Silesia,
   will one day give our country a mineralogical map, which for
  exactness and extent surpasses what any other country can pro
   duce.    This too was Werner's work, and was constantly directed .
   by him in the most attentive manner.          In his visits to Prague
   and Vienna, he found means to interest the Austrian government
   in these mineralogical surveys; and it is to be hoped that the en
   lightened Bavarian government, as well as the direction of the
   mines in the Prussian monarchy under Werner's grateful scholars
    in Berlin and Silesia, will readily contribute to support and com
   plete the great work which Werner so happily set on foot.           In
    England and Scotland excellent mineralogical maps of single
   counties have lately been published according to Werner's ideas.
    His cabinet of minerals, unrivalled in completeness and scientific
    arrangement, and consisting of above 100,000 specimens, has
    become, in consideration of a life annuity, the amount of which
    devolves to the Institution itself, the property of the Frieberg
     Mineralogical Academy.       Werner's favourite pupil Koehler is
    appointed inspector of it.     Werner had received, from England
   an offer pf 50,000 crowns for it. He sold it to his country for
                                                                  40,000,

  186            Memoir of Abraham Gottlol Werner,
 40,000, of which he reserved the interest of 33,000 as an an
 nuity ; hut made the condition, that after his own death, and
 that of his only sister, who is without children, the interest should
 continue to be annually paid to the Mineralogical Academy; so
 that this, his only daughter, as it may be called, obtains an ad
 ditional annual income of 1 600 crowns.
     Werner's literary studies, like his mind, embraced every branch
 of science.      Every thing excited his thirst of knowledge, and
 thus it often happened that he dedicated all his attentipn to re
 searches which seemed to lie entirely out of his sphere.        His in
 quiries  into  the direction of the  mountains of the first and second
 formation, led him to the seat and the migrations of the aboriginal
 tribes and their branches. To this were soon joined inquiries into
 the original languages and radical syllables, which he prosecuted
 with the greatest acuteness, and reduced into tables.             Soon
 arose an universal glossary of all the radical syllables and cha
 racteristic sounds, in all the languages with which he was ac
 quainted ; which he studied with ardour, and to complete his
 knowledge of which, he purchased the most expensive works ;
 thus he gave sixty crowns for Hiekes' Thesaurus, and but lately
 eighty crowns for Walton's great Polyglot.         His antiquarian re
 searches into the mineralogy of the ancients made him a pas
 sionate friend of archeeology, and the most costly works on that
 subject were purchased by him.         One branch of archeology, the
 numismatology      of the  ancients,  had  become so favourite a pur
 suit with him during the last eight years of his life, that he pur
 chased entire collections of medals, and in a short time was in
 possession of above 6000 ancient Greek and Roman coins: this
 enabled him to make interesting researches into the different
 mixtures of the metals, and on the arts of adulteration; and in
 order tp make* all more clear, he arranged entire series of false
coins.     An unedited silver coin of his collection, which he gave
 to the great connoisseur Catauro, in Milan, is still the subject of
a numismatic controversy between the Vienna and Italian con
noisseurs.      The examination, which was to be printed, was in
tended to he dedicated to Werner.          The practice which he had
had in studying the direction of the mountains and the surface
of the earth, made him an excellent judge of ground, and in
spired him with a great fondness for military tactics.       He studied
the art of war with great diligence, read the accounts given by
masters in this branch, and acquired a fine collection of military
books.      Officers of the engineers and general staff were surprised
to hear him speak of the mistakes committed by the allies from
want of due knowledge of the ground, in their attack upon
Dresden in August 1813, where he happened to be present. His
name was mentioned at the head quarters qf the allied sovereign*
                                                                      at

               late Professor of Mineralogy at Frielerg.             187
 at Frankfort, and he was invited to repair thither; but his in
  flexible attachment to his king made him decline the invitation.
 Medicine also attracted his attention, at first as lying in the cir
 cle of the sciences connected with natural history, but afterwards
 in the latter years of his life, that he might be enabled to judge
 of the bodily sufferings of himself and others; so that medical
  books were his favourite reading, and conversation on medical
 subjects what he preferred to everv other.        Ever ready to afford
 assistance,    he  was  happy, when    he visited a sick friend, to be
 able to give medical advice, and also to judge of his own situa
 tion which he often thought precarious.           The danger of such?
 an inclination, which can never lead to any thing further
 than empiricism, is evident.      His best friends, among whom we
 may reckon the veteran of the healing art, the venerable Dr.
 Kapp, at Dresden, sometimes reproved him for this ; but it re
 mained his favourite hobby-horse.         He had made a very witty
 table of diseases according to the stages of human life, from in
fancy to old age: he was a sworn enemy to vinegar and all kinds
of milk diet, but a determined beef-eater. In other respects he
 lived very temperately, drank but little wine, and was especially
 and anxiously careful about warm clothing and warm rooms. He
first visited Carlsbad, when a boy of only fourteen years of age,
 and had since been there forty-one times.            Here, even in the
 latest part of the autumn, he         always   acquired new strength.
 Had not imperious circumstances hindered him this time from
 visiting sooner the salutary fountain, which had become abso
 lutely necessary to him, he would perhaps have still lived.          He
 was fond of travelling, and spoke with emotion and pleasure of
 his visit to Paris in 1802, where he was received with the greatest
 respect.     Though not indifferent to external distinctions, to the
 diplomas of foreign academies and learned societies, he never
 sought or asked for them, and in conversation never attached any
 value to them.       However, he was justly proud of being a mem
 ber of the Institute of France, and of the Wernerian Society in
 England. Even on his death-bed he learnt with joy from his former
 pupil and faithful friend the Professor of Natural History at
 Edinburgh (Jamieson), that not only several mineralogical so
 cieties flourished in Great Britain, but that professorships of
 mineralogy on Werner's principles were founded at Oxford,
 Cambridge, London, Glasgow, Cork, Dublin, and Belfast.               At
 his suggestion a union pf friends of natural philosophy and mi
 neralogy was formed last winter in Dresden, where Werner him
 self presided.     He was in the best sense of the expression a citi
 zen of the world.        Every newspaper that he read, excited in
 him a pious wish for the happiness of mankind, for truth and
justice.     In the last days of his life, his eye was most frequently
                                                                directed

 188          Memoir of Abraham Gottlob Werner.
directed to the Brasils, where the excellent Oranjo was his friend,
and many Germans now employed there his scholars.                In his
thoughts he followed every traveller, and put questions to him,
in his own mind, such as Michaelis once wrote for Niebuhr and
Forskael.     His house was the constant rendezvous of curious
travellers, from  all countries and of all ranks ; and he showed
to them all, with uncommon patience and attention, his museum,
and especially his collection of precious stones, which excites
surprise by the value and variety of the specimens.        He did not,
however, like writing letters, because he preferred personal in
tercourse to every thing, and dreaded a loss of time.        This dis
interested participation, in whatever promoted in any country
the interests of knowledge and humanity, did not hinder him
from being the most faithful son of his own country, the most
loyal reverer of his king.       He refused every invitation from
abroad, {and   he received  at  an  early period several very brilliant
and enticing opes,)    and  was   for many years contented with a
very moderate salary, supporting himself by private lectures.
He made presents to all the academies and public schools of
Saxony, and endeavoured by this means every where to excite a
predilection for natural philosophy.       Those who were most inti
mately connected with him, enjoyed his tenderest interest and
care. — " In his house," said Boettiger, in his farewell address on
the eminence of Gorbitz, " company dailv assembled for his ad
vice; and the same hand with which he felt the pulse of nature,
raised and supported every unfortunate.         His simple manners,
his cordial cheerfulness, and his social playfulness, made him the
favourite of his fellow-citizens.      When Werner entered, everv
countenance brightened ; the women, too, loved the company of
a man who, without insipid compliments, always had something
delicate and entertaining to say to them.         In his earlier years
his feeling heart would doubtless have made him highly suscepti
ble of enjoying the sweets of domestic life ; but he did not find
what he sought.      In later years he renounced the idea of them,
out of love to science, and was fully indemnified by the cordial
attachment of his pupils and friends.       Penetrated with that true
devotion which worships God in spirit and in truth, he often
preached to his pupils the purest morality, which he confirmed
by his own example; and even in his lectures often rose with
genuine enthusiasm from the miracles of nature to their Divine
Author. — Such was the man of whom his contemporaries and
his country will be always proud ; a man equally distinguished
by his rare learning, and by his goodness of heart and unspotted
character.    How just is the grief caused by such a loss ! His
fairest monument is the gratitude of his pupils, who are spread
over all the countries of the world.       But his doctrines and his
                                                                    life

              " The
Preface    to        Natural History   of the Mineral Kingdom."        1 8!?
life will not fail of public acknowledgement and praise-.             This
tribute will be given him from France, England, and Italy.
 Neither must the tongue of his pupils in Germany be mute.
May Von Leonhard dedicate to him his second lecture in the
Academy at Munich ! May Steffens, 1) llmann, Hausmann, Mohs,
 Moll, Linke, and Weiss, and above all the feeling Schubert, speak
of him ! May Gilbert, who defended him against the violent
 Chenevix, erect a memorial to him in his Annals! — Nor can we
doubt but some monument of marble or bronze will be raised to
his memory, to which British gratitude and generosity will gladly
subscribe, and Frieberg afford a suitable situation to be inclosed
 for the purpose.        For the present we hope that Bohme, or
 Buchhorn, will engrave the fine portrait of him, by G. Von Ku-
 gelchen, in Dresden, which was intended for his museum, for
 the satisfaction of his numerous scholars and friends.           His most
glorious monument,         however,  will always   be   the  Mineralogical
 Academy, preserved in uninterrupted activity by his worthy
 scholars ; that academy which he himself sometimes called his
 beloved daughter, and richly endowed; those who go thither
on a pilgrimage, those who there receive instruction, will pay
 continued homage to the manes of Werner.
 XXVIII.     Preface   to "The Natural History of the Mineral King
    dom.      By John Williams, Mineral Surveyor, F.S.S.AJ'*
 Great Britain has long ago been called a fortunate island ;
 and it must be acknowledged that the appellation is as proper
 to Britain as to any other island or country in the world.            The
 soil of this island is adapted to produce excellent grain and fruits.
 Her downs and verdant hills are covered with store of the best
 of sheep, which yield excellent fleeces for our manufactures, as
 well as food for our tables.       Numerous herds of beeves are fed
 upon her mountains and in her meadows, and her seas and rivers
 abound in the most delicious fish. The climate of this island is
 mild and healthy; her mountains breathe the purest air, and
 abound in the sweetest springs, and her valleys are washed and
 fertilized by pure and limpid streams.
    This fortunate island is placed almost in the centre of the ha
 bitable world, with free and ready egress to the Mediterranean,
 the Baltic, the East and West Indies, and all other seas to the
 south and north ; — the most convenient situation for extensive
                   • See             of Phil. Mag. art.
                         last Number                     1^.
                                                                commerce,

  196                     to " the Natural tihlorij
                  Preface
  commerce, which is greatly facilitated by the safety and prOdi-1
  gious extent of her sea-coasts, the depth and numbers of her
  rivers, and the depth and numbers of her bays and sinuses all
 round the island. — Her forests produce the hardiest oaks for
 ship-building, and her sea-ports the best and hardiest sailors, who
 are in a manner bred upon the water ; and no island in the world
 ever yet arrived at such commercial eminence, and, in conse
 quence, at such a height of power, wealth, and grandeur.
     But it is not all the external productions of this island put to-;
 gether, favoured as she is by the goodness of her soil and situa
 tion, and assisted by the excellence of her constitution, and the
 utmost exertion of the genius of her sons, that ever was, or ever
 will be able to raise her to such a height of power and wealth,
 or to such commercial and political consequence in the world.
 The soil of some other countries is as good as that of Britain.
 The island of Sicily produces as excellent grain and better fruits,
 and some parts of Spain as good, if not better fleeces.      But Bri
 tain has other valuable sources of commerce and wealth.          The
 materials of many of the various and extensive manufactures of
 the island, are derived from the bowels of the earth, from her
 plentiful mines and coal-works. .
     This is the source of the materials of our most numerous and
 extensive manufactures, and of the utensils of them all ; and it
 is our manufactures that fill and extend the channels of com
 merce, and bring home our wealth from afar.
     This island is a nursery of arts, as well as of manufactures and
commerce.
     It is a curious and entertaining amusement to reflect upon the
connexion and dependence of the arts upon one another, and
upon the improvements and advances of society in a polished
commercial country.        A man of genius and of judgement, equal
to the task, with a stock of information and scope of thought
like Raynal, who would write a book to show us the progress
and improvements of the useful arts, the era of remarkable dis
coveries and their effects, and the influence which the improve
ments of the useful arts have upon the commercial and political
state of the nation, and of the world in general, would deserve
the thanks of his country for the extensive information, useful
instruction, and national entertainment which his book would
afford.
     Perhaps it would then appear, that the great quantity and va
riety of metal which this island produces has more influence upon
the commerce, wealth, and power of the nation than we are ac
customed to imagine at present.        But as 1 have neither abilities
nor materials fox auch inquiries, I will leave them to be investi-"
                                                                gated

                    of the Mi?ieral Kingdom'*                     191
gated by such as are equal to the task.     This much, however, ap
pears very obvious to me, that great numbers are profitably em
ployed in our mines, and in conveying the metals out of the nation;
that the value of these metals, whether raw or manufactured, is
all clear gain to the nation ; that still greater numbers are em
ployed to work upon the metals for all useful and ornamental
commodities, and for all utensils, trades, and arts.
    What is done without the metals ? Look into the kitchens
and buffets of the great and wealthy: what profusion!         And yet
all for use.   When we pass through Cheapside in London, one
might imagine that all the metal of the world was furbished up
and arranged there for his inspection; and yet it is in some pro
portion equally plentiful every where.     The utility of the metals
is analogous to their abundance. The mathematical-instrument-
maker does but little without them, and much is used by the
blacksmith, whitesmith, coppersmith, pewterer, tin-plate worker,
coachmaker, cabinet-maker,      clockmaker, silversmith, engraver,
printer, &c. The quantities used by the various sorts of found
ers, and the plumbers, are immense.
    But if you would wish to have a full and comprehensive view
of the profusion and great utility of the metals, step into the work
shops and warehouses of Birmingham.            How many thousands
are there at work ! What amazing quantities of wrought goods
are stored there ready for exportation and home consumption !
There you will see them busied in making all that is worn of
metal by the lady and her maid, the clown and the beau, the
horse and his rider, both for ornament and real use ; and their
warehouses contain enough for half the world, which must pass
through the channels of commerce.          In short, the plenty and
variety of our own metals, and the plenty and excellent quality
of our coals, enable us to manufacture and export more and
greater variety of metallic goods than any other nation what
ever.
    From this imperfect sketch of the profusion and extensive use
of our metals, I would infer the great importance of the British
mines to the commerce, wealth, and grandeur of the nation ; and
I would likewise infer the importance of improvements in the
natural history of the mineral kingdom in such a country, espe
cially at this period.
    Mineralogy is now become a fashionable study in most coun
tries of Europe, and many useful and entertaining discourses have
been made of late years.    But the present vogue and reputation
of this branch of knowledge is nothing in comparison of its great
utility. There cannot be a more interesting study for a Briton;
for while we hav$ extensive mines and collieries, and while the
                                                          production

                              "
                  Preface io     The Natural  Hhiory
production of them can be obtained at a moderate expense, we
shall be considerable as a manufacturing and a commercial peo
ple.
    It is a particular loss to the increase of knowledge in the na
tural history of the mineral kingdom, that this branch of science
is neglected in our public schools.       Mineralogy is taught in the
universities abroad.       I believe, that what may be called fos-
rilogy, or the arrangement and description of mineral fossils, is
taught in some of our public schools; but their instructions are
founded upon small detached samples, the collections of the ca
binet, which leave the country gentleman and the young miner
as much in the dark as before, with respect to the knowledge
 of Nature and of real mineral appearances, which are the true
 -ources of useful knowledge in these matters; and this species
of knowledge is of great importance.
    No country in the world depends so much upon the produc
 tions of the mineral kingdom, for the means of comfortable ac
commodation, wealth, and power, as the island of Britain.
    Coal is now become of such immense consequence to our cities
and populous counties, to our forges and other manufactures, that
it was impossible for us to have arrived at such commercial emi
nence, and it is as much impossible for us to support our present
 flourishing state of society without it ; and we are equally in
debted to the other parts of the mineral kingdom for many of the
staple commodities, which are so widely diffused in the numerous
channels of our extensive commerce.
    When we consider that many thousands, 1 may say millions, of
industrious hands are employed one way or other about the pro
duce of the mineral kingdom in this island, we are convinced of
the importance of the increase of knowledge in mineralogy, and
of the advantage that would accrue to the nation from the insti
tution of a class for teaching this science at our public schools.
    It may be said, that the necessary aids for such an institution
are wanting in this island ; — there has not yet appeared any
genuine natural history of the mineral kingdom, founded on such
sound principles of philosophy, as would enable a teacher to lay
the foundation of, and to complete a continued course of instruc
tions in the science of mineralogy.       There are not, that I know
of, many valuable books upon the subject in our language, ex
cepting such as treat of chemistry or metallurgy, and such as
arrange and describe fossil bodies, as they are found in the cabi
nets of the curious, — almost all the rest is nothing but wild
xheory and system, built upon fanciful notions and opinions, the
fruits' of the closet, which have no foundation in the truth of facts,
as they appear in natural history ; .and therefore such books can

                          of the Mineral Kingdom.'*                193
  fee   of no use but to amuse, to multiply diversity of opinions, and
   to increase ignorance of the real knowledge of nature.
       It is this consideration which induces me to give to the public
  a work the fruit of more than forty years experience and obser
  vation, to which great opportunities and a mind ardent in re
  searches of this, nature prompted me.      How I have executed my
  plan, the public shall judge : but I flatter myself, from the great
  number of facts I have ascertained, and from the many disco
  veries I have made, that my observations may be productive of
  real use to mankind, by exciting the pursuit of, and giving a
  proper direction to the studv of this science, with more pleasure,
  ease, and proficiency than hitherto.
      The knowledge of truth in every branch of science is pleasant
  and profitable ; and it is generally acknowledged, that natural
  history is the most pleasant and profitable of all human studies
  and researches ; and of all the parts of natural history, the mi
  neral kingdom is the most magnificent and august, provided
  that we study nature herself.
      There is a noble air of grandeur and magnificence in the sec
 tions of lofty piles of strata, in huge rugged rocks, and hanging
 precipices, in profound caverns, and high and extensive cliffs of
 the sea, not to be found in order objects around us.
      These scenes astonish and captivate the mind at first sight ;
 and the better we are acquainted with them, the more we are
 enraptured with the view of the wonderful and endless variety
 which we discover in these scenes of nature ; and habitual ap
 plication to these researches assimilates the mind by degrees to
 the greatness of the subject.
     Discoveries of truth and attainments of knowledge in these
 researches have the happiest effect on the human mind.             In
 pursuing these studies successfully, the mind is elevated, the un
 derstanding is enlarged and filled with great ideas, and all the
 powers of the soul are exalted and pleased at being able to com
 prehend somewhat of these great works of God.
     In short,! conclude that there are no human studies so amusing,
so entertaining, and delightful as these, when the student delights
in the sequestered scenes of nature.        There is such a dignity
and variety in every part of this subject, that it is impossible for
a person of any genius and taste to be cloyed with these pur-"
suits.
    Who" can possibly weary of endless change, and all either
astonishingly great, or fantastically grotesque, or beautifully re
gular ; and I know well, that the more we improve in the know
ledge of these natural scenes, the more we delight in them ; and
therefore, without being a prophet, I will venture to predict, that
whenever young gentlemen of genius and attention take pleasure
    Vol.50. No.233. Sept.       mi.            N                   in

 194             Preface to
                            " The Natural   History
 in  these researches, it may be then proclaimed, that the darkness
 is past, and that the glorious light of science is rising upon the
 mineral horizon.
     Great and rapid progress will then be made in this branch of
 natural knowledge, and the mineral kingdom will soon be un
 derstood as well as the animal and vegetable kingdoms.          But
 the importance of these studies should be preferred to the plea
 sure of them in this mining, manufacturing, and commercial
 country, where it may be supposed there are but few landed
 estates that do not contain some mine or mineral fossil or other,
 which may contribute to the public good, and to private emolu
 ment ; and, therefore, I wish to excite a lively sense of the im
 portance of increasing mineral knowledge.
     In such a country as this, young gentlemen of landed property
 should be initiated in the principles of mineralogy, and such
 youth as aim at professional abilities in mineral lines of business,
 should have it in their power to lay an early foundation of know
 ledge in this branch of natural history, which is the best way to
 arrive at eminence in the stations they are intended to fill.
     T have, in the following    sheets, contributed a small moiety
           the acquisition of knowledge in mineral science,
       lave treated pretty fully of the natural history of the strata
 of coal, and of such other strata as are found to accompany coal ;
 I have treated fully and distinctly of the appearances, indica
tions, and symptoms of coal ; and I have been very careful to
 distinguish the real and certain appearances from such as are
either false or doubtful.
    In this part of my subject I have taken due pains to investi
gate and explain every thing that I thought would throw light
upon, and communicate useful information, relating to a subject
of so much importance to society; and I am persuaded that my
treatise upon coal will be of use to landed gentlemen, towards
facilitating the progress of youth in the knowledge of this branch
of natural history, and as an index for the young coal-master.
    The second subject treated of in this work is the Natural His
tory of Mineral Veins, and of the other beds and repositories of
the precious and useful metals. I did not at first intend to publish
my treatise concerning metallic mines at this time, because it is
not completed ; but when the first part of my work was put in
the press, I reflected that this second part contains a number of
particulars which may be useful to landed gentlemen and young
miners ; and as it is very uncertain whether I shall proceed any
further in these mineral essays than the two volumes now pub •
lished, I thought it was better to offer this in its present imper
fect state, than to suppress it altogether.
    The history and description of mineral veins is perhaps more
                                                                  full

                      of the Mineral Kingdom."                      195
full   and explicit than can be found any where else.        The pre"
tepts upon shoading and hushing are the result of much practice :
the observations and instructions concerning the appearances
and symptoms of mines will give satisfaction, and be a sure guide
to all such as have occasion to consult them ; and the local ex
amples of the appearances of some valuable mines may, in the
course of time, be of great use to society.
     Such historical facts have always been considered as valuable
communications.        In short, all that is advanced in this imper
fect fragment is the fruit of my own observation and experience;
and, therefore, it should be of some value, such productions being
generally useful to society.
     These two essays upon coal and the metallic mines compose
the first volume.
     In the second volume I proceed to take a view of the prevail
ing strata of Great Britain, and of many interesting phenomena
of the superficies of our globe.
     The philosophy or natural history of the superficies of the
 globe is an interesting subject to all mankind in a social state.
     Many of the necessaries, and most of the conveniencies of
 life are found either upon or a little within the surface of the
 globe, being the productions of the mineral kingdom ; andiwe
 are obliged to many of the strata for the plenty and excellence
 of our food.
      Lime is of great use to meliorate the soil, and to stimulate or
 excite vegetation ; and the gradual weathering and decomposi
 tion of the superficies of many other strata, restore and increase
 the soil, which may be in part exhausted or carried away by
 rains and currents ; and if we look upon our houses, and within
 them, we may soon perceive how much we are indebted to the
 mineral kingdom.
      The most remarkable phenomena which present themselves
 to us upon the surface, and as far as we penetrate within the sur
 face of the globe, are remarked and explained in this third part
 under several heads.
      1st. I have taken a view of the prevailing rocks and strata of
 this island, to see which of them are stratified, and which of
 them are not.       On this head I have examined the appearance,
 colours, quality, thickness, regularity, bearing, slope, and course
 of the several classes of strata : I have collected a great number
 of interesting facts and local examples ; and I have been at great
  pains to select, and to examine particularly such strata as are
 most useful to society.
      2d. I have treated of the stratification of the superficies of our
 globe by the agency of water.        In this disquisition the enlight
 ened and candid naturalist will find a considerable number of
                                            "
                                 N 2                           abstruse,

                         «
1 96           Preface to The Natural History
abstruse, but interesting phenomena above ground and below,
raised from obscurity, and treated of and explained upon rational
principles, in a clear, convincing, and satisfactory manner.
    3d. I have examined part of the modern system of Count
Buffon and others upon this subject, to see how they correspond
with the real structure of the superficies of the globe, and other
phenomena of nature; and what I have advanced under this
head will bear the severest scrutiny bv every test.
    4th. I have treated of the natural history of mountains, and
of their glens and excavations, which is a sublime and difficult
subject.    In this part the height and figure of the mountains,
the profundity, direction, and extent of their excavations, the
exterior and fnterior structure, with all the most remarkable
phenomena of mountains, and other irregularities of the surface
of the globe, are fully accounted for and explained to a demon
stration, upon the principles of the agency of water, and of the
prodigious height and force of the diluvian tides ; and the clear
light which is thrown upon this great subject, will convince every
candid naturalist of the truth of my propositions.
    5th. I have examined the nature, or quality, the size, figure,
and other phenomena of the larger grains and fragments which
are found in the composition of our rocks and strata ; and these
inquiries naturally lead us into profound and interesting disqui
sitions relating to the universal deluge, — to the present and the
antediluvian earth.
    This profound and awful subject is naturally mysterious and
obscure, but it has been involved in infinitely greater obscurity
and confusion by the theories and systems of all ages, as the
subject never has been well understood        out of which obscurity
and confusion I have endeavoured to raise    it, and to explain and
illustrate the doctrine of the deluge upon rational principles,
agreeable to the laws and phenomena of nature.
    6th.
       I   h ave madea    few observations concerning several oflier
subjects relating to the mineral kingdom, among which there
will be found an interesting treatise of volcanoes.
 I    beg leave in this place to observe, that in all this work  I
aim at being useful to society, especially within the limits of my
own country, — my native island but
                                 ;     in  the tract upon volcanoes
my genius and imagination soars above the height of the British
mountains, and takes   a   view of all mankind upon the whole face
of the globe, and especially where they now are, or may here
after be plagued with the dreadful calamity of volcanoes and ;
I  hope to be the instrument of saving many lives from sudden
destruction, — to mitigate the miseries and abridge common
losses in volcanic countries
                           ;    and
                                  if   my rules and instructions for
that purpose are thoroughly considered and followed,
                                                             I   am

                      of the Mineral Kingdom."                    197
    I am persuaded that what I have written will produce happy
cf&cts.     The tract upon volcanoes is founded upon experimental
science and real knowledge of natural history; and, therefore, I
hope, that in time, very happy consequences will result from my
essay upon this subject ; in composing which, the whole powers
of my soul were animated and exerted in fervent desires of doing
good.
    The dissertations concerning the balance of the waters of the
ocean, and the accumulated mountains of ice and frozen snow,
which mutually and reciprocally depend upon and illustrate one
another ; concerning the peopling of America by land from the
north-east of Asia, and its being stocked with land animals from
Armenia, in an early age, before the mountains of frozen snow
were greatly accumulated ; — concerning the pestilential effects
of humid vapours arising from the slime of new-formed lands,
from marshes and extensive woods in warm countries, mid how
to mitigate these dismal calamities, and to banish these under
mining enemies of the human race ; — concerning the deepening
and improving the beds and bars of the navigable and other rivers
of the world, and the draining and improving of marshes, new
formed, and wood-lands, with the great and glorious conse
 quences of such works, for the health, longevity, general happi
ness, and prosperity of all nations ; are humbly submitted to the
examination and censure of such candid and benevolent philoso
 phers as make advances in useful improvements, and the pro
sperity and happiness of mankind the ultimate end of the exer
 tion of their talents.
     In these dissertations they will find many valuable hints, which
they can improve, and a great deal of matter of vast importance
 and consequence to the health and welfare of the world, very ill
 put together, and in an uncouth dress, but which they may ar
 range, improve, and clothe in better language.
     Since writing the above, and all I proposed to advance at pre
 sent in the following essays, I have perused a New Theory of the
 Earth, by James Hutton, M.D. F.R.S. Edinburgh, concerning
 which I beg leave to make a few remarks in this place.
     Dr. Hutton is a naturalist of eminent abilities, whose know
 ledge in several branches of mineralogy does honour to his coun
 try, as some of his observations in the treatise under review
  clearly evince.    The propositions he states, with the conclusions
  he draws from them, to confirm his hypothesis in the theory of
  the earth, shall be the subject of the following observations.
     The Doctor's general system in his theory of the earth may
  be comprised in these four propositions.
      1st. That all our rocks and strata have been formed by sub-
                                   N 3                         sidence

  198            Preface  to " The   Natural History
 sidence under the waters of a former ocean, from the decay of and
 waste of a former earth, carried down to the sea by land-floods.
     2d. That these submarine rocks and strata were heated to the
 degree of fusion by subterraneous fire, while immersed under the
 waters of the ocean, by which heat and fusion the lax and porous
 sediment was consolidated, perfectly cemented, and all the pores
 and cavities filled up by the melted matter, while the whole mass
 was in a state of fusion.
     3d. That the rocks and strata, so formed and consolidated
 under the waters of the ocean, were afterwards inflated and forced
 up from under water by the expansive power of the subterraneous
 fire, to the height of our habitable earth, and of the loftiest
 mountains upon the surface of the globe.
     4th. That these operations of nature, viz. the decay and waste
 of the old land, the forming and consolidation of new land under
 the waters of the ocean, and the change of the strata now form
ing under water to future dry land, is a progressive work of na
ture, which always did, and alwavs will go on in a perpetual
 succession, forming world after world.
     I. The first of these propositions has been fully answered and
 refuted before it was written, at least before it was published, in
my examination of the system of Count Buffon in his Theory
 of the Earth, which will be found in the second volume of my
 Essays upon the Mineral Kingdoms, concerning which, I will
venture to say, and the candid intelligent naturalist will sav with
me, that I have not left the Doctor so much as a particle of
earthy matter to form one of his future worlds, if a single parti
cle would save the whole succession.
     I have now effectually cut off all his supplies, and appropriated
them to a better use ; and I hope it will be acknowledged, that
I have made a good use of them. There is little or no difference
between Count Buffon and Dr. Hutton in this part of their se
veral theories ; and therefore, what I have advanced concerning
Buffon's, is equally applicable to the Doctor's.
    I have, in my examination of Count Buffon's Theory, frankly
acknowledged the truth of almost all that the Count and the
Doctor advance about the weathering, decomposition, and waste
of the superficies of many of our rocks and strata, and of our
mountains and cavernous shores.
    The spoils of the mountains are carried down by land-floods
to the valleys and to the borders of the ocean.       So far we go to
gether      but here we must part, as I positively deny that any
strata are formed under the waters of the ocean.             I have, in
that part of my essays, made it evident to a demonstration, that
the sea purges itsel. by the tides of all the earthy matter carried
                                                                  down

                     of I he Mineral Kingdom."                              199
tlown by the floods, which earthy matter is thrown bach upon
 the shores, in the bays and creeks, and at the mouths of great
rivers, where, by degrees, it enlarges the bounds of the dry land
in exact proportion to the quantity carried down by the floods.
    In that part of my essays, I have clearly demonstrated, that
the earthy matter washed off the face of our mountains and rocks
has no manner of tendency to the real waste and destruction of
the present earth ; so far from   it,that on the contrary, the ha
bitable parts of the earth are gradually, but really and effectually
renovated, enlarged, and improved thereby.        have proved, that
                                                     I
many lakes, marshes, and frightful gulphs among the mountains
and in the plains, have been filled up in the course of the rivers
of the world, which are now rich, beautiful and habitable coun
tries ; that many millions of acres of new land have been made
in the valleys and plains, at the mouths of the rivers in the bays,
creeks, and shores of the ocean   ;  and that very many and ex
tensive portions of this new land are now the fat valleys       the    by
rivers, which are the scenes of population,wealth, and social hap
piness.
     It  upon this description of land that the highest number of
          is
the great commercial cities of the world are seated      such as, for
                                                              ;
instance, London, Amsterdam, Alexandria,          and many of the
cities of China, &c. which have long been the seats of learning
and the arts, of commerce, wealth, and glory.
    Whoever will take the trouble to peruse my essays, will be
convinced and satisfied that the Deltas, Belgias, and Carses, and
other descriptions of new land, formed anil forming         all parts
                                                                  in
of the world, fully and perfectly correspond with    the quantity of
matter washed off the mountains and rocks; and they will there
see  itclearly proved that all this   isreal,
                                        a      great, a substantial,
                                                 a
and a durable improvement of the present earth.
    Man cannot live upon the summits, nor high up the sides of
lofty mountains ;   but the frosts and thaws, and other changes of
the air and weather, decompose part of the superficies of the
mountains, which        carried down
                        is                 the floods to the valleys
                                            by
and to the margin of the sea, where new land           gradually in
                                                         is
creased, which enlarges the bounds of the earth in convenient
situations for increased population, and for all the improvements
which are necessary for increasing human and social felicity; —
and are not the spoils of the mountains much better disposed of
in this way, than   ifspread out at random through the bounds of
the ocean, to form imaginary worlds in the craniums of our mo
dern philosophers   ?
   But this use which the wise and benevolent providence of God
makes of the sediment of rivers in the ordinary course of things,
is not    well fancied hypothesis, proposed for the amusement or
          a
                              N   4                        confusion

 200                    Geological Queries regarding
   confusion of the inquisitive mind of man ; but it is a real and
   visible fact, which may be viewed, examined, and
                                                              thoroughly in
  vestigated by the man of leisure and abilities ; and I am per
  suaded, that if Dr. Hutton will read my papers upon this sub
  ject, he will be convinced of the errors of his hypothesis.
      Now, it being clearly demonstrated, that no strata are formed
  in the bed, or under the waters of the ocean, aH our author's
  investigations and reasoning upon that subject of course fall to
  the ground ; and I have in my
                                       essays made it evident to a de
 monstration, that       if,
                           for argument's sake, we allow the particles
 of matter carried down           by
                                  the rivers to be spread out over the
 bounds of the ocean, and to subside in               it,
                                                       we should, 111 lhat
 event, have no coal, no limestone, freestone, nor
                                                              any other use
 ful fossil body.
     We should have no such thing as strata, nor
                                                          bed, nor division
 of any kind whatsoever, but all would be one
                                                              uniform solid
 mass of sediment, compounded of all                             It
                                                things.           in vain to
                                                                      is
 say it   would be otherwise.      The known and acknowledged laws
 of Nature forbid   it  ; and all the experience we have of sediment
 proves the fact, that all would be             blended indistinguishable
                                                a
 mass, as have fully shown in my
                                           essays, to which          refer for
          I                                                            I
 clearing up the point under consideration.                 If
                                                           we can suppose
 any order or distinction        in
                                 sediment,      must agree with the laws
                                                it
 of gravitation ;   of course the heaviest particles would subside,
 and take possession of the lowest
                                         place, from which they would
 not be dislodged       by
                         the lightest.
     But we need not descend to particulars.
                                                        Stratification must
be performed       by a shallow spread and flow of water              but we
                                                                           :
cannot allow of stratification, nor of
                                             any distinction of strata of
different qualities under the bed or waters of the
                                                            ocean, without
a   miracle for each ;   and we need not have recourse to miracles,
when the phenomena of Nature can be
                                                    as well and better ex
plained upon rational and mechanical
                                                  principles, agreeable to
the known laws and visible
                                    operations of Nature.         But     will I
not insist upon this topic here.
                                             have already confuted this
                                             I
part of the Buffonian theory, and the
                                             Huttonian differs but little
from it.
                             [To be continued.]
XXIX.     Geological Queries regarding the Strata the Vicinity   of
    of Bridlington; and some Acknowledgements to Nathaniel
    John Winch, Esq.,&c. By Correspondent.  A
                                 To    Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Concerning               the causes of the ebbing and flowing of
the Spring of Water,           which rises in Mr. Rennie's Bore-hole in
                                                                       Bridlington

                the  Strata of the Vicinity      of Bridlington.        201
Bridlington Harbour, on the coast of Yorkshire, three occasional
Visitors of that place, Dr. John Storer, Mr. James Watt*, and
Mr.Gavin Inglis,have offered their several conjectures. Mr. Milne,
a resident, has done the same, and Mr. Hume has analysed its
waters,without the facts of the stratification, of that part of the
country, having sufficiently transpired, to enable myself and others
of your Readers, who have never had the opportunity of ex
amining that part, to form any safe opinion.                My object there
fore is now, to request         the  favour   of  Mr.  Winch,   whom I have
understood to intend an examination this Summer of the northern
part of the Yorkshire Coast, and I hope of this part also, and any
other practical Investigators of the strata, that they would an
 swer the following queries, through the medium of your pages, viz.
 Jst, Is the     " very   solid Clay" through which the borer passed
        28 feet (vol. xlv. p. 433) in reality a bed of alluvial Clay ? ;
        as the bed of "cretaceous flinty Gravel," 15 feet thick,
        through which the borer is said to have passed, next after
        the Clay, may be supposed to indicate ; owing to the fact,
        indisputable among practical Men, that real Gravel, is not
         found under any regular Strata: or,
 2d, Is the Clay above mentioned, an undisturbed stratum? ; and
         the flints which are mentioned, as occurring in Gravel, in
         reality, the fragments of nodules of Flint broken by the
         boring chisel, which were dispersed in the Marl or soft
         Chalk which was bored through, 15 feet, before a larger
         nodule, or a continuous bed of flint, stopped the further pro
         gress of the boring, into the Chalk Rock beneath ? : or,
         instead of their being real Flints, which were bored up, were
         they not chert nodtdes, broken perhaps by the auger ? and
          " the solid rock" which stopped the boring, concretion
         of a bed of the Sand, into the stone, usually called Gray
          Wethers?: or,
  3d, Instead of the Clay which was bored through, being part of
          the Plastic, Potters', or Brick Clay, regularly covering the
          upperChalk (sometimes without, but more commonly with,
          a Sand intervening) as I have supposed in the last querv:
          may it not form a stratum, between the upper and lower
          Chalk? : if it be correct, that the same stratum of Clay,
          stretches up the Wolds, so as to confme down the water in
          the Chalk around the Gipsies Springs f.            Because, if it be
     •  In  the Repertory   of Arts, vol. xxx. p. 342.
     t  Which    Spring I  observe, Mr. Arrowsmith's Map places, 2-Sds of a
  Mile N W of the Wold Cottage (where the largest British Meteoric Stone
  fell in 1795), and 1§ Mile ESE of Foxholes village, on the Hull and Scar
  borough Road.
                                                                      correct,

 202                 Geological  Queries regarding
       correct,  as Mr. Smith's   Map of the Strata shows, and I
      have always understood from other sources, the naked      Chalk,
       (and not its cover of London Clay) extends from Foxholes,
       S to Great Driffield and beyond, SE to Thornholm, and
       ESE almost or quite to Bridlington ? &c. : the Clay
       around this Gipsies Spring, cannot be the plastic Clay above
       the upper Chalk ; unless in a local Trough (which Mt. Smith
       has not shown) extending up the bottom of the vale from
       Bridlington to Foxholes ? : which seems improbable, 1
       think.
4th, What is the Rock spoken of by Mr. Milne (p. 434), as
       forming the base of the Smithwick Sand Reef, 4 miles out
       at Sea, SE from Bridlington, and presenting a Cliff under
      water, towards the east?     Is it the upper Chalk ? : — or, the
       Gray Wethers ? : — or any of the Limestones, &c. of the
       Isle of Wight and Paris Series?.    Concerning some of which
      last, so much has been fabled of late years, regarding their
     fresh-water origin, in distinction from the Strata in ge
      neral, which have, without sufficient proof been assumed,
      to have had a salt-water origin ?
5th, If " The Gipsies," spoken of in your last Number, p. 82,
      be the Spring 10| m. WNW from Bridlington, which has
      been mentioned in the 3d Query, situated almost on the
      summit of the Wold Hills ? : is it really true, that this Spring
      elbs and flows, periodically ? or is it credible, that this is
      anyway connected with the Tide in Bridlington Bay? — If
      there are other Gipsie Springs, much nearer to the Sea, and
      near to its level, to which allusion is made? ; instead of that
      one near Foxholes; where are they situated, by bearings
      and distances, and the streams by which they descend to
      the Sea ?
6th, In the case last supposed, and indeed with regard to all the
       Gipsie Springs, which have so loosely been alluded to ; is
      the superficial Clay, through which the water is said to
      "   ooze" and "weep," around them; in reality an alluvial
      covering, to water-worn, broken and heterogeneousGravel ? ;
      or a stratum, covering another porous and water-charged
      stratum beneath it ? : and in the latter case, which are these
      strata, in the Smithian Series ? — and whether alluvia or a
      stratum, is it clear, that the same extended and unbroken
     mass of Clay, covers the vicinities of the Gipsies and of
      Bridlington Bay Springs ?
   When the above queries are satisfactorily answered ; the truth
or otherwise, of the several ingenious hypotheses which have been,
advanced, with the view of explaining the alleged wonders of
                                                                  this

               the Strata   of the Vicinity of Bridlington.         203
this Spring*, can better be discussed : and until this is done, as
well as the facts of the Spring, stated on longer experience, I
shall hope to see your pages, sir, more usefully occupied, than in
prolonging so barren a discussion : at this day, localized facts,
not closet speculations, on Geological subjects, are wanted, by
great numbers of your Readers, as well as by
                             Your humble servant,
September 1, 1317.                            A CONSTANT READER.
           —
    P. S. I do not feel less obliged to your able and valuable
Correspondent Mr. Winch, for the important facts of his last
Letter, in p. 122, than if the same had more directly been stated,
ai corrections of the opinions he formerly gave, when answering
my Queries, (in p. 465 of your xlvith volume, p. 101 of vol. xlvii.)
as also in the Geo. Trans, iv. pp. 73, 74, 75, and 76, corre
sponding then, nearly, with those of Dr. Thomson, as to the
supposed unconformableness, of the masses of Basalt, scattered
over the northern parts of Northumberland.        Whether " the Basalt
alternate with the rocks of which the whole district is composed,"
or not ? is an important question of fact, to which my 2nd ques
tion, in p. 12 of your xlviith vol. directly went : and for the
answer now obtained, I beg most sincerely to thank Mr.Winch:
— the idle questions, as to whether newest floats Trap, or any
others of the Geognostic fancies, will apply to the Strata of
Northumberland, I will readily leave to Dr. Thomson and others
to decide.
    With regard to the last paragraph of Mr. W's Letter, I beg
leave to remark, that what he truly states, as to other sub
stances, when seen in contact with Basalt (both of Dykes and
Strata) sometimes appearing different in quality, from the ge
neral masses of those adjacent substances : is true also, in nu
merous instances, which I have seen, with regard to the contacts
of several other substances filling Dykes, or forming immediate
alternations of strata, without the intervention of the Wayboards
or partings, which more commonly are interposed: and, that
instead of considering, in such situations, the Slate Clay as turned
into flinty slate, &c. the Coal as being charred, the Sandstone,
 as changed, to a brick red, and the Limestone as rendered highly
crystalline, &c. by change* wrought on these masses, subsequent
 to their original formation, by heat, communicated to them from
 the Basalt when in a melted or Lava state :— on the contrary, I
 have seen, such abundant reasons for considering all these alleged
 changes, and mfmy others, as Mendings, or infiltrations of the
 component substances of the adjacent masses, coeval with the
    *
       Brighton, in Sussex, had in like manner its wonderful Wells, until
 1802,   when their mysteries were cleared up; see Nicholson's Journal,
 Bvo, iii. 65,
                                                              formation

204                 On the Rotary and Orbicular
formation of one of them : — or, as the consequence of a subse
quent chemical decomposition of one of the surfaces in contact :
— that I cannot doubt, if it could so occur, that Mr. W. or any
others of similar ways of thinking on this point, could conduct
me to the very strongest case in Great Britain, of their alleged
charring or changing of adjaeent substances, by the heat of Ba
salt : I could point out facts on the spot, which would completely
overturn such a supposition; — with hand Specimens, theoretically
selected, or with descriptions by others, so tinctured, the result
might possibly be otherwise.       This test, our theoretic inferences
must bear, in every instance, if they are worth anything, or
worthy of being communicated to others, or remembered.
    I have already and fully explained myself, in p. 253 of your
last volume and elsewhere, as to the locally variable thicknesses,
of continuous strata of Basalt, forming what may be considered
as somewhat irregular lenticular masses, either piano- or double
convex ; surely Mr. W. will on reconsideration agree with me
in thinking, that " wedge-shaped masses," but inaptly desig
nates them.     I hope that none of your succeeding Numbers, for
sometime, will appear without communications from Mr. Winch,
Mr. Forster, Mr. Fryer, or some other industrious Observers of
the Geological facts, of the northern English Counties, disposed
to freely communicate what they know.
    2d P. S. — I heartily wish that Mr. Winch, or his Friend to
whom he alludes in your last, would send up to Mr. Sower by
(No. 2, Mead-plaee, Lambeth) ample Specimens of all the kinds
of Shells, found in the Limestone of Wratcliff, or in any other
Quarries, with their precise localities marked ; in order that in
future Numbers of his " Mineral Conchology ," they may be
drawn, described, named and compared, with other distant lo
calities of the same species of Shells.      .              A. C. R.
XXX.     On the Rotary and Orbicular Motions        of the Earth. By
                            Mr. H. Russel.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —    I will    esteem  it a favour if you will give a place
                   in your publication, — and am, &c.
                                                                 to the
following letter3
   Norwich, July 24,  1817.                         HENRY RUSSEL.
                      " To Sir Richard Phillips.
    " Sir, — To  account for the attraction of gravitation, has long
been an object of my most serious inquiry, and 1 am sorry I can
not find in your paper (of last June) that gratification which by
                                                                    the

                         Motions   of the Earth.                    205
the title I was led to expect.      I cannot conceive what could in
duce you to suppose, that the orbicular and rotary motions of
the earth, are the cause of that great principal attraction, of
which you justly observe, the Newtonians and all the modern
schools of philosophy have acknowledged themselves ignorant.
   "  I think it is very easy to show, that these motions, which are
themselves only effects, cannot be the cause of what in every
point of view appears to be a first principle. If you were to
attempt an illustration of your theory by actual experiment, I
am persuaded you would discover its fallacy.
    A circular plane surface, ten or twelve inches in diameter,
lying in the plane of our horizon, with grooves cut in its upper
 surface on lines drawn from the centre to the circumference,
 might have a rotary motion given to           it,
                                              and    globules of mer
                                                         if
 cury were put into the grooves, the centrifugal force would             by
 them be exhibited, and you would find that no orbicular or any
 other motion, that )ou could communicate, would be able to
 bring all the globules of mercury at the same time to or towards
 the centre, which,  if  your doctrine was true, would undoubtedly
 be effected  by  giving  it  circular motion, similar to the motion
                               a
 of our earth in its orbit.
  I   should very much like that you would try this, or some other
 experiment,   by  way of illustration, before you apply your
                                                               " prin
 ciples to the phenomena of        a  system of bodies moving within
 the gaseous medium of universal space."
                                               T
    Let the circle   0   represent the orbit of our earth         the
                     E R
                                                              ;   S
 sun in the centre   ;    the earth    ;   P   E,
                                                line drawn from the
                                                     a
 centre of the earth through the point of projection; TG         tan
 gent of the earth; AD a diagonal of the rectangle DP             A, a
                                                                  the
 longer sides of which  are  to the shorter, as  the orbicular motion

206                  Experiments on Vegetation.
is to the rotary, or as eighty to one.     Let us suppose the axis of
the earth perpendicular to the plane       of the earth's orbit, that
the earth is turning from A to G, and that it moves in the orbit
in the direction E O.     A stone projected from the piont A, will
continue to rise till its vis inerlice is overcome by the attraction
of gravitation, by which it will be drawn to the point from whence
it was projected.    The orbicular and rotary motions of the earth,
have no power, whatever, to cause a body thus projected, to re
turn again to the earth ; but on the contrary, were it possible
that the earth could perform its revolutions, rotary and orbicular,
without the existing principle attraction the stone spoken of,
without the addition of any muscular or explosive force, would
not remain on the earth, but would          off in the direction
                                          fly                        D,
                                                                     A
in obedience to the indisputable laws of motion.          An attentive
examination of the annexed diagram, will familiarly show that            it
is impossible for   aprojectile thus neglected     by its guardian at
traction, ever again to return.
 I   am willing to admit, that the orbicular and rotary motions
of the earth combined, on account of the inclination of the earth's
axis, produce some peculiar effects not yet justly noticed       ;but    I
am more inclined to suppose that they are the cause of the pre
cession of the equinoxes, or of the nutation of the earth's axis,
than of that great and still unfathomable principle which cannot
but excite the wonder and admiration of unassuming philoso
phers.
     But admitting (which   I have not the least inclination to do)
that your theory holds good at the equator, how will you account
for the attraction of gravitation at or near the poles     How will
                                                             ?
you account for the horizontal attraction of the sun and moon             ?
will you be able to account for our tides, neap and spring           ?   If
you can give satisfactory answers to these questions, you will no
doubt very much stagger the present ideas of,
                            Sir, yours, &c.
Norwich, July 24, 1817.                          HENRY RUSSEL.
 XXXI.       On   Mr. Tatum's Experiments       on Vegetation.       By
                        A   Correspondent.
                            To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —     Inthe advanced state of chemical science, the accumu
       of experiments proceeds with so much rapidity, that
                                                                         it
lation                                                                   is
possible   a man of the most extensive reading may claim as a dis
covery     an observation which had been made       by
                                                   another.   But
when a correspondent pretends to enlighten one of the most
controverted subjects of experimental science           by
                                              views and ex
                                                   periments

                       Experiments       on Vegetation.                207
pertments which have been detailed in half a dozen professed
treatises, and otherwise promulgated in every possible way, he
surely betrays a most unpardonable ignorance.                 The corre
spondent to whom I allude is Mr. Tatum, who has favoured
you with a paper in a late Number, wherein he alludes to the
old story of the purification of the atmosphere by vegetable re
spiration, of which, he says, few or none doubt the correctness.
 Mr. Tatum however could not rest satisfied with the general
 adoption of this opinion, and in the true spirit of philosophic
research he determined to try the matter himself.             Accordingly
 his experiments teach him that seeds, when confined under a jar,
 evolve during germination onlv carbonic acid; and he moreover
 discovers that plants in common with animals consume the oxy
 gen of the air, which is accounted for in the formation of car
 bonic acid.     These facts no doubt would be very interesting dis
 coveries, had they not been discoveries of twenty years standing.
 I have said that Mr. Tatum's observations have been anticipated
 by half a dozen authors, and I think I shall be able to make good
 the assertion.     The opinion that plants purify the air originated,
 as is well known, with Dr. Priestley; but even he seems afterwards
 to have been aware of the inaccuracy of his conclusions; — "for,"
 says he, in vol. iii. p. 273,
                                 " in general, the experiments of this year
 were unfavourable to my former hypothesis, — for whether I made
 the experiments with air injured by respiration, the burning of
 candles or any other phlogistic process, it did not grow better,
 but worse ; and the longer the plants continued in air the more
 phlogisticated it was.        I also tried a great variety of plants with
 no better success."        The first author that experimentally con
 tradicted this opinion was Scheele ; and to avoid prolonging this
 letter, I shall content myself with referring to his work on Fire
  and Air, p. 160. After Scheele came Ingenhousz and Sennebier,
 one of whom wrote three volumes of experiments on this sub
 ject ; the other, five. That Mr. Tatum may lose no time in
 looking over the ill-digested works of these authors, I refer him
  to Ingenhousz 's book, vol. i. p. 255 ; and again, vol. ii. p. 758,
  and to vol. iii. p. 114, of Sennebier's publication, Physiolog.
   Veget. at which references he will find an explicit declaration
  of what I have said. At present we have still living M. Saus-
  sure junior, who has written a most interesting, ingenious, and
  luminous work on the Chemical Functions of Vegetables, and
  his experiments entirely corroborate what had been done by
  Scheele, Ingenhousz and Sennebier.             Vide Annates ds Chimie,
  torn. xxiv. p. 139, and his work entitled Experience sur la
  Vegetation.     Before the appearance of Saussure's work the at
  tention of the public was called to this question by the first
  volume of Mr. Ellis's -treatise on the Respiration of Plants and
                                                                  Animals,

 203                                     Remarks   ott
 Animals, in which   he faithfully notices all that had been done by
 his predecessors, and establishes the point by abundant research,
 that the whole of animated nature, whether vegetable or animal,
 abstracts the oxygen of the air, which is entirely bestowed in the
 production of carbonic acid.        In Mr. Ellis's second volume (a
 most elaborate and interesting performance, and the latest work
 on the subject,) Mr. Tatum will find the question resumed; and
 that while Mr. Ellis maintains that carbonic acid is the result of
 the natural respiration of plants, he proves that there is a second
 function, by which, during bright sunshine, the carbonic acid so
 formed is reconverted into oxygen.       This process, he contends,
 is entirely a chemical one, depending on the chemical agency of
 light, and by no means to be considered as a necessary or na
 tural operation.    Thus far and much other interesting matter,
 with regard to the difference of colour in different plants and at
different times of the year, Mr. Ellis has ably established.     The
question still remaining           is,
                                not whether plants have the power of
counteracting the vitiation produced               by
                                            the breathing of animals;
but whether they are ableduring sunshine to reconvert into oxygen
the carbonic acid they form during darkness and common day
light. The solution of this question          have attempted, and
                                                    I                     I
hope one day to give         satisfactory answer to it.
                               a                           The sixth
author who has touched on this question           Sir H. Davy, in his
                                                         is
Agricultural Chemistry, who details two experiments which he
made in order to convince himself that Mr. Ellis had not been
deceived   by his extensive researches.
    Independently of these works Mr. Tatum will find an analysis
and critique of Mr. Ellis's opinion in the Quarterly Review; and
the subject      also fully discussed in Murray's and Thomson's
                is
Systems of Chemistry.          conclude
                                I           saying, that all Mr. T's
                                                   by
experiments have been executed before, and some of them                   a
dozen times over.
                          am, sir, Yours respectfully,
                          I
                                                          W. H. G.
XXXII.     Remarks on Sir R.         Phillips's Defence       of
                                                               his Hypo
                thesis.       By Mr. Thomas Tredgold.
                                To       Mr. Tillocli.
Sir, — <
           As   Sir R. Phillips                   of my remarks on
                                         has favoured some
his hypothesis with    reply,
                          a      will endeavour
                                     I           once more to con
vince him of the fallacy of the opinions he has put forth.
   Sir Richard appeals to experience, without once bringing for
ward an experiment to prove the correctness of his views        and;
to the laws of Newton   and  of Nature,  without once showing  that
                                                                       they

                    Sir It. Phillips's Defence of his Hypothesis.           209
they agree with his hypothesis : hence, it is difficult to refute
such undefined opinions.        Undoubtedly Sir R. thinks that he
has corrected the mistake, and therefore rendered the demon
stration in the Phil. Mag. for Julv, p. 436, correct ; in this,
 however, he is mistaken.        The demonstration is intended to
prove that bodies are deflected towards the earth by a power
which decreases inversely as the square of the distance.        Now
it is evident, that a projectile or mass of matter can be acted
upon by that part of the spheric surface only which it occupies ;
also, that it cannot occupy similar portions of spheric surfaces ; '
— but it is similar portions only that are to one another as the
squares of their radii : therefore, the conclusion is equally as in
correct as it was before.    And, as a proof that circular motion
has not any effect to impel a body towards the centre of motion;
place au open vessel of water upon the internal part of the rim
of a wheel, and turn the wheel with considerable velocity; when
the water will acquire such a degree of centrifugal force as will
retain it in the vessel, in all positions of the wheel.   Again, if a
ball or other body were made fast upon the external part of the
rim of the wheel, and it were put in motion with a considerable
velocity; then could the power that confines the ball to the
wheel be suddenly removed, the ball would                   fly
                                                    off in a tangent
to the rim of the wheel.
   As either of these experiments might be tried without much
difficulty,  would recommend them to Sir R's notice though
               I                                                  :             it-
be now too late to save*him from exposing his ignorance of the
taws of motion, (see his answers to the second and third objec
tions,)   may prevent
          it             repetition of a like exposure.
                                a
   Sir Richard has certainly adopted a very singular mode of
defending himself; for he assumes the most questionable part
of his hypothesis, to be au established truth, (viz. the deflective
power of the rotary motion,) and then proceeds to reply to the
minor objections, bv telling us, over and over again, that the
deflective power of the rotary motion         equivalent to gravita
                                                 is
tion. — Of course,      that were the case,
                           if                    would produce the
                                                      it
same effects.      But Sir R. has not anywhere shown that                  it   is
equivalent — nay, not even that        has the least tendency to de
                                          it
flecta  projectile towards the earth.
  If  Sir R. would take the trouble to define the sense       which   in
he uses the word motion,          would then be a little more clear
                                     it
how far    it  better known than gravitation.
                is                                 According to the
common     definition  of  the term,  motion      only an effect; of
                                                       is
which     it the
               is object of the philosopher to inquire the cause.
   Newton and others have shown gravitation to be one of the
causes of the rotary and orbicular motions of the planets, of the
flux and reflux of the ocean, the descent of projectiles, and
   Vol. 50. No.233. Sept. 1817.                        O     various

210                  On Tetrestrial Gravitation.
various other phenomena.        Sir R. Phillips attempts to show
that one of these effects is the cause of the other ; and calls this
advancing human knowledge a step further — I suppose he means
backwards ; therefore I will leave him to pursue the course he
has chosen.
                I am, sir, yours, &c.
                                                  Thomas   Tredgold.
XXXIII.    On    Sir Richard Phillips's supposed Discovery of
    the Cause   of the Phcenomena of Terrestrial Gravitation.
                              To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — To          appreciate the success with which Sir Richard Phil
lips has      defended his discovery of the cause of the phcenomena
  of terrestrial gravitation, it might, perhaps, be sufficient to re
  mark, that he has left untouched Mr. Tredgold's fundamental
  objection ; viz. that asi neither the resistance of the atmosphere,
  nor the motions of the earth on its axis, or in its orbit, have se
  parately any tendency to deflect towards its surface, bodies pro
 jected upwards, it follows that their conjoint action can have no
  such tendency.        Permit me, however, bv way of commentary, to
  add,  that   it  has  long since been demonstrated, that whether a
  body be projected by a single impulse, or by many simultaneous
 impulses in different directions, the progressive motion commu
 nicated must be rectilinear.           The combination, therefore, of the
 two-fold motion of the earth with any other impulse, can, in
 projecting a body, impress on it no other than rectilinear pro
 gressive motion ; nor can these forces, after the instant of their
 joint impulse, in any way modify the direction then impressed.
  There remains, therefore, of SirRichard Phillips's forces only the
 agency of the atmosphere to deflect the projectile from a right
 line into such a curve as must return to the earth.             Now the
 effect of atmospheric resistance would be that of simple retarda*-
 tion, did iK>t the rapidity of the rotary motion of the parts of
 the atmosphere augment with their altitude.               A consequence
 of this  circumstance  is,    indeed,
                                     a    continual deflection of the pro
jectile from      its  initial  direction
                                       :    but whatever deflective force
 may be assigned to this cause,      it    could never make a    body de
 scribe a   curve returning to, or even approaching the earth's sur
face;    for the very obvious reason that the direction of its action
must always be parallel to tangents of that surface.
     This being so, the theory of Sir Richard Phillips does not
precisely correspond with his description of         it     as "
                                                              a     theory
 which substitutes the known motions of Nature as operative
 causes of certain physical phenomena in place of an assumed
                                                                principle

                The Description           of   a   Safety Furnace.               211
principle called gravitation, by which, false analogies have been
introduced into philosophy."    Let us, however, in a single in
stance observe how these " known motions of Nature" supply
the place of the " assumed principle called gravitation."
   The weight of bodies, and their velocity in falling, uniform
experience shows to be least at the equator, and to increase
with the latitude.  Now as the rotary motion of the earth's sur
face and atmosphere diminishes from the equator to the poles,
where it ceases in both ; the weight of bodies and their velocity
in falling, ought, according to Sir Richard's doctrine, to be
greatest at the equator, and to diminish as the latitude increases.
Nay further, since there exists neither rotary motion on the earth's
surface at the poles, nor in the atmosphere in its prolonged axis,
a direct consequence of his doctrine is, that bodies at the poles
are devoid of all weight, and when projected perpendicularly
 thence, they never return to the earth !
                         I am, sir,
                                         Your very' obedient servant,       •,
Bath, Sept. 9, 1817.                                                 F. E   . . .S.
XXXIV.      The Description            of a Safely Furnace for preventing
   Explosions inXJoal- Mines.              By Robert Bakeweu., Esq.
                                  To   Mr. Tilloch.
Dear Sir, — The        attention of coal proprietors has lately been
directed to the explosions which take place in mines from the
lights used by the workmen ; but it is well known that similar
explosions are often occasioned by the inflammation of the car-
buretted hydrogen gas, as it passes the fire placed near the upcast
shaft to rarefy the air and promote ventilation. The fire which
is generallv necessary, is thus not -(mfrequently the cause of the
 most fatal accidents.
    To prevent this, no remedy has been proposed that I am ac
quainted with, except the substitution of a charcoal fire, on the
 principle that the gas will not explode by a red heat burning
 without flame.     An open charcoal fire              is,
                                               however, liable to the
 following objections.     The carbonic acid gas generated         the       by
combustion of charcoal being specifically heavier than the air of
 the mine, will, as     it  cooled in its passage upwards, descend
                             is
 again and  choak  the  lower part of the shaft.     particle of com
                                                              A
 mon coal intermixed with the charcoal, or falling into the fire,
 might produce flame and cause an explosion.        The comparative
 dearness of charcoal will also tend to prevent its introduction.
  ...
 Coke from coal    ismore easily procured, but     sometimes beams*
                                                             it
                                         O     2                  with

212             The Description     of a Safety Furnace.
with   a lambent    flame sufficient to ignite     explosive mixtures    of
 gas.
    A fire which will burn with perfect safety in mines,        and at the
 same time occasion a brisk circulation        of air, has  been  hitherto
 a desideratum.       I am induced to believe, that I have discovered
 how this may be obtained by the introduction of a furnace, sim
 ple in construction, in which coke or even common coal may be
 burnt, without    any danger, and the circulation     of air in the mine
 greatly increased.
     The furnace or stove admits of considerable variation in size
 and form, according to the situations in which it may be used;
 and as it can be erected at a small expense, I trust no prejudice can
 exist to prevent a fair trial of its utility. The accompanying draw
 ing will explain its construction, and enable any coal proprietor to
 apply the furnace to his own use.          AAaa (Plate III. fig. 1,) re
 present the body of the stove and chimney, Which should be of cast
 iron in one piece without any side-door or opening whatever, as
 it is supplied with fuel at the mouth or chimney,           lb represent
 the grate, which moves upon an hinge, and opens downwards by
 removing an iron peg c, in order to clear the grate when wanted,
 and dd a broad rim below the grate perforated by the air-holes
 eee.     F is a cistern of stone or brick to be filled with water
 above the lower edge of the rim dd.           The diameter of the fur
 nace at the grate may be 30 inches, that of the chimney about
  18 inches, to admit the fuel.         The height of the chimney, if
 coke be used, need scarcely exceed ten feet, and may be inclined
 or not at option, according to the situation.         When the furnace
 is lighted, which may be done by introducing lighted coke down
 the chimney, there will be no access of air but through the aper
 tures eee, which may be regulated at pleasure, by stops to in
 crease or diminish the current.        The use of the water-trough is
 to confine the admission of air to the openings ee, and also to
prevent any accidental inflammation of coal or other substance
 below the grate.
    Should the air of the mine be charged with inflammable gas
to  the  explosive point, it is prevented from passing near the sur
face of the fire by the sides of the stove ; and should even the
lowest stratum of air which enters the apertures ee be explosive,
which can rarely occur, this air will lose a part of its oxygen
by passing through the red-hot coke, and by its further admix
ture with carbonic acid gas confined in the stove, must cease to
be inflammable.         The general current of inflammable air will
pass   with perfect safety over the mouth of the chimney, and will
ascend the shaft from the heat communicated to it by the sur
face of the stove.      If common coal be used, a chimney of greater
                                                                   length

        Remarks on Objections to Experiments on Vegeiation.         213
  length must be joined to a a, reaching beyond the possible ex
  tension of the flame.       To prevent inflammation at the lower part
  of the fire, there must be only one aperture below the grate, into
  which an air-pipe must be closely fitted.            This must extend
  above the top of the pit, and be of sufficient width to admit a
  free passage for the air downwards to the fire.         By this means
  tiie remotest possibility of danger would be avoided either from
 a coke or a coal fire ; the rarefaction of the air would be depen
  dent on the heated surface of the stove.
      I have ascertained by experiment, that a small current of pure
 hydrogen gas will inflame at the distance of nearly two inches
 above the apex of a newly-snuffed candle, but will not inflame
 when passed over the chimney of a lamp where paper would be
 scorched without ignition. We may by this means have a metre
 of the length of chimney necessary to prevent the inflammation
 of gas, according as the materials burned may evolve more or
 less flame.
     Where the apertures e e are used without the air-pipe, they
  may be covered with double wire-gauze, which might prevent
 any inflammation under the grate communicating with the air of
 the mine. With these precautions one or more fires might be con
 stantly burning near the upcast shaft, and by increasing the
  quantity of heated surface, we may accelerate the ascent of air
  more rapidly than by an open fire as at present used.
      So long as the fire continues to bum, the air in the mine will
  never pass down the chimney or reach the fire from above; and
  were the hydrogen to inflame when the air is admitted through
  the apertures ee; if they are clothed with wire-gauze, the flame
  will be confined to the under part of the grate, and may be in
 stantly extinguished by closing the apertures.
      The simplicity of this safety furnace will, I trust, recommend it
  to the early notice of coal proprietors; and should it be found to
 lessen the dangers to which the workmen in mines are exposed,
  my object in this communication to your valuable publication will
  be fully'answered.
                           I am,  dear sir, yours, &c.
  13, Tavistock Street, Bedford Square,             RoBT. BaKEWELL.
            Seut. 5, 1817.
 XXXV.       Remarks on Mr, Murray's Objections to Experiments
     on Vegt tation detailed in the Phil. Mag. for July last.       By
      Mr. J. Tatum.
                               To  Mr. Tilloch.
                our    correspondent Mr. Murray has, in your last
Number, objected not only to the manner in which I conducted
,     . , .                            03                           the

214      Remarks on Objections to Experiments on Vegetation.
the experiments relative to the effects of vegetation, &c. on at
mospherical air, communicated to your Magazine of July; but
also to those of Mr. Ellis, which he says " are as liable to objec
tions as any'other."
     He disapproves of the " mercurial effluvia," without proving
that such existed in the experiment, at least so as to retard the
functions of the plant, for there was but about two or three inches
surface of mercury exposed to the air of the plant (but as I be
lieve Mr. Ellis did not use mercury in his experiments, he is not
liable to this objection).        To the" confined instead of a free
atmosphere"       he also objects; and then concludes by stating, that
he holds unchanged " the opinion he has long maintained as to
 the direct experiments of Drs. Priestley and Ingenhousz, since
 corroborated, namely, that the quantity of carbonic acid evolved
 by plants will bear but a pitiful proportion to the fioods of oxy
 gen poured out upon the atmosphere by the exercise of the ve
 getable function."
      Now, I would ask the objector what were the direct experi
 ments of Drs. Ingenhousz and Priestley, and by whom and how
 since confirmed, which have so confirmed or established him in his
 opinion ?      Was it the experiment of Dr. Ingenhousz, as related
 at page 14 of his work? where he says : " they (the detached
 leaves) are to be put in a very transparent glass vessel, or jar,
 filled with fresh pump water, (which seems best adapted to pro
 mote this operation of the leaves, or at least not to obstruct it,)
 which being inverted in a tub full of the same water are to be
 exposed to the sunshine : thus the -leaves continuing to live,
 continue also to perform the office they performed out of the
 water."
      Is this experiment of the unnatural situation of detached leaves
 less objectionable than the one in which an entire plant, or spring
while attached to its parent, is placed in atmospherical air? Should
 Mr. Murray think so, I shall still, whenever       /  wish to ascer
 tain the effects of a plant (not an aquatic one) on the atmosphere,
 always place it in atmospherical air, and not in water; and shall
 always prefer using an entire plant, or that part of one attached
 to its parent, rather than detached leaves.
     As for the "foods of oxygen" which he says are " poured out
upon the atmosphere by vegetation, being so superior to the
pitiful quantity of carbonic acid ; this remains to be proved; for
 I do not recollect one experiment either of Drs. Ingenhousz,
Priestley or others, which is adequate to it. And although he
is such a strenuous advocate of Dr. Priestley, he must acknow
ledge that the Doctor's experiments frequently proved the con
trary; for at p. 338 of his third volume, the Doctor states " that
the air in which a, willow plant was growing, continued to de
                                                                 crease

    Remarks on Oljections to Experiments on Vegetation.          215
crease in purity for twenty days." And at p. 273, vol. iii. the
Doctor says: " the experiments of this year 1778, to which I had
been induced to pay more particular attention and care, were
unfavourable to my former hypothesis."      I could adduce more
experiments of the Doctor's, of this nature, but think these will
suffice.
    By whom and by what experiments the doctrine he maintains
has been " since confirmed," I know not, unless the experi
ments of Sir Humphry Davy are alluded, to.
    But as Mr. Murray objects to my experiments being con
ducted in n.confined portion of air, I must remind him that Drs.
Ingenhousz, Priestley, and Sir H. Davy's were all performed
either under water or in a confined portion of air.       But perhaps
he can approve of that in Drs. Priestley, Ingenhousz, and Sir
H. Davy, which his confirmed opinion will not allow him to do
with respect to Mr. Tatum. If his object be the support of truth,
I hope lie will not suffer himself to be influenced by partiality, or
names. I have, it is true, presumed to differ from the above highly
respectable characters ; but I have yet to learn, by what means
any of these experimenters ascertained the results of vegetation on
air without its being " confined ;" and I hope Mr. Murray will
have the goodness to inform me, by what peculiar plan he has
discovered that vegetables pour out such floods of oxygen, and
 he may rest assured I will lose no time in adopting it; and he
 will find me far from being backward to give him all the praise.
     Mr. Murray asks, " If the carbonic gas was at all equivalent
 to the oxygen set free, whence comes the carbon which builds
 up the plant ?"
     1 cannot think this question    can possibly apply to any thing
 related in my paper ; for 1 there contended that oxygen was not
 set free, as such I cannot comprehend the object of the question.
 He proceeds to say: " the winter no longer contributing the air
 necessary to life in Europe, the salutary gas is brought to us by
 the trade winds from the southern regions."
     Really, sir, Mr. M. has drunk deep of Dr. Priestley's principles;
 for the Doctor entertained unnecessary apprehensions of a de
 ficiency of oxygen for respiration, and sought for a supply, which
  he said he " found in vegetation."        So Mr. M. equally appre
 hensive   that   the floods poured   forth  in Europe, would not be
 equal to the consumption, imports it from the southern regions.
 But having heard much talk of the superiority of the oxygen of
  the atmosphere at some parts, over that of others, I was induced
  to ascertain whether such was the case ; but as yet I have not
  been able to discover  it,  and
                               I    findI   am not solitary in my re
  sults
     ;    for Sir H. Davy could not distinguish any difference be
  tween the air brought from Guinea and that of Bristol; and how
                                O   4                               the

216     Answer    to  Geological Queries         of" A    Constant    Reader."
the gentleman has ascertained by direct experiment that such n
redundancy of salubrious air exists in the southern regions, I am
at a loss to know.          I hope he will have the goodness to point
out the plan by which he ascertained such an important phse-.
nomenon; which will confer a favour on,
                                                Sir, yours, &c
Dorset Street, Salisbury Square,                                   J-  TaTUM.
           Seut. !). 1817.'
     P. S. — Any hints from your correspondent              Mr.  J.  Acton will
confer a favour, as perhaps           I shall pursue the-subject next spring.
     XXXVI.      Answer to Geological Queries              of " A   Constant
              Header." By Mr. Westgarth                   Forter.
                                  To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — X have          observed in your Number for July last, some
geological queries, by your correspondent, with the signature of
" A Constant Reader," requesting an early answer thereto.
     I therefore take the opportunity of informing him, with re
 spect to his 2d question, (" whether or not the great whin sill,
 or stratum of basalt, shown in p. 152 of my Treatise on a Sec
 tion of the Strata, &c. has j;ot such a continuous edge on the
 surface, as clearly indicates it to form, like each of the other
 principal strata, avast extended plane having curved parts within
 the earth, &c.")        That wherever I have made observations, or
 traced   the great   whin    -sill, it is as conformable as any other stra
 tum, although very         variable     in thickness, having its under lieing
 and over lieing strata.           And it may be traced upwards of fifteen
 miles, commencing a little below the smelting-house at Tyne-
 head, where it is thrown up to the SW. about sixteen fathoms,
 bv the influence of a great dyke, or vein, commonly called the
 Back-bone, or Great Sulphur Vein.                   As we proceed, a little
 above    the smelting-house,          it  disappears, about the distance of
  two miles, having its over lieing stratum upon it; viz. Tyne-
  bottom limestone, &c. until we arrive at the river Tees; where
  it again makes its appearance, the Tees running upon it almost
  all the way to the high waterfall at Caldron Snout, where it as
  sumes locally, the appearance of detached and over lieing masses
  of basalt; which, as Mr. Winch observes, may very probably
  resemble those of the King's Park Edinburgh.                  It may be also
  necessary to state, there is a level drove in the limestone, under
  the great-whin-sill, not far from Caldron Snout, and near the
   conflux of the river Tees, and Maize-Beck ; and this Beck, or
   rivulet, which divides the counties of Westmoreland and York
   shire, pear Birdale, runs all the way for the distance of a mile or
                                                                           more,

  Description of an Apparatus for consuming Fire-damp.                         217
more, W. of the conflux,     upon or even, in the whin, where it
again disappears, by   the  over-lieing of Tyne-hottom limestone,
which limestone may be traced to the W. up the same Beck, to
High Cup Nick, where the stratum becomes abrupt, as we de
scend to Dufton, and the whin, basseting underneath, and only
about eight fathoms thick.       It may also be observed at Great
Rnndle Beck, where the principal level commences, and is drove
upon   it,to the mines at Dufton-fell.
 I   may further add, that the same great whinstone-bed occurs
on the river Wear, near the town of Stanhope, in the county of
Purham   ;  but not so thick as at Caldron Snout.
 I  shall endeavour to answer the other queries in my nest com-,
munication.
                     am, sir,
                       I
                               Your most obedient servant,
Gnnigill, August 26, 1817.                       WestGARTH FoRSTER.
XXXVII.  Description            of   an Apparatus for consuming Fire-
  damp in the Mines                without Danger     an Explosion: —
                                                      of
   Apparatus       for       re-lighting  the Mmers' Davy.    By Mr.
  J.   Murray.
                                 To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — The          sketches which accompany this, represent an ap
paratus      bywhich   the fire-damp may be consumed on the spot,
in the mine,      without   fear of explosion; and an appendage to
light the safe-lamp when extinguished.                presumed that the
                                                     It   is
descriptive account will be found sufficiently explanatory, and
intelligible.     If    should be objected to (fig. 1), that its size
                       it                                                       is
too great, —      itmay be observed, that in the Air collieries safe-
lamps    on  the  principle of the wire-gauze have been used         Mr.  by
Taylor    three  times the size of those constructed      Sir H. Davy.
                                                                by
  1   did not find the plan          originally proposed to relight the
                                     I
lamp   by   any means unequivocal, when tried              in
                                                        the mine.   This
circumstance led to the present invention.
                            am, sir,
                            I
                                   Your most humble servaut,
Douglas, Isle of Man, Sep.      3,
                                 1817.                        MURRAY.J.
   P. S. — The great increase of intensity which    discovered  I               by
exposing  the Galvanic plates for   few minutes
                                            a   to   the action of
the atmosphere, prior to reimmersion into the cells,    have since   I
repeated very often with the same uniform results.        shall be    I
glad to see these   your next Number.
                        in
                                                                               De

21S         Apparatus     for re-lighting   the Miners' Davy.
                       Description   of the Figures.
    Fig. 2 (Plate III.) shows a cast-iron urn resting in a vessel of
lime-water, or cream of lime, to absorb the carbonic acid gas
formed.      It is topped with two folds of wire-gauze at A. At
BBB are three or more sockets, the orifices of which are covered
with wire-gauze.         In these sockets are fixed tubes of tin C,
which move up and down to any height like the sliding pipes of
a perspective or opera glass ; they terminate in a funnel-shaped
orifice, or they may be jointed, to incline at any angle to receive
the explosive medium for combustion.              The *' Davy" will be
the index of the requisite height ; the tubes should be raised
within half an inch of the base of the fire-damp, floating on the
roof, so that a due admixture of inflammable air and its sup
porter may enter the funnel of the tube, together.
    Fig. 3 exhibits a view of the internal insulated wire-gauze,
being that which imprisons the wick of flame ; it does not touch
the surrounding cast-iron case or urn, nor even the upper wire-
gauze, on its top.       This cage may be made two or three folds.
The lamp is fed by an oil cistern exterior to the urn, and a fold
 or two of wire-gauze in the communicating pipe will prevent any
retrogression of flame where the cistern is to be supplied with
 oil. The wick may be of asbestos, which will never need re
newal ; and the lamp, first lighted, is screwed tight into the
 socket.
    Fig. 4 represents the oil cistern of Davy's safe-lamp with two
separate wicks.       A exhibits one of these wicks surrounded by a
 platinum    cage.     B the reserve wick, with an appendage which
 serves at once to elevate the cap and depress the spiral platinum
wire to ignite the wick ; a the cap attached to the axis fhy the
wire h.     c a spring, that when at freedom reacts on the wire
 attached to the cap, which then falls and protects the wick, when
not required ; d is a spiral platinum wire attached by e to the
 axis  f, which moves by a button exterior to the wire-gauze.
 The   reserve  wick is tipped with sulphur.      When the wick of the
lamp A is extinguished by reason of excess of fire-damp, the
 singular combustion ef the platinum wire begins, and continues
 until there exists no longer any of the hydrocarbonate.               The
platinum    wire   before extinct  becomes   dull red ; this will indicate
 an approach to the free atmosphere the moment after, by a se-
mirotatory movement of the button, the cap is raised, and the
top of the platinum brought in contact with the wick tipped with
 sulphur, which ignites it.
                                                         XXXVIII.       On

                                     [     219       ]
XXXVIII.            On the new Theory  of the System of the             Universe.
                           By Sir Richard Phillips.
The       theory which ascribes the subordinate motions on the earth
to its superior motions as a planet, is opposed by many persons,
who, assuming that the motions of the planets in a system are
nevertheless governed by gravitation, ascribe incongruity to a
new doctrine which excludes that principle from the internal or
local phenomena of a planet.
    The author of that theory             is,
                                           however, for good and substan
tial reasons, of       a totally   different    opinion.     He believes in the
perfect harmony of nature          —   in. the exact analogy of causes and
effects — and, wherever he sees motion, he ascribes                 it to other
motion ascending in          a  series ad infinitum, or to an unknown
cause.        He therefore gives no credit whatever to the existence
of any universal principle of causation, such as that called by
the name of gravitation, but refers all phenomena to motion,
primarily and proximately.
    He was not anxious at present to press this extension of his
theory on the world, because               it   less easy to demonstrate that
                                                is
distant planets move one another                    by
                                                  impulse, than    it   to show
                                                                        is
that loose bodies in        aship,  or   on   the earth,  are governed in their
subordinate phenomena                bythe paramount motions of the ship
or earth.        Every one capable of understanding its terms must
 feel as an axiom, that the orbicular and rotary motions                     of
                                                                             the
 earth necessarily give weight to bodies, and laws to their Jail,
 because the moving earth and the bodies are in contact, and par
 taking        ofthose common motions; but certain postulata must
 be granted before         itcan be proved to beings whose experience
is   confined to the subordinate phenomena of the earth, that dis
 united planets and masses can operate on each other mechani
 cally, and communicate motion to one another.
     The postulata required to be admitted are as under —               :
     1.  That all space        filled with some gaseous medium.
                                is
     In the age of Kepler and Newton, the discoveries of Priestley
 had not proved the existence of various gases. Ati incompressible
 fluid, so light as hydrogen, was not then known to exist.                  The
  similar phenomena of the planets; the combustion of meteors
  at great heights     ; the transmission of solar and planetary light,
  and the reflection of the solar light after                 has been refracted
                                                              it
  through the atmosphere of           a  comet, prove, however, that some
  rare medium actually fills space even         ;        its existence were not
                                                         if
  sufficiently proved       by
                            the mechanical phenomena of the planets.
      2. The medium of space              is dcted upon in straight lines         by
  moving     bodies  placed   within     it.
     It   isdifficult for men who are accustomed to see the connexion
                                                                                    of

     220                      On  the new Theory
    of rods or levers of fixed continuous matter between bodies act-'
    ing on one another, to conceive that any gas, like hydrogen, can
    act by like agency.     But tliis power of gas will be evident on
    slight  consideration ; for, if a tube, or series of tubes, of ten feet
    or a million of feet in length, were filled with hydrogen gas, and
    a plug were driven into one end, so as to require any known
    power less than the strength of the tubes to force it out; then,
    if a piston were forced with that degree of power into the other
   end, it is notorious that the rarest gas would expel the plug as
    effectually as though it were propelled by a continuous rod of
    iron. If space, therefore, be full of any light gas, or fluid sui
   generis, it is evident that such gas, in such a plenum, must act
    in continuity in filled space, as well as in a filled tube. We
   know that the gas in which we live acts thus at definite distances,
   in proportion to the closeness of the place of experiment ; and
   we must not forget, that in the only situation in whicli a good
   experiment could be made, the effect of this continuous power
   in mere gas was very remarkable: viz. when Blanchard and
   Jeffreys crossed the Straits of Dover, they threw from their car,
   when at the elevation of two miles, an empty bottle, the fall of
   which on the water produced a sharp concussion in the car,
  thereby affording proof of the continued impulse of gas, even
  when the impulse is made in free space.                 The ascent of
  sound, and its propagation through distances of three or four
  hundred miles near the earth, is a further proof of such capabi
  lity, though the vibrations of sound are not exactly of the same
  nature as the propulsion of impulse.
        Corollary. — This important consequence follows, that, as
  impulses in a gaseous medium must act in cones diverging Jrom
  the moving power, so the force of the impulse must nevessarily
  diminish as the squares of the distance; the impulse from a focus
  through gas being of the nature of the impulse of light, heat,
  and all emanations.
       These are the postulata on which I propose to raise a new
 theory of the universe, without the aid of gravitation. — And on
 these bases it cannot be difficult so to combine the laws of mo
 tion as to account for 'all the ordinary phenomena of the uni
 verse.
       In such considerations, the governing principle is an exact
fitness and harmony between causes and effect ; and these im
 pose the necessity of a balance of powers.         A balance of powers
 requires, however, equal momenta; and equal momenta grow                   .
 out of equal quantities of motion , on two sides of a fulcrum,
centre, or axis.
      In Universal Nature there is no up nor down ; there is no na
tural disposition of bodies to fall together, or to recede from orre
                                                                another ;

                     of the        System   of the   Universe.          ,            221
another   ;   and no phenomenon        is produced but by analogous
causes exactly equal to the effect.       Thus motion necessarily pro
duces motion, and the existence         of motion affords proof of the
existence of a cause in some superior motion.             Disturbance is
always    counteracted   by  the  inertia  of  matter,   and  the mutual
contest between the moving agent and          the  moved  patient, causes
both to turn round the centres of their masses, or round a ful
crum, on each side of which the quantities of motion are forced
to seek equality.
    In the solar system, the sun is the moving power of all the
planets.      Whatever be the origin of its own motions, the sun
acts,  in  the ceconomy of the planetary bodies of the solar system,
like the heart in the ceconomy of the animal system. Its own
motion may be created by some arrangement within itself— by
a perpetual motion of divine contrivance — by the cross and re
ciprocal actions of the planets — or, according to an hypothesis
of Herschel, it may have a superior orbit among systems of suns;
and our planets and their satellites may be its secondaries and
sub-secondaries !      It will, hoVever, satisfy the spirit of philoso
phy, if we can trace all those motions, which have hitherto baf
fled inquiry, to the natural action of a prirnum inohile like the
sun ; and we may be content there to terminate our inquiries, at
least for some ages. Thus much seems certain, that the motions
 of the solar system may be correctly likened to that of a penta-
 graph or polygraph — the planets mimicking the motions of the
 central mass, just as the tracing points mimick those of the ori
ginal in the action of that machine; or perhaps the motion of
the sun may be compared to that of the hand, while whirling a
string with a weight at the end — the hand moving through a
circle of one or two inches, giving thereby an orbit of several
yards to the weight at the end of the string.         In universal space,
however, and in performing absolute motion, the planets move
in no relations like that of the weight to local and relative powers ;
and therefore have no inclination to             fly
                                               off      tangent *
                                                          in   a                 !
     In tracing the effects from their causes, let us suppose the
 solar system to be stationary: let the sun, whose mass            a given  is
 number of times greater than either of the planets, be moved one
 foot — then will each of the planets be moved in the same direc
 tion, according to      aratio governed             by
                                                 the positions and bulks
 of the whole,  a  certain number of feet, as 100,000, or 1,000,000
 feet, according to circumstances.
     Such a circular motion of       preponderating central mass, act-
                                       a
    The dispositions to
    *                       off in a tangent, and fall to the sun, given to
                             fly
the planets    bythe Newtonian philosophy, are craSuitous assumptions,
which ore almost blushes to name, and are unsupported              by
                                                              aov analogy,
and unwarranted      the universal simplicity of the machinery ot '.nature..
                    by
'
                                                                                      illg

22*                          On the new Theory
ing on and through the medium of space upon the planetart*
bodies, or upon any aggregations of matter, would propel them
into corresponding motions, with forces varying reciprocally as
the squares of, the distances, and directly as the quantities
of matter to be moved. Hence the orbicular motions of the
planets*.
    If the result of this action were a balance of momenta in the
 moving bodies, as directly exerted and dissipated in the medium of
space, then the orbicular motion would terminate the phenomena;
but, if the continuous mass of the planetary body were unequally
acted upon, owing to its sides being of different density, then'
the. equal action of the prime mover would drive the lighter
hemisphere round the heavier (as the Pacific Ocean round the
old Continent) ; and a rotary motion would necessarily be ge
nerated, whose axis would equalize the quantities of matter on
each of its sides.
    Of course such an action, constantly exerted on various bodies
distributed through space, would cause them to vary their re
spective motions, according to their positions in relation to each
other ; because the force on each would be as their mutual po
sitions in regard to the sun. — Hence the mutual disturbances of
 the uniform motions of the planets.
    The motion thus created in every mass would, from a like cause,
occasion each to act on the other, in proportion to its bulk and
quantity of matter.         The earth and moon would be acted upon
by the sun ; but the earth would also act upon the moon, more
than the moon upon the earth, in the proportion of their matter.
The common action of the sun on both would occasion them of
necessity to endeavour to turn on the centre of the quantity of
motion generated by each. — Hence the revolution of small masses
round large ones.
    But, as the secondary planets would           be governed chiefly and
proximately by their primaries, and these would possess a power
of varying the centre of motion by the motion of their fluids,
 which would, from that cause, rise in the parts presented to the
secondary; so the secondary would not turn on the centre of its
own mass, but its disposition to do so would be destroyed by the
varying or accommodating energies of the primary. — Hence the
peculiar motions of a secondary planet, and the necessary con
nexion of those motions with the tides of the primary.
    Of course also, as the axis of each mass, or of the joint masses
of primaries and secondaries, would be constantly turning round
the physical axis or centre balancing their quantity of motion,
   *  If the velocities were as the forces exerted, and the momenta were as
ihe matter compounded of the square of the velocities, then the quantities
of motion at each end of the line of action would in theory be equal.
                                                                        and

                          of the   System     of the        Universe.     223
and as the moving power in the sun would be constantly im
pelling that moving axis — the centre of density of the single or
conjoined masses would describe the orbit round the sun, and its
variations would lend to vary the curve of the orbit.
   The diameter of' the orbit, or the radius vector, would there
fore be slightly and regularly varied by any arrangement within
the planet which enlarged the distance between the centre of
motion and the centre of matter, as a preponderance of water
in one hemisphere, either from construction or the melting of
congealed masses *.       Whatever varies the rotation of the axis of
motion (that        of the mass,) round the axis of the real matter
                    is,
in a   planet, would necessarily vary its rotary impulse, increase
or diminish its centrifugal force, and give            variation to the
                                                                 a
length of the radius vector        and hence the elliptical form
                                    ;                                        of
the orbits                      ^
               of
                the planets.
   The masses of each planet would be kept together, and acci
dental disturbances in the arrangement of the parts would be
restored      the subjection of each part to the paramount motions
               by
of the whole, as proved in my previous essay.
   The medium of space, whatever             may be, would thus be an
                                                   it
acting cause of motion, like current of the sea, and not a means
                                     a
of resistance, as has been mistakenly supposed.
    There would be no occult principle of attraction or gravitation
concerned in any part of the phenomena; but the whole would
be a  necessary result of the known laws of motion, at once sub
ordinate, analogical, harmonious, and fit.          The phenomena of
the universe are the results of system of motion producing mo
                                         a
tion; and of motion generated                     by
                                            motion.   By this agency a
stone      propelled   to   planet      the  by
                                             motions  of the planet —
       is is
                             a                                               a
planet     carried   round the  sun      the motions
                                             by       of the  sun — a se
condary    is carried round       primary
                                   a                   by
                                              the joint motions of the
sun and primary — and the motions of the sun are, perhaps,
 caused   by the motions of systems of suns — while the motions of
 those systems may again be caused             other superior motions!
                                                       by
 In short, all nature consists of series of included motions pro
                                         a
 duced    by the motions of superior bodies and systems, till we
 ascend to the first term in the series — an inscrutable cause of
causes   !
 The general mathematical laws would  be the same as those here
tofore determined, though the results would be produced      dif        by
ferent trains of reasoning.  The data would however be more
   *  It seems to be a necessary fact, that the cause which varies the direc
tion of motion, or the equal orbit of            planet, should exist within
                                                       a
the planet itself, and grow out of accidents arising from its general mo
tion.
                                                                        precise

  224,               Notices respecting New Books.
  precise and analogical, and the deductions, therefore, be more
     I
  satisfactory.
        infer, generally, that motion is the primary and proximate
  came of all phcemmena; that it operates in a descending series
from the rotation of the sun round the fulcrum of the solar sy
  stem, to the fall of an apple to the earth ; that, as transferred
  through all nature from its source, motion serves as the effi
  cient cause of every species of vitality, of every organic arrange
  ment, and of all those accidents of tody heretofore ascribed to
 gravitation; and,     I venture further to suggest, as a theological
  deduction, quite as probable as the doctrine of the Newtonians,
  which ascribes their gravitating or projectile force to the imme
  diate agency of t/ie Deity, that motion, as a great secondary
  cause, may he regarded, in its uniform operation from the great
  to the small, as the hand 0/ omnipotence ; while, as a princi
 ple of causation, it necessarily involves the attribute of omni
  presence.
      However heretical this theory may appear to partisans of" the
  gravitating principle," to believers in " gravitating particles,"
  to devotees of " harmonic numbers," to geometricians who con
  sider the laws'of curves as laws in physics, or to philosophers who
  conceive that body may act without material intervention where
 it is not, I consign it to the guardianship of the press, in full
  confidence that it will surmount opposition, and endure as long
 as the system which it describes.
                                                        R. Phillips.
               XXXIX.     Notices respecting New Books.
 An Experimental Inquiry into the Laws of the Vital Functions;
     with some Observations on the Nature and Treatment of In
     ternal Diseases.    By A. P. Wilson Philip, M.D. F.R.S. E.
     8vo. 860 pages.
In      our Number for May, we announced that this work was in
 the press.     It has now made its appearance.      It is divided into
 two parts. In Part I. the author treats of the state of Our know
ledge respecting the principle on which the action of the heart
and blood-vessels depends, and the relation which subsists be
tween them and the nervous system ; giving a translation of the
Report of the Committee of the National Institute of France, on
the experiments of M. le Gallois, which he considers as accurate,
welll arranged, and sufficiently comprehensive for this purpose.
In other respects, however, he considers this Report as not de
serving the same praise, as       "it overlooks defects both in M.
   .  -                                                         Gallois'

                      Notices respecting New Books.               225
   Gallois' experiments and reasonings, of such moment,     as wholly
   to invalidate all his most important conclusions; and to leave
   him the discoverer of certain unconnected though most valuable
  facts, instead of the author of a new system, founded, as the Re
  port alleges, on a basis never to be shaken.   In Part II. the au
  thor relates his own experiments, and points out the inferences
  to which they seem to lead — respecting the principle on which
  the action of the heart and vessels of circulation depends ; the
  relation which subsists between these and the nervous svstem ;
  the principle on which the action of the muscles of voluntary
  motion depends, and the relation which they bear to the nervous
  system ; the principle on which the action of the vessels of se
  cretion depends, and the relation which they bear to the nervous
  system ; the nature of the nervous influence ; the principle on
  which the action of the alimentary canal depends, and the rela
  tion which it bears to the nervous system ; digestion, and the
  effects produced on the stomach and lungs by destroying certain
  portions of the spinal marrow, compared with those by dividing
  one or both of the eighth p&ir of nerves.
     The author then proceeds to " the temperature of the animals
 in those experiments in which portions of the spinal marrow
 were destroyed," or, generally, " the cause of animal tempera-
  tare." Alluding to Mr. Brodie's Croonian lecture for 1810, in
  which he gave an account of experiments which led to the in
  ference, that the production of animal temperature is under the
 influence of the nervous system ; to the same gentleman's ex
 periments in the Philosophical Transactions of 1812, tending to
 strengthen this inference ; and to his own, which tend to prove
 that the caloric which supports animal temperature, is evolved
 by the same means, namely, the action of the nervous influence
 on the blood, by which the formation of the secreted fluids is
 effected, and consequently that it is to be regarded as a secre
 tion — he observes that " if this view of the subject be correct,
 and galvanism be capable of performing the functions of the
 nervous influence, it ought to occasion an evolution of caloric, as
 it effects the formation of secreted fluids, from arterial blood,
 after the nervous influence is withdrawn."       To ascertain this
 point, certain experiments were made on animals, which he de
 tails at length, and which, he suggests, " afford by their result a
 strong argument in favour of the identity of the nervous in
                           " He next considers the use of the gan
fluence and galvanism.
 glions ; the relation which the different functions of the animal
 body bear to each other, and the order in which they cease in
  dying; reviews the inferences from his experiments and observa
 tions; and concludes with the application of these td explain
 the nature and improve the treatment of diseases.
     Vol, 50. No. 233. Sept. 1817.             P                The

   226                  Notices respecting New Books.
       The work before      us deserves   much attention from medical
   men.      As a specimen of the author's style, and the way in which
   he applies the result of his inquiries to useful purposes, we select
   the following from the concluding part of his work : He says :
   '•' I cannot
                 help regarding it as almost ascertained, that in those
  diseases in which the derangement is in the nervous power alone,
   where the sensorial functions are entire, and the vessels healthy,
  and merely the power of secretion, which seems immediately to
   depend on the nervous system, is in fault, galvanism will often
   prove a valuable means of relief."
                      " Of slslhma     and Dyspepsia.
       "  The following observations relate chiefly to affections of the
  lungs.      Of the effects of galvanism in dyspepsia, the principal
   experience which I have yet had, has been in cases where it was
   complicated with asthmatic breathing.
       " When the effect of depriving the lungs of a considerable
  part of their nervous influence is carefully attended to, it will be
   found, I think, in all respects similar to a common disease, which
   may be called habitual asthma; in which the breathing is con
  stantly oppressed, better and worse at different times, but never
  free, and often continues to get worse in defiance of every means
  we can employ, till the patient is permanently unfitted for all
  the active duties of life.    The animal, in the above experiment,
  is not affected with the croaking noise and violent agitation
  which generally characterize fits of spasmodic asthma.             This
  state we cannot induce artificiallv, except by means which lessen
  the aperture of the glottis.
       " We have seen from repeated trials, that both the oppressed
  breathing and the collection of phlegm, caused by the division
  of the eighth pair of nerves, may be prevented by sending a
  stream of galvanism through the lungs*.              That this may be
  done with safety in the human body we know from numberless
  instances, in which galvanism has been applied to it in every
  possible way.
       " Such are the circumstances which led me to expect relief
  from galvanism in habitual asthma.          It is because that expecta
  tion has not been disappointed, that I trouble the reader with
  the following account of its effects.      Although the effects of gal
  vanism in habitual asthma have been witnessed by many other
 medical men, I have mentioned nothing in the following pages
  which did not come under my own observation.
.
       " I have employed galvanism in many cases of habitual asthma,
  and almost uniformly with relief.         The time, during which the
 galvanism was applied before the patient said that his breathing
                             * Exp. 46, 47, 48, 49.
                                                                      was

                        Notices respecting New Books.                    227
 was easy}     has varied from five minutes to a quarter of an hour.
 I   speak of its application in as great a degree as the patient
 could bear without complaint. For this effect 1 generally found
 from eight to sixteen four-inch plates of zinc and copper, the;
 fluid employed being one part of muriatic acid} and twenty of
 water, sufficient,      Some require more than sixteen plates, and
 a few cannot bear so many as eight ; for the sensibility of dif
 ferent individuals to galvanism is very different.          It is curious^
 and not easily accounted for, that a considerable power, that
 perhaps of twenty-five or thirty plates, is often necessary on first
 applying the galvanism, in order to excite any sensation ; yet
 after the sensation is once excited, the patient shall not perhaps*
 particularly at first, be able to bear more than six or eight plates.
 The stronger the sensation excited, the more speedy in general
 is the relief.     I have known the breathing instantly relieved by a
 very   strong  power. I have generally made it a rule to begin with a
 Very    weak   one, increasing it gradually at the patient's request,
 by moving one of the wires from one division of the trough to
 another, and moving it back again when he complained of the
 sensation being too strong.         It is convenient for this purpose to
 charge with the fluid about thirty plates.
      " The galvanism was applied in the following manner. Two
 thin plates of metal about two or three inches in diameter, dipped
in water, were applied, one to the nape of the neck, the other
to the pit of the stomach, or rather lower;           The wires from the
 different ends of the trough* were brought into contact with
these plates, and, as observed above, as great a galvanic 'power
maintained, as the patient could bear without complaint.                  In
this way the galvanic influence was sent through the lungs, as
much as possible, in the direction of their nerves.           It is proper,
constantly to move the wires upon the metal plates, particularly
the negative wire, otherwise the cuticle is injured in the places
on which they rest.         The relief seemed much the same, whether
the positive wire was applied to thenape of the neck, or the pit of
the stomach.         The negative wire generally excites the strongest
sensation.      Some patients thought, that the relief was most
speedy, when it was applied near the pit of the stomach.
   .
      " The galvanism was discontinued as soon as the patient said
that his breathing was easy.          In the first cases in which I used
it, I sometimes prolonged its application for a quarter of an hour*
or twenty minutes, after the patient said he was perfectly relieved,
in the hope of preventing the early recurrence of the dyspneea ;
but I did not find that it had this effect. It is remarkable, that in
several who had laboured under asthmatic breathing for from ten
     * I found a         of the old              answer better than the im
                  trough            construction
proved pile, which is so much superior for most purposes.
                                     P 2                                  to

228                  Notices respecting New       Booh.
to twenty years, it gave relief quite as readily as in         more recent
cases ; which proves, that the habitual difficulty         of breathing,
even in    the most protracted cases, is not to be ascribed to any
permanent change having taken place in the lungs.
    " With regard to that form of asthma which returns in violent
paroxysms, with intervals of perfectly free breathing, I should
 expect little advantage from galvanism in         it,
                                                    because, as   have
                                                                   I
just  observed,  I found   that the  peculiar difficulty of breathing,
which occurs in this species of asthma, cannot be induced               in
 animals, except       means lessening the aperture of the glottis.
                      by
It   isprobable, that in the human subject the cause producing
 this effectis spasm, from which indeed the disease takes its name,
 and we have no reason to believe, from what we know of the
 nature of galvanism, that      will be found the means of relaxing
                               it
 spasm."
                          [To be continued.]
     Mr. Accum, author of several well-known works on Chemistry
and Mineralogy, has just published       anew work entitled " Che
mical Amusement," comprising         series of curious and instruc
                                     a
tive experiments on chemistry, which are easily performed and
unattended with danger.      The work has been written, the au
thor states, " with view to blend chemical science with rational
                      a
amusement.      To the student they may serve as a set of popular
instructions  for performing    variety of curious and useful ex
                                a
periments well calculated for illustrating the most striking
facts which the science of chemistry has to offer.     To give effect
to this object, the author has selected such experiments only as
may be performed with ease and safety in the closet, and the ex
hibition of which requires neither costly apparatus nor compli
cated instruments.     And that the experiments may be of greater
value than merely to afford amusement for       leisure hour, he has
                                                  a
added the explanation to each individual process, in order to en
able the operator to contemplate the phenomena with advantage
as particular objects of study,    his inclination should lead him
                                    if
that way."
   The first number of new periodical work, entitled " Journal
                           a
of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia," has just
reached this country from America.           It
                                          contains, 1st, Descrip
tions of six new species of the genus Firola, from the Mediter
ranean,   byMM. de Sueur and Peron, with plate. 2d, An ac
                                                   a
count of the new mountain sheep, Ovis montana,       Mr. George
                                                          by
Ord with a wood engraving of the horn of the animal.
     ;                                                     3d,          A
description of seven American water and land shells,         Mr.   by
Thomas Say.
                                                                  Another

                    Notices respecting New Bonks.   t
                                                                 229
     Another Part (II. Vol. XI.) has appeared of The Edinburgh
 Encyclopedia, conducted by Dr. Brewster.
     The principal articles are, Hybernation, Hydrodynamics, Hy-
grometry, Jamaica, Japan, Java, Ice, Iceland, Ichthyology, Idria,
Jedburgh, Jersey, Jerusalem, Jesuits, and Jews.
     In the article Hydrodynamics, the various subjects of Hydro
statics, Specific Gravities, Hydrometers, Equilibrium of Floating
Bodies, Capillary Attraction and Cohesion, Hydrostatic Instru
ments, Hydraulics, Motion of Water in Tubes, Pipes, and Ca
nals, Resistance of Fluids, and Hydraulic Machinery, are treated
in a plain and popular manner, so as to be easily understood by
those who have but a slight acquaintance with Mathematics. — -
Among the parts of this article which have never before appeared
 in our language, are an account of Laplace's Theory of Capillary
 Attraction; of Gay-Lussac's Instrument for measuring the Ascent
 pf Water in Capillary Tubes; Venturi's Experiments on Floating
 Cylinders of Camphor ; Guard's Experiments on the Effect of
 Heat upon the Motion of Fluids; and Prony's Researches on the
 Motion of Water in Pipes and Canals . The Experiments of Mr.
 Smeaton, on the Motion of Water in Pipes, are here printed, for
 the first time, from the MSS, of that celebrated Engineer, and .
 the Description of some new Hydrometers, of Burns's Overshot
 Wheel without an Axle ; of Burns's Sluice Governor ; and of the
 Screw Engine, erected at the Hurleit Alum -works, have never
 before been published.      New Tables for facilitating the applica
 tion of Dubaut's Formule have also been computed for this article,
 by Mr. Lawrie pf Glasgow.       The article Hygrometry contains an
  account of the recent investigations of Gay-Lussac andBiot, and
 of many important discoveries made bv Mr. Anderson of Perth,
 the author of the article, who has reduced into the form of a
  science a subject hitherto obscure and little understood.
      The article Ice contains an account of the Observations of
  Mr. Scoresby on the Polar Ice; and the article Iceland is written
  by an eminent traveller, who lately visited that interesting
  island.
      The Second Part pf Lackington anc} Co's Catalogue, con
  taining the Classes, curious and rare Books, old Plays, Astro
  logy, Poetry, and the Arts, Philosophy, Natural History, Games
  and Sports, &c. &c. is now published.        The Third Part, con
  taining Greek and Latin Classics and Books in all foreign Lan
  guages, will be published in October; and the Fourth and last
  Part at Christinas, which will contain a very large Collection of
  Divinity, and an Appendix of additions to all the Classes.
      Part the First, of English and Foreign History, Voyages, Tra-
  ye}a; and Miscellaneous, is recently published^
                                  P3                       .XL. f/i

                              [  230    ]
           XL. Intelligence  and Miscellaneous Articles.
                CUIUOUS COMPOUND OF PLATINUM.
Mn     . Daw, Professor    of Chemistry in the Cork Institution,
whilst pursuing some investigations on platinum, formed a pecu
liar compound of this metal which has some remarkable proper
ties. When it comes in contact with the vapour of alcohol at the
common temperature of the air, there is an immediate chemical
action, the platinum is reduced to the metallic state, and the heat
produced is sufficient to ignite the metal and to continue it in a
state of ignition.   It would at present be premature to offer any
conjectures on the uses to which this new compound may be ap
plied; but from the peculiar properties both of the metal and the
compound, there is reason to believe it will admit of some im
portant applications.    Mr. Davy has already employed it as a
simple and easy means of affording heat and light.       To produce
heat, nothing more is necessary than to moisten any porous ani
mal, vegetable, or mineral substance, as sponge, cotton, asbestos,
iron filings, sand, &c. with alcohol or whiskey, and let a bit of
the compound fall on the substance so moistened ; it instantly be
comes red hot, and continues to remain so whilst any spirit re
mains; nor is it extinguished by exposure to the atmosphere, or
by blowing the breath on it; on the contrary, partial currents of
air only make the ignited metal glow brighter.        The heat pro
duced in this way may be accumulated to a considerable extent
by increasing the quantity of the materials employed.       On these
facts, Mr. Davy has constructed a sort of tinder box that answers
very well to procure immediate light. The box contains two
small phials, and some sulphur matches tipped at the points with
(iveryminute bit of phosphorus ; one of the phials contains the com
pound; the other a little alcohol. The phials mav either have glass
stopples or corks. The stopper of the phial containing the alcohol
has a small aperture at the bottom, in which there is inserted a bit
of sponge; this is kept moistened but not quite wet with alcohol.
When a light is wanted, it is only necessary to take out the stop
per and put a bit of the compound no bigger than the head of a
pin on the moistened sponge ; it instantly becomes red hot, and
will immediately light one of the matches.
   This mode of igniting a metal and keeping it in a constant state
of ignition, is quite a novel fact in the history of Chemistry, and
affords a happy illustration of the facts pointed out by Sir Hum*
phry Davy in his late able and scientific researches, which have
thrown so much light on the philosophy of flame, led to such
brilliant and highly important results, and will probably admit us
to a more intimate acquaintance with Nature in her refined and
elaborate operations.
                                                          CHLORINE.

            Chlorine. — Steam Engines. — Safety -lamp.                    23.1
                             chlorine.                 ,
   Dr. lire of Glasgow has lately finished a very elaborate series
of experiments on the controversial subject of chlorine. Their
principal object was to ascertain whether water, or its elements,
existed in and could be extracted from muriate of ammonia. He
has perfectly succeeded in obtaining      water from the dry and re
cently sublimed salt> by methods quite unexceptionable.                   The
vapour of such muriate of ammonia being transmitted through
lamine of pure silver, copper and iron, ignited in glass tubes,
water and hydrogen were copiously evolved, while the pure metals
were converted into metallic muriates.        This fact is decisive, in
the Doctor's opinion, of the great chemical controversy relative to
chlorine and muriatic acid, and seems clearly to establish the for
mer theory of Berthollet and Lavoisier, in opposition to that
more lately advanced by Sir H. Davy with such apparent cogency
of argument as to have led almost all the chemists of Europe to
embrace his opinion.      The details of the experiments have been
communicated some time since to a distinguished member of the
Royal Society, and will be speedily laid before the public. This
decomposition of the salt by the metals, at an elevated tempera
ture, is analogous to the decomposition of potash in ignited gun-
barrels, by Gay-Lussac and Thenard.
                    STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
   It appears from Messrs. Lean's Report, that during the month
of August 29 engines performed the following work with                   each
bushel of coals.
                             Water lifted \ foot high\   Loud per square
                               until inch bushel.        inch in cylinder.
21 common engines averaged          22,301,735               various.
Woolf's at Wheal Vor                37,031,002               15- 5   lib.
Ditto       Wh. Abraham             51,067,670               16- 8
Ditto         ditto                  25,841,894                4-2
Ditto       Wh. Unity                29,417,746              13-1
Dalcouth engine                      44,125,715               11-2
Wheal Abraham ditto                 34,2S8,322                10-3
United Mines ditto . .               35,347,917              181
Wheal Chance ditto                   34,489,691               107
                           SAFETY LAMP.
   Sir Humphry Davy has made a further discovery in regard to
combustion, which will prove a very great improvement tp his
safety lamp. He thus describes it in a letter to the Rev. J. Hodg
son of Heworth : —
   " I have succeeded in producing a light perfectly safe and
(economical, which is most brilliant in atmospheres in which the
                                P4                                      flame

232      Trigonometrical Survey. — Eruption of Vesuvius.
flame of the safety-lamp is extinguished, and which burns in every
mixture of carburetted hydrogen gas that is respirable.           It con--
sists of a slender metallic tissue of platinum, which is hung in the
top of the interior of the common lamp of wire gauze, or in that
of the twilled lamp.        It costs from 6d. to Is., and is imperish
able.    This tissue, when the common lamp is introduced into an
explosive atmosphere, becomes red hot, and continues to burn
the gas in contact with it as long as the air is respirable; when
the atmosphere again becomes explosive, the ftame is relighted.
I can now burn any inflammable vapour either with or without
flame at pleasure, and make the wire consume it either with red
or white heat.      I was led to this result by discovering slow com
bustions without flame, and at last I found q. metal which made
these harmless combustions visible."
                      TRIGONOMETRICAL       SURVEY.
   Dr. Olinthus Gregory and Colonel Mudge, who it will be ie-
eollected formed a part of the scientific association which lately
proceeded to the Zetland Isles, have just returned. Captain Col
by and M. Biot remain in Zetland a few weeks longer ; the fox-:
mer for the purpose of terminating his observations with Rams-
den's zenith sector, and then of connecting the chief points in
the triangulation ; the latter, in order to witness the phenomena,
of the Aurore Boreales in these high latitudes.             Dr. Gregory
having ascertained what is technically denominated
                                                            " the rate "
of Pennington's -astronomical clock at Balta, in north latitude
60. 45, proposes staying a short time at Aberdeen, for the pur
pose of ascertaining the rate of the same clock there, by means of
astronomical observations with the excellent instruments in the
Observatory at Marisehal College.
                         ERUPTION    OF VESUVIUS.
   A letter from Naples, dated July 20, says.-*-" The present
eruptions of Vesuvius are astonishing.          Copper, irou, alkaline
acid, sulphur, sulphuric acid, chalk, and ammonia, form salts that
are sometimes in a mass and sometimes divided.            It is observed
that copper is very much mixed with volcanic matter ; quantities
of it are found among the different kinds of lava. Vesuvius, which
since the year 1 S 13 has been more or less in a state of commo
tion, has entirely covered its former crater with a thick crust,
over which the new eruptions have thrown two little mountains,
from which come smoke, ashes, and vitrified stones.            The earth
is covered with bits of transparent glass.      This  crust  is so consi
derable, that,   if  it is not propped up, the sinking of the matter
composing it will produce an effect like that of the eruption which
took place in the time of Titus."
                                                               NASJTICAI,

                                Nautical Almanack.                          233
                               NAUTICAL ALMANACK.
                                   To    Mr. Tilloch.
     Sir, — It      is to be regretted that the omissions        and erroneous
  figures and calculations still continue to be so numerous in the
   Nautical Almanack, to the great hazard and danger of our na
  vigation and commerce.               It would render that work in some de
  gree more useful to the nation, if you would publish in yoar
   useful Magazine the following, being part of the errata in the
  Almanack for the year 1819.                                    Terricola.
  Facing pa. I. Moon's eclipse, April 10, middle                    query 5-^.
   Pa. 4. g gr, elong. 31 days, for day.
  !        9    passage     merid. day 25, for 21 13, read 21 23,
  t — 18, last col. 1st day, add N.
          5 dav, right ascens. midnight, for 88 44, read 89 44.
  — 28, 1 day, 11 declin. after 19 24 set S.
  — 37, 2S day, for Easter T. ends, set Easter T.
                                                               begins.
 — 38,days 12, 13,14, 15, equat. of time,for 1, 1,1,1, set
                                                                        0,0,0,0.
  — 40, § helioc. long. 13 day, for 79, set 19.
 •— 42, 9
                day, declin. noon, after 1 10 set S.
 — 49, 17 day in the Calendar, set Prs.
 — 50, 16 day, declin. for 85, set 58.                of Wales born,
 — 52, 5 Sr- elong. for days read day.
           . 13 day, last col. for 12 59, set 22 59.
               % 1 day, declin. after 16 49, set S.
              last col. for '18 13, set 18 39.
              13 dav, last col. for 17 56, set 17 55.
 — 54,        19 day, passage merid. for 22 12, set 21 12.
 i
  — 61,      10 day, in the Calendar, set Corpus Christi.
—     62,  5   day, col. equat. of time, for 1 2, 2, set 2 2, 2.
 —    64,    c?, 19 day, declin. for 1 1 59, set 12 59.
 —    66,    27 day, passag. merid. for 5 52, set 3 52.
x—    76,   last line, helioc. long- read 8 22 56.
— 85,       in the Calendar, 7 day, dele Prs, Amelia I.
 ¦                               , 1 1 day, dele Ds. of Bruns. b.
— 86, 21 day, col. equat. of time, for 3 9,              9, set 3 3, 9.
— 88, g , 28 day, geocen. long, for 5 27, set 5 21.
        , 1/, 25 dav, last c ol. for 10 54, set 10 34.
— 100, 8 , 16 day, helioc. long, for 2 0 30, set 1 0 30.
-           , 11, geocen. long. 7 day, for 9 33, set 8 31.
                       r-r- -       , 13 day, for 8 3, set 8 5 .
                  -
                                     , 19 dav, for 7 43, set 7 44.
            , ^ , helioc. long. 1 day,'for 26 90, set 26 40.
            , ^, last col. 21 dav, for 6 27, set 5 27.
—f 102, 12 day, rt. asc. m'idn.for 96 25, set 98 25.
-T— -.— , 30 dav, declin. noon, for 27 14, set 17 14.
                                                                       Pa. 112,

  234                             Lectures.
  Pa.  1 12,  5 , geoc. long. 1 day, for 4 17, set 5 17.
                            , 19 day, for 27 57, set 27 47.
               <?           , 13 day, for 20 23, set 3 20 23. >
  —   1 13, long, noon, 27 day, for 10 15, set 10 19.
  —   114, passage merid. 3 day, for 11 18, set 12 18.
  —   121,3 dav, set Prs. Sophia b.
  —   133, full moon, for 1 0 1 1, set 1 6 1 1.
 —    138, rt. ascens. midn. 11 day, for 191 85, set 191 55.
                                 LECTURES.
    The following arrangements have been made for Lectures at
  the Surrv Institution during the ensuing Season : —
     1. On Ethics, by the Rev. W. B. Collyer, D.D. F.S.A.          To
  commence on Tuesday, Nov. 4, at Seven o'clock in the evening,
  and to be continued on each succeeding Tuesday.
    2. On Chemistry, by James Lowe Wheeler, esq. To commence
 on Friday, Nov. 7, and to be continued on each succeeding Fri
 day evening at the same hour.
    3. On the British Poets, from Chaucer to Cowper, by Wm,
 Hazlitt, Esq.       To commence early in Jan. 1818.
    4. On Music, by Wm. Crotch, Mus. D. Professor of Music
 in the University of Oxford. To commence early in Feb. 1S18.
    Mr. T. J. Pettigrew, F.L.S. Surgeon Extraordinary to their
 Royal Highnesses the Dukes of Kent and Sussex, will commence
his Winter Course of Lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, and
Pathology, on Friday the 17th of October, at Eight o'clock in
the evening precisely.         The Lectures will be continued every
succeeding Wednesday         and Friday at the same hour, until com
pleted.      Particulars may be known by applying to Mr. P., Bolt
 Court, Fleet-street.
    Dr. Clutterbuck will begin his Autumn Course of Lectures on
the Theory and Practice of Physic, Materia Medica, and Che
mistry, on Friday, Oct. 3d, at Ten o'clock in the morning, at
his house, No. 1, in the Crescent, New Bridge Street, where fur
ther particulars may be had.
    Pupils are admitted as usual, to attend the medical practice of
the Dispensary, and, when qualified, to visit the patients at home.
Clinical Lectures on the most interesting and instructive cases
that occur, will be given weekly by the Physicians in rotation.
    The Lectures on Midwifery at the Middlesex Hospital, by
Dr. Merriman, Physician-Accoucheur to that Hospital, and
Dr. Ley, Physician- Accoucheur to the Westminster Lying-in Hos
pital, will recommence as usual early in October.
    Mr. Clarke will commence his Lectures on Midwifery and the
Diseases of Women and Children, on Friday, October 10th. The
Lectures are read every morning from a quarter past Ten to a
                                                              quarter

                         Lecturts. — Patents.                   235
quarter past Eleven, for the convenience of Students attending
the Hospitals.     For particulars apply to Mr. Clarke at the Lec
ture Room, 10, Saville Row, Burlington Gardens.
    Mr. Guthrie, Deputy Inspector of Military Hospitals, will
commence his Autumn Course of Lectures on Surgery, on Mon
day the 6th of October, at Five minutes past Eight in the even
ing, in the Waiting-room of the Royal Westminster Infirmary
for Diseases of the Eye, Mary-le-bone Street, Piccadilly. To be
continued on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
    Two Courses will be delivered during the Season.
    In each Course the Principles of Surgery will be explained,
and the practice resulting from them, with reference both to
Domestic and Military Surgery* fully pointed out.
    The Operations referred to in the Lectures will be shown in
each Course.
    Terms of Attendance. — Perpetual Five guineas. Single Course
Three guineas.
    Medical Officers of the Navy, the Army, and the Ordnance,
will be admitted gratis, on obtaining a recommendation from the
 Heads of their respective departments, which must be presented
 to Mr. Guthrie between the hours of Two and half-past Four, at
 his House, No. 2, Berkeley Street, Berkeley Square.
     Mr.Gaulter will deliver in the ensuing Season, two Courses of
 Lectures on the Physiology of the Human Body, at No. 10,
 Frith-street, Soho-sguare.     The Lectures will be given on Mon
 day and Thursday Evenings at a Quarter past Eight o'clock,
 after the Surgical Lectures are concluded.       The Introductory
 Lecture of the first Course will be on Thursday the 9th of Oc
 tober.
     *#* In last Number we stated that the Course of Lectures at
  Guy's Hospital, on the Structure and Diseases of the Teeth, was
 to be delivered by Mr. Fox; instead of which it should have been
  by Mr. Thomas Bell, who has been appointed to succeed Mr. Fox.
               LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     To John Perks, of Carey-street, St. John's, Westminster, Mid
  dlesex, for certain improvements in the apparatus for manufac
  turing, purifying and storing gas. — Dated 5th August 1817.—
  6 months allowed to enroll specification.
     To Thomas Taft, of Birmingham, for an improvement in bridle
  and other reins used and affixed to bitts and leather sliding loop
  to act with reins and bitts.— 5th August. — 6 months
     To Samuel Mersey the younger, of Long-Acre, Middlesex,
  for his improved mode or method of weaving, making, and ma
  nufacturing of livery lace and coach lace. — 7th August. — 2
   months.
                                                             ASTRO

236                      Astronomy. — Meteorology.
            ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA, OCTOBER                       1 SI 7-
   D. H. M.                                   D. H. M.
   1.16.15   I Vof     125   X
                                 * 5' S.      13. 1.12  5   S inj
   1.17.33   E  J     of  J's  cent.          13.15.41  5   H
  3.19.41     D  W  H                         14. 8 8    5 0   Ophiuchi
  4.10.41
   8.11. 5
              5
              5
                 i) SI
                 3vtiK
                                              15.16 30 5 4>
                                              15.19 43
                                                         iirjJ
  9.13.11     D  yUR                          18.15.23   5 «
10. 2 10      11 8 r>£                        23. 6 34 © enters tit;
11. 8. 4
11.21.
12. O. O
          3
              5
              5
              5
                 X n;j
                  «  i
                  in perigee
                                              2-1. 2 30
                                              26. 0. 0
                                              29. 0. 6  5
                                                         J1
                                                         J)
                                                             1 10   X
                                                            in apogee
                                                            125 a
12.21.50      5 A ==,                         SI. 3. 6 J    u   n
    The eclipse of Jupiter's 3d satellite on the 23d, which is set down in the
Nautical Almanack, as visible at Greenwich, will nut be visible. Indeed
the only one that is so, is the emersion of the first satellite on the 23tii,
\vhich is not marked in the Almanack.            Thi emersion of the third oil the;
9th at lh 17m 24s ou"ht to be 2h 17m 24*
                                            .                                    f
                                  METEOROLOGY,
                               Sun's Atmosphere.
                 the  Political Zeituns of Munich, of the 10th August.]
     " The
         [From
             great   and remarkable opening in the sun's atmosphere
 of clouds {wolkigen sonnenatrnosphare), of which notice has been
lately taken, was visible only a little before it vanished at the
western edge on the 5th of August, at which period a number of
little openings began to unite themselves into, two spots; storms
 and much rain followed.             It must be of great utility to farmers
 to be able to foretel fair or stormy weather, from observations of
 the spots on the sun, which are easily examined in the middle of
 summer, in the same way as we can do for the coming day or
 night, by the rising and setting sun. A great number of the
 latest observations confirm Herschel's opinion, that like the planets
  (verander lichen sternen) one half of the sun is less favourable to
 an abundant discharge of rays than the other, and that many spots
 on the sun make the year warmer and more fruitful.                       So much
 is certain, that in defect of spots on the sun, the atmosphere is
 more serene, as happened in the year 1811, in which none ap
 peared during the whole summer; but it showed likewise that
 such a year must not of necessity be unfruitful, as was the case in
 the years 1795 and 1799.              It is yet more certain that very warm
 and very cold weather can alone depend on the periodical abun
 dance or scarcity of combustible matter (brennslrtff) in the sun,
  since the moon and the planets can neither cause heat nor cold.
  In the year 541, which was one of famine and pestilence, the
  rays of the sun, according to Cedrenus, were as feeble as those
 of the moon, and yet the weather was so clear that in Italy they
                                                                          observed,

                              Meteorology.                            237
observed the comets of that time; the chronicle writers remark,
that excessively dry summers (as the year 763, and the year 1800,
remarkable for spots on the sun, and woods taking fire,) follow a
very copious appearance of meteors [sternschimpperi) .            In na
ture great matters more constantly depend upon each other than
minute, and it becomes us to observe and take advantage of
that dependance: it is to be wished therefore, that meteorologists
may apply themselves to a diligent observation of the spots on
the sun."                           — »——
Meteorological Observations kept at Walthamstow, Essex, from
                August 15 to September 15, 1817-
[Usually between the Honrs of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
              (a second time) between Noon aud Two P.M.]
Bate. Therm. Barom. Wind.
 August
 16    60   29-66     S — SW. — Sunshine; slight showers^ and sun,
       66               and windy; fine day; bright star-light.
 <U+2666>6  '58    29-90     SW — SE. — Sun and hazy; cloudy and windy;
       70               fine afternoon ; showers after 5 P.M.
 17    55   29-65     W — SW. —Sun and clouds, and wind; showers
       62               and sun; bright star-light.
 18    55   29-98     W — SW. — Cirrostratus, and calm; cloudy;
       64               showers after S P.M.; damp and hazy; much
                        rain in the last night.
 19    61   29-76     SW — SW. — Cloudy and hazy; showery day;
       68               cloudy.     Moon first quarter.
 20    55   29-75     SW. — Clear and cumuli; fine day; moon- and
       78               star-light.
 21    55   29-78     N. — Wind and rain     ; great showers ; stars and
       62               cirrostratus.
 22    46   30-10     NW — NE. — Clear and windy; clear and cu
       65               muli; very fine day; moon through cirro-
                        stratus.
 23   42    30-10     E. — Clear and windy; clear and cumuli; very
       63               fine day; clear moon- and star-light.
 24    60   29-77     E. — Cloudy; showery about noon; fine after
       6V               wards; a shower at 9 P.M.
 25    57   29-32     E — SE. — Gray; rainy after 7 A.M.; showers
       58               all day; clear star-light.
 26    53   29-10     E — SE. — Fine clear morn; great showers,
       63               and sun ; stars, and cirrostratus. Full moon.
27     51   29 00     SE— SW— W— NW.— Clear and cirrostra
       68                tus ; fine day ; very slight showers ; stars and
                        cumuli.
 28    52   29 66     NW— SW. — Fine,        sun, and wind; very fine
       67               day ; no rain this day; cloudy, but light.
                                                                  August

  158                       Meteorology .
 August
 29    52   29-66  W. — Clear, and cirroslratus ; fine day; slight
       67            showers, and sun; clear moon and star-light.
 30    53   29-87  SW — W.—-Very fine morn; cloudy, and dark;
       71            some rain in the evening.
 31    58  29-99   SW. — Sun and wind; fine day; windy; no
       66            rain today  ; bright star-light.
 September.
    1  48   29-99  SE — SE. — Fine morning; calm; fine day;
       65            hot; no rain; star-light.
   2   46  30-00   NE —-SE. — Sun and hazy; white dew; very
       69            fine day; dark night at 9 P;M.; star-light
                     late.
   3   59   29-97  SE. — Very hot fine morning; fine day; star
       74-           light.   Moon last quarter.
  .4   59  3000              —
                   N by VV. CirrostraluS) and very hot ; fine
       68            day; hot and windy; bright star-light.
  ;&   50  30-20   N — W — SW. — Very fine hot morning; fih#
       72.           day; star-light.
 •6    50  30-20   NE — SW— E. — Hazy, and sunny; fine hot
       72           day; star-light.
   7   68  30-20  SE — E. — Fogg)'; deep azure sky, and cumuli
      39            M 11 A.M.; hot sunny day; 6f P.M.
                    orange sunset, and purple mottled cirro-
                    stratus; star-light.
   8  51   30-00   NW — NE — SW. — Foggy; fine hot day; star*
      76            light and wind.
   9  57   29-00  N — NW. — Hazy, and wind; fine day; dark
      67            night.
 10   57   30-10  E — N. — Gray morning; sun after 1P.M.; fine
      66            day; star-light.
 11   53   3009   N— E— E by S—SW.— Rather hazy; sun
      64            after 3 P.M.; fine day; bright star-lights
                    New moon.
 12   55   30-00  S. — Hazy; a shower at 8 A.M.; sun; clouds
      68            and wind; fine day; star-light.
 13   62   29-98  NE — E. — Gray, and cirrostralus ; gray day,
      64            and slight showers ; dark night.
 14   55   29-98  NE— SE.— Rainy till near 11 A.M.; cirro
      59            stralus; stars and clouds.
15    61   29-98  NE — SE. — Hazy, and very damp; cloudy day;
      66            cloudy.
    At Tunbridge Wells, the 6th of August,   a large and very bril
liant meteor was seen ; a slowly descending body of fire, which
appeared about half the size of the moon's disk, and was highly
coloured.
                                                        METEORO-

                                Meteorology .                           239
             METEOROLOGICAL JOURNAL KEPT AT BOSTON,
                              LINCOLNSHIRE.
      [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
-TT
             \ge of
    1817.     the    Thermo Baro    State of the Weather and Modification
             Moon meter.    meter.             of the Cloud*.
             DAYS.
Aug.    15      2     68-   29-83   Fair — blows hard from the S.
        16      3     67-   29'91   Fair — heavy rain at night
        17      4     58"   2976 Showery — thunder
        18      5     64-   30-01 Fair — heavy rain at night
        19      6      70-  29-80 Ditto — rain at night
        20       7    68-   29-74 Ditto            ditto"
        21      8     57-5  30-     Showerv
        22      9      61-  30-21 Fine
        23     10      65-  30-10 Ditto
        24     1 1     62-5 29-S9 Cloudy
        25     12      59-  2929 Rain
        26 full        645   29-20  Showery
        27     14      61-  29-40   Ditto
        28     15      63-   29-79  Fair
        29     16      62-   29-73  Cloudy   — heavy rain towards morn.
        30     17      66-   30'    Fair
        31     )S      67-   29-06 Ditto — heavy rain towards mom*
 Sept.     1   19      63-   30-18 Fine
           2   20      65-   30-21  Very fine
           3   31      72-   30-05   Ditto
           4   22      68-   30-21   Ditto
           5   23      70-   30-33   Ditto
           6   24       72"  30-26   Ditto
           7   25       71-  30-26   Ditto
           8   26       71-  30-13   Ditto
           9   27       62-  30-24   Cloudy'
          10   28       61-  30- 16  Ditto
          11  new       67-  30-19   Very fine
          IS       1    61-  30-01   Cloudy
          13      2     61-  30-15   Very fine
          14      3     55-  30-12   Cloudy — rain in the evening
     This morning (Sept. 15) it rains again.    The Barometer    is however
                                    higher.
                                                                   MBTEORO

                                                        Meteorology.
                                          METEOROLOGICAL                       TABLE,
                               Br Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                For September 18i7-
                                                                                .
                          Thermometer.
                                                  U     •     Height of
Days of                                           —                                                Weather.
                    o'Clock.
                                                            ilie Barom.
                               Morning.
                                          5
                                          o                                     0) "°    £
                                                                Inches.             <S
                                          S5      '°z                           *-
                                                                                    ^
                                                                                tfS=-
                                                                                         &fi
                    8                                                          O
Aug.    27            56                  60       55        2Q.30                  27         Stormy
        28           56                   69      57            •63                 44         Fair
        29            57                  68      56            •64                 46         Showery
        30            57                  65      60            •85                 48         Cloudy
        31            59                  69      56            •80                 58         Fair
Sept.    1            55                  69      55         30-00                  69         Fair
                      54                  67      60         29-95                  46         Fair
        6 5 4 3 2
                      60                  74      66            •84                 42         Fair
                      60                  71      60         3002                   78         Fair
                      55                  69      59            •12                 57         Fair
                      55                  73      60            •08                 67         Fair
         7            56                  70      60            •10                 41         Fair
                      56                  73      61         29'95                  42         Fair
         9 8          59                  67'     56         30 01                  21         Fair
        10            56                  65'      57        29-95                  42         Fair
        11            56                  64       56        30-01                  21         Fair
        12            55                  67       56        29-96                  35         Fair
        13             54                 64       55           •94                 25         Cloudy
        14             54                 61       6o           •87       -         0          Rain
        15             60                 65       62        30-01                  21         Cloudy
        16             64                 64       55           -01                 24         Cloudy
        17             55                 66       60        29-90                  36         Fair
        18             56                 60       58           .72                 0          Rain
        19             58                 65       56           •84                 32         Fair
        SO 55                             64       57        30-00                  30         Fair
                                                                                               Fair
                                                                                                   '
        21 54                             60       52        29-95                  27               . .
        29 48                             60       54           •80                 32         Fair
        23 51                             66       56           •82                 36         Fair
        24 55                             61       55           •81                 44         Fair   .       ;
        B5 60                             63       58           -52                 35         Fair
        26 57                             60       50           •22                 40         Stormy
                    N.?. The                   Barometer's height     is      taken at one o'clock*

                              [241      ]
XL1. On Colonrs. — In Answer        to Mr. T. Hargreaves's Stric
    tures on the Work entitled   " Chromatics ; or, An Essay on the
    Analogy and Harmony       of Colours."    By The Author.
                           To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — In     answer to the observations of Mr. T. Hargreaves. on
my Essay entitled
                      " Chromatics," &c. in your last Number, I beg
to state that the pigments chosen to illustrate the various deno
minations of colours therein, have been selected from the most
eminent for durability and beauty, and that I am not acquainted
with any blue, red, or yellow, superior in these respects to the
three pigments, ultramurine, ruliaieot madder red, and Indian
yellow, used in exemplification of the primary colours.
    An eye critically nice will discern in every colour a tendency
to some other colour, according as it is influenced by light, shade,
depth or diluteness ; nor is this the case only in the inherent
colours of pigments, &e. but it is so also in the transient colours
of the prism, &c. Hence blue in its depth inclines to purple;
deep-yellow to orange, &c. ; nor is it practicable to realize these
colours to the satisfaction of the critical eye,— since perfect co
lours, like perfect geometrical figures, are pure ideals.     My ex
amples of colours are therefore quite as adequate to their office
of illustrating and distinguishing, as the figure of an angle in
clining to the acute or obtuse, instead of a .perfect right angle,
or middle form, would be in illustrating the conception of an
angle in general.
    Mr. H.'s objections to the examples of secondary and tertiary
colours rest upon similar ground.        Thus purple, composed of
blue and red, (which in its perfect hue should neutralize or ex
tinguish a perfect yellow,) denotes, in the example referred to,
not any particular or individual lint, but a class of lintt, bounded
on the one extreme by blue, and on the other by red: and thus
also of the other colours.     The secondaries, purple, green, and
orange, have accordingly been exemplified by intermediate tints
composed of two of the primaries alternately; and the tertiaries,
russet, citrine, and olive, by like intermediates of these secon
daries ; for all these denominations of colours, as above instanced,
are indications of classes or genera, and not significant of in
variable hues or tints of colour.
    The remarks of Mr. H. are however perfectly just with re
spect to Example X. of the Essay, in which the neutralizing co
lours are contrasted, and consequently require such individuality
of the opposed tints as may render them reciprocally neutra
lizing.
   The foregoing remarks upon the particular relations of colours
Vol.50. No.234. Oct. 1817-                    Q                 apply

  242                              On Colours.
                                                                 * : for the
  apply equally to their general relations or harmonies
  harmonies are as infinite as the hues of colours, and no more is
  designed in the Essay than to generalize or class the harmonies :
  — the examples given of them, therefore, like the former, are
  only indications of instances of classes.
      Mr. H. observes that the examples of the secondary colours
  are inferior in brilliancy to those of their primaries : but it is a
  principle in painting, to the value of which onr great colourist,
  Sir Joshua Reynolds, has borne testimony, that the compounds
  of colours are inferior in brilliancy, &c. to their components ;
  because pigments, being imperfect in hue, have a neutralizing or
  lowering effect upon each other, and a chemical action by which
  they are in general mutually injurious.
      With respect to the denominations of the tertiary colours, I
  have already remarked that those 1 have adopted do not express
  individual hues or tints, but genera or classes ; and since the no
  menclature of colours, in all languages, is confessedly imperfect       ff
  and I do not contend for tints or terms, I shall gladly change
  them for more significant appellations, if such can be found ;
 but that I am not in error as to the thing signified, is manifest
 from § 16, in which it is remarked "that blue predominates in,
 and gives its relations to, the olive, yellow to the citrine, and red
 to the russet."
      The use I have made of the double triangle in illustration of
 the relations of harmony in colours, in coincidence with Mr. H.
 is remarkable: yet, indeed, any trine figure tnigh thave supplied
 its place, though I have long preferred it for its simplicity, and
 as best suited to the philosophy upon which the Essay itself is
 founded.
      To conclude. I am pleased to find that my system of colours,
 in respect to their particular relations, accords with the pre
 conceptions of one so well acquainted with the subject as your
correspondent appears to be ; and since my doctrine of Harmony
in Colours springs as a consequence from the same premises, and
accords with the first principles of music, I anticipate, without
desiring to bias his judgement, a like concurrence of ideas with
that part of my Essay which treats of the general relations or
harmony of colours.
                         I am, sir,
                                       Yours very respectfully,
September 17, 1817.                                       The AUTHOR^
    * See some excellent observations relating to this subject by Mr. Tred- •
gold. Phil Mag. vol. xlix. p. 262.
    t See Phil. Mag. vol. xlix. p. 49, Oil the Ancient Names of Colours, by
T.   Forster, esq.
                                                               XLII.    Re-

                                 t    243    ]
 XLtl.    Report   of the Select Committee appointed to consider of
     the Means of preventing the Mischief of Explosion from hap
     pening on board Steam-Boals, to the Danger or Destruction
     of His Majesty's Subjects on board such Boats.
                           [Continued   from p. 182.]
                    Mr. George Dodd's Evidence.
 Where        is your residence    ? — I reside at No. 8, Oxford-street.
     What is   your profession?   —   Civil engineer.
     Are you   a proprietor of any steam-boats ? — I have five under
 my direction.
     Where are those steam-boats employed? — Two between Lon
 don and Richmond, one between London and Gravesend, and
 two between London and Margate.
      How long have they, or any of them, been in use? — The
 Thames has been in use three years.
     Where does that go? — From London to Margate: the Ma
jestic has been in us'e about twelve months, that goes to and from
 Margate : the Richmond, from London to Richmond, has been
 in use about fifteen months; and the other two are new vessels ;
 all these vessels lie up in the winter.       The Thames has not run
 from London to Margate during the whole three years ; she has
 run from London to Margate two years, and was twelve months
 in Scotland before I had her. I finished the Thames Margate
 steam yacht at Port Glasgow in Scotland, and navigated her
 from Scotland to Dublin, and encountered a considerable deal
 of bad weather, and found her most perfectly safe.         No material
 accident happened to the engine, which worked during the whole
 voyage; from Dublin I brought her round the Land's End, Corn
 wall, into the port of London.
     Are all the steam -boats that you now have, or that you have
 had, used with condensing engines ? — They are.
      Has any accident happened during the course of their being
  used? — The boilers of two have been injured by the imprudence
  of the engine workers; but no accident of any description could
  or has occurred to the passengers.
      What was the nature of the accidents that happened to those
  boilers? — The accident was the partial coming down of the
  boilers over the furnace mouth, being pressed down by the power
  of the steam, in consequence of the engine workers not suffi
 ciently feeding the boilers, and covering the flues with water.
      What are all your boilers made of ? — They are made of sheet
  wrought iron, riveted together.
      Are they cylindrical ? — They are not ; they are flat-sided with
  flat roofs, and the others have dome roofs j there are at least 1500
                                        Q 2                        rivets

   244                 Report  of the Select Committee
   rivets in the larger ones ; and I consider every rivet to be in a)
   degree a safety-valve, as in all instances of bursting or tearing of
   this description of boilers the rivets first give way, and always
   give sufficient warning.
        How many safety-valves have you to your boilers ?-One to each.
        Is that safety-valve accessible to the engineer directing the en
   gine ? — It is in all of them excepting the Richmond, and there it
   is under lock and key; the safety-valve on board of the Rich
   mond is not a lever safety-valve, but they are simple weights
  resting on the safety-valve, the whole of which is inclosed within
   a box and locked up, so that no discretionary power is left to
   the man who works the engine ; I carry the key of it in general
   myself.
       Do not you think in future it would be advisable, in order for
   the greater safety of passengers, that boilers should be provided
  with two safety-valves, one not accessible to the engineer direct
  ing the engine, and another accessible to him ? — I think that to all
  boilers there should be two safety valves; the one which would be
   accessible to the engine-worker, should be loaded with the mini
   mum of the pressure that the chief engineer saw fit that the boiler
  should sustain ; and that the one which would be inaccessible and
  locked up, should be loaded equal to the ultimatum that he would,
  under any circumstances, permit the boiler to support.
       In a high pressure engine, what is your opinion of the weight
  that ought to be placed upon the safety-valve of its boiler? —
 That in a great measure is conjectural ; but for my own practice,
  I certainly should not allow the safety-valves to be loaded with
  more than half the weight which I had previously tried and found
  the boiler was capable of supporting ; all my engines are low
  pressure engines, and the weight upon the safety-valves is re
  gulated not to exceed six pounds upon the inch.
      What is the reason that you have adopted, in your steam
 boats, the construction of boilers with flat sides and ends ? —
 Because that figure gives the greatest cubical content in the
 smallest space, and compactness of the machinery and the boiler
 is a desirable object in a steam-boat.
      Is it your opinion, that such boilers properly constructed, and
of sufficient thickness in the plates of wrought iron, maybe safely
used on board steam-boats having the low pressure engines? —
 Most decidedly so ; I consider each of my boilers capable of
sustaining a pressure of fifteen pounds upon the inch, .but I never
work them to more than six pounds upon the inch.
     Are those boilers so constructed, that the water entirely covers
the tube in which the fire is made ? — In the Richmond, the fire
is entirely surrounded by the water ; it is the case also in the
Majestic ; but in the Thames and iu the new boat to Richmond,
                                                                     and

                                                        '
                           on
                                Steam-Boal^.
                                                    -                     245
 and the new boat to Gravesend, they are what we call open fur
 nace mouths : under the furnace mouth I place an ash-hole of
 cast iron, bedded in clay and upon fire-bricks.
    Does the water in the boilers of this latter construction come
 to the upper surface of every portion of that iron, the under sur
 face of which is exposed to the fire ? — It does.
    If you are acquainted with any accidents which have happened
 to steam-engines, not under your own direction, be pleased to
 mention what they were and how they happened ? — I recollect
 the boiler of the Caledonia London and Margate steam-packet
 bursting at sea, by the forcing out of three of the rivets over the
furnace mouth, which extinguished the fire, but it was not pro
ductive of any injurious consequences to any of the persons on
board; and the Cork and Cove packet-boat in Ireland, with
25D officers and soldiers on board, burst her boiler when lying
alongside of the transport that was receiving the troops ; the
bursting made a fissure or opening of nine inches by eighteen
inches; but the steam which escaped did no injury either to the
persons on board or to the vessel, nor do I think under any cir
cumstances of the bursting, if a wrought-iron boiler at the low
pressure, that     is, the steam not being more than ten or fifteen
pounds     to the  inch, that the steam which might be suddenly let
loose or disengaged, would have power sufficient to raise the deck
of the vessel, or to injure the parties on board.
    Supposing an engine upon the high pressure principle to have
its boiler made of wrought iron, with the furnace passing through
water throughout its whole length, and the boiler to be provided
with safety-valves properly adjusted, so as to prevent the steam
being raised to more than half of that pressure which the boiler
is calculated to sustain, should you then hava any apprehension
of ill effects arising from the use of such an engine — Certainly,
                                                             ?
I  should still consider them hazardous and liable to very fatal
consequences   ;    for all boilers deteriorateby   work,        by
                                                             time, and
by  oxidation, and what might be proof at this period,      at    future
                                                                      a
period the boiler might be incapable of sustaining.        Besides, all
boilers are liable to casualties, and in case of any accident which
might suddenly let loose or disengage the steam of a high pres
sure boiler, the steam itself would have sufficient expansive force
and impetus to destroy any vessel.     I      have known instances, as
I  have stated before, of low pressure engines bursting, where
they have done no injury but
                           ;      I     cannot conceive   possible that
                                                            it
steam of ten or twenty times greater force could be let loose into
the engine-room without creating mischief.
    What is    the average price of steam-boats calculated to convey
passengers — The Richmond steam-yacht cost, in the first
           ?                                                              in
stance, including the engine, 1800£. the engine itself cost about
                                  Q3                                  1000/.}

246               Report  of the Select Committee
1000/. ; the Majestic cost about 2000/. and the engine abou£
2000/. more ; the Thames cost 2500/. including the engine, at
about 1200/.; the new vessel that I built to go to Richmond,
the hull and joiners' work cost 750/. and an engine of fourteen-
horse power and apparatus cost 1170/.; the new Gravesend
steam-yacht, the hull only has cost 750/. and the engine, 1370/. ;
but there will be various other expenses before these vessels are
fmished.
    Can you tell what is the expense of the boiler alone ? — I have
just got a new boiler from Messrs. Jessops of Butterley, for the
Thames steam-yacht, and I pay for the boiler 215/.
    What additional expense do you apprehend is incurred in a
boiler of these dimensions by having it of wrnught iron, beyond
what it would cost if made of cast metal ? — Never having had
 any cast-iron boilers, I do not feel myself competent to give a
satisfactory answer.
    What additional expense would be incurred by the addition
of an additional safety-valve ? —That would depend upon the
dimensions of the safety-valve, but in general the additional ex
 pense would be under 4l.
    You mean that each safety-valve costs about that sum ? — The
 most costly of them cost about that sum.
    Did you ever apply a mercurial tube as a safety-valve ? — Ne
ver : I have to each of the boilers a mercurial barometer, that
operates as an indicator of the height and pressure of the steam.
    Whereabouts is the expense of that barometer ? — I do not re
 collect, but certainly not more than 21.
     Did you see the Norwich steam-packet which exploded r — I
 have been on board her, and performed a voyage with her ; I
 went down with a view of purchasing it ; I went down for that
 purpose twice.
    What was your reason for not purchasing it ? — Because it
was a high pressure engine, and liable to the accident which has
 since occurred.
    Was that your sole reason ? — Yes ; I went a second time with
 !i party of German gentlemen from Bremen, who were anxious
 to make an immediate purchase of a steam-vessel ; and they also
 declined to purchase that or any of the boats upon the river Yare,
 solely because they had high pressure steam-engines on hoard.
     Did you examine the boiler which exploded when you were on
 board the vessel at Norwich ? — I did.
    What opinion did you form respecting that boiler ?— I thought
 that it was injudiciously composed, as I found that the barrel or
 cylinder of the boiler was of wrought iron riveted together ; of
 that part I approved, but I found that one of the ends was a
 flat plate of cast iron, and as these two nietals under the same*
                                                             degree

                          on Steam-Boats.                       247
degree of heat have different degrees of expansion, I thought it
by no means a perfect and secure boiler.
    Had you any opportunity of observing the boiler, so as to form
a judgement whether the cast-iron end was of sufficient strength
to resist the pressure of the steam? — I had no such opportunity.
    Had you any opportunity of observing when you were aboard,
whether the steam was properlv regulated ? — Yes ; I found that
the safety-valve was pressed down by a. lever, and when I first
went on board, the steam was so high as to require the weight
near the extreme end of the lever.      My opinion respecting the
insecurity of high pressure engines is not formed in consequence
of the late accident ; for on the 3d of March last, having occasion
to write to a Mr. Rawlinson, who had applied to me to con
struct a steam -packet for his friends, I concluded my letter with
these words ; " Is it intended to have a low or a high pressure
engine ? if the latter, I should decline having any concern in the
business, as they are attended with danger in any situation, but
especially so in a steam-packet, where the lives of all en board
would be at the mercy of the sobriety and attention of the en
gine worker."
    You mean of course to say, that they would be so if no pre
cautions other than those which have hitherto been in use were
 adopted to prevent it? — Certainly; I allude to high pressure
 engines, as they have been hitherto usually arranged.
     [Mr. George Dodd was again called in on a future day, and
 examined.]
     Can you inform the Committee, or give them any general
 idea, what amount of capital is vested in steam-boats? — I have
 been on board and am well acquainted with twenty ; and know
 that there are more than forty in Great Britain ; many have cost
 5000/. others 6000/. and one on the Thames above 10,000/.;
 I consider a fnir average to be 3500/. each, making the vested
 capital 140,000/.     Most of them are fitted up with peculiar ele
 gance   and   accommodation,    and the furniture and decorations
 alone form an expensive item ; they are also very expensive to
  maintain, especially on the Thames, by reason of the great cost
 of coal. They are most numerous on the Clvde, where they
  have been productive of essential benefit to the general commerce
  and traffic of Glasgow, Port Glasgow, Greenock, and the neigh
  bouring country.
     What description of engines and boilers have the steam-boats,
  you personally know, or with which you are personally ac
  quainted ? —All I know have low pressure condensing engines,
  and wrought sheet-iron riveted boilers, except the remaining
  steam-boats between Yarmouth and Norwich, and one in Hol
  land, built at Yarmouth ; and they are high pressure engines.
                                   Q 4                          [Mr.

  248                 Report  of the Select Committee
      [Mr. George Dodd was again called in and examined.]
      For what purpose do you attend ? — To produce a new safety-
  valve.
      What are the advantages attendant on the safety-valve which
  you have to offer to the Committee ? — I propose to the Com
  mittee the valve I now offer as a second valve, as it admits of
  being locked up so as to be inaccessible to the engine-worker ;
 it prevents the possibility of his obstructing its action, either by
  going into the boiler when the boiler is cool, or under any cir
  cumstances whatever. — [The witness produced it. ]
      Is there any provision against the valve adhering in any part,
 so as to prevent its operation ? — There is ; the safety-valve has
 not a conical bottom as is usual in most safety-valves, but has a
  flat bottom resting upon a flat circular ring ; the steam escapes
 from the sides of the box through apertures so constructed as
 that nothing can be introduced to impede its action.
                    Mr. Richard Wright's Evidence.
     Where do you live? — At No. 62, Blackfiiars Road.
     You are an engineer ? — Yes.
     Do you know the cause of the explosion of the Norwich steam
 boat?     — I do not know it beyond this; that I know that the
 pressure must have been more than seventy-five pounds, having
 seen     it worked at that pressure. My supposition is, that the
 man must have had it a vast deal beyond that, for there was no
 appearance of the boiler giving way at that time, and it was only
 a short time previous to the explosion itself.
     Has anybody" informed you, that to their knowledge the safety-
 valve of the engine was on that day, or on any other clay, im
properly loaded ? — No ; but they were frequently in the habit
 of putting an additional weight on the valve ; this man in parti
 cular, in both the boats which he had occasionally worked.
     Do you know any thing respecting the construction of the
boiler ? — The boiler was eight feet long ; a cylindrical boiler four
feet two inches diameter;       it was first made with an internal an
gle    iron  at one end, and an  external angle iron at the other end.
In consequence of the internal angle iron having given way, a
cast-iron end was substituted, which certainly was not done in a
manner which I should have recommended ; it might have been
made safe certainly ; any boiler might be made safe.
     Do you attribute, in any manner, the explosion of that boiler
to that particular alteration ? — Not at all ; the end, as altered,
appears to me to have stood more than the end previous to the
alteration.
    What pressure was the boiler originally calculated to sustain ?
— -Fortv pounds to the inch.
                                                                Which

                             on   Slearn-Boats.                                     249
   Which would you, as an engineer, recommend to be used on.
board steam-boats, wrought-iron or cast-iron boilers ? — I think
both might be used with equal safety; but that in proving them,
they ought to be kept under the pressure a considerable time,
say a quarter of an hour or half an hour ; sudden pressure may
cause flaws in a boiler, which may give rise to accident after
wards ; but if under pressure a considerable time, you might see
the action of it.
                Mr. John Richter's Evidence.
   Where is  your residence ? — In Cornwall Place,
   What are  you ? — A sugar refiner.
   Were you acquainted with the circumstances attending the
explosion of the engine at the sugar-house in Wellclose-square?
— I was.
   Be so good as to state them ? — I had attended from time to
time during the whole period of the construction of that boiler,
for the purpose of boiling sugar by means of high pressure ; it
was -necessary we should have a pressure of from six-and-thirty
to five-and-forty pounds to an inch.   I saw the boiler when the
bottom only was put up, and I was at that time informed that
they had cast the dome part of           it,
                                   and that   was not sufficient,
                                                            it
and that they were casting another.    Some months afterwards
I attended, and     found that other placed there.     saw them
                   I I
                                                                      I
at work, and as     went in, Mr. Haigh,  who was   the engineer,
told me they were boiling at eighteen pounds an inch    to which      ;
I replied, that must be impossible; we have never been able to
boil at less than six-and-thirty.    Upon which      went to the  P
gauge, and  I  found the index of the gauge standing at five- or
six-and-thirty.
   What was the nature of that gauge               —
                                              mercurial gauge, in
                                               ?       A.
tended as an index.                  "
                                Surely you are mistaken, this
                             said,                                                   is
                   "Oh! no," he said, " that means eighteen."
                         I
six-and-thirty."
In consequence of which, took an opportunity of measuring the
                             I
gauge, and found the gauge to represent inches,             which     by             I
knew they were in an error.       measured to convince them of
                                     I
the error, but failed, and could not convince them of         till the    it              ,
day after the accident.     In consequence of complaints from
Constant, the Frenchman, in whose house         was, that      would
                                                        it it
                                                                           it
not do its work, and his fears           in
                                    pressing     on to do  its  work,
the maker of  it became anxious to show that       would, andit    day          a
was appointed for this to be clone.    Constant, at three o'clock
in the morning, began his work, and continued boiling till about
eight, but boiling with  agreat deal of difficulty, because he was
afraid of putting the engine to the pressure he required.          He
                                                                  gave

230                     Report    of llie   Select Committee
 gave it up ; he said he would boil no more, and the men in at
 tendance, who belonged to the engineer, went to fetch the en
gineer.      He and his men came down, and persuaded Constant
 to have the fire lit again.       He consented, after a great deal of
 difficulty,  and  went to another   pan in an adjoining building, and
 there he was at work when the accident happened.            They were
 urging the steam, and actually had put an immense weight upon
 the lever of the valve, so as to render it totally useless.       This
 was ascertained by a Frenchman, who saw it, and who stated to
 the man that he was doing mischief and doing wrong.             He was
 told to hold his tongue and mind his own business ; that he
 knew his business, and they knew theirs ; the consequence was,
 that immediately afterwards it blew up.        After this accident, I
 went every day to the ruins, for the purpose of satisfying myself
 of what had been the cause of the bursting ; and I saw the ex
 cavation until the parts of the boiler, which was of cast iron,
 were found; and then finding parts of this boiler in different
places, the seat of the boiler being where it had been placed, but
 the rest scattered about in different directions, I measured the
 thickness of different parts of it.      The bottom of it was two
 inches   and  a half thick,  the upright sides of the bottom one inch
 and a half thick ; the lower part of the dome was seven-six
 teenths thick, and one of the parts at which it must have burst,
 and where the boiler was completelv defective in the casting,
 was less than the eighth of an inch thick ; it was not thicker
 than a crown-piece: the wonder is that it stood at all, not that
 it burst. I am sure I never would have gone near              it,
                                                               they had
                                                                   if
 not assured rfte     was three inches thick
                        it                         every part of
                                                      in            and  it,
I   was over      repeatedly.
                   it              apprehend the cause of that bad
                                    I
 work was this; that the man was his own founder, as well as an
engineer, and having made the thing in his own house,               was  it
his interest to patch      upit   the best way he could, and under
                                    in                               I
stand     itwas actually patched.
    Were you enabled to form a,ny judgement to what pressure
the men had raised their steam — could not form any judge
                                            ?   I
ment of that, but       understand that
                         I                    had been seen at forty-
                                                 it
eight.
    What pressure was the boiler originally intended to sustain                  ?
Itwasnot intended to be worked above forty-five, and was ordered
to be made to sustain the pressure of a hundred pounds to an
inch the whole house was blown to pieces, which,
      ;                                                     apprehend,
                                                               1
arose from the fragments of the boiler striking the story posts,
by   which the support being taken away, the walls fell inwards.
    Do you know whether there was           second safetv-valve to this
                                                a
boiler — do not think there was.
      ?        I
                                                                               Mr.

                         on Steam-Boats.                          251
                   Mr. John Steel's     Evidence.
    Where do you reside ? — At Dartford.
    What is your profession ? — An engineer.
    Are you acquainted with the construction of     steam boilers ?  —
Perfectly so.
    Will you give your opinion as to the comparative merits of
wrought and cast iron ? — I cannot conceive as to the safety of
the two, that there is anv difference whatever, when the steam
is used, as it generally is for high pressure engines, to forty
pounds to the inch.     If it was required to*make the strongest
boiler imaginable, I should consider cast iron preferable, because
there you can get to an unlimited strength of resistance; wrought
iron you can only have of a certain thickness.
    Are you of opinion, that a boiler can be made of cast metal,
free from all imperfections in the substance of the metal itself?
— No ; I do not imagine that it can exactly, but at the same
time it can be ascertained whether it is so or not before it is
used.
    Do you mean to say by that, that you can by any pressure say
that it is free from imperfections; or do you mean to state, that
it will only sustain the pressure that it is calculated for ? — When
boilers are proved, they are generally proved to four or five or
 six or eight times the pressure intended to be put on them.
    But still, though they bear that pressure, they might have
those imperfections ? — Certainly; but without those imperfec
tions, they would sustain, perhaps, fifty times whatsis wanted.
    Are you then of opinion, that the proof arising from the pres
 sure of cold water, is sufficient to ascertain the safety of a boiler
 which shall afterwards be exposed to the operation of fire or of        ,
 highly heated steam? — Perfectly so; because I imagine it is a
 great deal stronger when heated to the extent steam will heat it;
 casi or wrought iron is at its greatest strength when it is at 300
 degrees of heat, which I believe has never been arrived at yet by
 steam.
    Supposing the interior of the cast iron to contain cavities, by
 which the thickness of the extenal coat is very much diminished
 in those parts, and that those parts shall be afterwards exposed
 to the action of the fire, do you apprehend then, that the ap
 parent thickness of the boiler would be any sufficient security? —
 No ; by no means.
     Have the boilers which you have been accustomed to use been
 furnished with two safety-valves or one only? — Two, universally.
     Has either of those been locked up from the engineer ? — They
 sometimes have and sometimes they have not ; I should imagine
                                                                  t'.VOT

 252                Report of the Select Committee
 two-thirds of them have     been locked up, but I cannot exactly
 say;  one  is "always exposed.
    Do you think any great security is produced by the operation
 of a mercurial gauge, as a safety-valve ?— Certainly so.
    Are you of opinion, that by the adoption of those precautions,
 high pressure steam may be used with safety, either with wrought-
 iron or cast-iron boilers ?— Perfectly so.
    In case by accident of the explosion of a boiler — which would
 be attended with the greatest mischief, a cast- cr wrought-iron.
 boiler ? — I should imagine the explosion would be one and the
 same.
    Would not the cast-iron boiler be more liable to burst in frag
 ments, than the wrought iron ? — I have never seen it ; I have
 seen several cast-iron boilers rend, but never explode.
    Would not wrought-iron boilers rend? — Wrought-iron boilers
 rend also.    It appears to me it is not from the pressure, but from
 the heat where the water is kept from the place where the rend
 takes place ; I never saw a cast-iron boiler that had exploded.
    Supposing two vessels, one of cast iron and one of wrought
iron, of equal dimensions, which have no escape-valves at all, to
be burst by the expansive force of steam ; from which of those
two should you expect the greatest mischief to arise '—From the
 cast iron.
                 Mr. William Bronton's        Evidence.
    What are you, and where do you reside? — I am.        a civil en
gineer, resident at Birmingham.
    You are a manufacturer of steam engines ?— Yes.
    Have you ever manufactured any steam engines for boats ? —>•
Yes.
    Have you any thing to communicate to the Committee, foF
their information, respecting the best construction of the engine
or boiler, to produce safety to passengers on board?— Yes; I
have, during the course of my experience, made several high
pressure boilers, and in turning my attention to that, I was in
duced to examine what had been done before me ; and I think
we have accomplished the object, in making a boiler, which I
apprehend will become useless before it beeomes dangerous.
    Are you acquainted with any instances of the explosion of
steam boilers? — Yes, of both kinds ; I know of one which ex
ploded at Hunslet, near Leeds, whilst I was within half a mile        ,
of it ; it was a low pressure boiler ; the cause was the weakness
of the boiler, and the effect was, that all the windows of the
neighbouring manufactory, which were of lead, were torn out,
and there were a great number of the work-people scalded,'
                                                                 Was

                          e» Sleam-Boats.                        253
   Was the explosion of that boiler owing to the weakness of the
metal, or improper construction ? — It was, perhaps, from the
weakness of the metal ; I cannot answer that question exactly*
It was a cast-iron top ; it was the upper part of the wrought
iron, joining to the cast iron, that gave way.      Another instance
was at Shersiff-hill colliery, where the boiler was projected over
the engine-house ; there was no other damage done, excepting
breaking a capstan.
   What sort of boiler was that ?— -It was a round wrought-iroft
boiler.   Another instance was at the foundry near Stourbridge,
where the boiler bursted, and one man was killed.
   In all the accidents you know of, did they arise from the im
proper construction of the boiler, or from the ignorance or mis
management of the engine-man ? — I have no doubt that either
the one or the other caused all the accidents that ever hap
pened.                         ,
   Are not common or low pressure engines often used at a
higher degree of pressure than was designed by the person who
constructed the boiler ? — Yes, and particularly in steam-boats.
I have had more than once occasion to correct that, or to re
monstrate with the engine-man.        I should say, that this danger
is considerably increased, from a number of the boilers on board
the steam packets having large flat sides.
   Do not the engine-men, in many cases, increase the pressure
of the steam in the boiler, although it be of no additional ad
vantage whatever in increasing the power of the engine ? — Yes,
I think I may say so, if applied to the low pressure engine or
condensing engine.      The additional force of the steam subjects
the engine to a number of inconveniences.
   Have you been concerned in making boilers for high pressure
engines ? — Yes.
   Do you think that boilers for high pressure engines can be so
constructed as to become useless before they are dangerous?— Yes.
   Upon what principle ? — Upon the principle of having the
exterior part of the boiler independent of the flue, so much so,
that while the flue is injured by the current action of the fire,
the exterior part of the boiler remains, as to strength, unimpaired;
and I conceive that a boiler thus formed, when the flue has been
worn very thin, and then exposed to a greater pressure than it
could sustain, the thin parts of the flue would act as so many
safety-valves.   From my experience in regard to these boilers, I
know that when they have been worn for some time, you cannot
                                       -
have them tight.                           ,
   You are speaking here of boilers constructed of wrought iron ?
— Yes ; I speak of theni because I have so constructed them ;
but I have no doubt that cast-iron boilers, if constructed upon
                                                                  the

254                 Report  of I fie Select Committee
the same plan, may be made equally strong, having the outside
of cast iron and the inner part of wrought iron, would do the
.same   thing.
     Do you, from your own experience, believe it possible to con
struct boilers which will bear an expansive force of 600 pounds
to an inch ? — Yes ; according to my experience, I have taken a
good deal of pains to ascertain the strength of wrought-iron
 plate, and according to that 1 have made wrought-iron boilers
that would bear 600 pounds upon an inch.
     What degree of pressure have such boilers generally been
 worked with ? — Such boilers have been worked from forty to fifty
 pounds upon an inch, and previously to being worked at all they
 have been tried with 150 pounds to an inch, by water pressure.
     Are you then of opinion that there is no difficulty in con
 structing the high pressure boiler of wrought iron, in such a
 manner as to make it perfectly safe } — Yes, I am of that opinion,
 that the boiler may be constructed of wrought iron, with perfect
 safety, at a pressure of fifty pounds.
     After the boiler is properly constructed, do you apply any
 further safeguards to it ? — We adopt two safety-valves, one in
 an iron box under lock and key, and that is only at the control
 of the proprietor, and the other is open to the engine-man ; and
 we also employ a mercurial gauge as an inverted siphon, which
 in the event of the steam being stronger than the mercury can
 sustain, the mercury will be driven out, and the boiler therein-
 relieve itself.
     Do you consider this mercurial gauge in any other light than
 as an additional safety-valve, or as a contrivance       by which no
 tice is given   of  the pressure growing    too high ? — In both these
 respects I employ it ; I consider that in both those two points
 of view it is useful.
     Are you of opinion, that if the common safety-valves be pro
 perly adapted, the mercurial gauge may be dispensed with ; when
 I say properly adapted, 1 mean sufficient in number and capacity,
 and one of them completely secured from the intermeddling of
 the engine-man ? — I should think it would be safe.
     What do you think respecting the comparative mischief pro
 bably to arise from the bursting of a high pressure or a low pres
 sure boiler ? — In the high pressure boiler the injury would be
 done principally by the fragments projected ; in the low pressure
 boiler, the -mischief may arise chiefly from the hot water and
 steam.      I may mention two instances in illustration of this; the
 first, of  a  low pressure boiler having given way in the bottom,
 when a    stream   of hot water was projected against the engine-
 man, causing his death ; the second instance was of a high pres
 sure boiler, in which a hole was suddenly opened, the water pro
                                                                 jected

                          on Steam-Boats.
jected itself and completely wetted a boy standing within a yard
of the orifice, who was not at all injured thereby.     I should say,
the fragments from the cast-iron boiler would be, for any thing
that I know, equally destructive either with a high or with a
 low pressure.
    What injury do you think is likely to arise from the bursting
of a high pressure boiler composed of wrought iron ? — I con
ceive the injury would be more partial, in consequence of the
fragments being larger ; for I do not suppose that the wrought-
iron boiler would be dividediinto so many parts as a cast-iron
 boiler would.
    Do you apprehend, that a wrought-iron boiler would burst in
the same manner with a cast-iron boiler; I mean, whether the
manner of bursting would be the same? — Yes, I think it would.
    Supposing that cast-iron boiler to be burst by the expansive
force of the steam, does it usually rend, or go into fragments ? —
Oast iron will go intp fragments.
    What would be the effect of the same farce which would pro
duce explosion upon a wrought-iron boiler ?— The probability
is, that there would be much fewer fragments in the wrought-
iron boiler; — perhaps only two.
    Does not the greater tenacity of the wrought iron prevent the
fragments from being carried off in the same manner as when
the cast-iron boiler bursts ? — No ; I presume, that if the wrought-
iron boiler bursts, whatever fragments there are, they are com
pletely detached from that boiler, and they will go as far and do
as much mischief as those of a cast-iron one.
    Are the fragments separated from the wrought-iron boiler by
explosion, in the same manner as they are from a cast-iron boiler?
—Yes ; they would be projected with equal force, under equal
circumstances.     When I say that the wrought iron will rend, i
am also of opinion, that a part of it mav be projected : 1 have an-
 immediate eye to the circumstance of one part of it being sepa
rated, and that the one part would be carried with as much vio
lence in the csist iron as in the wrought iron.
    Is there not a greater probability in the wrought-iron boiler
 rending, and not separating into fragments ? — I know that one
 wrought-iron boiler burst with a high pressure steam ; and a
fragment, the largest piece, was carried to the distance of 150
 yards.
    Was that a piece of the wrought iron ? — Yes.
    Have you any thing to add to that part of your answer ? — No.
    You have said that the boilers which you manufacture, are
 generally made of wrought iron ; what is your reason for pre
 ferring the wrought to the cast iron ? — I was induced from the
examination of several cast-iron boilers, which I found cracked
                                                                   or

 256        A shaft   AccouM of Horizontal      Waier-W 'heels.
 or broken in the lower part of them, which in my opinion arose
 from the unequal temperature and expansion in trie exterior part
 of the boiler; this unequal temperature is caused by a quantity
.of water at all times under the flue, and consequently of lower
 temperature than the water above the flue ; thereby causing the
 upper part of the boiler to expand in a greater ratio than the
 under part of the boiler, which in my opinion caused the frac
 tures alluded to.     This circumstance induced me to make use of
 wrought-iron boilers, as I have explained or described, in pre
                                                 '
 ference to the other.                             - -
     In a steam boat, what boiler would you most recommend to
 be used to insure safety to the persons on board ; a wrought-
 iron 'of a cast-iron boiler ? — A wrought-iron boiler, properly con
 structed.'
    What safety-valves would you recommend to be placed to
 boilers on board steam -boats, to insure the greatest safety, or to
 guard against the boiler's exploding ; I mean as to number ? — 1
 recommend at least two safety-valves ; the one to be placed un
 der the lock and key of the proprietor of the vessel, so secured
 as not to be accessible to the engine-man ; and one which the
 engine-man has the usual control of.
     Have you any thing to recommend with regard to the parti
 cular construction of these safety-valves, so as to insure their
 acting and constant operation ? — I would recommend the valve
 to be nearly fiat or quite so, which I apprehend would be less
 liable to be fastened by the difference of temperature to which
 the valve and the seat might occasionally be- subjected.
    I suppose such a safety-valve would not be liable to be im
 peded by much friction? — As little friction as perhaps can be.
    You have not any thing particularly to suggest ? — No.
                             [To be continued.]
 XLIII. A      short Account    of Horizontal Water -Wheels.        By
                          W. Adamson*, Esq.
On      perusing the works of mechanical writers, it appears, that
many attempts have been made to construct horizontal water-
wheels, on such a principle as would give them sufficient power
for mechanical purposes ; but that these attempts have often
failed.
    The principal kinds, of which we have any account, are :
    1 . Such as have    their vanes or floats placed round the rim,
like those of a wind-mill, and which are made much broader
than the vein of water which is to strike them; the water is de-
                     * Communicated by tlic Autlwr.      . .
                                                                Iivered

        A sliorl   Account of Horizontal tauter -Wheels.             25?
livered from a spout, which is so directed as that they may be
struck in a direction perpendicular to their surface.
    2. Those which have their floats ranged round the rim of th§
wheel in planes inclined to the radius, but parallel to the axis.
   3. Those which have the floats standing on a soal, or on the
side of the rim, not pointing to the axis, but aside from          it,
                                                                   sd
 that they will admit of the spout being more conveniently placed.
   4. The centrifugal wheel, commonly called Barker's mill.
    This consists of an upright pipe or trunk, communicating with'
two horizontal arms; feach having        hole near the end opening
                                               a
in opposite directions, and at right angles to the arms.         The'
water  is poured   from     spout
                               a  into the  top  of  the  trunk,  and
issues through the holes in the arms, with      velocity correspond
                                                    a
ing to their depth below the surface of the Water,       which thtf
                                                             by
arms are forced backwards, and      retrograde motion
                                           a               given to
                                                              is
the wheel.
    5. In the year 1797,    patent was taken out
                                   a                   Mr. Robert
                                                        by
Beatson, for a method of constructing horizontal mills to go
either  by wind or water.     The machine consists of four rect
angular frames or wings, standing at right angles to each other1
on an upright shaft.   The floats, which consist of some thin light
substance, are fixed in the frames perpendicular to the horizon,
and are so constructed, that when they face the wind or the current
of water, they are shut, and fill up the whole space within the
 frame; but on the opposite side, when they return against the
current, they are open, and permit the wind or water to pass
between them.
    This machine, as water-mill, was intended to act in the cur
                        by a
rent of river, or
       a              the ebbing and flowing of the tide.
    These seem to be the principal kinds of horizontal wheels;
and from the nature of the principles upon which they act^          it   is
evident their powers must be very small.
  It
  .    however appears that many are in use on the continent of
Europe.
An Explanation          the New Patent Horizontal Water-Wheel,
                        of
                   and the Principles its Action.
                                               of
  A  circular wall, in the form of    hollow cylinder,
                                           a             built in
                                                             is          a
perpendicular position on     horizontal plane.
                                   a
   Through the side of the cylinder, at the bottom^ several rect
angular cuts or passages are made, the sides of which are per
pendicular to the base, or bottom of the cylinder, and the length
of each wjthin,   about four times the width.
                   is                             Fig.   Plate IV.
                                                              1,
   The passages or cuts are made quite round the circumference,
and so near to each dther, that the sections of their sides within,
make an acute angle, and leave, between each two,        solid part
                                                              a
   Vol. 50. No. 234. Oct.] 17.         8            R             in

25S         A short    Account of Horizontal Water*W'heels*
in the form of a wedge, the edge of which is perpendicular to the
base, so that a line drawn from the centre of the wheel to    will             it,
form a right angle with that side of the cut which faces the cen
tre. Fig.     1.
   Within the cylinder      placed the horizontal wheel, with floats,
                                 is
and   aperpendicular   axis  or spindle, which turns on        point in-
                                                                      a
the centre.   Figs.     and 2.
                            1
   The floats FF are rectangular planes, fixed round the edge of
the wheel in planes passing through the centre, and perpendicular
to the plane of the wheel.        Their height      something greater
                                                        is
than that of    cut, and their breadth rather more than its width:
                   a
also their number may be about three times the number of cuts.
But for the purpose of obtaining the most regular motion, the
numbers of the cuts and floats ought to be prime to each other.
Fig. 2.
   The cylinder      surrounded
                       is                 by
                                         reservoir of water, supported
                                               a
by   circular
     a        wall, which,   in low falls,  may be equal to its depth.
Fig.l.
   The reservoir        filled, from the canal or river,
                       is                                             by
                                                                  stream   a
flowing through       head or slit at the top of the outer wall, and
                       a
at the bottom, the water flows through the cuts PP against the
floats, and turns the wheel.        Figs.   and1    2.
   The width of the cylinder within, RR, continued downwards
                                                   is
below the floats FF, to        depth sufficient for permitting passages
                                 a
to be made under the reservoir, of sufficient capacity to take away
the water as fast as        enters the inner cylinder. Fig. 2.
                            it
   The passages at the bottom of the machine, showing the
escape of the water, appear in the plate, for the want of room,
to occupy only half the circumference, but ought to be continued
quite round.     Fig.       2.
   In fig.  2,where part of       perpendicular section of the machine
                                      a
is  represented, the passage of the water appears to be only on
one side, but the opposite side          supposed to pass through one
                                          is
of the solids which supports the reservoir and wall.
   The wheel, to about half the radius,           open quite round the
                                                   is
centre, for the purpose of permitting the free passage of the air                    ;
(this, in large wheel, may be much more than half;) the re
mainder   is a
             solid, quite round, and curved or dished on the under
side, for the purpose of turning the water downwards, and pre
venting   it from rising above the wheel, as            passes from the
                                                             it
float, in a thin  sheet   to the centre, where     forms
                                                   it       head, which
                                                                  a
by its pressure facilitates its escape. Fig. 2.
   According to the manner in which the floats are fixed              the      in
wheel, they ought,         the figure, to be invisible; but are made to
                            in
appear, for the purpose of showing the nature of the action of
the water against them.         Fig.      1.
                                                                                     To

               A short        Account        of Horizontal Water-Wheels.                           259
      To find what depth the bottom                    passages ought to be, it will
foe only necessary                     to know the breadth and depth of the head
through which the water flows into the reservoir, as the same
quantity must pass both places in the same time.
   The perfection of this machine may be shown as follows :
   1. The floats being open on all sides, except that opposite
the centre, will prevent as much as possible, any reaction against
the water corning in.
   2. The space below the floats, and the passages from          being                     it,
always sufficient to take away the water as fast as        enters, will           it
prevent any accumulation of tail water from impeding the floats.
   3. The velocity of the water being greater than that of the
wheel, prevents any impediment          centrifugal force.by
   4. The force of the water through the cuts, arises from its
perpendicular pressure from the surface to the centre of force,
and therefore      the greatest possible.
                             is
   5. The line of pressure against the floats,      as nearly perpen        is
dicular to their surface, and as near to the extremity of the ra
dius, as     possible to make
               it   is             act against the floats of wheel,
                                                 it                                        a
and therefore the pressure against them cannot be greater.
   6. The water acts against all the floats at the same time.
       The whole of the water acts against the floats.
      8. 7.
       The water receives no check from the want of air.
   9. No water-wheel can move with less friction.
   Hence      must be evident, that these principles will give the
                    it
greatest power that can possibly be obtained from the action of
water upon     horizontal wheel
                        a                         :
   But as a wheel acting on these principles has never before
been tried,    was thought most advisable to put
                        it                              to the test by           it
experiment, previous to making        public.      very complete and
                                                       it               A
perfect model (or rather a little mill) has therefore been made
by Messrs. Bramah and Sons, at their manufactory in Pimlico,
near London.
                             The Model
stands on    base of two feet diameter, and its height
                    a                                    53 inches.                   is
   The outward cylinder, which supports the water in the re
servoir,   of cast iron.
                   is
   The inner cylinder,      which the wheel moves,
                                            in          of wrought                    is
iron, and its lower end, through which the cuts or water pas
sages are made,     of brass.     is
   The depth of the reservoir     about     inches.
                                                  is           5   1
   The number of cuts or water passages         24, and their depth    is
one inch.
   The wheel and floats are of brass.
                                                               '
   The diameter of the wheel        12 inches, and the number of
                                                     is
floats   79,  isprime number.
                         a
                                                 R   2                                         A   ma-

260         A  short Account     of Horizontal Water-Wheels.
    A mahogany wheel or pulley of equal diameter to the wheel . is
fixed on the top of the spindle, and above it one of about 6-8
inches diameter is fixed, for the purpose of making experiments.
    The water escapes at the bottom quite round the machine.
                                Experiments.
    With this model or mill, the following experiments were made.
    When the reservoir was full to above four feet above the cen
tre of pressure, or middle point in the cuts, the wheel made
nearly four revolutions in a second, and, as no weight was then
suspended, this was its greatest velocity.
    A cord was then fixed to the smaller wheel, and passed over a
pulley, with a weight suspended, when twelve revolutions of the
wheel made in
                     1ri2
                                                             ^
    251 1                                            50-4 T
                    J
    13 1[ seconds 1 10
                            - pounds,
                                                         '
                                                     96-92 I feet in a
     6 ^raised ' ]       8            21feet,or^21().
                      I                                    J
        1             1
     5J i            1  6                         .252-
    Then    each  weight multiplied by the height to which it was
raised in a minute gives the momentum ; therefore
             12  x 50- 4= 604-8}
          '  10  x 96-92= 969-2       f     .
                                                mo,nentum.
              8x210-       =16S0-
              6x252-       =1512- )
  . Hence    it appears, that the third experiment produced the
greatest effect, and that the wheel then made twelve revolutions
in six seconds, or two in one second, and therefore it moved wifn
nearly half of its greatest velocity.          Consequently, when the
wheel moves with nearly half of its greatest velocity, it works to
the greatest advantage, supposing the third experiment to be
the maximum.
                    Diameter or Size     of the Wheel.
    This wheel may be made of any diameter that may be required
for making a given number of revolutions in a given time.
                                  Velocity.
    The wheel may       move   with any velocity whatever that can be
obtained from the fall.
    Mr. Banks, at page 105 of his Treatise on Mills, by taking a
mean of the experiments made by six different authors, for the
purpose of finding with what velocity water will issue from a fall
of a given depth, gives 5-4 x square root of the depth = velo--
city of the water.
    But according to these experiments, 6 comes much nearer
than 5-4, and also agrees exactly with the experiments made by
Banks himself; and as, in these experiments, it gives nearly the
                                                                velocity

           A    short Account        of Horizontal Water-Wheels.                     261
velocity of the wheel, therefore 6 x square root of the depth =
velocity of the wheel, arid this may also, in practice, be taken
for the velocity of the water without any material error, though
its velocity will always be something greater than that of the
wheel when moving without resistance.
   On these principles a small wheel with a high fall will move
with a velocity amazingly great. Thus, let the diameter of the
wheel be one foot, and the height of the fall eighty-nine feet, then
6 <U+2666>/ 89 = 56,60388 feet, the velocity per second; and as the cir
cumference of the wheel is 3-1416 feet ; therefore
  As 3-1416 : 1 : : 56 60388 : 18 revolutions per second.
  or IS x 60 = 1080 revolutions in a minute.
                                            Power.
   In the specification, the power of the horizontal wheel was
compared to that of the overshot, on a supposition that the force
of a stream of water acting against a perpendicular plane near
the orifice from which it flows, is nearly equal to the weight of
the column which impels               as Mr. Banks has proved
                                      it,                                       by
                                                                           experi
ment.
   But      making some experiments for the purpose of ascer
           in
taining the manner in which the water acts against the floats of
the horizontal wheel,           appeared,
                                it
    That       stream of water from
              ifa                                horizontal pipe, act against
                                                  a
a  perpendicular plane       near   the  orifice  with any considerable fo.rce,
it will spread quite round in a thin sheet parallel to the plane,
and leave      on all sides in that direction
                it                                       and  ;
   That      the edge of the stream be brought
              if                                               little beyond the
                                                                       a
edge   of the  plane,   so  that   part   of      it
                                                 may   pass by,      will form an
                                                                           it
angle   with        and
                   it  ;  that   as   the   further   side  of   the  stream ap
proaches the edge of the plane, the angle              will increase until they
coincide, when          will become right angle.
                           it                a
    Hence       it evident, that there
                     is                            isreaction in this machine
                                                       it a
against the water coming in, which                     is
                                                      impossible to avoid, and
 that this     what reduces its power below that of the overshot
                is
 wheel    but that this reaction
          ;                                 very different from the centri
                                             is
 fugal force.
    Before we proceed to compute the power of the wheel,                             it
                                                            one, the width of             a is
 necessary to observe, that when the radius                       is
 cut  isequal   to  the  natural     versed   sine of  the  angle between two
 of them,   taken    at the   centre,    and   therefore,
     Ifthe versed sine of the angle between two cuts be multiplied
 by  any given radius, the product will be the width of                     cut to
                                                                                 a
 that radius and since all the cuts, in any cylinder, are equal in
                   ;
 width, as they are also in depth therefore,  ;
    If the versed sine of the angle between two cuts be multiplied
                                             R3                                           by

  262       A  short Account    of Horizontal Water-Wheels.
  by the radius, and then by the number and depth of the cuts,
  that is versed sine x radius x number x depth, it gives the
  area of a rectangular section equal to the area of the perpendi
  cular sections of all the cuts.
     In the model the radius is six inches, the number of cuts
  twenty-four, and their depth one inch; the angle 15°, and its
  versed sine -034074 ; therefore
           •034074 x 6 x 24 x I =4 906056 square inches,
  which, in consequence of the cuts having been made rather wider/
                                                           5
                                                          — -
  by dressing, is taken at five square inches >or              square feet,
  and the water being four feet deep, its velocity was 6-^4 = 12
  feet per second ;
     Hence,7 — = — cubic feet of water issue in a second,' or
              5x12       5
                144      12
        — 25 cubic feet in a minute.
     Therefore for the power, we have 25 cubic feet, or 25 x62-5
  pounds of water descending through four feet in a minute ; hence
     The momentum of the power is 25 x<62-5 x 4 = 6250.
     Then to find the momentum of the effect, according to Mr,
  Smeaton's method          when the wheel moved without water, a
  weight  of  ten   ounces  gave it a velocity of two revolutions per
1 second.    Therefore according         to the third experiment, the
  weight raised was eight pounds ten ounces, or 8-625 pounds ;
  consequentlv.
     The momentum of the effect was 8-625 X 210= 181 1-25 and
  as 6250 : 181 1-25 : : 1 : -2S98 the effect.       But if the velocity of
  the water be found according to Mr. Banks's mean of the ex
  periments of six different authors, it will be 10 8 feet per se
  cond, and the effect will be '322 ; and this makes the power of
  the horizontal wheel double to that of the undershot, according
  to the second example in Mr. Smeaton's Table. .
                                 Remark.
     Mr. Smeaton, at page       12  of his Treatise on Mills, gives an
  account of   an experiment    on the undershot wheel, where it ap
  pears that his head, or fall, of water was thirty inches, and that
  264-7 pounds weight of water was expended, or descended
  through thirty inches in a minute ; hence,
     The momentum of the power was 264-7 X 30=7941, that
  9-375 pounds weight of water was raised through 135 inches
  in a minute by the wheel ; hence,
     The momentum of the effect was 9-375 x135=1265-625,
  therefore as 794 1 : 1 265 -625 : : 1 : • 1594 the effect, and -1594 X 2
   = •3188= double the effect.
                                                                       But

        A short    Account         of Horizontal Water-Wheels.                263
   But it appears that Mr. Smeaton has inserted -S2 in his
Table as the true effect in this case, on a supposition that the
same effect may be obtained from half the power; and he there
fore multiplies the weight of the water expended in a minute by
15, or half the depth, instead of 30, which was the depth through
which the water, that turned the wheel, actually descended in a
minute.
   Had he made such a discovery as this, he ought to have given
a demonstration, or a clear proof of its truth ; for his argument
about a virtual head, certainly gives no such proof : on the con
trary, he says that he has obtained more than double of what is
assigned by theory; and that this is very different from the opi
nions and calculations of authors of the first reputation.
   The reason of making this remark         that       is,
                                                       probable the
                                                             it   is
power of the horizontal wheel will be compared with that of the
undershot, according to Mr. Smeaton's Table, where he has in
serted double the power of the undershot wheel (or very near                    it)
according to his own experiments.
   The horizontal wheel may be used       any fall however high or
                                                   in
low.
                        In low Falls.
   Example. — Let the depth of the fall      be two feet, diameter of
the wheel twenty feet, number of cuts twenty-four, and theip
depth four inches     ;
   Then,   by the Table, the angle between two cuts           15°, and is
its versed sine -034074      therefore,
                               ;
   •034074 X 10 x 24 x i=2'72592 square feet, or the area of                    a
rectangular passage equal to that of the perpendicular sections
of all the cuts.
   This may therefore be considered as the base of          column of  a
water, the height of which       the perpendicular distance from the
                                     is
surface to the centre of pressure or the middle point of the cut,
which in this case    is22 inches, or     feety  hence we have
                                                         ;
   27592 x   y   =>5 cubic feet, nearly =5 x 62-5 =       12-5 pounds
                                                                   3
weight constantly    impelling   the water  through   the cuts against
the floats quite  round  the  wheel, and  312-5  divided      24, givesby
 13 pounds for each cut or passage.           The greatest velocity of
                           =
                          »/   66 =
                               xf
                                     it */
the wheel will be     6               124, or about eight feet per
                                                  8"
second; and therefore when      works to the greatest advantage
will be four feet per second.  Then
       as4 :   V  1
                  120   3-1416
                          x      15'7 time of revolution.
                                          :                  a
                                   In high Falls.
   In order to obtain the full force of the water here in the                 same
                                          R   4                             manner

364      A   short Account   of Horizontal Water -Wkeeh.
manner as in low falls, the height of the walls of the reservoir
would require to be equal to that of the fall.  But,
   This however is not necessary, as both the reservoir and inner
cylinder may be covered at any proper height, as denoted by the
dotted line in the plate, but the reservoir must be made water-:
tight.
    A pipe may then be brought from the surface of the water to.
the bottom of the reservoir, where it must be so fixed that the
water may flow from it ip the same direction as the wheel turns,
which, in that respect, will augment the power.
    But as this supplying pipe will be in the place of a reservoir
 of water, the area of a section of it ought to be greater than the
sum of the areas of the perpendicular sections of all the cuts,
and it ought also to be constantly full up to the top, otherwise
the water would not be supplied so fast as it could pass through
the cuts, and a part of the power would be lost, unless there were
a contrivance for covering or shutting up part of the cuts.
    Example. — Let the depth of the fall be 81 feet, diameter of
the wheel 10 feet, number of cuts 30, and their depth half a
 foot.
    Then, by the Table, the angle between two cuts will be 12**,
and its versed sine "021852 ; therefore,
    •021852 x 5 x30 X \= 1-6389 square feet, which is the area
pf a rectangular passage, equal to that of the perpendicular secT
tions of all the cuts, and the diameter of a circular pipe of equal
area will be 17"3 inches, therefore the diameter of the supplying
pipe must be greater than this.
 '
    If the radius of the wheel and depth of the cuts remain the
same, the greater the number            the less will the area of the
                                       is,
whole of their perpendicular sections be, and consequently, the
less water will pass through them, but         will act nearer to the
                                                   it
circumference ;    and therefore, in proportion to its quantity, will
produce  a   greater effect.
    Example.— Let the numbers be 12, 16, 30, 50, then these
multiplied by their respective versed sines will be'
   12x -133975 =    1-
                    6077                            ..
                                                                        ,
                                                         *¦ tne sums °*
                                  ,
                              }
                                             are  ratl0s
  16 x -076120— 1-21792      r
                                      the areas of their PerPendicu!ar
  30 x -021 852=0-65556
  50 x -007885 = 0-39425  )f          settl0ns-
   Hence, when the quantity, or supply of water     great, the
                                                          is
number of cuts must be small, and, on the contrary, when          it   is
small, the number of cuts must be great in order to obtain the
         effect.
greatest
                                                                   The.

         A  short Account   of Horizontal Water- fVlteeh,        265.
        The following Problems may sometimes      be  useful :
    Prob.  1.  Given the angle between two cuts, to find the number
pf cuts.
    Rule.   Find the angle in the table, and against.it stands the
number.
    Prob. 2.     Given the number of cuts, to find the angle be
tween two.
    Rule.    Find the number in the table, and against it stands
the angle.
    Prob. 3. Given the angle between two cuts and the radius
of the wheel, to find the width of a cut.
    Rule, - Multiply the versed sine of the angle by the radius,
and the product is the width of a cut.
    Prob. 4. Given the number of cuts and the radius of the
wheel, to find the width of a cut.
    Rule. Find the versed sine (against the number) in the
table, and multiply it by the radius for the width.
    Prob. 5. Given the angle between two cuts and the width
pf one, to find the radius of the wheel.
    Rule.    Divide the width of the cut by the versed sine of the
angle, and the quotient is the radius.
    Prob. 6. Given the number of cuts and the width of one,
to find the radius of the wheel.
    Ride. Find the versed sine (against the number) in the table,
by which divide the width, and the quotient is the radius.
    Prob. 7. Given (D) the depth of the fall, and (d) the dia
 meter of the wheel, both in feet, or both in inches, to find the
number of revolutions in a given time.
    Rule.     Take ~*r£n = Tr~rr — n — number          of revolutions
                    3'141oa   *5l2:i0a
 in a second ; then n X number of seconds in the given time
gives the number of revolutions in that time.
     Example.      Let D==45 feet and d=5 feet; then
  \/ 45 -h-5236 X 5 s=. 2 562 revolutions in a second =«, and
  2-562 x60= 153-72 revolutions in a minute.
     Prob. 8. Given (D) the depth of the fall, and (n) the num
 ber of revolutions in a given time, to find the diameter of the
 wheel.
     Rule.    Find (n) the number of revolutions in a second:
     Then smce    ^j=«,                 =d.
     Example.      Let D = 30 feet, and the number of revolutions
                                                                      in

266            A short     Account   of Horizontal Water-Wheels.
in   a minute        = 138, then l38-!-60       = 2-3 = n, and
V 30-f--5236             x 2-3=4-55 feet, the diameter required.
     It may                                    when the quantity of
                   be proper here to observe, that
water is not too great, nor the fall too high nor too low for the
overshot wheel ; its power will exceed that of the horizontal ;
yet, in general practice the horizontal will certainly be superior,
for the following reasons :
    1. Because the horizontal will act in any fall, its friction will
not increase by the increase of water, and as it receives the wa
 ter quite round the circumference, it will (when the supply is
sufficient) work with a quantity greater than can be applied to
the overshot without great loss of power.
    2. In the horizontal, while the depth from the surface of the
water to the centre of force in the cuts remains the same, the
power will increase with the quantity of water acting against the
floats, or as the depth of the cuts ; and since the quantity of
water increases also with the circumference, or the radius of the
wheel :    Therefore
    The power will be as the product of the radius and depth of
the cuts.
    Thus, if the depth of the cuts be made three times as great,
and the radius twice as great, the power will be 3 x2=6 times
as great.    Hence
     If,in the model, the depth of the cuts be made 10 inches,
and the radius 60 inches, or ten times as great, the power will
be 10      10=100 times as great, though the depth of the fall
           x
would be increased only 4{ inches.
    3. When the depth of the fall      given, the size of the over
                                            is
shot, as also its velocity,     fixed
                                   is for   its diameter be 16 feet,
                                            ;      if
its velocity, to produce the greatest effect must be five feet per
second; but the velocity of the horizontal wheel, with          fall of
                                                                     a
 16 feet, must be 12 feet per second.         Again, an overshot of
36 feet diameter must move 533 feet per second but               hori
                                                                 ;   a
zontal with     fall of 36 feet must move with
                    a                              velocity of 18 feet
                                                         a
per second, to produce the greatest effect.
   4. The overshot must have a wheel fixed on its axis, and con
nected with other wheels or machinery before any effect can be
produced     but in the horizontal this
               ;                           sometimes not necessary,
                                                  is
as a mill-stone may be fixed on the top of the axis, and made to
revolve with     proper velocity without any connexion with other
                     a                  j
wheels.
                                                                     Tabus

                   On Ebbing and Flowing Springs.                   267
Table showing         the Angle between two Cuts with its natural
                        versed Sine from 9 to 52.
               A ngle.      V. Sine.            Angle.    V. Sine.
              0    /                           0
        9   40     0       •233956     31     u   36-79  •020470
      10    36     0       •190983     32     n   15-    •019215
      11    32    43-63    •15S746     33     10 54-55 •018071
      12    30 0           •133975     34     10 35-29 •017027
      13    27 41-54       •114544     35     10 17-14' •016070
      14    25 42-86       •099031     36     10   0     •015192
      15    24      0      •0S6454     37       9 43-7S •014384
      16    22 30          •076120     3S       9 2S-42 •013639
       17   21 10-59       •067528     39       9 13-S5 •012950
      18    20      0      -Q60307     40       9  0     •012312
      19    18 56-81       •054183     41       8 46-83 •011720
      20     18     0      •048943     42       8 34-28 •011169
      21    17     S-57    •044427     43       8 22-33 •010657
      22    16 21-82       •040507     44       8 10-91   010179
      23    15    39-09    •0370S3     45       8   0    •009732
      24     15     0      •034074     46       7 49-56 •009314
      25    14    24-      •031417     47       7 39-57 •00S923
      26    13    50-77    •029058     48       7 30-    •008555
      27     13   20-      •026955     49       7 20-S2  •008210
      28    12    51-43 •025072        50       7 12-    -007885    '
      29     12   24-83    •023379     51       7   3-53 •007580
      30     12     0      •021852     52       6 55-39 •007291
W.  Adamsom, Ebury-street, Five-fields, Chelsea,
                 August 20, 1817.
XLIV.      On Ebbing and Flowing Springs; with Geological
          Remarks and Queries.        By A Correspondent.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Tn      the Number of your Magazine for August,        Mr. Inglis
seems to have satisfactorily accounted for the ebbing and flowing
spring of fresh water at Bridlington quay, by the pressure of the
sea upon a stratum of flexible clay which divides the fresh f rom
the sea water.
   His assertion that this bed of clay extends to the Spurn Point
is probably correct; but he is not so, in supposing that it will be
found to rise and fall with the ebbing and flowing of every tide ;
at least that effect is not produced in the neighbourhood of Hull,
                                                                      at

268               On Ebbing and Flowing Springs.
at which town I resided several months about twenty years ago,
I was then assured that no pure fresh water could be had there,
but from under a stratum of-clay which at the Block-house mill
was at the depth of about ninty-eight feet, and is supposed to
basset or out-crop a few miles west of Hull.              I made some in
quiries as to the stratification in those parts, and was told that
the hard chalk rock of which Flamborough Head is composed, is
at the surface a little to the west of Hull, and from thence is said
to dip E. to Spurn Point, and SE. into Lincolnshire, at the rate
of five yards per mile,      The strata incumbent upon it reckoning
downward are ; viz.
    1st. Soil or earth, two feet.
    2d. Warp, twenty-two feet, being about the height of the
highest tide at Hull.
    3d. Morass, about three feet, in'which are found decayed veT
getables and large trees.
    May not this morass be connected with the submerged forest
near the mouth of the Humber on the Lincolnshire coast ?                  See
Phil.   Transactions   for  1799,   part  i.
    4th. Alluvial, at Hull about seventy feet, consisting of sharp
loose sand, carbonated wood, chalk, &c. below which is a stra
 tum of compact white clay more or less thick, between which
and the chalk rock is lodged the only pure water to be got in
that neighbourhood.
    At Sproatley, the chalk rock is supposed to be 198 feet below
 the surface.
    Swanland and Riplingham hills, to the west of Hull, are reT
 ported to be chalk with alternate layers of flint 6 to 8 inches
 thick.    The latter hill is 400 feet above the level of the Humber,
 and is said to have been penetrated 50 feet below it.
    As all the Yorkshire wolds are chalk hills, it is not probable
 that water could be there procured by boring, as suggested by
 Mr. Inglis ; but in the neighbourhood of Hull, and to the east,
 it is practicable.     In November 1798, I visited a farm-house
 about three miles from Hull, and about a quarter of a mile on
 the left of the road leading from thence to Beverley.                   Four
 months before, they had sunk a well and bored for water; and at
 the depth of 58 feet came upon a spring which had to that time
 invariably thrown up, to the height of two feet above the surface,
 a column of pure soft water which discharged more than twenty
 gallons per minute*.        I have not since had an opportunity of
  ascertaining whether this spring continues to furnish a supply
  of water ; but at Sheerness and Wimbleton it is well known
  that wells sunk to much greater depth have continued to afford
        *
          They told rac forty gallons, but. I wish to be wichin compass.
                                                                      a con

         On forming Collections       of Geological Specimens.      2f?9
a constant supply, though not to the surface.         I was induced to
communicate these particulars to you, in the hope that some Of
your intelligent readers resident in that vicinity, or others that
have visited it , may he competent to furnish more correct or
further information on this subject.
                     I airi, sir,
                 Your most obedient servant,      and constant reader,
Wakefield, Sept. 10, 1817.                                       W. S.
 XLV.     On forming Collections of Geological Specimens; and
     respecting tkose of Mr. Smith in the British Museumt
                              To  Mr. Tillocli.
Sir,       It cannot    fail to be a source of pleasure to every one       .
to witness the progress of discovery, particularly in those sciences
 which are of real use to mankind: and the more so, when the
nature of the science is such, that' there are few men of observa
tion who cannot contribute their mite towards its progress.
    Accordingly, we find that most of the useful sciences have at
 one time or another become objects of general attention, occa
sioned either by some fortunate discovery, or happy simplifica
tion of an apparently difficult branch of study.         We are glad to
find that geology, among the rest, is now beginning to share the
attention of men of science, being well aware that its improve
 ment will be the natural consequence.                                 . :
    One great step    towards    this improvement,  will be the forming
of collections of specimens, on such principles as are best adapted
to the purpose of identifying the superficial strata of the earth;
 and of elucidating the nature of their formation, and of the
 gradual changes which have taken place on the surface of this
 planet.
    It cannot, however, be expected that the relative position or
identity of a stratum is to be determined, with certainty, from
 any single character ; therefore it is obvious that a geological
 collection of specimens must differ materially from a collection
 of minerals.    For the mineralogist, a simple specimen of each
 mineral substance is sufficient — but a fossil shell, petrifaction, or
 mineral is useless to the geologist, unless it be accompanied with
 a proper description of the stratum, and of the exact place from
 whence it was obtained : hence it is necessary that a descriptive           .
 catalogue should always accompany a collection of geological
 specimens.
    Mineralogy is an art that becomes more curious than useful,
 unless it be connected with geology or chemistry; but its useful
                                                                    ness

 S70         On forming Collections      of Geological   Specimens.
 iiess to either of these sciences is unquestionable*.           In geology,
 however, it is as    likely to mislead, as to conduct us to the proper
 end of our researches, unless it be directed to its proper object.
      The most important, and by far the most interesting part of
 geology, is that which describes and determines the relative ages
  of the strata which form the superficial crust of the earth ; — to
  these strata we must look for a history of the changes which the
 surface of the earth has undergone.
     The limited powers which we possess of gainins; information,
  renders it necessary that we should examine with the most care
 ful attention the means which we have, and that we should ap
 ply them in the best manner to account for the phasnomena.
      The nature of the organic remains that are found imbedded
  in many of the strata, appears to have been considered capable of
 throwing some important lights on this subject, by many writers,
 who seem, however, to have had no correct ideas respecting the
 manner of rendering this kind of knowledge useful, and their
 statements are general and incorrect ; such as must ever arise
 from limited and hypothetical views of a subject.
      It is to the meritorious exertions of Messrs. Smith, Sowerby,
 and Parkinson, that we are chiefly indebted for the true applica
 tion of mineral conchology in explaining the structure of the
 earth ; but more particularly to Messrs. Smith and Sowerby>
 who have directed their attention to the subject, with the view
 of rendering it useful in identifying the strata.
     Mr. Parkinson's " Organic Remains of a Former World" has
 been some years before the public : in this work he has given
 the localities of many shells, but not often their places in the
 strata.
                                                  f
     Mr. Farey has laid before your readers an alphabetical list of
 the places where the shells were found, that are described in the
first volume of Mr. Sowerby's " Mineral Conchology," with the
situations of the places, the names of the shells, and the places
in the British series of strata to which they belong — this latter
cbject having been but imperfectly accomplished in the text of
the " Mineral Conchology."
     Since that period Mr. Sowerby's collection has been much
increased by the contributions of the friends of science, and he
has now published the xxxth number of his " Mineral Con
chology."
    * Many valuable   analyses of minerals are extremely unsatisfactory, from
the want of a correct description of the specimens analysed. This neglect
has been very justly censured by an able chemist, (Annals of Phil. No. 52,
p. 332,) whose example, in this respect, is well worthy of imitation; as
well as his manner of describing minerals, which is a modification of that
followed by the excellent Kirwan..
    f  Philosophical Magazine, vol. xlvi; p. Silt
                                                                        Also;

           On forming Collections        of Geological    Specimens.        27 1
    Also, in consequence of some pecuniary assistance from Go
vernment, Mr. William Smith has begun to lay the result of his
researches before the public*.            This assistance has been given
Mr. S. on condition that he arranged and placed his collection
of fossil shells, &e. in the British Museum, for the use of the
public.      He has already published several numbers of his " Strata
identified by organized Fossils," containing engravings of the
most characteristic shells of each stratum; and also the first part
of his " Stratigraphical System of Organized Fossils f," refer
ring to the specimens in the British Museum.
    The latter work describes the principal shells found by him in
the British series, from the uppermost down to the lias strata :
and with this communication you will receive an alphabetical
list of the places where these shells were found, with the num
ber of species from each place. The object of this list is to direct
the attention of collectors to the places from whence specimens
 are most likely to be obtained ; both to enable them to repeat
the observations of preceding inquirers, and to extend their ob
servations to other places J.                                      X and Z.
An Alphabetical List of the 2G3 Places which supplied Mr. W.
    Smith with the 1155 Specimens of Fossil Shells above the
     Lias Strata, that are deposited in the British Museum, and
    described in the first part of his " Stratigraphical System."
                                Species.                                Species.
Abbotsbury        ..        . .     1       Bath-Easton ..            ..        f
Aldborough        ..        ..     12       Bath-Hampton              ..       2
 Alderton         . .       . .     3       -      -            foot of plain t
 Alfred's Tower
Ancliff           . .
                            .
                            .
                              .
                              .
                                    1
                                    4
                                            Bayford,
                                            Bentley       ,.,*...
                                                       S. of,         . .     11
                                                                               4
 Bagley- Wood Pit           ..     11       Black -dog Hill, near         £     j
 Banner's Ash . ,           . .     7           Standerwick               $
 Bath, near, . .            . .    33        Black-down     . .       , .      9
    * It is to be regretted that Mr. S. lmd not encouragement sufficient to
 induce him to publish those works sooner, as we understand he has long
 been in possession    of the materials; indeed they form the basis of hn
 great work
              " The Map of the Strata of England and Wales ;" and there
 fore he must have been far advanced in those inquiries when he began that
 arduous undertaking.
    f  We shall be better pleased with this work when it is furnished with
 a copious index to both the shells and places, with the bearing and di
 stance of each place from some principal town or village. Also a simple
 outline engraving of each shell would be very desirable.       These additions
 would add much to the real value of the work, without .materially increas
 ing the expense, — an expense which might perhaps have been lessened in
 some other respects.
    X See Phil. Mag. vol. xlv. p. 277-2T9, where some judicious remarks are
  made on collecting fossil shells, &c. &c.
                                                                        Bognor

  2/2     On firming Collections     of Geological  Specifnerls.
                            Species.                               Spefcies.
  Bognor         .                      Dauntsev-House (in stone) 4
                                                       ....
                    .  . .      5
  Bracklesham    Bav   . .      2       Derry-Hill     . .      .  .       S
  Bradford    •  .  ." ..       7       Devizes                           2
            Lock       . .      2       Devonshire   Buildings, Bath       1
            in Canal   . .      1       Didmarton       . .      . .       1
  Bramerton       . .  • .     17       Dilton         . .      . .        1
  Bratton-Turnpike     . .      3       Dinton-Park . .         .  .       1
  Brightwell     . .   . .      6       Dowdswell-Hill         « •         1
  Brinkworth- Common            5       Down-Ampney             . .        1
  Brixton-Causeway, Well        1       Draycot        . .      . .        4
  Broadfield Farm      . .      9       Drysandford     . .      . .       I
  Bruham          . .  . .      2       Dudgrove-Farm           . .        6
  Bruham-Pit (Coal Trial)        1      Dundry          . .     . .      12
  Bubdown         . .- . .      2       Dun's Well, see Stilton-Farm
  Burgh- Castle        . .       1      Dunkerton       . .     . .        \
  Burnham-Overy        . .      1       Dursley         . .      . .       \
  Bury           . .   . .       1      Elencross       . .      i.        \
  Bury St. Edmund's    . .       1      Ensham-Bridge           .  .       I
  Caisson         . .  . .       1      Enstone         . .      . .       5
  Galne           . .   ; .     4       Even- Swindon            ..        1
  Carshalton      . .  . .       1      Evershot        t •     • .        2
  Castle-Combe          . .     5       Farley          . .      . .     29
  Charlton- Harethorn . .       8       Fonthill        . .      . .    >3
  Charmouth       . .  . .       1      Foss- Cross    . .      . .        1
  Cherry-Hinton        . i      \       Foxhole         . .                9
  Chesterford     . .  . .      1       Frocestor-Hill, top     . .        2
  Chieksgroye     . .  . .      3                      foot     . .        1
  Chipping-Norton      . .      6       Frome, W.       . .        .       1
  Chiltern        ..   ..       4       Fullbrook               ..         4
  Christian-Malford    . .      2       Gagen-Well, near        . .        2
  Churchill       ..   ..      21       Glastonbury    . .      .- .       2
  Chute-Farm . .       .  .   37        Gloucestershire         . .        \
  Clayton-Hill    . .  . .      1       Godstone, near,         . .        3
  Closworth      . .   . .      8       Grassington-Hill        . .        1
  CoaUCanal      ..           22        Great-Ridge             . .        I
  Combe-Down           . .      2       Grimston, near,         . .        3
. Combhav         . .  . .      3       Gripwood        .       ..         7
  Cotswold-Hills       . .      4       Guildford       . .      . .       8
  Crewkerne      .  .  . .      1       Happisburgh-Cliff       . .        4
  Cricksley-Hill       .  .     3       Hardingtoh ?            . .        4
  Crockerton      . .  . .       1      Heddington Common                  4
  Cross-hands     . .   . .     1       He\ tsbury      . .
                                                             ~
                                                                 a         9
  Croydon        . .   . .      1       Hickling        . .     a          1
  Damerton       . .   • .      1       Highgate Archway . .               1
  Danby-Beacon, near,  . .       1      Highworth       ..                 I
                                                                     Hill-

          On forming Collections       of Geological   Specimens.       273
                              Species.                              Specif s.
HilUMarton        ..      ..     5       Moushold         ..      ..       2
Hinton            . .     . .     9      Muddiford        . .     . .      1
Hinton-Waldrish           . .    3       Nailsworth       . .     . .      1
Hogwood-Corner            . .     1      Naunton, near,           . .      1
Holkham-Park              . .     1      Newborn          . .     . .    11
Holt              . .     . .    4       Newhaven Castlehill . .           2
Hordel - Cliff ..         ..      1      Newark, N E. of,         ..      2
Hurstanton-Cliff          . .    2       Northampton, N.W. of,-            6
 Ilmington        . .     . .     1      North-Cheriton           ..       2
Kelloways         . .     . .   11       Northfleet       . .     . .      1
Kennet and Avon Canal            3       North Wilts     Canal    . .    27
Kennington . .            . .    6                       County . .        1
Kent (County)             . ,     1      Norton           . .     . .      1
Keswick           . .     . •     1               , near,         . .      7
 Knook            ..      ..      1      Norwich          ..      ..     16
-        Castle and Barrow        1      Norwich, E. of,          . .      4
Lady- Down ..             . .     1      Oldford,   near   Frome  . .      1
-               Farm      . .     1      Orchardleigh . .         . .      5
              , on Biss river     1      Ormington, S.W. of, . .           1
Landsdown         . .     . .    2       Penard-Hill       . .    . .      3
-
             , near,      . .     1      Peterborough,      near, . .      1
Latton            . .     . .     2      Petty-France .   .       . .      3
Laverton          ..      ..     2                       S.S.W.   of,      7
Leighton-Buzzard          . .     I      Pewsey           ..      . .      3
Leiston                   ..      1      Pickwick         ..             14
          Old Abbey       . .     1      Pipe-House . .           ..       1
Lexham            . .     . .    6       Playford         .  .    . .      4
Liliput           . .     ..      1      Portland-Isle . .        ..       5
Little-Sodlmry            . .     1      Pottern          . .     . .      1
Longleat-Park                   13       Poulton          . .     . .      1
 Lulling ton      . .     . .    4                 Quarry, Bradford        I
Maisey-Hampton            . .    2       Prisley-Farm . .         . .      3
Mareham           ; .     . .     1      Redlynch         .  .             3
 Marston, near Frome      . .     1      Riegate, N. of,          ..       3
 May-Place, hear,         ..     2       Road-Lane        ..      ..       1,
 Mazen-Hill       ..      ..     6       Road                              5
                                              -
Meggot's-Mill, Coleshill,        2              (Coal-trial)               1
 Melbury          ..      ..    11       Rowley-Bottom            ..       I
Mells             . .     . .     I      Rundaway-Hill            . .      6
 Mesterham       (Well)   ..      1      Sandford "(Church-yard)           2
                                         Sallyford        . .     • .      1
Minchinhampton-Common             1
Minsmere      (Iron Sluice)       1      Scend (in Kennet and >            j
Mitford           ..      . .     5         Avon Canal)        ..   $
           Inn            ..      2      Seagry(Well)             ..       1
Monkton-Combe             ..     4       Sheldon          ..      ..      10
    Vol. 50. No. 234. Oct. 1817-                   S                Sheppy

"ili                      Preface             to   «fhe Natural Hislofy
                                               Species.                                                    Species*
Sheppy Isle       ..                                3         Tellisford, near,                                      2
Sherborn                                           16     -
                                                                           ,       S.W. of, ..                       4
.          ,   W. of,              . .              9         Thames and Severn Canal                                6
Shippon                                             6     Thorpe-Common                              . .             i
Shotover-Hill                                       1     Tinhead                                                    i
Shrivenham (in Wilts                                ii    Tisbury                                                    i
                                          £
.
  and .Berks Canal)                       $
                                                          Towcester                                                  i
Siddington                                          1     Trimingsby                                                 8
Silton Farm                                         4     Trowle                                                     7
Sleaford      . .                                   5     Tucking-Mill               . .     .   ...               36
Smallcombe- Bottom . .                              1     Tytherton-Lucas                                            5
Smitham - Bottom                                    1     Upton                                                .     2
Stanton, near Highworth                             2     Vineyard-Down                                              1
Steeple-Asliton                                    10     Warminster, near,                                        33
Steppinglev-Park                                    2         Westbrook                                              5
               -Field                               1     Westoning                                                  1
Stilton-Farm                                        2     Westwopd                   . .                             4
-       , Dun's-well               . .              1     Whitby                     ..          ..                  3
Stoford          ...               . .              6     Wick-Fann                                                LI
Stoke .                                             1     Wighton       . . .                                        1
Stone -Farm, Yeovil                . .              2     Wiits and Berks Canal                                    .7
Stoney-Stratford                                    2     Wilts (County)                                           14
Stourhead                                           5     Wincaston                                                4
Stow-on-the-Wold                  . .               1                          N. of,                                6
Stratton                                            1               — , S.W.               of,   . .                 7
Stunsfield        .   .           .   .            13     Winsley              '                                   6
Suffolk (County)                                   .1     Woburn                    . .                              1
Sunning-Well                                        3     Woodford                  . .                              7
Surrey (County)                                     2     Woolverton                . .          .    .              l
Sutton .                                           11     Woolwich     . .     .                      .            5
                                                                                                                   m
Swindon                                            12     Wooton- Basset, near,                                    i
         Well, near Wilts! IQ                             -               Underedged                               4
                           >iy
  and Berks Canal    . .  J'                              Wraxhall     . .                       . .                 1
Tattingstone-Park            6                            Writhlington . .                       .    .            2-
Taverham          . .             .   .            ,4     Yarmouth, W. of,                                         4
Teffoht           ..                                3     Yeovil       . .                       .    .            7
XLVI. Preface to " The Natural History of the Mineral King
  dom. By John Williams, Mineral Surveyor, F.S.SjJ."
                                  [Concluded from p. 200.J
II. The        second thing proposed to our consideration                                             in      Dr.
Hutton's Theory             is,
                      the consolidation of our rocks and strata,
while still under the waters of the ocean,   the heat and fusion     by
of subterraneous fire. — Our author's doctrine of subterraneous
                                                                                                             fire,

                   '   '
                         of the Mineral Kingdom."      '.
                                                                       275
  fire, and its effects'in the consolidation of the strata, by means
  of fusion beneath the waters of the ocean, is a singular hypo
thesis; but it is not, altogether new.
       Woodward and others have advanced the notions of -central
'and subterraneous fires; and they also pretended to account for
   many of the phenomena of nature from the operations or effects
  of these imaginary fires : but I do not know that any of them
  before our author gave these fires the office of melting the earthy
  mass, in order to cement and consolidate our strata; though
-Ray conjectures, that mountains might be forced up by earth
  quakes, and by the flatus of volcanic fire ; but none, that I know
  of, before the Doctor, have given this imaginary central fire the
'
  office of meltihg the oozy bed of the ocean, in order to reduce it
   by fusion into solid rocks and strata.
       Our author's abilities as a naturalist, and his chemical know
   ledge, enable him to product and reason upon many seeming
   facts to support and illustrate his hypothesis ; but, unluckily for
   this proposition, we see in little the very same natural effects
   produced before our eyes without the application of visible fire,
   though not without the influence and effects of the elementary
   atmospherical fire.
       There is no room to doubt, that natural chemistry is more
   powerful, extensive, and various than the artificial.    It is difficult
   to limit the powers alid effects of variously combined mineral
   liquors, in dissolving part of various fossil bodies in their natural
   situations, in the bowels of the earth.      One thing we are sure
   of, — that various terrene matters are in a dissolved or fluid state,
   mixed with the waters which percollate the pores and cranies of
   our rocks and strata.
       As' an undeniable proof of this, we see numerous fossil bodies
  of various qualities and degrees of hardness formed and forming
   before our eyes, which are as well consolidated and cemented as
  if  they had been fused by fire upon our author's plan of cemen
   tation ; and these, not in small and inconsiderable crystalliza
   tions and stallactites, but we see considerably large concretions
   formed by a gradual accretion of matter deposited by water. In
   some places, we see caverns of various degrees of extent and
  magnitude, some of which are almost, and others altogether
  filled up by a small flow of water, depositing particles of stony
   matter; and the bodies so formed are afterwards consolidated, in
   the course of no very long time, to degrees ot strength and in
   duration equal to any of our rocks and strata.         Mines recently
   worked are in many places so quickly choaked up by the forma
  tion of various'concretions, that we are often obliged to demolish
   them, to prevent their stopping up the passage altogether.
      "I have seen subterraneous     mines or galleries, which were
                                    S 2                          worked

  276              Preface  to " The Natural    History
  worked by my direction, so filled up and choaked ; and I can
  shew some others, which, if neglected for ten or a dozen of
  years, would be choaked up so effectually, and the contents
  would be so consolidated, that it would require an expense to
  open them up again, almost if not fully equal to the first.         The
  history or natural philosophy of stony concretions is already ex
  plained in the second volume of my Essays, and need not be re
  peated here.
      We find in many places various kinds of spar, of fluor, and of
  agate, formed and forming by water, depositing particles of dif
  ferent qualities. Some of the bodies so formed are homogeneous,
  and some compounded.         Some of these concretions assume a fine
  smooth uniform texture; others exhibit, when broken, a cubic
  and a tabulated structure ; and others again have a coarse and
  homely grain in the inside.
   -In some places, the quality of these concretions is calcareous,
  in others siliceous, and in many places ferruginous ; and we fre
  quently find them containing a mixture of particles of different
  qualities.   Many of these acquire degrees of strength arid hard
  ness equal to any of our rocks and strata ; and therefore we may
 infer, that the cementing quality is either contained in the mnss
 of matter deposited by the water, or that it is imparted by the
 influence of the atmosphere.
      I am much inclined to believe it is the last ; and I am per
 suaded that the elementary fire of our atmosphere inspissates a
 great many fluid substances in all the three kingdoms of nature)
 and by penetrating their masses, and being detained and iodged
 there, brings them gradually to various degrees of solidity,
 strength, and hardness.
      Now it is very observable, that the cementing matter which
 fills up the pores and interstices of our rocks and strata, — which
 connects their several parts, and promotes their solidity, strength,
 and induration, has the very same appearance, and is of the very
 same quality, as the various fossil concretions we are speaking
of ; but both the stony concretions and the cementing quality of
 the strata contain a greater variety and mixture of stony matter
than we can easily enumerate or describe.
     From these observations we may safely infer, that these va
rious substances of different qualities are now in a dissolved fluid
state, mixed with water.          The various concretions formed by
water, issuing    into  places  accessible to the external air, justifies
the inference, and proves        the truth  of it ; and that our rocks
and strata are cemented and consolidated by similar- substances,
is evident to our senses : but whether the cementing matter was
Contained in, and blended with the general composition when
the strata were first formed, or was afterwards insinuated by the
                                                                    per

                       of the Mineral Kingdom"                     2/7
  percollation   of water, through the pores and cranies of the strata,
   I will not  now  inquire.
      Some small veins and masses of these substances, found pure
  in our rocks and strata, seem to favour the supposition of the
  strata being cemented by the insinuation of particles, and the
  extraordinary induration of some of our external rocks counte
  nances the same idea ; and I have no doubt, that the elemen
  tary fire has a great share in producing every degree of solidity
  and induration.
      Much of the cementing matter of our rocks has more of the
  appearance of a jelly, which is hardened by degrees from an
  aqueous solution, than of being produced by the fusion of fire.
      These observations and facts make it evident to a demonstra
  tion, that fusion by fire is not necessary for the cementing and
  induration of our rocks and strata.     We have abundance of ex
  amples in little of a contrary process ; and, in truth, the compo-.
  nent parts of some of our strata, the inflammable quality of
^others, and every situation and phenomena of the strata in ge
  neral, proves, that they have not been affected by fire.
      We see evident marks of water in the disposition, structure,
 and form, and in all the exterior and interior phenomena of the
 strata ; but we see no real mark or character of fire, excepting
 in volcanoes, which are accidental, local, and very limited, have
 every character of being accidental, and only produce disorder
 and confusion ; and, moreover, the origin and natural history of
 volcanoes is pretty well known, and is investigated and explained
 in the second volume of my Essays.
     The philosopher or naturalist, who can deliberately embrace
 the idea of our real strata being cemented and consolidated by
fusion by fire, either under or out of the waters of the ocean,
must have his mind strangely warped by attachment to system.
Such a heat as would melt and bring the whole solid globe to a
state of fusion, must necessarily heat the whole waters of the
ocean up to boiling, and the boiling heat of the waters must
continue for many ages.
     I suppose, that a solid globe of the magnitude and density of
our earth, heated to a state of fusion, would require many thou
sand years to cool again to the temperature of our e.irth and
water ; of consequence, the waters would be kept in a boiling
state the most of the time : What then would become of all the
finny and testaceous tribes of the ocean ?
     Neither any of them, nor any of their spermatic powers and
virtues could possibly live in such a heat ; of course, they must
be all created anew after each of these worlds is cooled.        The
terrestrial tribes must be in as bad a situation as those of the
watery element.       This appears to be an aukward hypothesis,
                                 '.S3                           With

27 8                            to   « The Natural
                      Preface                      History
   With respect to the solid part of the globe itself, such a sub
terraneous heat as would effectually penetrate the whole mass.,
so as to bring every part to a state of fusion, instead of leaving
distinct and regular strata of various qualities, thickness, and
other characters, separated from one another, as we find them,
the whole solid globe must be run together into one solid slag,
which might exhibit many cracks and fractures after cooling;
but they would all be the cracks and fractures of an immense
mass of glass or slag.                                             ;
   There could be no horizontal divisions, nor marks   of  strata of
any kind, nor could we have any coal, nor any useful stone or
fossil whatsoever. — Such is the nature of this extraordinary hy
pothesis   !
     We   have    the most earlv traditions of our globe suffering a
 great catastrophe and change by water, which is recorded by
  Moses, and by many other eminent ancient philosophers ; and
  Count Buffon, Dr. Hutton, and many other modern naturalists,
 see and acknowledge the marks of water in all parts of the su-»
 perficies of the globe: but such is their bias to the system of
 fire, that they attempt to convert all the rocks and strata of the
 globe into. so many lavas of different colours and structures ; and
 in order to countenance and assist their favourite agent, with all
 the powers of a heated unguarded imagination, one goes up
 to the source of all fire, in order to have the solid parts of our
 globe melted down in the sun ; another goes down to the sub
 terraneous regions, and blows up his fire there to a sufficient de
 gree of heat to melt all the superincumbent rocks and strata to
 the degree of fusion, even when immersed under the waters of
 the ocean, which        is, I think,      new method of fusing earthy
                                             a
 matter by fire.                                                     .  ,
      Others again are content to honour this agent with the for
 mation of some few of our strata, such as the basaltes, and a
 few others of nearly    a similar appearance     but after all that they
                                                  :
have advanced, or can advance, to countenance this hypothesis, it
is    certain that none of the rocks and strata, which are     a   part of
 the solid superficies of our globe, exhibit any of the real marks
 and characters of being formed              by
                                            fire.                       >
      The quality, component parts, interior structure, and appear
 ance of our rocks and strata, are very distinguishable from slags
 or. lava.     Dr. Hutton acknowledges this in the 6b'th page of his-.
 Theory     of the Earth, where he says, that "       fusible substance,
                                                        a
or mineral composition in           fluid state,
                                     a             emitted from those
                                                   is
places of the earth, at which subterraneous fire and expansive
force are manifested in those eruptive operations.         In examining
these emitted bodies, men of science find a character for such
productions,     in generalizing the substance, and understand the
 .-..'                                   -
                                         *                        natural

                      of the Mineral Kingdom."                       279
natural constitution of those bodies.         It is in this manner that
such a person finding a piece of lava in any place of the earth,
says with certainty, Here is a stone which had congealed from a
melted state."                                                            >
    This passage is abundantly distinct ; and I will say further,
that it is generally verv easy for every unprejudiced naturalist to
distinguish a real stone from a ^piece of slag or lava.        The ba-
salces is a real stone, which all modern philosophers have set
down as belonging to the class of lavas ; but 1 have made it
evident in my Essays, that the basaltes is a real stone, the cora».
ponent parts of which I have pointed out ; and I have made it
appear, that there are in several places many and extensive strata
of this stone, which are disposed in their stations among other
strata of different characters and qualities, which are placed
above and below the several strata of basaltes, and these strata
of basaltes spread out as wide, and stretch as far every way as
the other different strata anions; which they are ranged; and
therefore, no man, who understands the real structure of the su
perficies of our globe, will pretend to say that basaltes is a lava,
unless he says that all the other strata which accompany basaltes
are also lava.
   Where strata of basaltine rocks are blended promiscuously
among strata of different rocks, it is necessary either to call them
all strata of lava or strata of stone.    Dr. Hutton indeed talks in
his Theory of inserting a lava, viz. basaltes, among other strata
of different qualities ; but I would ask the Doctor how he is to
Hft up the superincumbent strata to a sufficient and equal height
from the strata below them, for many miles extent every way,
and to keep them asunder, until such a quantity of melted lava
is poured in as will fill up all the extensive empty space to form
the new inserted stratum.
    1 am speaking of regular and extended strata, which belongs
to the natural history of basaltes, and I can shew Dr. Hutton a
considerable number of strata of basaltes, blended stratum super
stratum, among other various strata of different characters and
qualities, among which are a considerable number of strata of
pit coal ; and some of these coals are iu immediate contact with
strata of basaltes, as the immediate roof and pavement of the
coals; and I can shew him all these several strata, with their
concomitant strata, in a stretch of many miles; and I can shew
similar phenomena in West Lothian, in Ayrshire, and in Fife,
 &c. ; and, therefore, it is difficult to believe that basaltes is lava,
unless we also believe that seams of coal, and all their concomit
tant strata, likewise are lava, which sounds very like an absur
dity.
   It  appears to me rational, and'   even necessary to suppose, that
                                    S 4                                if

280                       Preface to
                                       «-   The    Natural History
if  the strata were consolidated and cemented by the heat and
fusion of subterraneous fire, all the strata, which have a tendency
to, and may easily be hardened by fire, would be found in an in
durated state ; but this in fact is not the case, — so far from                           it,
that  it   iswell known to everv person who takes the least notice
 •f these things, that we find in all countries great numbers of
tilly and argillaceous strata, so very soft, that they differ little
 from a mere sediment from which the water has been pressed
 out, and which decomposes and falls to               mere sediment or clay,
                                                                 a
 almost immediately upon being exposed to the external air.
    And    it   remarkable, that these soft argillaceous strata are
                is
 commonly     situated   immediately above and below very hard strata
 of indurated stone, upon which the external air has no sudden
 visible effect.    How shall we account for this fact upon this                          hy
 pothesis  ?       cannot be pretended that these soft strata con
                     It
 tain any marks or characters of being consolidated                 the heat    by
 and fusion of fire       for they are not consolidated nor cemented
                            ;
 et all, but only compressed              the superincumbent weight of
                                                  by
 Strata;   nor   can       be
                            it pretended, that they are not capable of
 being hardened             by
                         fire.
     In fact, we know the contrary                     by
                                              experience, as they are every
 day hardened in our open fires, and               proper kilns, for various
                                                            in
 purposes,    and  to  various   degrees   of  solidity and induration.                   If
 subterraneous fire had produced the solidity of our rocks, these
 soft substances would have been indurated, as well as their con
 comitant strata.
     But these soft strata are        proof, that our rocks are cemented
                                            a
 by a terrene, sparry, and siliceous fluid, which                         is,
                                                                 by degrees,
 inspissated   and    hardened     by the  pressing    out or evaporation of
 superfluous moisture;       and  they also  prove, that these argillaceous
 strata can only be consolidated and cemented by fire, which has
 not been applied to them. We can only select few facts which        a
 oppose this system.          The instances to be found         the book of
                                                                          in
 nature are endless.
     III. The third proposition which we are to consider                 our         in
 author's Theory       of   the Earth,  viz. That the rocks and strata,
 which were formed and consolidated beneath the waters of the
 ocean     bysubterraneous fire, were afterwards inflated and forced
 up from under water,             by
                                the expansive force of the same subter-*
 raneous fire, to the height of our habitable earth, and of all the
 mountains upon the face of the globe,            an hypothesis as singular
                                                            is
 and extraordinary as the consolidation of strata beneath the wa^
%ets of the ocean          the heat and fusion of fire.
                             by
    Most of the operations and effects of subterraneous fire, that
we have any knowledge of, are outrageously violent and destruc-
tjve? and only produce disorder and ruin.                   the bed of the
                                                                     If
                                                                                     ocean;

                     of (he Mineral Kingdom."                     281
ocean was really to be forced up by subterraneous fire to the
height of our mountains, we might expect to find as great con-'
fusion and disorder, and marks of the ruins of a world, among
Dr. Hutton's mountains as among Dr. Burnet's ; but I have
shewed, in my Natural History of Mountains, that the strata of
our real mountains are as regular as in any of the plains.
     In truth, I have not seen such regularity of the strata any
where else as among the highland mountains of Lochaber, which
are the highest in Britain.       The local examples, which I have
pointed     out there,  will evince the truth of this assertion to any
who wish to ascertain the fact.
     Our author lays great stress upon the phenomena of mineral
veins, and of the ores and other substances found in them,' to
support and confirm his fiery system : but, in truth, every ap
pearance of mineral veins, and of their contents, point to water
with a distinct and legible index, as the chief agent in their for
mation, &e. which subject I have investigated and explained in
my Natural History of the Mineral Kingdom.
     Upon the supposition of our author's Theory of Mineral Vein*
being true, all our veins should be wide above, and narrower be
 low, which is not found true in experience, very many of them
being exceeding strait and narrow for many fathoms next the
surface, which are very wide further down ; and if this Theory
 was true, every substance found in these veins should be the
 hardest in all the bowels of the earth, because the force and
 violence of the subterraneous fire would have a much freer pas
 sage through these open fissures, than through solid unbroken
 strata of several thousand miles of thickness; but this, in truth,
 is not the case, the inside of many of our mineral veins being
 exceeding solt and argillaceous.
      Again, upon the supposition of the contents of our mineral
 veins being formed by metallic steams, forced up from below by
 the influence of subterraneous fire, our mineral ores should be all
 pure and unmixed with earthy or stony matter, which is not so;
  and moreover, upon this hypothesis, no metallic or mineral ore
 would be found out of the cavities of mineral veins; but neither
  is this the ease ; on the contrary, every mineralist ki'iows verv
  well, that gold, silver, copper, tin, lead, iron, &c. are commonlv
  found, in a dispersed state, in large and smaller grains, flowers
  and masses, throughut the body of many of our rocks and strata,
  intimately mingled with their composition as one of the com
  ponent parts of such rocks and strata.
      Gold is generally found in grains of various sizes, mixed in the
  composition of many rocks and strata, and the origin of gold-dust
  is from the decomposition of the superficies of these rocks, which
  is washed down by the floods, and deported in the beds of rivers.
                                                                   Iron

  282'            Preface to
                             "  The  Natural History
      Iron is blended  in great quantity in the composition of most
  of our rocks, and so abundantly in some of them, as to be worth
  smelting out for use ; and, moreover, we have in many places
 great numbers of whole strata of iron-stone so rich as to be equal,
 if not to exceed, the best of our iron ores in the produce of the
  furnace.                                                          .
     In working downwards, many of our mineral veins are cut out,
 aud fail at various depths, by a different stratum cominsr in be
 low, which the vein does not penetrate. The rich vein of lead
 at Llangunog, in Montgomeryshire, which was five yards wide of
  solid ore, was cut off below in this manner :                     <
     A bed of schistus came in at a certain depth below, which cut
 out both the ore and the vein so entirely, that no vestige of
 either entered the schistus, or could ever after be found.     Ex
 tensive trials were made on all hands to no purpose, as neither
 vein nor ore ever appeared.
     These circumstances do not agree with the idea of our ores
 being formed by mineral steams, forced up by subterraneous
 fires; and therefore we must acknowledge, that the substances
 of which our ores have been formed were poured into our veins
 by water from above, as well as the various spars and all the
 contents of mineral veins.
     There is a curious and surprising mixture of many different
 substances in several mineral veins.     In some of them, we find
 lead, copper, silver, and several other metallic and semi-metallic
 ores; and, in the same vein, we find calcareous and siliceous
 spar, with a variety of other stones aud mineral matters of various
 colours, qualities, and degrees of hardness; and we frequently
 find many of these, and sometimes all of them, blended together
 in the concavity of the same vein.
     Every phenomenon of these different ores and different stones
proves to ocular demonstration, that all the different substances
in the composition were poured in from above, and mixed to
gether while in a humid or fluid state, and that thev were after
wards consolidated together Into such compound masses as we
 find them.
     IV. The fourth proposition offered to our consideration, iu
our author's Theory of the Earth, is also pretty singular, which
is, that these operations of nature, viz. the decay and waste of
the old land, the forming and consolidation of new land under
the waters of the ocean, and the change of the strata now fornix
ing under water into future dry land, is a progressive work of
tiature, which always did, and always will go on, forming world
after world in perpetual succession.
    This hypothesis agrees pretty nearly with Count Buffon's,
only that the Count brings about his successive changes by a
<   :,\                  .                                   watery

                     of the Mineral Kingdom."                    283
watery process, without the agency of fire, after having the ori
ginal matter of the whole globe once thoroughly vitrified in the
sun.                                                                   i
    Both the Count and our author strenuouslv insist upon the
waste of the superficies of the mountains, and of the rocky shores
of the ocean, hy the force of the tides and storms, as an infallible
proof of the gradual destruction of the existing dry land, and
they both infer from hence the successive changes of habitable
worlds as a necessary consequence.
    I have in my Essays fully investigated and explained these
matters.     I have pointed out the utmost extent of the waste of
the mountains ; and I have acknowledged, that the weight of
mighty waves, propelled by the tides and stormy winds, have
powerful effects in undermining and wasting the rocky shores ; but
then I have made it evident, that this waste and destruction only
advance to a certain length and degree, where it stops ; and I
have drawn the line, and pointed out the depredations of the.
waves with some exactness ; and have made it evident to our
senses, that hitherto they come, but no farther.                ••- . t
    In some places, the sands are interposed to defend the rocks,
and the very slow diminution of the sands by attrition is abun
dantly made up by fresh supplies furnished by the rivers.            In
other places, the rocks are covered by a shelly incrustation, the
work of small testaceous tribes, which perfectly defends these
                                                                    '
rocks against any injury from the waves.                               i
    We may suppose, that all or most of our maritime coasts were
at first exposed to the ravages of the ocean.       At present, the
greatest part   is defended by the sands  and  testaceous  incrusta
tions ; and it is rational to suppose, that, in the course of time,
all the shores of the ocean will be perfectly defended by these
means.
    With respect to the real encroachments which the sea has
hitherto made, or may hereafter make, upon the land, I think
we may safely conclude, that a million of acres of new land have
been made from the sediment of the rivers for every single acre
of the rocky shores that has been wasted by the waves of the
sea.
    This is no supposition ; it is a fact abundantly evident to our
senses; and it is a sort of retrograde operation towards the suc
cessive change of worlds contended for by our philosophers*
    Dr. Hutton investigates a considerable number of fossil bodies,
and explains their pheenomena to countenance his own hypo
thesis.    It would extend this preface to too great length, were
 I to examine what he has advanced upon them all.
    At present, I will only take notice of the testaceous tribes of
the ocean.      He tells us, that these exuvie, being found in the
                                                                 body

 184                Preface to
                                 "  The  Natural History
 body and composition of our rocks and strata, is a clear proof,
  that those strata were formed by water, — wrfich is so far true.       I
  also assert, that these exuvie, and all the other remains of plants
  and animals found in the body and composition of our strata, is
  a decisive proof that the strata were formed by the agency of
  water; at the same time, I positively deny that our strata were
  formed beneath the waters of the ocean.
      The natural history of the formation of our strata is fully ex
 plained in the second volume of my Essays upon rational and
 mechanical principles, to which I refer for satisfaction on this
 topic.      In my opinion, our author's philosophy is not more ex
  ceptionable in any part of his Theory than in treating of marine
  testaceous animals, as he makes these in effect to be very ex
   tensive creators of matter, which is exalting them much too high
   in our system of things.
       The Doctor says, that one-fourth part of the solid bulk of our
  globe is composed of limestone, marble, and other calcareous
  matter, which I think is giving it too great a proportion.          My
  general observations have been pretty extensive ; and, as far as
   I can judge, all our limestones, marbles, chalk-stone, and clay-
  marl, which is soft limestone, and all other calcareous fossil sub
  stances, may amount to about a seventh or eighth part of the solid
  bulk of the superficies of the globe, which is a great deal indeed.
       Now our author asserts, in plain terms, and in several parts
  of his Theory, that this immense bulk of solid calcareous fossil
  matter was all of it produced from the remains of the testaceous
  tribes of the ocean.       In my opinion, the proposition may be re
  versed ;    and  we may   with   more truth assert, that the calcareous
-matter produced them,         than  that they produced it.
      Snail-shells are found in great numbers near old stone and
 lime walls ; yet we never imagine that these walls were pro
 duced by snails.       It is almost evident to our senses, that these
 animals     fmd  the calcareous   matter in a fluid state mixed in the
 waters of the ocean and the land, which they collect and use to
 make shells, coral, &c.         To say that they produce this matter,
 is much the same as to say that they create it.
      Matter is only changed from one form of existence to another
 in the reproduction and growth of animal and vegetable bodies,
but they really produce no part of matter that did not exist be
 fore in another form.
      I grant, that the exuvie of testaceous animals are found ii\.
great abundance in many of our limestones and marbles, hut not
in all of them. There are very extensive rocks and strata of
the mountain-limestones,          and marbles of various colours, tex
ture, and degrees of hardness, in which not the least particle of
shell or caral is to be found.                        .'   -  .
 .  •                                                              These

                   '
                        bf the Mineral Kingdom.'*                  285
     These shells are also found in several other strata besides the
 calcareous; all which only proves, that these marine exuvia? were
 blended in the mass of chaotic matter when these several strata
 were formed ; but to say that these animals can produce any
 particle of matter, is not good philosophy.
      Wc know that calcareous matter certainly exists in a dis^
 solved fluid state, mixed in abundance with the waters of the
 ocean, which is separated from the water in considerable quan
 tity, in the common process of making salt of sea brine.         How
  the testaceous tribes make use of it in making shells and corals,
 is too nice a process for my investigation.                        • •
      Shells and corals could not exist, as we find them in the body
 of the rocks and strata, upon the supposition of these rocks be
  ing consolidated by the heat and fusion of fire; because a smaller
  degree of heat than is sufficient to bring our rocks to a state of
  fusion, would calcine all the shells and corals, with the lime
  stones to boot ; and when once they are calcined, they are no
  more shells, &c. but quicklime,- to which they would fall with the
  least humidity; and the whole bowels of the earth, as far as we
  penetrate, is full of humidity.
      In short, few of our author's conclusions are defensible, — and
  no wonder, when he warps and strains every thing to support
  an unaccountable system, viz. the eternity of the world ; which
   strange notion is the furthest of all from being defensible.
      All parts of nature, the minute as well as the grand and mag
  nificent, proclaim aloud, and point out in legible characters the
  infinite power and skill of the all-wise and benevolent Creator
  and Preserver of the universe.     The Supreme Being hath highly
  favoured us with an exalted station, and hath given us the image
  of his own attributes.     We daily enjoy the fruits of his care and
   benevolence, and we feel the effects of his goodness, whether we
   advert to and acknowledge it or not.
      The impressions of divinity are legibly stamped on all the
  works of God ; and when we clearly behold the characters of
  ineffable wisdom in the great plan of creation, — of infinite skill
   and intelligence in the contrivance, disposition, and fine fabric
   of all the parts of nature, — of almighty power in producing all
   things and upholding them, — and of exuberant and unbounded
   goodness in communicating       good to all animated nature, we
. then have exalted ideas of the Supreme Being ; and if we reflect
   upon our own distinguished rank and situation in the scale of
   beings, and of our privileges and powers of acquiring knowledge
   and promoting mutual and social happiness, our hearts will exult
   in the display of the glory of the Creator in his works ; and if
   we believe that the Creator and Governor of the would protects

                       "               of the Mineral Kingdom."
   286      Preface to   The History
   and cares for us, our hearts will overflow with grateful lotfe of
   the Deity; we shall then rejoice in his works and in his good
   ness.
      But sceptic;il notions have a pernicious influence in damping
   the sacred fire in our hearts, in cooling the ardour of our spirits,
  and in blotting out the native impressions of the Deity stamped
   on our hearts.     The wild and unnatural notion of the eternity
 -of the world leads first to scepticism, and at last to downright
   infidelity and atheism.
      If once we entertain a firm persuasion that the world is eter
   nal, and can go on of itself in the reproduction and progressive
   vicissitude of things, we may then suppose that there is no use
  for the interposition of a governing power ; and because we do
   not see the Supreme Being with our bodily eyes, we depose the
   almighty Creator and Governor of the universe from his office,
   and instead of divine providence, we commit the care of all
  things to blind chance.
 -    Like a mob, who think they can do well enough without legal
   restraints, depose and slay their magistrates.     But this "is re-
  hellion against lawful authority, which mubt soon end in anarchy,
  confusion, and misery,— and so does our intellectual rebellion.
   How degrading is infidelity! how miserable must a thinking
   man be in distress, who does not believe that there is at the head
  of the creation, a good, intelligent, and powerful being, who cares
  for his welfare through all the stages of existence !
 -    That Dr. Hutton aims at establishing the belief of the eternity
  of the world, is evident from the whole drift of his system, and
  from his own words, for he concludes his singular theory with
  these singular expressions:
                                 " Having, in the natural history of
  the earth, seen a succession of worlds, we may from this con
  clude, that there is a system in nature, in like manner as from
  seeing the revolutions of the planets, it is concluded that there
 is a system by which they are intended to continue those revo
 lutions. But if the succession of- worlds is established in the
  system of nature, it is in Vain to look for any thing higher in the
 origin of the earth. The result3 therefore, of our present in
 quiry is, that we find no vestige of a beginning, — no prospect of
  an   end."                   .."-'--
•     Thus, our modern philosophers labour hard to confirm their
 favourite scepticism, &c. by all possible means; or, in other
 words, they labour hard to rob us of our best inheritance, both
 here and hereafter, — to sap the foundations of our helief in re
 velation, and of the superintending care and love, and of the
 over- ruling providence of the all-benevolent, all-powerful God,
 our Saviour, who cares for us, and upholds us through all the
                                                               stages

                 On  the intended  Exeter Steam-Boat.              287
 stages of our existence, — and like actual robbers, these philoso
 phers give as nothing in exchange for our natural inheritance.
     If they say that we are poor mistaken ignorants, and that
 they wish to convince us of our error,— this is worse than nothing.
  If we err, in charity let us live and die in this error. It is more
 happy to live in a full persuasion, — in, a feeling sense of the love
 of God and man, while here, and in the confident hope of eter
 nal felicity hereafter, than to suppose that there is no such thing,
 :
  — that these divine faculties and propensities of our souls which
 make us capable of loving God and man, — of admiring God in
 his works, and of ranging through his creation with sublime de
 light, — shall peris!) for ever, and sink into the horrible gulph of
 non-entity. — Let us turn our eyes from the horrid abyss, and
 stretch out our hands, and cry, Save, Lord, or we perish !
 XLVII.     Answer to the iMter of C.     of Exeter   on Steam-Boats
     to be used in conveying Merchandise    by Sea.    By Mr. James
     Dawson.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, —    Your     Correspondent C. (of Exeter) has solicited in
 formation relative to his proposed plan of constructing steam-
vessels to convey merchandise between London and Exeter, with
 so much candour and good sense, that I cannot refrain from of
 fering a few remarks on the subject to his consideration. — The
utility and advantage of employing steam-packets, on rivers, to
convey passengers is now pretty generally admitted; and not
withstanding that some accidents have occurred, their number is
increasing on all rivers suitable for them.      The speed and ex
 cellence of our coach continue however formidable rivals to them.
The conveyance of merchandise an rivers has latterly become an
object of interest.     In Scotland one or two vessels are used for
that purpose.      In America, where the rivers are deep, broad, and
navigable for several hundred miles, and wood for fuel cheaply
procured, several steam-vessels of great dimensions, with powerful
engines aboard, are advantageously employed in conveying mer
chandise as well as passengers.
 r Stimulated    by the success attendant on these first efforts — the
Americans have even gone much further. Possessing a country
abounding in timber, they have constructed frigates and floating
batteries impelled by wheels worked by steam. These attempts
however have not, nor cannot, succeed to any valuable extent, as
long as wheels are the medium of action on the water— because,
as their action is necessarily limited and superficial, they must
                                                                 move

288           On the intended   Exeler Steam-lloat.
move bodies deeply immersed to great disadvantage.              A few"
years ago a steam-packet, of which I was a part-owner, having
made a successful voyage by sea from Scotland to London, led
the way to similar attempts, and finally to the establishment of
the steam-packets to Margate. The above vessel plied some
time on the Thames, and subsequently passed over to the Seine.
I confess, however, that I am decidedly of opinion, that as long
as the common rotatory impellers are employed, such steam-
packets are infinitely more unsafe at sea than vessels impelled
by wind.    As coasters, less risk is of course incurred ; because in
case of accident, as steam-packets draw little water, they may'rtW
ashore with safety.     Necessity has compelled many persons to
make voyages by sea in open boats, and they have frequently
escaped ; but I believe few people would prefer from choice that
mode of conveyance.        Deceived by some exaggerated statements
and reports (and contrary to my opinion detailed at some length
in the newspapers of the day), a most respectable company in
Dublin undertook the conveyance of passengers bv steam-packets
with wheels, between Holyhead and Dublin. The attempt, how
ever praiseworthy, has not repaid the spirited proprietors the
many thousands they have expended therein.
   The conveyance of merchandise by sea from Scotland to the
North of Ireland was attempted by steam-vessels worked by or
dinary wheels : — but I presume a failure, as I do not hear of their
continuing to ply.     If the secure conveyance of passengers by
sea in steam-packets involves difficulties on the known plan, it
is clear that the safe conveyance of merchandise involves greater.
A knowledge of the difficulties to be surmounted      is,  however, a
great step towards finding the means of overcoming them.
•  At first eight-horse engines were employed in boats. Me
chanics, accustomed to machinery acting on immoveable fulcrums,
and perhaps ignorant of the laws of fluids, imagined that they
had only to increase the power of their engines, and that thereby
the velocity of the vessel would be increased in proportion    :   but
although thirty-six- and forty-horse engines are now in common
use, little comparative advantage has been derived therefrom       ;
and wherever the power     is  expended in giving an undue velocity
to the impelling wheels, much water    is lifted, and the speed of the
vessel is diminished.     In short, the waste of power, owing to the
imperfect leverage on the water of the wheels in common use,
enormous. —Still on rivers (as nothing superior has appeared       in is
use) this imperfection, being resolvable into   a    mere question of
expense and convenience, forms no insurmountable bar to their
beneficial employment.     It  should always be held in view, that
large engines are expensive, are weighty, occupy much valuable
room, and consume daily large quantities of fuel, oil, &c> increase

                On the intended Exeter Steam-Boat.                 289
the immersion of the vessel, and require it to be built of strong
and ponderous materials ; and after all, if a rope was attached to
the stem of the vessel, and a weight equal to one-eighth the full
power of the engine was fixed to the other end and passed over
a pulley, the vessel would be drawn faster through the water than
it could be impelled by the engine moving wheels ; — it therefore
is a great desideratum to obtain an action on the water at once
convenient in its application, and producing an effect equivalent
to the moving power, which under such circumstances might be
materially reduced.
    Aware of the danger, waste of power, and inefficiency of wheels
to move vessels deeply immersed at sea, I devised many sub
stitutes for them ; but what I give a preference to, is a subaquatic
lever, simple as the common oar; but which, owing to the
adoption of a novel principle in its construction, possesses far
greater power on the water ; and which, when moved either up
and down or to and fro therein, will communicate an unceasing
forward motion to a body.                              •        •    .
    I conceive it superior to the common oar: 1st, In power:
2dly, in being applicable with effect to the largest vessels at
sea: 3dly, in not requiring to be feathered: 4th.lv, in not losing
time in rising out of the water.       I conceive it superior to wheels
in simplicity, possessing a better and equally unceasing action on
the water, and far more convenient and secure in application,
while its power of leverage may be increased almost ad infini
tum.     Wheels cannot be multiplied or enlarged with corre
sponding effect or convenience; but a simple reciprocating lever,
such as above described, may; because, like the feather in a wing,
it will prevent little surface in the line of motion.    A body wholly
immersed in water is equally pressed and supported throughout,
and therefore is not so liable to be broken as a wheel posited in
air and water is.      I confess I have not as vet had an opportunity
of trying this new species of lever on a large scale, 1 therefore
naturallv feel diffident in offering it to public notice: but I will
show a model of it at work to any scientific gentleman, and ex
 plain its peculiar properties and application to any person se
 riously inclined t.) adopt the use of it. Except in diminishing
the weight of the steam-engines used in vessels, and dismissing
the flv wheel, I know of no valuable improvement that has taken
 place in steam- boats since they came into use.        The cause I ap
 prehend  is,  the vast expense of experiments in this line, and the
verv limited knowledge we possess of the laws and properties of
 fluids.  The House of Commons (the safety-valves of the purse
 of the nation) has humanely attempted to legislate for steam
 boats, but has offered no rewards for their improvement. Since
 then,
     I    have heard that the owners of     a    steam-packet on the
    Vol. 50. No.234. Oct.mi.                  T                 Thames

290             On the intended     HLxeter   Steam-Boat.
 Thames advertised perfect security to their passengers) under
 the new law) in the morning, and kept their word by blowing up
 in the evening, when onlv the crew were injured.
    Your correspondent has fairly stated the advantages likely to
 result from his plan of placing the wheels of his proposed steam-
 vessel at the stern; — but practically I fear he will find it subject
 so some disadvantages.          In the first place, wheels placed at the
 stern will not impel a vessel with equal effect with wheels placed
 on each side.         2dly, Whenever the wind is strong on either
 bow the head of the vessel will not at times obey the helm, with
 the due action of which wheels at the stern are likely to inter
 fere; 3dly, If the wind is strong and fair, the pitching of the
 vessel and the roll of the sea aft, will more seriously disturb the
 action of the wheels than if they were placed at or near midships.
 Presuming that it is intended to use the wheels in ordinary use,
 it would he easy for me to prove the truth of the foregoing ob
 servation ; — but I wish to be brief, and avoid detail as much as
 possible.      My object      not to damp the spirit of enterprise, but
                              is,
 to direct it   as far as the case will admit into     a   safe and profit
 able channel and
                ;        if your correspondent   is    determined   to follow
 up  his   plan  of using   two  wheels  at  the  stern,
                                                      I     would  beg leave
 to recommend him a particular construction of wheels, which                  I
 invented and used many years ago, and which will materially
 assist his purpose and obviate in     a    great degree the objections       I
 have started. The paddles of the wheels allude to when at rest,
                                               I
present their edges in a line with the keel of the vessel of course
                                                                ;
they expose little surface to the direct action of the wind or sea.
When made to revolve, a simple but effectual contrivance obliges
 each paddle as     it  successively enters the water to gradually pre
sent its full surface thereto, and consequently to rise out of the
water on its edge; each paddle may therefore be considered a
vertical rotatory feathering oar, free from all shock in entering
the water, obtaining the full effect therefrom, and rising out
without any lift thereof.        But as the degree of obliquity of each,
and every paddle, may be varied in       a    moment at pleasure    ;     fol
                                                                         it
lows, that   a    vessel may be both impelled and steered            by such
wheels ;     and in place of the horizontal rudder, these rotatory
impelling rudders might be used with advantage             in  every steam
boat,    either as  a substitute   for, or in addition to,   wheels   placed
at the sides. When so posited, the general arbor, instead of
projecting as customary three or four feet on each side of the
vessel, need only project half that space; and as there             isno lift
of water, no casing       is  necessary   over   them,   the  mechanism       i*
boxed in and secure from all external injury,         is   not liable to be
deranged, and works with very little friction.
  A    little reflection will show that these rotatory rudders might
                                                                     furnish

                                                                            .l
  On the Cause      of the Changes of Colour in Mineral    Cameleon. 29 1
  furnish the means of directing a steam-vessel to any given point,
  even in opposition to a moderate wind and tide, without the aid
  of a man aboard, for a limited time :— if therefore such a vessel had
  been fitted up as a fire-ship, the Algerine navy might have been
  destroyed without the loss of a man on our part.
      On some future occasion I may, perhaps, send you some ob
  servations on the subject of towing vessels by means of steam
 boats ; On the best forms to give steam-vessels intended for the
 sea ; On the utility of a change likewise in the form of sailing-
 vessels ; On the practicability of employing steam as a moving
 power aboard vessels without the possibility of au explosion : — but
 for the present I feel I have already trespassed too much on
 your valuable space ; and therefore remain
                                    Yours, &c.
   4, George's  Pla< e, Dublin,                        James Dawson.
          K^t.  14, tair.
 XLVIII.       On the Cause ofJ.he      Changes    of Colour in Mineral
                    Cameleon.      By  M. Chevreul*.
      1.  S inch the time of the illustrious Scheele many important
 facts have been added to the history of manganese; but no per
 son, to my knowledge, has made any particular inquiry into the
 cause of the changes of colour exhibited by mineral cameleon +•
 I will endeavour in this note to deduce from observations of my
 own, an explanation which, if it is admitted, will be susceptible
 of many new applications.
     2. I must begin by stating the properties which Scheele has
recognised in mineral cameleon.            1. On the solution of came
leon in water, a deposition of a fine yellow powder takes place,
and the liquor passes insensibly to a blue colour.            Scheele be
lieves that the yellow powder consists chiefly of the oxide of iron;
that the blue is the true colour of the cameleon, and is only
changed when iron is in conjunction.            2. Cameleon mixed in
water becomes decomposed ; the mixture appears violet, then
red ; and when the red particles combine, the red colour disap
pears and the deposit of cameleon presents nothing more than
the natural colour of the oxide of manganese.             3. Lastly, the
same effect takes place when a few drops of acid are added to
the solution, or when it is exposed for some days to the open
air : in this last case the alkali unites itself to the carbonic acid
of the atmosphere.         Let us now pass to the facts which I have
 observed.
    * From   a work on Manganese, by M. Chevreul.
  , +  The substance so called is a combination of potash with an oxide
                                                                        of^
manganese.
                                     T 2                             3.  I

  292                 On the Cause     of the Changes
      3. I have prepared the eameleon of which I have made use*
  by exposing in a crucible of platinum to the action of a red heat
  for twenty minutes, a mixture of a gramme (about a scruple) of
  oxide, red-brown, obtained by the calcination of the carbonate
  of pure manganese with eight grammes of potash.            The green
  mass produced by this operation was twelve hours afterwards
  immersed in water.       Whatever was the proportion of water em
  ployed, there was always a large enough quantity of the oxide
  which did not dissolve.       I do not think that the whole of the
  oxide has ever been separated by the action of the water ; I be
  lieve that there is a portion of it, which, after being incorporated
  with the alkali, separates itself from it upon the solidification of
  the cameleou by cooling.        This last portion appears often under
  the form of little brilliant spangles, similar to the sulphuret of
  molybdenum.
     4. When the cameleo'!! dissolved in water passes to blue, it is
  not by depositing from the oxide of iron yellow ; for eameleon
  which has been prepared with the pure oxide of manga
  nese yields a similar deposit, and the liquid when perfectly
  clear, being evaporated to dryness, leaves a residue, which lakes,
  when it is exposed to a red heal, a beautiful green colour, and
  communicates the same to water when immersed in it. Now, if
  the colour of eameleon was naturally blue, it ought to be ob
  tained of that colour, upon dissolving with potash the oxide
  which has been deprived of its pretended oxide of iron.        Either
 then the colour of eameleon is not blue, or the observation of
  Scheele is not proved.
     5. When eameleon passes more or less slowly from green to
  red, it presents a series of colours in the order of the iris ; viz.
 green, blue, violet, indigo, purple, red.         Not only cold water,
 but even carbonic acid, carbonate of potash, subcarbonate of
  ammonia, and lastly hot water, when added to eameleon, pro
 duce these colours.      It is observed that the latter even produce
 them with more rapidity than cold water.
     b'. According as it appears to me, the green solution of eame
 leon is the combination of caustic potash with the oxide of man
 ganese, and the solution which becomes red by carbonic acid
  (of which alone I at present speak) is a triple combination of
 potash, the oxide of manganese, and carbonic acid.          It may be
 also necessary to take account of the water which holds these
 combinations in solution : but the proportion of water does not
 seem to me to have any sensible influence on their coloration ;
 for if we saturate with carbonic gas, a green solution, formed of
 one part of eameleon and ten parts of water, it will pass to red,
 depositing at the same time a little of the oxide ; then on putting-
<lnto this red liquor some dry caustic potash it resumes the green
                                                                colour;

                     of Colour in Mineral       Cameleon.                  293
colour; and afterwards, on saturating the alkali              added    by the
carbonic      gas, the red colour is reproduced, accompanied with a
deposition of a little of the oxide.          In the last place, 1 have ob
served that precipitating          bv the water of barytes a part of the
carbonic acid from a red solution of cameleon, changes it into
green cameleon*.
     7. Cameleons which become blue, violet, indigo, and purple,
by the action of carbonic acid, appear to me to be mixtures of
green and red cameleon.            In proportion, accordingly, as we add
more and more considerable quantities of green cameleon, we
obtain successively purple, indigo, violet, and blue liquids.             It is
easy    from   this  to conceive,   how  by adding   at intervals   to a green
cameleon some small quantities of carbonic acid or carbonate of
potash, blue, violet, indigo, and purple liquids will be obtained ;
and again, how the liquids maybe obtained in the inverse series,
by adding, at intervals, to a red cameleon small quantities of
potash.
     8. Let Us now endeavour to prove by analysis the nature of
the intermediate cameleons between green and red.                  If we filter
some green cameleon a certain number of times upon a filterf of
sufficient size, the cameleon will be decomposed into potash,
which will remain in the water, and into oxide of manganese of
a brownish yellow, which will attach itself to the slips of paper,
in virtue of an affinity analogous to that which occasions the
combination of cloths with the mordants employed in dyeing.
A similar decomposition will take place, if we introduce a piece
 of paper into a solution of green cameleon, separated from all
contact with the air; — the results are the same with red cameleon.
 The chemical action of paper on solutions of cameleon being
thus demonstrated, the possibility may be conceived of reducing
 by filtration a liquor containing the two cameleons to a simple
 solution of one of them, provided there exists always a difference
 in the tendency which the oxide of manganese of the green
 combination         and the carbonated combination have to unite
 with the paper .; and so in fact we find the case to be : for if we
 filter blue, violet, indigo, and purple cameleons, the red cameleon
 is decomposed, while the green cameleon passes to the side of
  the filter.
     9. The preceding explanation is applicable to changes pro-
     * It is not necessary to use as much of the barytes as will saturate all the
  rwhonic acid; for it would precipitate with it a rose-lilac combination of
 the oxide of manganese and harvtes.       This combination, which is a species
  of cameleon, miiy perhaps be spoiled by the submixture of acetic acid of
  carbonate, which there is no doubt exists in compounds of this sort.
     t  Which ought to be washed with hydrochloric acid, to jpreyent any
 A reign     matters from attaching to the slips of paper.
                                      T3                                  duct!

294                                  On the Cause of the Changes
duced by the subcarbonate of ammonia and the carbonate of
potash ; — but is it equally so to the changes produced by distilled
water ?    I do not think it is, although indeed the purest water
which I have been able to obtain has always presented some
sensible quantity of carbonic acid, or of subcarbonate of ammo
nia. Thus much I can affirm, that the intermediary cameieons
produced by water are invariably formed of green catreleon and
a red liquor; for all of them become green after being filtered, and
when potash is added are converted into green cameieons. What
proves, besides, that the carbonic acid has no influence on the
colour of the red liquor of these cameieons                   is,
                                                     that water which
has been reduced        boiling to    fifth of its volume, and which
                                     by           a
 ought to contain less carbonic acid than cold water which has
 not been boiled, being mixed when hot with green cameleon, red
 dens     much more rapidly than cold water: and again, that
              it
 when a little more hydrate of barytes        added to boiling water
                                                        is
 than    necessary to precipitate all the carbonic acid contained
              is
 in the water,           afterwards turned into green cameleon,
                            if   it   is                                      it
 will change to red, although the carbonic acid litis been ivholly
 extracted.           not possible that this red colour may be the
                           Is   it
 result of an action of the potash upon the oxide less strong than
 that exercised
                            it by
                     the same alkali upon the oxide of green came
 leon     And
           ?        not also possible, when carbonic acid
                           is                                 present,
                                                                    is
 that    may
           it  have the   effect of weakening   the action of the pot
    ash   ?
           The oxide of green cameleon possesses without doubt the
          10.
    same degree of oxidation as the oxide of red cameleon, and that
    oxide contains more oxygen than that of salts of manganese un-
    coloured   so that on heating hydrochloric acid with green or
                   ;
    Ted cameleon, the former disengages itself from the chlorine, and
    the latter becomes discoloured,     ^cheele has before remarked,
    that a great number of matters susceptible of absorbing oxygen
    produce the same effect of discoloration as hydrochloric acid.
    But may be asked, Does the cameleon contain the natural oxide,
           it
    or the oxide which     produced   is exposing the latter to the ac
                                                  by
    tion of fire    If we consider the impossibilitv of uniting the first
                       ?
    to acids without subjecting     to   previous deoxidation; that ca
                                             it   a
    meleon supersaturated with sulphuric, nitric, and other acids
    forms red salts, in the same manner as the second of the oxides
    referred to and further, that carbonic acid reddens green came
                       ;
    leon without producing any effervescence,. — would seem to fol
                                                             it
    low that the oxide of cameleon      less oxidated than the natural
                                                  is
    oxide.      have made several experiments to ascertain the cor
                   I
    rectness of this conclusion.     heated in
                                             I    stone jar 25 grammes
                                                         a
    of the oxide of native manganese with 200 grammes of potash
•
    t                                                               a   I'alcool;

                   of  Colour in   Mineral Cameleon.               295
 a Valcool; I collected from the water a little azote, with car
 bonic and inflammable acid ; which last indicated that an alco
 holic matter remained with the alkali. The jar was speedilv
 penetrated by the potash.       I repeated the same experiment with
potash   a la  chaux.    I  did not obtain any inflammable gas ; but
 the jar was penetrated as in the preceding experiment.           The
cameleon of the first experiment was green ; but when diluted
in water it did not yield a permanently coloured dissolution.
The cameleon of the second experiment, being put into water,
 did not disengage any remarkable quantity of oxygen ; the liquor
which it yielded was of a permanent green ; heated by mercury
without the contact of the air, it became discoloured without
presenting any of the colours of the series; but when carbonic
acid was added it presented the whole series.         In order to pre
vent the corrosive action of the potash upon the jar, I made an
other experiment, in which I heated 30 gr. of oxide with 270 gr.
of carbonate of potash whicli had been reduced in a great mea
sure by the heat into subcarhonate.            The jar was not in this
instance affected, and the result I obtained was a mixture of
about two volumes of carbonic acid and one of oxygen.             The
cameleon produced was of a greenish blue ; put into water, it
precipitated a good deal of the oxide, of which part was mica
ceous and part was dissolved, and imparted a green colour to
the water ; but this solution lost its colour so quickly, and was
besides so slightly charged with oxide, in comparison to the
quantity which had been heated, that I do not regard this ex
periment as absolutely conclusive of the supposition, that the
native oxide of manganese loses oxvgen on uniting itself to pot
ash — though it certainly renders it very probable.
    11. If the explanation which we have given of the colours of
cameleon is exact, is it not probable that some minerals may be
enamelled with blue, with violet, and with purple, by green and
red combinations of manganese ?           Is it not probable that the
alkaline substances, earthy or vitreous, which become tinged
with red by the oxide of manganese, exercise upon it the same
action as the acids ?      And may not a combination of this sort
along  with  a green  alkaline  combination of the same oxide, form
mixture^ of colours analogous to blue, violet, indigo, and purple
carneleons ?     In short, does there not seem some analogy as to
chemical action between the oxide of manganese and certain ve
getable colouring principles, which become green by the alkalies,
and red by the acids?
                                  T4                       XLIX.   On

                                  [    296   ]
XLIX.    On an apparently new Species of Wren, discovered at
      Tunbridge Wells, by Thomas Forster, Esq. F.L.S.
                                To    Mr. Tilloch.
JSir, —       J   beg                     the discovery of what seems
                        leave to communicate
 to me to be a new spet'ies of wren, which I have of late seen in
 the neighbourhood of Tunbridge Wells.          I saw it in the month
 of September and early in the present month, among the trees,
 particularly the firs, pines, and willows. It was about four inches
.and a quarter long, and bore the nearest resemblance in form to
 the smallest willow wren, Sylvia Hippolais of Latham and
 E. Forster's catalogue. But it differed in colour : the upper parts
  of the whole bodv, head, wings, and tail being of a pure dark
brown     :   the under parts silvery white. This may possibly be
only a variety of the  Sylvia Hippolais,     birds
                                                 as of this kind vary
extremely; but if it be a distinct species, both  its form and man
ners place it among the Sylvice: and I should propose to call it
Sylvia brunnea.      It nearly answers to the description of a
bird which Dr. Leach (of the British Museum) calls Curruca,
of which he has spoken to me as being a new wren.
   We have all the three known species of willow wren at Tun
bridge Wells ; and I have observed a considerable variation of
the plumage in all of them, which has, no doubt, been in part
the cause of the great confusion found in the descriptions of birds
of this genus among naturalists,     I proceed to enumerate some
of the most common varieties I have noticed.
   Sylvia Sylvicola; or the largest willow wren.      This, which
somewhat exceeds the common willow wren in size, is found with
the followmg varieties :
   a. With the upper parts greyish ; the under parts almost white.
      The upper parts yellowish, green mixed with dusky and
    /3.                                                       ;
the under parts yellow, more or less deep.
   y. Almost yellow like a Canary-bird, there being only       few
                                                               a
dusky specks on the wings, and dusky quills.       ha\e seen this
                                                      I
variety in the garden of Mrs. Forster, of Walthamstow, on the
spruce fir-tree.
   Sylvia Trocftilus,   the middle willow wren, varies as fol
lows  :
   a. Greenish ash-colour above, and white with tinge of yel
                                                          a
low beneath.
   /3. Greenish olive, mixed with yellow above, and deep yellow
on all the under parts.   This seems to be the first-year's bird    ;
and the plumage changes afterwards.
  Sylvia Hippolais, the least willow wren. This varies only in
                                                                  'the

                   Koikes respecting New Hooks.                        297
the lighter or darker shades of its plumage, and has less yellow in
it than any other species. I have purposely given only the osten
sible varieties of these birds, which may be seen when the bird
is on the trees. — The new wren may perhaps become the subject
of future observations of a more detailed and accurate nature.
                                    I am, &c.
Waltfiamstow,   Oct. 16, 1817.                            THOMAS FoRSTER.
                  L.    Notices respecting New Books.
An Experimental Inquiry    into the Laivs of the Vital Functions ;
    with some Observations on ike Nature and Treatment of In
    ternal Diseases. By A. P. Wilson Philip, M.D. F.R.S.E.
                             [Continued   from p. 228.]
    The     spasmodic asthma is fortunately a very rare disease ; so
much so, that but one case of it has occurred to me since I have
employed galvanism in asthma, while I have had an opportunity
of employing this remedy in about forty cases of the habitual
form of the disease.      I cannot therefore, from experience, speak
with certainty of the effect of galvanism in the former.        In the
above case it was twice employed in the paroxysm, and 1 could
observe no relief from it.       In both instances the patient said
that, had it not been used, the symptoms would have been more
severe.     In this patient, the spasmodic paroxysm was often suc
ceeded bv a state of habitual asthma for several weeks, in which
galvanism gave immediate, but temporary relief.
    " Of the above cases of habitual asthma, many occurred in
work-people of the town where I reside, who had been obliged
 to abandon their employments in consequence of                 it,
                                                             and some
 of them, from its long continuance, without any hope of return
ing to regular work.        Most of them had tried the usual means
in vain. By the use of galvanism they were relieved in different
degrees, but all sufficiently to be restored to their employments.
I  have seen several of them lately, who, although they have not
 used the galvanism for some months, said they had continued to
 work without any inconvenience.        Some, in whom the disease
 had been wholly removed, remain quite free from             some have
                                                               it
                                                                ;
 had  a return of      it,
                        and have derived the same advantage from
 the galvanism as at first.
    " have confined the 'application of galvanism to asthmatic
     I
 dyspnoea.  I     think there     reason to believe, from the experi
                                   is
 ments which have been laid before the reader, that in inflamma
 tory casesit   would be injurious, and, in cases arising from dropsy,

298                 Notices respecting New Books.
or any other      mechanical                 little or nothing, it.»
                                     impediment,
evident, is to be expected from it.      Habitual asthma is often
attended with a languid state of the      biliary system, and some
fullness and tenderness on pressure near the pit of the stomach.
If the last is considerable, it must be relieved previous to the
use of the galvanism.     In a paper which the Medico-Chirurgical
 Society  did me  the honour  to publish in the seventh volume of
their Transactions, I have endeavoured to show that a species
of pulmonary consumption arises from a disease of the digestive
organs.     Many of the observations there made apply to certain
 cases of asthma* ; I believe to cases of every species of this dis
ease, but particularly of that we are here considering.        Many
 cases of habitual asthma will yield to the means recommended
in the above paper ; but I have learned, from a pretty extensive
experience, that a large majority of such cases will resist them,
yet readily admit of relief from galvanism.          If there is little ten
 dency   to inflammation,      galvanism    seems  also   to be a means of
relieving the affection of the digestive organs.          I have repeatedly
 seen from it the same effect on the biliary system which arises
from calomel ; a copious bilious discharge from the bowels com
ing on within a few hours after its employment.                This seldom
happeus except       where    there   appears  to  have   been   a failure in
 the secreting power      of the  liver, or a defective   action  in the gall
 tubes.
     " I have not found that the presence even of a severe cough,
which is common in habitual asthma, in which there is always
 more or less cough, counter-indicates the use of galvanism. The
 cough under its use generally becomes less frequent in proportion
as the accumulation of phlegm in the lungs is prevented ; but it
seems to have no direct effect in allaying it.          In some cases the
cough continued troublesome after the dyspnoea had disappeared.
 Galvanism never appeared to increase              it,
                                                    except when the in
flammatory      diathesis  was  considerable.     In some labouring un
der the most chronic forms of phthisis, in whom the symptoms
had lasted several years and habitual asthma had supervened,
the relief obtained from galvanism was very great, notwith
standing some admixture of            a pus-like substance in what was
expectorated.     I   need   hardly   add, after what has been said, that
in ordinary    cases of  phthisis nothing could be more improper than
the use of galvanism.         The dyspnoea arising from phthisis and
that from habitual asthma are easily distinguished.              The former
is  less variable.    It   isgenerally   increased       by
                                                         the  exacerbations
of the fever, and always        by exercise.    When the patient          still
                                                                          is
and cool, except in the last stages of phthisis, his breathing                 is
  * See the observations on the state      of   these organs in asthma,   in Dr.
Bree's work on this disease.
                                                                    generally

                   Notices respecting New Books.                    299
generally pretty easy.     The latter is worst at particular times of
the day, and frequently becomes better and worse without any
evident cause.     At the times when it is better the patient can
often use exercise without materially increasing it.          Changes
of the weather influence it much.         It is particularly apt to be
increased by close and foggy weather.          Phthisical dyspnoea is
seldom much influenced by changes of the weather, except they
increase the inflammatory tendency.
    '•'
        When there is a considerable tendency to inflammation in
habitual asthma, the repeated application of galvanism some
times increases it so much, that the use of this influence no
longer gives relief, tiil the inflammatory tendency is subdued by
local blood-letting.     It always gave relief most readily, and the
 relief was generally most permanent in those cases which were
least complicated with other diseases, the chief complaint being
 a sense of tightness across the region of the stomach, impeding
 the breathing.      The patients said, that the sense of tightness
 gradually abated while they were under the influence of the gal
vanism, and that as this happened their breathing became free.
 The abatement of the tightness was often attended with a sense
 of warmth in the stomach, which seemed to come in its place.
 This sensation was most frequently felt when the negative wire
 was applied near the pit of the stomach, but the relief did not
seem less when it was not felt.
     " With respect to the continuance of the relief obtained by
 galvanism, it was different in different cases ; in the most severe
 cases it did not last so long as in tho^e where the symptoms were
 slighter, though of equal continuance.        This observation, how
 ever, did not universally apply.       When the patient was gal
 vanised in the morning, he generally felt its good effects more or
 less till next morning.     In almost all, the repetition of the gal
 vanism gradually increased the degree of permanent relief.          Its
 increase was much more rapid in some cases than in others. The
 permanency of the good effects of galvanism in the disease be
 fore us, h,is appeared verv remarkably in several cases where the
 symptoms, after having been removed by        it,  were renewed after
 intervals of different duration  by  cold or other causes.    In these
 cases means which, previous to the use of galvanism, had failed
 to give relief, were now successful without its aid; or with few
 applications of  it,  compared with those which had been neces
 sary in the first instance. I    have not yet seen any case, in which
 galvanism had been of considerable advantage, where its good
 effects appeared to have been wholly lost.          It   now about a
                                                          is
 year and a half since   1   first employed  it   in habitual asthma.
 Taking cold and the excessive use of fermented liquors have been
 the principal causes of relapse.
                                                                "   The

300                    Notices respecting New Books.
    " The galvanism was seldom used more than once a day. In
some of the more severe cases it was used morning and evening.
About a sixth part of those who have used it appear, as far as
we yet know, to have obtiiined a radical cure.                 It in no case
failed to give more or less relief, provided there was little inflam
matory tendency.           It failed to give considerable relief only in
about one-tenth ; I may add, that were it only the means of
present relief, we have reason to believe that, as being more in
nocent, it would be found preferable to the heating, spirituous,
and soporific, medicines, which are so constantly employed in
 this disease.
    " As it often happened that a very small Galvanic power, that
of not more than from four to six four-inch double plates, re
lieved the dyspnoea, may we not hope, that a Galvanic apparatus
may be constructed, which can be worn by the patient, of suffi
 cient power to prevent its recurrence in some of the cases iu
which the occasional use of the remedy does not produce a ra
 dical cure ?
    " I wished to try if the impression on the mind, in the em
ployment of galvanism, has any share iu the relief obtained from
it.   I had not at this time seen its effects in apoplexy.            I found
that by scratching       the   skin with  the  sharp  end of a  wire,  I could
produce a sensation so similar         to that  excited  by galvanism, that
those who had most frequently been subjected to this influence
were deceived by it.          By this method, and arranging the trough,
pieces  of metal,   &c.   as  usual, I deceived several who had formerly
received    relief  from     galvanism, and also several who had not
yet used it.       All  of   them said that they experienced no relief
fr.om what I did.        Without allowing them to rise, I substituted
for this process the real application of galvanism, merely by im
mersing in the trough one end of the wire with which 1 had
scratched the nape of the neck, the wire at the pit of the stomach
having been all the time applied as usual by the patients them
selves.    Before the application of the galvanism had been con
tinued as long as the previous process, they all said they were
relieved.      I relate the particulars of the two following experi
ments,    because,    independently of the principal object in view in
making them, they point out two circumstances of importance
in judging of the modus operandi of galvanism in asthmatic
 cases.
    " The   first was made on an unusually intelligent lady, of about
thirty-five years of age, who had for many years laboured under
habitual asthma, than whom I have known none more capable
cf giving a distinct account of their feelings. Her breathing was
 very much oppressed at the time that she first used galvanism.
The immediate effect was, that she breathed with ease.                     She
                                                                           said

                     Notices respecting New Books.                       301
Said she had not breathed so well            for many years.        Part of the
relief she obtained proved permanent, and when she was gal
vanised once a day for about ten minutes, she suffered little
dyspnoea at any time.           After she had been galvanised for eight
or ten davs, 1 deceived her in the manner just mentioned.                  The
deception was complete.           Site told me to increase or lessen the
force of the galvanism, as she was accustomed to do, according
to the sensation it produced.             I obeyed her dhestions by in
creasing   or   lessening  the  force  with    which I scratched the neck
with the wire. After         I had   clone    this  for five minutes, she said
the galvanism did not relieve her as usual, and that she felt the
state of her breathing the same as when the operation was be
gun.     I then allowed the galvanism to pass through the chest,,
but only through the upper part of           it,     the wire in front being
applied about       the  middle   of  the   sternum.       She soon said that
she felt    alittle relief; but although   it      was continued in this way
for ten minutes, the relief was imperfect.           I       then directed her
to apply the wire     in  front to the pit of the stomach, so that the
galvanism passed through the whole extent of the chest, and in a
minute and a half she said her breathing was easy, and that she
now experienced the whole of the effect of the former applica
tions of the remedy.
    " To try how far the effect of galvanism              in     asthma arises
merely from its stimulating the spinal marrow, in              a     young wo->
man who had been several times galvanised in the usual way,
 the wires were applied to the nape of the neck and small of the
back, and thus the galvanic influence was sent along the spine for
nearly a   quarter of an hour.        She said her breathing was easier,
but not so much so as on the former applications of the gal
vanism  ;   and on attempting to walk up stairs she began to pant,
and found her breathing, when she had gone about half way, as
difficult as before the galvanism was applied.                   She was then
galvanised in the lisual way for five minutes         :       she now said her
breathing was quite easy, and she walked up the whole of the
stairs without bringing on any degree of panting, or feeling any
 dyspnoea.       The above experiment was made in the presence of
 four medical gentlemen.         This patient, after remaining free from
 her disease about half year, returned to the Infirmary, labour
                           a
ing under       aslighter degree of  it,   and experienced immediate re
lief from galvanism.        The disease seemed to have been renewed
 by  cold, which had at the same time produced other complaints.
 This  is one of the cases above alluded to in speaking of the per
 manency of the good effects of galvanism.                    On the return of
 this patient to the Infirmary, two or three applications of gal
vanism, combined with means which had given no permanent
 relief to the dyspnoea previous to her first using galvanism, now
                                                                           soon

302                Notices respecting New Books.
soon removed it.       When she first used galvanism, it required it?
constant employment once or twice a-day for several weeks to
produce the same effect.         There is reason to believe she will re
main well if she can avoid taking severe colds.
    " Many medical gentlemen have frequently witnessed the re
lief afforded by galvanism in habitual asthma, and Mr. Cole, the
house-surgeon of the Worcester Infirmary, authorises me to say,
that no other means there employed have been equally efficacious
in relieving this disease.
    " Observations similar to the foregoing, tbere is reason to be
lieve, will be found to apply to dyspepsia ; but as I have made
but few trials of galvanism in this disease, except where it was
complicated with asthma, the removal of which no doubt con
tributed to a more healthy action of the digestive organs, I can
not yet speak with certainty of its effects in this disease.              In
some, galvanism,      at  the  time  of its application,   occasions  a ten
dency to sighing ; and in some, in whom it removed the dys
pnoea, it seemed to occasion a sense of sinking referred to the pit
of the stomach.       This occurred in several instances, and was re
 lieved by small doses of carbonate of iron and bitters.
    " That I may convey to the reader as correct an idea as I can
of the effects of galvanism in habitual asthma, I shall concisely
relate the particulars of a few of the most, and of the least, suc
cessful cases, in which it was employed*
    " Richard Morgan, a blacksmith, et. 50, had laboured under
severe habitual asthma for seven months, during which he had
been better and worse for a few weeks, but never free from dys
pnoea.     He was much troubled with a cough, the expectorated
matter being thick, and of a yellowish colour.           The dyspnoea was
particularly   severe  at  the  time  he  was  galvanised,   and had been
so for about a fortnight.         The first application of the galvanism
relieved him.      He was galvanised only for three days, about ten
minutes each day, before he declared himself to be perfectly well.
He returned to his work, which he had been obliged to aban
don, after the second application of the galvanism.                After its
third application he performed as hard work, and with as much
ease, as he had ever done.
    " He rimained free from dyspnoea till it was renewed, several
weeks afterwards, by his getting drunk.            Galvanism relieved him
as readily and effectually as at first.       It is now ten months since
he first used this remedy, during which he has had several re
turns of dyspnoea, but it has never been so severe as before he was
galvanised ; and when it has been such as to induce him to have
recourse to galvanism, he has always experienced from it imme
diate relief.    He ascribes the returns of his disease to his being
exposed    to severe  and sudden heats and chills.
                                                                    "  Mary

                        Notices respecting New Books.                            303
   "   Mary M'Konchy, et. 28, a gloveress, had been afflicted with
habitual asthma for four years, and under my care about one
year, during which she had tried all the usual means with very
imperfect relief, she had some languor in the biliary system, but
little inflammatory tendency.         The breathing was, in a few mi
nutes, rendered easy bv galvanism, and after the second applica
           it,
tion of    it       remained so.    She now experienced no inconve
nience from exercise, which had not at any time been the case
for four years.
    " In about three weeks after she had been galvanised she ex
perienced some return of the dyspnoea.              was wholly removed
                                                        It
 by   a blister, which had often been tried, previous to her being
galvanised, with but little and very temporary relief.         She com
plained of sense of sinking at the stomach for some time after
                   a
the use of the galvanism, which was removed                 carbonate of
                                                                  by
iron and bitters.        This effect of galvanism seetncd often to be
 most felt when         gave most relief to the dyspnoea, seeming to
                       it
tome      in place of the latter.      have hitherto found
                                          1                     easily re
                                                                       it
 moved     by   the above means.          now many months since this
                                          It   is
 patient was galvanised, and she remains well.
    " Hannah Cooke, et. 20, servant, had laboured under ha
                                          a
 bitual asthma for two months, and tried various medicines with
out relief.       She was in    few minutes relieved
                                 a                           by
                                                          galvanism, and
 after three applications of       remained quite well.
                                     it                          now five
                                                                   It   is
 or six weeks since she was galvanised.
    " could mention several other [casea, in which
       I                                                        witnessed
                                                                   I
 the same sudden and permanent relief from galvanism, as in
 those here related.
   "   Isaac Radley, et. 68, a labourer, formerly a soldier, had
 been ill fourteen years.        His asthma was caused             by
                                                              sleeping in
 camp in Holland.          He had never been able, during the above
 time, to walk at the usual pace without bringing on the dyspnoea,
 although he had sometimes been pretty free from                 when he
                                                                       it
 was still     ;at other times he had been constantly oppressed with
 it,  and obliged wholly to abandon his work.             At the time he
 used the galvanism, he was affected with the most severe dys
 pnoea, which only allowed him to move, and that with difficulty,
 at the slowest pace        he had been in this state for half
                            ;                                        year.   a
 This    was   the longest and most severe fit he had ever had.        He
 was relieved in       afew minutes by the application of galvanism.
 He could perceive its beneficial effects for twenty-four hours af
 ter its application.         was used daily with the same immediate
                                It
 relief.     Its permanent good effects gradually increased, and after
 he had been galvanised for about ten minutes each day, for be
 tween two and three weeks, his breathing remained quite easy.
 He could now not only walk, hut, as            several times witnessed,
                                                    I
                                                                       run

304                   Nbtices respecting New Books.
run   without any dyspnoea.        He complained of the sense" ot
sinking at the pit of the stomach after the dyspnoea had left him,
which, as in the case just mentioned, was readily removed by
the carbonate- of iron and bitters.          He now said his digestion
was much better than it had been, previously to the use of tbe
galvanism.      Those whose breathing had been much relieved by
galvanism,    often  made this observation, although they had not
experienced the sense of sinking, and consequently had used no
stomachic medicines.
  "   I saw this man, several months after he had ceased to use
galvanism, working as a brick-layer's labourer.          He said he had
no feeling of dyspnoea, and had been quite free from it since he
had used the galvanism.
    " In general, where galvanism gave such complete and per
manent relief, as in Radley's case, its effects were more speedy,
some degree of dyspnoea for the most part remaining in pro
tracted cases.
    " The following are the most unsuccessful cases, which either
Mr. Cole or I could recollect.          -
                                           .
    " Martha Davies, a servant, et. 40, had laboured under ha
bitual asthma for five years. She was relieved on the first appli
cation of galvanism, and said her breathing was quite easy; but
she was not always equally relieved by          it,   sometimes it  gave
comparatively little relief.     The more permanent relief afforded,
was also different at different times, never complete.           She was
galvanised for about three weeks, but not dailv, her business pre
venting her regular attendance        she used the remedy in all about
thirteen or fourteen times.      It ; was impossible to prevent her
drinking     agreat  deal  too much   malt   liquor.
   "   It  now about half year since she was galvanised, during
            is               a
which she says both her breathing and digestion have been bet
ter than for the preceding five years.          She thinks the digestion
lis much improved as the breathing.            She has had no very bad
attacks of dyspnoea, and has been much less subject to bilious
attacks.    .She is  now occasionally so well that she can run with
out inconvenience, which she could never do during the above
time, but, in general, her breathing, though in          a   less degree
than formerly,   is  still oppressed.
    " Marv Clark, a servant, et. 24, had laboured under habitual
asthma for about      a  year. The dyspnoea was always quickly re
lieved     the galvanism, although she seemed to experience lit
            by
tle,  ifany, permanent relief from it.         She had more pain in the
stomach than     is  usual in such cases, and the galvanism seemed
to increase it.     She was cured       byan alterative course of medir
cines and evacuations from the region of the stomach, and did
not use galvanism for the last fortnight.            She had used    itat

                    Notices respecting New Books.                    305
first daily for a fortnight, and twice afterwards for a week each
time.
    " As far as I can judge from having observed the course of
many cases 'of this kind, her recovery would neither have been
so speedy nor complete if she had not used galvanism.
    " Rachel Hooper, et. 29, a servant, had laboured under se
vere habitual asthma for about a year, with considerable inflam
matory tendency.         Her breathing was relieved in a few minutes
by galvanism, but not completely.         For about eight or ten days,
during which she was galvanised daily for about ten minutes,
she derived from it considerable relief, both immediate and per
manent.       It then began to fail to give relief, and in a few days
gave none.       The epigastric region was now very tender on pres
sure.     This symptom was relieved in the space of a few days by
local blood-letting, blistering, and small does of calomel.         The
relief afforded by the galvanism was now greater than at first,
which seemed to arise from the disease not bemg so severe as
on the first use of the remedy, for some part of the good effects
of the galvanism had remained. After this she was always re-
4ieved by it as long as she continued to use          it,
                                                     which was for se
veral weeks.       The permanent relief she experienced from     it was
also great, although she still at times laboured under consider
                                                             a
able degree of dyspnoea.       About half    ayear ago, she left Wor
cester with  a    promise to return,
                                   if   she should get worse.    I have
 heard nothing of her since,
    "  She said nothing else had given her so much, either imme
 diate or permanent relief, as the galvanism had done.         She had
 been for several months    in   the Infirmary under other plans of        '
 treatment before she used the galvanism.       All the patients whose
 cases  I  have mentioned were galvanised at the Infirmary.
       The following  is
                      a    remarkable instance of permanent, though
 imperfect relief from galvanism, in the disease before us.           A
 woman who had for many years laboured under severe habitual
 asthma was incautiously galvanised with such          power as occa
                                                        a
 sioned severe pain.      No entreaty could induce her to submit to
 •a repetition of the galvanism,     although    had immediately re
                                                 it
 lieved her breathing,      The dyspnoea soon recurred, but she told
 me many months afterwards that         it  had never been so severe
 since she was galvanised, and that she had ever since been able
"
 to carry water in buckets from the river, which the state of her
 breathing had not for  a    long time previously allowed her to do.
        Jf the reader will compare these cases w ith the general ob
  servations whichI     have had occasion to make on the effects of
 galvanism   in   habitual asthma, he will be enabled to form    apretty
 eorrect estimate of what he may expect from           in this disease.
                                                        it
     " When we compare them with the experiments laid before
 the reader in the preceding Inquiry, the question naturally arises,
     Vol. 50. No. 234. Oct. 1817.                 U

 306                  Notices respecting New Books.
 Whence proceeds the permanent relief obtained in them ? The
 galvanic experiments lead us to expect relief to the dyspnoea
 while the stream of galvanism passes through the lungs ; but on
 what principle shall we explain the permanency of the relief af
 forded ?      The following observations appear to throw some light
 en this subject.       There are two wars in which an organ maybe
 deprived of its nervous influence, either by a failure of due action
 in the brain and spinal marrow, the sources of nervous influence,
 or a failure of due action in the nerves of the organ affected by
  which this . influence is conveyed.          It is no longer convened by a
 nerve which has been divided, or around which a ligature has
 been thrown.         Now we have reason to believe that habitual
  asthma arises not so much from a fault in the brain and spinal
 marrow, as in the nerves of the lungs ; because, did the degree
  of dyspnoea, which we often witness in this disease, arise from
 failure in the general source of nervous influence, this failure
 must be sufficient to appear in the derangement of all the nervous
 functions ; whereas in habitual asthma, we often find the func
 tion of the lungs alone affected ; and when general failure of
 nervous influence is observed, it is evidently the effect of im
 peded respiration, appearing only after the latter has continued
 for some time, and varying as it varies.              The effect produced by
 galvanism, when it performs a cure in habitual asthma, therefore,
 does not appear to be its having occasioned a permanent supply
 of nervous influence, but its having cleared, if I may use the ex
 pression, the passage of this influence to the lungs.                   It is not
 difficult to conceive that such an obstruction may exist in the
 nerves as cannot be overcome by the usual supply of nervous in
 fluence, though it may yield to a greatly increased supply of it ;
 and that it may in some cases continually recur in an equal or
 diminished degree, while in others, being once removed, the ten
 dency to it may cease*.
     " The foregoing observations seem to explain why other means
 which give a temporary vigour to the nervous system, often, for
 the time, relieve habitual asthma ; and sometimes, though rarely,
 cure this disease.       The relief obtained from such means being in
 general so much less than that obtained from galvanism, I would
 ascribe to the former occasioning but little additional supply of
 nervous influence, while by the latter we can make the additional
 supply as great as we please."
    * " What    is here said is well illustrated   by the effects of galvanism in
 apoplexy.    We know that in' this disease the dyspnoea arises from a failure
 in the source of nervous influence, and the relief of tamed from galvanism
 corresponds with the views afforded by the experiments which have been
 laitl before the reader.    vViiile the galvanism passed through the lungs tha
.dyspnoea was as much relieved as in habitual asthma, but when it ceased
 to pass through them, the relief lasted no longer than was necessary for the
 fesecuraula-tion of the phlegm.''

                          Triumph of Science.                     307
   Early in November will be published, by Thomas Jones, opti
cian, No. 62, Charing Cross, The late Mr. Ferguson's Astro
nomical Planisphere, showing the day of the month, change and
age of the moon, the places of the sun and moon, and stars of
the first, second and third magnitude.      Likewise his Astronomi
cal Rotula, showing the change and age of the moon, the motion
of the sun, moon, and nodes, with all the solar and lunar eclipses
from the year 1817 to 1864, with descriptions of their uses.-*-
The calculations continued by the Rev. Mr. L. Evans, of the
Roy. Mil. Acad.
   The price of the Planisphere,     consisting of three plates with-
a circular  motion, on pasteboard will be eight shillings; and in
bdatds about thirteen inches square, as a book ten shillings; The
Rotula constating of five plates, eight shillings plain, and ten
shillings in boards. The same size as the Planisphere. .
   Mr. Thomas Forster has just published "Observations on the
Phenomenaand Treatment of Insanity,&c." being supplementary
to his Observations on periodical Diseases and on the Periods of
Insanity.
   The manuscripts of the late Mr. Spence of Greenock were
some time ago submitted to Mr. Herschel, who has selected the
most complete for publication.        It will gratify the students of
pure mathematics to understand, that the volume now preparing,
and which will be published in the course of the spring by Messrs-
T. and G. Underwood, contains, besides the ingenious Essay onLo-
gafithmie Transcendents, unpublished tracts in the same class of
the science, equally new and elegant.      A biographical sketch of
the author by his friend Mr. Gait will be nrefixed to the volume.
           LI.  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                        TKIOMPH OF SCIENCE.
 J. HE subjoined   decided    and honourable testimony given to the
originality and utility of Sir Humphry Davy's discovery of the
safety-lamp for miners, deserves to have a more durable record
than the ephemeral columns of a newspaper, and our readers, we
are sure, will therefore thank us for giving it a place in our pages;
   The coal-owners       of the rivers Tyne and Wear, the body
most extensively benefited by Sir Humphry Davy's safety-lamps
for preventing explosions in coal-mines, have shown their sense
of the importance of the discovery to their interests, and those
of humanity, by presenting Sir Humphry with a very handsome
service of plate, of the value of nearly two thousand pourds.
The ceremony of the presentation of it took place on Saturday,
October the 1 1th, when a grand dinner was given to Sir Humphry
                                 U 2                                by

 30*                    Triumph    of Science.
   by the Coal Proprietors and Owners at the Queen's Head at New
  castle, where the plate was exposed for public inspection, and the
  designs, taste, and execution, equally admired.     J. G. Lambton,
   esq. M.P. for the county of Durham, was in the chair.         There
  were present : The Mayor, Sheriff, and Town Clerk of New
   castle; the Rev. Dr. Gray; J. Collinson, and J. Hodgson;
   Messrs. Warren, Lamb, Baker, Lorraine, Buddie, Ellison, Botts,
   Brown, Mowbray, Robinson, and about fifty other gentlemen.
      After the King and the Prince Regent, the Queen and Royal
  Family, had been drank, Mr. Lambton rose, and presented the
   service of plate to Sir Humphry Davy, and addressed him nearly
   in these terms, with great strength of feeling :
      " Sir Humphry — It is now my duty to fulfil the object of this
  meeting, in presenting to you this service of plate, from the coal-
  owners of the Tyne and Wear, as a testimony of their gratitude
  for the services you have rendered to them and to humanity.
  Your brilliant genius, which has been so long employed in ex
  tending, in an unparalleled manner, the boundaries of chemical
  knowledge, never accomplished a better object, nor obtained a
  nobler triumph. You had to contend with an element of de
  struction, which seemed uncontrollable by human power, which
  not only rendered the property of the coal-owner insecure, but
  kept him in perpetual alarm with respect to the safety of the
  miner, and often exhibited to him scenes of death and heart
 rending misery.      You have increased the value of an important
  branch of productive industry; and, what is of infinitely greater
  importance, you have contributed to the preservation of the lives
  and persons of multitudes of your fellow-creatures.        It is now
  nearly two years that your safety- lamp has been used by hun
 dreds of miners, in the most dangerous situations, and under the
 most trying circumstances.       Not a single failure has occurred ;
 its absolute security is demonstrated.    I have, indeed, deeply to
 lament more than one catastrophe produced by fool-hardines's
 and ignorance in neglecting to use   it,but even these dreadful ac.
 cidents,if    possible, exalt its importance.       If
                                                      your fame had
 needed any thing to make  it   immortal, this discovery alone .would
 have carried it   down to future ages, connected with benefits and
 blessings.    Receive, Sir Humphry, this permanent memorial of
our profound respect and high admiration — testimony, we trust,
                                                 a
 equally honourable to you and to us. We hope you will have as
much pleasure in receiving, as we have in offering        it
                                                           ;long may
you live to use it; long may you live to pursue your splendid
career of scientific discovery, and to give new claims to the gra
titude and praise of the world!"
     Sir Humphry Davy having received the plate, spoke nearly in
the following words
     " Gentlemen— find impossible to reply an appropriata
                    :
                   -I     it                         in
                                                              manner

                           Triumph    of Science.                   309
manner to the very eloquent and flattering address of your distin
guished chairman.        Eloquence, or even accuracy of language, is
 incompatible with strong feeling, and, on an occasion like the
present, you will give me credit for no small degree of emotion.
     " I have been informed, that my labours have been useful to
an important branch of human industry, connected with our arts,
our manufactures, commerce, and national wealth.               To learn
this from such practical authority, is a high gratification to a
person whose ardent desire has always been to apply science to
purposes of utility-      It has also been stated, that, the invention,
 which you are this day so highly honouring, has been subservient
to the preservation of the lives and persons of a most useful and
laborious class of men : this coming from your own knowledge,
founded upon such ample experience, affords me a pleasure still
more exalted— for the highest ambition of my life has been to
deserve the name of a friend to humanity.           To crown all, you
 have as it were embodied these sentiments in a permanent and
 magnificent memorial of your good opinion.          I can make only
 imperfect    and  inadequate   efforts to thank  you.   Under all cir
 cumstances of my future life, the recollection of .this day will
 warm my heart ; and this noble expression of your kindness wil'
 awaken my gratitude to the last moment of my existence."
     Mr. Lamhton's speech, and Sir Humphry's reply, were re
ceived with loud acclamations ; as was likewise Sir Humphry
Davy's health, which Mr. Lambton gave with three times three,
 and introduced in another eloquent speech, still further extolling
 the merits of the lamp, and the disinterested manner in which
 it had been presented to the public.
     Sir H. Davy, in reply, said, that he was overpowered by gra
 titude, by these reiterated proofs of their approbation — that his
.merits were far overrated — that his success in their cause was
 owing to his following tire path of experiment, discovered by
 philosophers who had preceded him — that he would willingly
 divide their plaudits with other men of science, and claim much
 for the general glory of scientific discovery in a long course of
 ages.     He referred to the great increase of wealth and power to
  the country, within the last fifty years, by scientific inventions,
 which could not have existed without coal-mines ; the improve
  ment in the potteries, the steam-engine, and the discovery of
 gas lights.    In referring to the steam-engine, he said,'- What an
  immense impulse has this machine given to arts and manufac
  tures ! how much has it diminished labour, and increased the
  real strength of the country, far beyond a mere increase of popu
  lation !   By giving facilities to a number of other inventions, it
  had even a moral effect in rendering capital necessary for the
 perfection of labour, credit essential to capital, and ingenuity
 and mental energy a secure and dignified species of property.
                                    U 3                         Science

310                       Triumph of Science.
 Science was of infinitely more importance than could at first view"
be supposed to the state, for no source of wealth or power was
entirely independent of it : and no class of men were so well able
to appreciate its advantages as the gentlemen whom he had the
honour of addressing; for they not only derived from it the means
of raising their subterraneous wealth, but likewise those of ren
 dering it useful to the public.      In various manner it was science
 that had made pit-coal such an instrument in the hands of the
 chemist and mechanic, so as to make the elements fire and water
perform operations which formerly demanded human labour; and
to convert the productions of the earth into a thousand new
forms of beauty and use.        Sir H. Davy said, that it was in pur
suing those    methods     of analogy and experiment by which the
 mystery had become a science, that he had discovered the safety-
 lamp — that he had registered the whole progress of his researches
 in the Transactions of the Royal Society, in papers which that
illustrious body had honoured by their biennial medal, and that
 in those papers he had acknowledged the slightest hints, or of
 fers of assistance, that he had received. — He stated this, not
 from vain glory, but on account of certain calumnious insinua
 tions, which had arisen, not iu the scientific world, for to that
 the whole progress of his scientific researches was well known,
but in a colliery.      He must ever treat these insinuations with
 contempt ;   and,  after  the indignation which had been expressed
against   them  by  the coal-owners     in general, he could not have
any anxiety on the subject, nor should he have referred to it at all,
but that he had every reason to believe that the persons amongst
whom these insinuations originated were extensively benefited
by, and were constantly using, his invention.          And that it was
far from his expectation that such persons would have employed
their respectable connexions in mean attempts to impeach the
 originality of a discovery which was given to them in a disinter
 ested manner, and for which no return was required, but an
honest acknowledgement of the benefit, founded upon truth, and
justice. " I (said Sir H. D.) do not envy them their feelings,
particularly at the present moment.           I do not wish to inquire
into their motives ; I hope, however, that their conduct has been
prompted by ignorance rather than malevolence, by misappre
hension rather than ingratitude.         It was a new circumstance to
me, that attempts to preserve human life, and prevent human
misery, should create hostile feelings in persons who professed to
have similar objects in view.       1 have had some opposition, much
labour,   and more   anxiety during the course of these researches,;
but had the opposition, the labour, and the anxiety been a thou
sand times as great, the events of this day would have been more
 than a compensation." — (Great plaudits).           Sir Humphry, in
  "
    inking the health of the company, offered as a sentiment-
    Prosperity to the Coal Trade."                                 The

                              Triumph   of Science.             31 1
   The Chairman proposed the health of the Duke of Northum
                                                               •
berland, the Lord Lieutenant of the county.                      f
   The Manager of his Grace's coal concerns returned thanks, and
read an extract of a letter from the Duke, expressing his admi
ration of the object of the meeting, and his conviction of the
great benefit that had resulted to science, and humanity in ge
neral, and the coal trade in particular, from Sir H. Davy's dis
coveries.
  Mr. Lambton                       of the Mayor of Newcastle, who
                      gave the health
returned thanks, and gave    the health of the Chairman, which was
drank with three times three, and great plaudits.
   Mr. Lambton, after returning thanks, again alluding to the
object of the meeting, stated his own desire upon all occasions
to promote, to his best endeavours, the interest of the coal-trade.
   The health of the Bishop of Durham was drank.           The Rev.
Mr. Collinson, his representative on this occason, said that no
thing, but the age and infirmity of the venerable Bishop pre
vented him from being present; that no one was mere deeply in
terested in the object of their meeting.     Mr. Collinson said, that
whatever gratification Sir H. Davy received from the enthusiasm
with which his invention was received by men so well able to ap
preciate    it,
             yet that    must be infinitely more gratifying to him
                         it
to know, that men now living, and their remotest posterity,
would be indebted to him for their safety; and that he was an
instrument in the hands of Providence, not only far protecting
human life, but for preserving human happiness.
   Mr. Lambton gave " Mr. Buddie, and the Viewers of New
castle," stating, that the coal-owners owed much to the cour
age and sagacity with which they investigated danger, and the
skill which they used in avoiding        and paid many just com
                                         it ;
pliments to their science,   as well as to their humanity.
   Mr. Buddie, in returning thanks, said, that Sir Humphry
Davy's lamp-offered them resources in the art of mining which
they hadinever hoped for, enabled them to work coals which
could never even' have been explored, and above all, took from
their minds     heavy weight of responsibility.
                  a
   Sir Humphry Davy gave the health of the Rev. Dr. Gray,          a
gentleman,' he sakl,          by
                            whose enlightened philanthropy his at
tention had been first turned to the subject. — Dr. Gray returned
thanks.
   The following toasts were given            by
                                          the Chairman
   " The Union of Science with Humanity." — " The Trade of
                                                       :
Tyne and Wear."— " The Members of Newcastle."—" The
Rev. John Hodgson."
 . Sir H. Davy said he had spoken   of the general benefits re
sulting from science he was
                        ;   sure they would drink with pleasure
                                    U   4                        the

 312               Steam Engines.        — Voltaic Action,
 the health of a most venerable and distinguished friend to
 science— Sir Joseph Banks, the President of the Royal Society^
 who in youth had endeavoured to extend the limits of human
 knowledge, amongst difficulties and dangers; who, in his ad
 vanced age, was the patron of every useful object ; and who,
 through his whole life, had devoted his fortune and his time to
 die purposes of science.                •-   . .
    Mr. Robinson gave " The Members for the County of Dur
 ham." — Mr. Lambton returned thanks.
    At ten o'clock Mr. Lambton and Sir H. Davy took their leave
 amidst the enthusiastic applauses of the meeting, when Mr. Wm.
 Lamb took the chair, and harmony and conviviality were kept
 rp till a late hour.       Never was there a more agreeable meeting,
 and as the object of it was one of convivial benevolence, so the
 effect of it was universal hilarity.
                     STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
    From the Monthly Report for September, it appears that du
 ring that month the following was the work performed by the
 engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                                  Water lifted! foot high\  Load per square
                                      with each bushel.     inch in cylinder.
 23 common engines averaged                  23,099,400         various.
 Woolf's at Wheal Vor             . .       38,894,222          15- 5   lib.
 Ditto       Wh. Abraham* . .                40,310,194         16- 8
 Ditto         ditto     ..                  26,138,822           4-3
 Ditto       Wh. Unity      f     ..         29,5.57,019        131
 Dalcouth engine         ..       ..        43,031,945          11-2
 Wheal Abraham ditto              ..        35,12S,397          10-3
 United Mines ditto . .           ..        30,716,538          18   1
 Wheal Chance ditto               ..        38,832,427          13-  1
              VOLTAIC ACTION, SAFETV-FURNACE,                ETC.
                               To Mr. Tilloch.
    Sir,— Having      ascertained the influence of atmospheric air in
increasing the intensity of the Voltaic action, I was next desirous,
in following up the views of M. Dessaignes, to ascertain the ef
fect of an exalted temperature.                For this purpose the plates
-were heated highly      in   a sand-bath         and plunged into the acid
medium in the porcelain cells.               By this means I ignited with
the three porcelain troughs adverted to, still preserving the same
diluted acid, eleven inches and a half of platinum wire.                   The
experiments     with   charcoal    and      metallic  lamine   were    propor
tionally brilliant.     I next raised the temperature of the acid so
lution up to 130° F. and obtained results nearly as striking.
   * Has hat! considerable lets this month to repair boilers.
   f Working part of this month without the aid of the small cylinder,
                                                                   '
                                       .    .                               We,

                            Safety- Furnace,    &c.                         31 3
 We     have thus provided another mean for        obtaining an increased
 action.
     In referring to the apparatus I have proposed for drawing off
 and consuming the explosive hydrocarbonate               of the mine, I
 should have mentioned, that when one, two or more pipes are
 used, the orifices of the others must be shut by means of proper
 appendages. By allowing the urn to rest in water, it will always
 be kept cool; — or a current of water being permitted to enter
from below, through a small aperture ; we should have, besides
 the safety afforded by the wire-gauze, that of an atmosphere of
steam; — and if the position of Sir H. Davy be founded in truth,
 that flame is an exhibition of temperature above a white heat,
 and that the wire-gauze serves merely to cool down the flame below
that increment which is the grade of incipient flame, — a fillet
of wire-gauze in the interior of the urn, thus,
would present a number of eooling surfaces,               >./     .
                                                                        ..^
                                                                       %>
                                                                            \
by incepting the included flame, and such a                   /          \
convolute, or spiral partition of wire-gauze, : '; I
                                                           \
                                                                           •   •
would yield a security as ample and as also-            \       -"••"'
                                                                        / j
lute as the safety-lamp*.                                 \        —'        /
    I exposed to the action of the compound            gases   in the oxy-
hydrogen blowpipe, a fragment of a meteoric stone which fell at
Pulrose (one mile from Douglas, Isle of Man), about twenty
years ago, during a thunder-storm.           It tore up the ground with
considerable violence, killing a mare and foal at the same time.
This meteorolite appears somewhat like a dark pumice-stone, —
of low specific gravity, — and containing a few small white specks
resembling leucite when exposed to high increments of tempera
ture.
    It exhibited before the blow-pipe : first, an intense most vivid
light, — then entered into fusion, and passed into a black glass. ^
    I also introduced before the ignited gaseous mixture a piece of
what has been long known here under the name of polishing
powder.       This portion of it which I found in silu resembled
asbestos, having a ligniform structure, but crumbling into a soft
powder between the fingers.         I found it in contact with decom
posing granite     and   quartz interspersed with needle schorl; in
deed, I have specimens which I found in the same place, com
posed of masses of needle and compact schorl exhibiting the
various transitions into this substance.
    Before the blow-pipe it was characterized by a vivid light like
   *  I apprehend that the convolute would present but one cooling surface,
namely the exterior ; the inner convolutions would be in (lie situation of a
piece of wire-gauze within a safety-lamp.
                                           — Edit.
                                                                    magnesia

  314'                              Chemistry.
  magnesia when mtroduced before the condensed ignited gas, en
 tered into rapid fusion, and formed a beautiful black bead.
                            I am, sir, your obedient humble servant.
 Dougfas, Isleof Man, Sept. 17, 1817.                        J. MURRAY.
      The following errata appear in my late paper: Page 145, line 3,
  read  " white" instead of'until. Page 144, read ** the corrosive
                                                           of
  salt." Page 146, read Mr. Porrett. jun.                          J. M.
  PROCESS     FOR PREPARING ACETATE OF POTASH:                  COLOURING
     MATTER OF DRAGONS BLOOD EXTRACTED BY QUICKLIME.
                                  To  Mr. Tilloch.
     Sir, — I  beg leave to offer to the consideration of your che
 mical readers a more convenient process for preparing acetate
 of potassa than that which is at present followed, in the way
 now practised; viz. that of saturating subcarbonate of potassa
 with distilled vinegar. It almost invariably happens that the so
 lution is of a brown colour, probably arising in part from the pre
 sence of some extractive matter, and partly from the partial com
 bustion of the acid during the ebullition.        In order to remove this
 impurity    the   solution   is evaporated to dryness, and the residuum
 is melted by a gentle heat and left to crystallize.        If the solution
 of the acetate be made in the way which I shall proceed to di
 rect, it is colourless, and consequently does not require the eva
 poration to dryness and subsequent fusion.
     Let 120 parts of subcarbonate of potassa and 300 parts of
 superacetate of lead be separately dissolved in as little water as
 possible ; the solutions are to be mixed together, the carbonate
 of lead will be precipitated, and the acetate of potassa will re
 main in solution, which may be evaporated until it becomes
 somewhat thick, and then set aside to crystallize.
     I am unacquainted with the quantity of acetate yielded by the
 above proportions ; as while the solution was evaporating, an
accident happened to my apparatus.
     I obtained from the 300 grains of superacetate only 160 grains
of carbonate of lead; from which circumstance I am induced to
question the accuracy of Thenard's statement of the proportions
of the component parts of the former salt; viz. oxide of lead 58;
acetic acid 26; water 16: for, supposing his account to be
correct, I did not obtain the full proportion of oxide, without
reckoning the carbonic acid : the whole of which, as no efferves
cence occurred on mixing the solutions, must have entered into
combination.         I am, sir, yours respectfully,
    Jul\ 2T, 1817.                                        LlTHOPHlXUS.
     P. S. 1 have recently found that the colouring matter of tfie
resin vulgarly denominated dragons blood, may be extracted by
quicklime} almost if not quite as well as by caustic alkali.

                     Death    by  Lightning. — Queries.             SIS
                   DEATH BY LIGHTNING. — OTIERIES,
                              To  Mr. Tillock.
    Sir, — During     a visit to a friend in Herefordshire, I was de
sired to examine the body of a man whose life had been sudden!?
destroyed by lightning at Colwall near Ledbury.              The wife of
the deceased obstinately refusing permission to open the body,
my examination was confined to the effects of the electric fluid
on the external surface.         On viewing the head, I found the hair
and the beard of the left side singed, and the skin of the ear,
cheek, and upper part of the neck perfectly black, but entire.
Between the shoulders there was another black spot of the size
of a crown, exactlv over the spine, and on the outside of the
thigh of the right side just above the knee, there was another
black spot which I could scarcely cover with my hand.               The
parts of the shirt and flannel lining of the breeches and jacket
which covered the injured skin were charred, but neither the ex-,
terior parts of the small-clothes (which were made of corduroy)
nor of the jacket were burnt, the electric fluid having only occa-»
sioned a laceration resembling an incision made by a sharp io-«
strument.       It appears that the electric matter entered the left
side of the head, passed through the chest and abdomen in art
oblique direction, and escaped just above the knee on the oppo
site side of the body.        Whether the fluid entered or escaped at
 the spot   on   the back,    I am at a loss to say ; but from the ex
 ternal part of the jacket not being burnt, I suspect a quantity
escaped there.       The spots were perfectly black, and exhibited,
the same appearance as is produced by the caustic alkali after
 remaining several hours on the skin ; and from its flabby state,
 the mischief was no doubt deep.           Whether the fluid produced
 the same    effect  on  the   internal   parts through- which the fluid
passed as it did on the skin, is a question. which I shall be obliged
 to you, or some of your readers who have ascertained the fact in
 a similar case, to answer.        The man at the time, the accident
 happened    was   under   an  oak-.tvee, and when the lightning struck
 him he sprung forward and fell on his face; soon after which
 there was a second flash, and this might have produced the spot
 between the shoulders ; but if so, where did it escape ? . -
    About twenty years ago I had an opportunity to examine *
 man who was struck dead by lightning in a field near Hereford,
 with an umbrella over his head. On that man the electric fluid
 produced no evident effect either externally or internally.         The
 brain had a sulphurous smell.
    Queries,      Did the passing of the fluid through the umbrella
 prevent   its burning the body ? As no apparent injury was done
 to the bodv, how are we to account for its effects io destroying
                                                                    life?

     316       New Scale for the Mdutilain Barometer. — Optics.
     life ?    Did it terminate life by destroying the electrical power*
     of the brain ? 1 hope some of your readers will, through ths
     medium of your valuable work, favour me with some remarks on
     these cases, and replies to mv     ' queries.   I am, sir, vour constant
     Reader,                                                          R. R.
        Piccadilly, Oct. 17, 18 IT.
                  NEW SCALE FOR THE MOUNTAIN BAROMETER.
         Professor Bertoncelli of Verona has contrived an ingenious
     method of adapting a graduated measure to the common scale
     of the barometer, to indicate the height of mountains without the
     necessity of calculating for the different degrees of temperature,
     &c. To the common scale he adapts a corresponding one, di
     viding the inches into 100, placing his zero at mean pressure,
     and ascending both ways in numeration from that point. • This
     scale is surmounted by a brass revolving cylinder on which are
     graved four different series of lines ; one perpendicular divided
     like the preceding ; another of ten diverging lines which ascend
     the whole length of the cylinder, and the rationale of which the
     Professor has not stated; — these lines are again partially inter
     sected by two series of four lines diverging at right angles from
     the point of zero, and designed- to indicate the correction for
     difference of temperature.        The whole cylinder revolves by means
     of a screw, and acts in conjunction with the counter scale of the
     barometer ; it is accompanied by a vernier, which is commanded
\    by two or three screws to the point of correction ; while this
     vernier is also to act in correspondence with a common nonius
    placed on the inch scale opposed to the surface of the mercury.
     This complex machine Professor Bertoncelli calls an Ipsographic
     scale, which nevertheless has still to be read off and calculated
     by the aid of logarithms.        If he could find a metal which would
  - not contract with cold, then his series of screws and tangent lines
    might be useful ; and if logarithms were more familiar than com
     mon addition or subtnaction, this instrument might prove of
     much general utility.
                                        OPTICS.
        A   verv interesting    case  has just occurred, of a person born
    blind being restored to sight by the means of a surgical opera
    tion: — A native of Burdwan, of the age of eighteen, was lately
    sent by his family to Dr.Luxmore, of whose success in the removal
    .o( the cataract they had heard by public report.          The operation
    was performed on the 26th, and in six days he began to see and
    distinguish objects.         After the celebrated case of Dr. Chesel-
     den's patient, whose sensations have been so minutely and phi-
    •losophicallv laid before the public, it can hardly be expected that'
    any discovery regarding the origin of our ideas of figure, distance,
    vr quantity, could be extracted from the observation of an ig-
    ......                                                            norant

              Hylernation of Swallows.-— Patents.                 317
norant country boy, who, unaccuttomed to think abstractedly, is
little able to describe the gradual improvement of his intellect,
under this sudden and astonishing introduction to the visible
world. He confirmed, however, with readiness the conclusion,
so obvious from the feelings of Dr. Cheselden's patient,      that
our common judgement of figure, quantity, and distance, is not
an inherent faculty in the mind, but a practical result, from the
ever-repeated experiment of comparing the perspective with the
actual figure, bulk, or distance.    For a cricket-ball was put in
one hand, and a cube of soap in the other, and he was desired to
describe their shape ; he was unable to do it by his newly ac
quired and inexperienced vision, and was obliged to have con
stant recourse to the more practised sense of feeling.       When
any object is presented to him, although he can without hesita
tion declare its colour, he is wholly unable to decide on its qua
lity, until he is allowed to handle it. — Bengal Paper.
                HYBERNATION OF SWALLOWS.
Extract of a Letter from Joseph Wood, esq. to a Gentleman               in
                        Wasldngton.
                                               " Marietta, June   30.
  "   I came to this country in the autumn of 1785, and resided
atBelleville about three miles below this place,on the Virginia side,
till 1791. During my residence there, I observed one evening
a little after sunset, a vast number of swallows collected together
high in the air, and hovering over a particular spot; this whs
in autumn, when the weather began to grow cool.        Having been
informed by some of my school-mates, when a boy, that they
had seen swallows dive into a mill-pond, and disappear, I was
determined to watch these, and in about ten or fifteen minute?,
as darkness approached, they lowered their flight, and concen
trated in a smaller circle, and at length, to my surprise, poured
into a very large hollow sycamore- tree, about seventy feet above
the ground.    I observed that they came out for several succes
sive days, and returned in the evening in the same manner.      In
the following year, some of the settlers cut down the tree; the
hollow was about six feet in diameter, and was filled six inches
deep with bones and feathers, and other remains of dead birds;
— such, probably, as were too old and feeble to          fly
                                                        out in the
spring. They must     have occupied the tree for many vears.        I
have since seen two other trees that have fallen, with similar ap
pearances."
              LIST OP PATENTS POIl NEW INVENTIONS.
  To Edmund Richard Ball, of Albury Mills,          in   the parish of
Albury,   Surry, for hit new method of manufacturing         paper of
                                                              superior

                                  '
                             •'
5&18                                  Patents^Aslronomifi
                                                                  •
ftiperW strength        durability for bills, or notes, or *>ther
                                      fmd
inquiring Strength.— 9th August 1817.— 2 months to enroll.
   To Edward Biggs, of Birmingham, for his improvements in
the methods of making Or manufacturing pans and stalls of va
rious kinds.— 12th August.— 2 months.
   To James Bouflsall, of Crown-street, Old-street Road, Shore-
ditch, Middlesex, for certain improvements in the machinery
used for tarring, reeling, and twisting of yarn, and forming the
  lissirtis dr strands df cables and other cordage, and manufacture
  Ihg rope of every size. — 12th August. — 6 months.
      To William Geldart and John Servant, both of Leeds, York-
. shire, for certain improvements in mangles. — 12thAugust — 2 mo*
      To Jephtha Avery Wilkinson, late of New* York in the United
  States of America, but now of Covent Garden, Middlesex, for
  certain improvements in the application of machinery for the
  purpose of manufacturing of weavers' reeds by Water or other
  power. — 23d August. — 6 months.
                                                      '
   To George Medhurst, of Dehmark-street, St. Giles, Middle
sex, engineer, for an arrangement of implements to form certain
apparatus which he denominates the hydraulic balance, applica
ble to mechanical and hydraulic purposes. — 26th August. — 6
months.
                    '
                                       —       —
                          To Mr. Titlock.
   Sift, — I take the opportunity of inquiring, through the means
of your widely-extended Magazine, whether any of your astro
nomical correspondents observed the remarkable conjunction of
Venus with Regulm on the 29th of September last.         I find by
M. Bode's Ephemeris, that the two stars Would, at Berlin, ap
pear within twelve seconds of each other : but no notice Is taken
of this singular phenomenon either in the Nautical Almanack,
or in the Connaissance des Terns.
                                       I am, sir, your obedient servant,
  October 27, 1817.                                                         AsTRONOMICUS.
          ASTRONOMICAL                      PHENOMENA, NOVEMBER                         1817.
 D. H. M.                                           D. H. M.
 2.23.53      J         1)    SI                    12. 8. 6        }    r
                                                                         fVy
                                                                                 f
 4.21.47      D         3*11)1                      14.21.41        5
 6. 0.16      J)        y    t»k                    20.   8   20    5n )f
 6. 1 1 . 4   D          2                          22.   0. O      D    in apogee
 .7,16. 5     ))        %
                                                    22.   2.54 © enters                  f
                                                          9. 6 5 A «
 7.19.17
 8. 8. 8      jteA
              S         X n;j                       23.
                                                    25.   2.35 5 <?
 9.11.43      I !lH[                                25.   5.33 5 125 8
 9. 0. O      i         in perigee                  27.   £».   2   D   u        n
10.16.5                 flOphiuchi                  28.0.27                          &
                                                                                 SI 2
                                                                        1} rf/
                                                                    5
              5 5
                    <r <J>
12. 0.2O                                            SO. QAQ     i
12. 4.   1    J)             $ J:                                                            METE0R0

                               Mttewology.                            319
           METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT         BOSTON,
                             LINCOLNSHIRE.
    [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at  1
                                                                P.M.]
           Age of
  13 17.      the  fhermo  Baro     State of the Weather and Mod ificatioa
           Moon     meter. meter.              of die Clouds.
           DAYS
Sept.  15
             "
                4    61-5  30-20 Rain
       16}      5    65-   30-20 jCloudy
       17       0    67-5   30- 15  Fair
       18        7   58'    29- 8/ Rain
     .19)
                8    Gl-   30       Fair — rain  A.M.
      20        9    61-   30-15 Ditto
      21     10      62-   30M4 Ditto
      22     11      50-   30- 03 Cloudy
      23     13      60-   30-07 Fair
      24     13     fiO-   30-06 Ditto
      25   full     62-    29-60 Ditto — rain A.M.
      26     15     60-    29-27 Fair — gale from the SW.
      27     16     56-    29-44 Cloudy — ditto
      28     17     54-    29- 80 Ditto — wind N. by E.— sharp frost
                                      at night
      29     18     54-5   30- 09 Fine          ditto      ditto
      30;    19     52-    30-14 Ditto          ditto     ditto
Oct.    1   20      52-5   29'90 Ditto          ditto     ditto
        2   21      46-5   30-21 Ditto         ditto      ditto
        3   28      51-    30-22 Ditto          ditto     ditto
        4   23      55-    30-39 Ditto
        5   34      53-    30-47 Ditto— heavy rain       A.M.
        6    25     52-    30-45 Very fine
        7   36      57"    30-36 Ditto
        8]   37     54-    30-29 Fine
            2.8     55-    30' 1 7 Ditto
        9]
      10]  new      56-    30-07   Cloudy
      11   .    1   48-5   30-16   Fair — cold rain   A.M.
      12        2   48-    30-20   Showery
      13       .a   50-    30-40   Very fine — rain   P.M.
      14       4    48'    30-32   Showery
                                                               METEORO-

32©                                                   Meteorology.
                                        meteorological table,
                               By Mb.           Cart, of the Strand,
                                             For October 1817.
                                                                                 1 if*
                         TIu rmometer.
                                                                                fc\g c
 Days of
  i\ i , "",l-
                       lock,    ning.   c
                                        O
                                        Q
                                               lock,
                                              lit.
                                                              FIei«ht of
                                                             tlie Barom.       \\\
                                                                               M
                                                                                                     Weather.
                                                               Inches.                  gs
                                             11 o'C
                       o'C                            Ni'J
                               Mori                                             £>{
                       8
 Sept. 27              55               56   48               29.50                 0        Rain
                 28    48               56   50                  •91              22         Fair
             29        44               55   49                  •89              36         Fair
             30        49               55   50                  •87              30         Fair
      Oct.       1     47               54   45                  •75              31         Fair
                 2     39               50   40               3001                26         Fail-
                 3     35               50   40                  •14              27         Fair
                 4     44               55   46                  •21              20         Fair
           I           44               56   44                  •23              36         Fair
                 6     42               54   43                  •14              36         Fair
                 7     48               57   44                  •10             40          Fair
                 8     45               50   47                  •02              32         Fair
                 9     47               55   47               29-88               39         Fair
                 10    44               56   50                  •89              36         Fair
             1
             1         45               50   42                  '94              27         Fair
                 12    -44              50   38               3005                26         Showery
                38
                 13                     48   42                  •26              25         Showery
             14 44                      50   42                  •10              24         Cloudy
             15 42                      47   42               2990                           Showery
                                                                                   0 0 0 0
             16 43                      46   40                  •96                         Rain
             17 42                      47   42                  •99                         Showery
             18 43                      46   41                  •78                         Rain
             19 44                      47   45                  •82              17         Cloudy
             20 45                      48   45                  •90               0         Rain
             21 46                      48   46                  •80               9         Cloudy
             22 45                      50   42                  •82              10         Cloudy
             23 45                      48   45                  •90                         Showery
                                        46   45                                    0 6       Rain
             24 44                                               •80
             25 42                      50   45                  •75              12         Cloudy
             26 47                      52   44                  •70              22         Fair
                                                                                                                ;
                                                               f
                      M.Bi The Barometer's height                        is   taken at one o'cfock.

                                     [     321   ]
LII.        the Question " Whether Music is necessary to the
            On
            —
     Orator, to what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"
     By Henry Ufington, Esq.
                                 To      Mr. Tilloch.
             H aving
                                       Blair's Hill, Cork, Sept. 25, 18 17.
                             lately requested by a particular friend,
                          been
to direct my attention towards the investigation of a certain sub
ject which he considered both interesting and instructive, I com
plied with his wishes ; and having proceeded a certain length,
 J now transmit you a copy, intending at a future period to com
plete the inquiry.
    The purport of this investigation was — "Whether music is,
necessary to the orator — to what extent, and how most readily
attainable ?"
    As there appeared to me, at my first setting out, some proba
ble connexion between the intervals of speech, and the ancient
division of the musical scale, I was determined, if possible, to
analyse the tetrachord.'       Hence arose not only the question of
minute division, but of concords, even to the perfection or im
perfection of our present harmonical basis : — and with this part
of the subject I thought it more desirable to begin.
    Experiment 1. 1 prepared a common deal sounding-board
about four feet in length, with an ordinary bridge, and sufficient
steel wires for the subdivision of one single fourth into quarter
tones, CF being the extremes.
    Result. After getting the best-ear'd musicians around me, to
tune, retune, alter, realter, by ear as well as by all the ancient data
1 could trace, — the only effect      produced, in their estimation,
whenever a quarter tone was struck, was that which would ne
cessarily be produced by an instrument out of tune.
    What can we infer from hence ? That modern ears are no
more prepared for the reception of the real diesis or quarter
tone, than the ears of our earliest ancestors would have been for
that of our present semi-tonieal division.       Here a very important
question presents itself : How happens               it,
                                                   that at this very day
(if  we may believe Dr. Burney) the Arabian scale              more mi
                                                                    is
nutely divided than ours their octave containing twenty-four
                                 ;
quarter tones, for all of which there are particular denomina
tions?    Must     not have arisen from excessive cultivation, the
                     it
ear having been previously satiated with the semi-tone              Dr. B.
                                                                         ?
is right perhaps in asserting that such division            incompatible
                                                               is
with modern harmony.         But what of this        Does  ?    prove the
                                                                    it
superiority of modern European ears, or the superiority of our
     Vol,   SO.   No. 235. Nov. 1817.                   X      -             system?

322       On the Question        "   Whether Music is necessary to the
system    ?    It   is idle to speak   of Nature — we         are all the children
of Art.       But in regard to our       senses, is there any rational ground
for asserting that our ears are more infallible than our eyes ?
Early impressions will produce within us certain ideas of beauty
Which no subsequent comparison can efface : Hence the totter
ing foot and sugar-loaf head are held in greater estimation by
the Chinese, than those of the most perfect statue ever said to
 have been formed by the chisel of Praxiteles.      We may next
 proceed  to
    Experiment 2. being one certain, and perhaps the only me
 thod of tuning the soni stabiles or immoveable tones of the
 disdiapason, agreeably (as I conceive) to the laws of the ancient
 system; that is, with three conjunct, and one disjunct, tetra-
 chords; for which purpose I employed a common piano-forte.
    Let the disdiapason or double octave be represented by the
 following letters, taking C as the fundamental :
     CC* DD* E FF* GG* A A* B cc* dd* effa gg* am                                  b
                                                                      was effected by
                                                   pThis tuning
 1st. Tune       D to any desired pitch              means    of      a monoehord,
                G       a perfect 4th from     D        the   comparative          lengths
 2dly.
 Sdly.              c   a perfect 4th from     G        of sounding wire being
                                                                                    Inches.
                /
 4thly.         C       a perfect octave from c    ,„     .   .   .            .
                                                         the fundamental,!
Sthly.—                                                                                mQ
                                                                            "J
                    a perfect 4th from
                                          c<for
                                                   L
                                                                                   \
                                                                       • •
 -
 6thly.
   •            v
                <2>       r
                    a perfect octave from c
                          -       -
                                               suPPose.
                                            (For its 4th                above,
 7thly.          g a perfect 4th"! f           (c\                                     iW
                                                                                       7!.ft
                        (downwards)
                                                        |thsof 1000            ..f
                                                                             | of\
                                     j              For its octave,
                                                                               ../
                                                   ^                                   5UU
                                                         1000     ..
    The ultimate soni stabiles will therefore exhibit themselves in
 the following order : every other note being subject to the pro
 posed adjustment of the performer.
                    C D           G        *            fg               <&
     Now this arrangement, which insists upon no more than two
 ivterrrfediate notes in either octave, will be found upon trial to
 differ so very little, if at all, from that mode of tuning most
 agreeable to a cultivated ear, that we must consider it (at least
 for simple melody) as a mere well-regulated outline.
    I could here wish to examine, why the fourth was considered
 by the ancients as the most perfect conchord ; so perfect indeed
 as to constitute the main regulator of the scale ; — but the docu
 ments of antiquity are wanting.    We must therefore resort to a
 modern experiment, which I find recorded in one of our Cyclo
 pedias (I believe Rees's), which exhibits the question in a sin
 gularly striking manner.
                                                                                       Not

Orator, — to whatExtent, and how most readily attainable P" 323
   Not content with the assertion of the writer, who made the
experiment with a wire several yards in length, I constructed a
simple monochord (that of which I have just spoken), and found
the Tesults to correspond.    As this very simple instrument is not      -t
only amusing,    but on many occasions instructive,       I shall de
scribe it.
                            Monochord.
   Take ah even strip of deal, free from knots, about three feet
long, five inches broad, and three-quarters thick.      Plane it fair,
and glue upon each end a piece of hard wood about an inch and
a half in height.   Stretch a steel wire horizontally over these by
means of two upright iron pegs suited to a common tuning-ham
mer.     Lastly, procure a perpendicular bridge of hard wood,
about an inch long, whose base may be three-quarters, and whose
summit about one-quarter inch in breadth : let it move freely to
and fro beneath the wire, (merely in contact and no more, lest
the pitch, should be altered,) and press it (the wire) down upon
the aforesaid bridge, at the destined mark, with your nail, or,
which is better, with a small oblong square piece of hard timber.
The monochord is thus complete ; and by way of a sounding-
board, you have only to place it on a table, or on the leaf of a
piano-forte.
   A rough side-view may explain it better.
               B
                                 IV                   E
                                                            \       C
                                                                       1
   A A, Blocks which serve for feet.
   B B, Permanent bridges, each one inch and        a half high.
   C C, Blocks in which the pegs are inserted.
   D, Moveable bridge.
   Let me now describe the experiment which proves the grada
tion of our concords.
   Experiment 3. Take a strip of fine soft paper (news paper
will answer) about one inch and a half long and half an inch
broad, bent longitudinally in a triangular form, like a saddle.
With one extremity of this saddle (its apex being upward) the
string while sounding is to be gently pressed at given points, and
tones different from the original will be strongly perceptible.
                                   X2                           Thus,

 324     On   the Question      "  Whether Music          is necessary to the
                                  Thus,
                       1          >V
                   r                                 1
                     Sounds which would lie pro           Harmonic sounds
     Points of       duced at such points were              resulting    from
     contact.        the bridge so situate, and the         gentle    pressure
                     wire struck in the usual way.          by the soft puper.
     Centre.             . .  Octave.         . .      Octave.
     |  point,   , ,     . .  Fourth.                  Double Octave.
     f- do.      ..      ..   Fifth.                   Octave of the Fifth.
     f  do.      , .      . . Minor 6th      . .       Triple Octave,
                                                     f Double Octave of the
     4. do.                    Major 3d.
                                                     1        Major 3d.
     H    do.                 Minor 3d.                Double Octave of the 5 th.
     i  do.                   Major 6th .
                                                     f Double
                                                    "t     Major 3d.
                                                                    Octave of the
        [The moveable bridge is not used in this experiment.]
                                   Of Discords.
     The 2ds and 7ths are independent characters, mutually con--
,
  fleeted with each other, and bearing no relation whatever to any
  of the foregoing concords.
     Such is the undeniable statement of harmonic relations, by
  which you will readily perceive the remoteness of our 3ds, and
  their consequent rejection by the Greeks, who acknowledged only
  two concords, (the octave being considered as a repetition, or
  rather as an antiphonious sound,) in contradistinction to the uni
  son, which was termed homophonious.
     These two ancient concords were,
                          The 4 th, regarded perfect.
                          The 5th, regarded imperfect.
     Were you to take the trouble of reading Burney's History of
   Music, you would smile at his unwillingness to acknowledge the
  4th as a concord at all. His reason is obvious, the comparative
  perfection or imperfection of our harmonic system being so de
  pendent upon this important fact.
      That harmony, according to the modern sense, was rejected
   by the Greeks, requires but little argument.                    In every system
   adopted by that extraordinary people, they sought perfection,
   nor could they by any means consent to the erection of a super
  structure upon ever so slightly defective a basis.                 With them no
  other combination of tones was held admissible, than that of the
   unison and octave ; and for these they might well have pleaded
   the sympathy of Nature herself.              Aristides Quintilianus, an an
  cient Greek writer, has related the case, and the proof is readily
  attainable with our monochord.
      Experiment 4. Tune to perfection, on the piano-forte, every
   note within a given octave.
      Tutue the monochord in perfect unison with the upper note of
                                                                               that

Orator, — towhatExlent,and             how most readily attainable          ?" 325
 that octave, suppose         c.   Place it on the piano, and balance
  across the wire a small slip of fine tissue paper, sufficiently bent
  to sustain itself from falling,
     Strike the fundamental C of the piano pretty strongly, and
 the wire of the monochord will vibrate a little ;- just so as to
  agitate the paper.
     Strike the upper c, that is the unison of the monochord, in a
 similar way, and the paper will be strongly agitated.
     Strike .every other individual note between C and c, and no
 such effect shall be produced.
     So far for sympathy, which fully authorized the adoption of
 the unison and octave ; and so far may the ancient system be
 defended.       But why should that system have been confined to
 the narrow limits of the disdiapason or double octave ?
     Perhaps this question may be solved by another. May not the
 Greeks, whose constant maxim was that of unity, have consi
 dered the musical string itself as the natural boundary of the mu-r
 sical system, every sound, though apparently simple, being neither
 more nor less than a compound of the numberless intervals
     of the grand system, or whole string           . .      . .    , .           *
    and of the two smaller, or disdiapasons, into which"! ^. .
        the string while vibrating is divided           , ,         . . J
                                                                     jn more or
 every portion       thereof  being    at the  same   moment
 less effective operation     —  wllti, and, if I may use the expression,
 at the same time without a central bridge r
      This conjecture may not be deemed altogether irrational
 when we reflect upon the aucient character, — thus maintaining
 the unity of Nature in all the fullness of perfection.
    But why did not the Greeks consent to the subdivision of
 time, the only distinctions with them being the long and short, in.
 the ratio pf one to two, similar to those of our semibreve and
 minim, or crotchet and quaver ? I answer — The preservation of
 their beautiful language, whose genius does not even admit our
 ordinary barring.         Had the frittering away of syllables been
 once encouraged, and considered as a musical beauty, where
 would the innovation           have ceased"?     Ancient Poetry herself
 would have lost her character, and ancient Oratory have been
  degraded for ever.
     Ia addition to the previous inquiries, that of the ancient modes
 must not pass unnoticed.          I^ittle however can be said respecting
 them, the necessary materials being irrecoverably lost.                      They
 appear    to  me   to have  been  somewhat     analogous      to  what    we  now
 term    the  different  keys, —  each   of which keys,     in   consequence of
 the manner of tuning the instrument, had its own fixed character,
 which character would have been destroyed by transposition into
 my Other key, No general temperament, therefore, could have
,.                                     X  3                              answered

 326          "  Whether Music     is necessary to the Orator  ?"
  answered the design, the soni mobiles, or moveable tones, re
  quiring a new manner of tuning upon every change of mode.
      In these changes, the 3ds, no doubt, must have had their in
  fluence, flattening the minors adding considerably to the plain
  tive, and sharpening the majors to the maddening effect of the
  composition.
     Such niceties could hardly have been discriminated, much less
  executed, during the grosser ages; in which, according to Bur-
  ney, the singing of a simple semitone in tune was almost insur
  mountable.      Hence, and hence alone followed what we moderns
  have been pleased to term " the reformation of the scale."
  ** Guido arose,"
                      say a number of musicians who never took the
  trouble of exploring antiquity: But what did this Guy Aretin
  achieve?     Little more than the improvement of lines (for even
  these were partially adopted before fiis day), and the total aban
  donment of tetrachords with all their delicate distinctions; sub
  stituting in their place, not the system of octaves, but the less
  comprehensive one of hexachords or Cths.
     As to harmony, or rather note against note, — for he had no
  idea of more extensive combination, — the accompanying tones
  of the 4th, 5th, and 8th were employed a long time before him :
  the Monk Hubald, who flourished in the tenth century (nearly
  one hundred years before Guido) , having left a sort of treatise on
  Music, which shows that not only the practice of limited coun
  terpoint prevailed at that period, but also that in addition to
 the 4th, 5th, and 8th, both 2ds and 3ds were occasionally ad
 mitted.
     Dr. Burney    has given us some particular accounts of Guido,
 Among     other  singularities, he forbade the use. of the 5th in har
 mony, although he frequently employed the 2d and 4th, as like
 wise the major and minor 3ds, which latter (the 3ds) had for            •
 some time been gaining ground.
     These, with the cultivation of lines and the abandonment of
 the tetrachords, as I have already mentioned, — together with the
 extension of the disdiapason to two octaves and a sixth, assign
 ing, as some suppose, the name of G, or Gamma, to the lowest
 note, from whence the term Gamut, — are the most notable mat
 ters recorded of this applauded monk.
     With respect to our time-lahle : even in the day of John de
 Muris, who lived in the fourteenth century, it contained but four
 or five characters, and was therefore very limited compared with
 that table which after-ages contributed to extend and improve,
t^or can any music be found of the preceding centuries, con
 sisting of more than two parts; and these in the strictest coun
 terpoint of note against note.
     Thus every thing was progressive, nor have we any reason to
                                                                  affirm

           Report  of the  Select Committee on Steam-Boats.       327
 affirm that any extraordinary genius arose to whom posterity has
 been singularly indebted.       Even barring itself was never prac
 tised, at least in England, before the reign of our Charles the
 First.
     Let us now finish our examination of ancient music, by in
 quiring into the more immediate causes of its destruction, as
 well as the ravages which almost obliterated its very traces.
     After the conversion of the emperors, it would appear that all
 the theatres and other public spectacles were discouraged ; and
 that nothing but the insipid psalmody of the primitive Christians
 could find its way into the churches and private dwellings. Thus
 vanished by degrees the Greek and Roman secular music; no
 private person being capable of executing the refined and diffi
 cult music of the theatre.      Add to this, the ultimate overthrow
 of both the Eastern and Western empires ; and, not to speak of
 Gothic ravages, the plundering and burning* of Rome in 1527
by the army of Charles V., by which the records of the pontifical
 chapel, with innumerable works of every description, were de
stroyed;- — and we shall by no means wonder at the paucity of
 musical documents which have reached our time.
                            [To be continued.]
 LIII.    Report  of the  Select Committee appointed to consider   of
    the Means of preventing the Mischief of Explosion from hap-       r
    pening on board Steam-Boats, to the Danger or Destruction
    of His Majesty's Subjects on board such Boats.
                         [Concluded from p. 256.]
                   Mr. Josias Jessop's      Evidence.
State     to the Committee what you are, and where you reside       ?
—I    am a civil engineer, residing in the Adelphi, London.
    Are you acquainted with steam-boats ? — I know the principle
of them ; I have been on board of them, and seen them.
    Our object being to inquire into the method of ensuring a
greater safety to the passengers         on board those steam-boats,
have you any thing to communicate to the Committee respect
ing that object ? — If that were the only object, there can be no
doubt that one of low pressure must be more secure than one of
high pressure ; for although they may be both easily made secure
originally, yet from the natural wear and tear, both are liable to
accidents.     If an accident happen to one of a high pressure, its
consequences certainly will be more dangerous than that of a
low pressure engine.
               * See Burney, who has quoted Andrea Adumi.
                                  X4                               Is

328                            Report   of the Select Committee
   Is it your ppinion that a high                  pressure boiler may be con-,
strutted so as to make it perfectly               secure ? — That is a theoretical
question to give an answer to; I should say yes, certainly; but
experience proves that both wear out,
   What would be the construction, and what the precautions;
you should recommend, in order to ensure that safety? — That it
should be able to withstand the proof of two or three times the^
pressure tq which you are likely to put      or rather the presr it,
sure to which you should be limited                        if,
                                         for instance, you meant
                                                       ;
to work    at fifty pounds pressure, and
               it                         stand the proof.of one
                                                            it
hundred- and-fifty pounds, the presumption         that       se           is,          it   is
cure; but in the course of two or three years all boilers wear
out.
  What     are the precautions that you would recommend to pre
 vent a boiler being used at       greater power than what
                                             a                     was                       it
 adapted for    —  By having an additional safety-valve,
                     ?                                        to which
 the person who works the engine should not have access.
     Isthere any other precaution that you would recommend —                                      ?   i
I  think that        were made of malleable metal, such as iron and
                      if  it
 copper,     would be an additional security.
               it
    What     the ground of your preference to malleable or wrought
                is
 metal —  ?     It
               does not burst                by
                                  an explosion, as brittle metal does,
 but tears     ;would probably rend at the joints.
                    it
    You do not mean then to say, that would he impossible that
                                                           it
 a malleable boiler would burst3 but that              improbable that
                                                                   it   is
it  would —    ?  wquld burst, but
                     It                 would not it       pieces; the     fly   in
 rent would create      natural safety-valve.
                                a
    Are you acquainted with the fact, that high pressure steam
 and water heated so as to raise that steam, do not scald in the
 same manner with water and steam at the heat of 212° — am                              ?    I
not acquainted with the fact but have no difficulty in helievi
                                             ;    I
ing that the steam will not scald, although          should think that I
 the water will.
    Do yo« think that       the safety-valves be properly adjusted to
                                    if
 the strength of the boiler, and so constructed as to work with
perfect ease, and one of them put out of the reach of the engine-
man, there       any occasion for the additional aid ef
                     is                                      mercurial            a
gauge   ?—    should
               I      think not.
    Have you any particular suggestions to make respecting the
construction of the boiler — The most convenient form of the
                                         ?
boiler is, that    should be adapted to the shape of the boat and
                          it                                                                 ;
I  should think, that that being taken for granted, the safety
would depend upon the strength of the metal, and not upon the
form.       should be made of such strength, that any indenture
           It
would not affect it.     Although the form approaching to aylin-
dricaj    is   of
            course  stronger than any other form., that which nearest
                                                                                      approaches,

                            on    Steam-Boais.                                 329
Rpproaches to a sphere is the strongest, but a cylinder with semi-
pircular ends is best ; I mean hemispherical ends.
   Is it not very possible to burst a low pressure engine, if the
engine-man is careless, or rash enough wholly to neglect his
steam-valve ? — Certainly ; I think that they are equally liable
to burst, only the one bursts with greater danger and risk than
the other.
              Mr, Alexander Nimmo's Evidence,
  What are    you ? —A civil engineer, and generally                   residing in
Dubiin.
   Have yon anv experience of the construction of steam-engines
for packets or passage vessels ? — I have seen the steam-vessels
in the Clyde, on the Thames, and vessels in Ireland, and those
vessels lately constructed for passage between Dublin and Holy
head ; and I have studied the subject with a good deal of care,
in a professional point of view. I have lately been employed by
the Dublin Steam Packet Company, to alter one of their vessels,
which was not found completely fitted for crossing the sea ; I
have altered that vessel, and she is now plying in the Bristol
Channel preparatory to going to Ireland.
   Have you, in consequence of your experience, any suggestions
to make as to the safe construction of the engine boiler con
nected with such packets ? — A great part of the alterations that
I made upon this vessel, were intended to fit her for going
through the waves, and to alter her machinery; and another
portion of them was likewise directed to make her safe as to the
engine.    You are aware that it is necessary for all engines of
that description to have safety-valves.     The defects of the safety-
valve which I altered, were, that it is not now in the power of
the engine-man to keep it shut ; it is in his power, or that of
any passenger, to open      it,
                              however, at all times so as to discover
whether  it  be in good order, by     small chain and
                                       a                 weight being
                                                                   a
within the boiler:it   isnot in his power to add to   while irraction:
                                                              it
and lastly, this vessel being intended to go to sea, and to work
as she has done, in very rough weather, the safety valve         made     is
equally effectual in evcrv position of the ship, whether she heel,
pitch, or roll. The weight preserves the valve           motion, so as
                                                               in
to keep  it   from sticking, and        has always the same effort to
                                       it
overcome.     I  will thus describe the nature of the valve              :   It   is
                                                                                  a
hemispherical cup with its convex surface downwards, resting
upon a   collar, and to the bottom of the cup         weight  a  hung     is
which has previously been adjusted          ;   by
                                              this means the valve                 is
always steam-tight in every position, yet without danger of ad
hering, and must be lifted        by
                                   the steam when     exceeds
                                                          it     given    a
pressure; but the valve may also be lifted           by
                                                    chain attached to
                                                          a

330                          Report of the Select Committee
  its upper side, which is inclosed within the iron case, and may be
  drawn by the engine-man or any person on board, and which
  does not allow him to keep it down or to confine it.         We have
  also found it necessary to prevent the accumulation of water
 upon the top of this valve, arising from the condensed steam
  when escaping ; this is done by a small waste-pipe descending
 from the bottom of the pipe which conveys away the waste
 steam ; it is a waste-pipe for water.       I have thought it advisa
 ble to make the steam-valves large, and that the weight which
 is laid on being of itself large may admit easily of addition.        I
 have one or two more precautions to suggest for safety: In this
 vessel there are two boilers communicating,          and two safety-
 valves ; there is also a mercurial gauge provided with receivers,
 so as to prevent the loss of the mercury in case of any sudden
 collapsation or disengagement of steam, also a tube of glass at
 tached to the boiler, which exhibits the level of the water in the
 boiler, and precludes any idea of danger in the minds of the
 passengers ; these boilers are made of wrought iron, but I do
 not consider them as being better on that account.
     Do you think equal mischief is likely to arise from the explo
 sion of the wrought-iron boiler, as from the explosion of the
 cast-iron boiler ? — That depends upon construction.
     Put construction entirely out of the question ; suppose the
form exactly similar, do you conceive that equal mischief is
likely to attend the explosion of the wrought-iron boiler, as the
cast-iron boiler ? — If the construction of the cast-iron boiler ad
mits of its being made of wrought iron with equal strength, then
the explosion of the cast iron one would be more dangerous, as
 it will      fly
             in pieces, whereas the other would probably tear but           ;
it   isscarcely fair to stop at this hypothetical case, as we must
consider what can be done in practice.               It
                                                      scarcely possible
                                                          is
to form east iron every where equally strong, and              part be
                                                                   if   a
weaker than the rest, either on purpose or          accident, that will
                                                         by
not have the safety that would be obtained               wrought-iron
                                                              by
                                                              a
boiler    :for instance, in cast-iron boilers        common to have
                                                    it   is
holes, and       these be filled with some metal of different melting
                    if
temperature     from   cast-iron, more fusible for instance than that,
the juncture     will  part first, and    may be made to tear as
                                             it
                                                                                is a
wrought-iron boiler would do and again, the wrought iron
                                         ;
so much more liable to oxidation' than cast iron, that although
found very efficient at first, its strength and tenacity may be very
speedily altered       for these reasons cast-iron boilers have been
                         ;
preferred    where    high pressure engines have been used and in       ,
small tubes    the  tenacity of cast iron can be made greatly to ex-i
ceed that    wjiich   can be given to wrought iron in the same form.
I   believe all large boilers have latterly been made of wrought

                                on Steam-Boats.                           331
iron, as it is difficult to make them of cast iron.    Although no
friend to high pressure engines in vessels, nor to cast-iron boilers,
on account of the danger of explosion, yet I conceive the chief
danger of that kind is likely to arise from working low pressure
boilers at a higher pressure than they were intended for ; and I
conceive that the principal improvement to be looked for here
after in steam vessels,        is,
                             to simplify the machinery, and put               it
in less room, which the high pressure engine and cast-iron boiler
afford us the means of effecting, and the other does not.         willI
state another thing as of consequence, viz. as to preventing a
vessel taking fire    ;   itadvisable that the furnace and flues,
                               is                                             if
not entirely above the deck, should at least be inclosed in a case
of water or other non-inflammable matter, until they arrive above
the deck. This precaution       strongly recommend to be adopted.
                                     I
                 Mr. Arthur Woolf's Evidence.
        are you — am
     What         ?   I     civil-engineer
                                     a       the village of Pool,
                                                  in
inthe parish of Illogan, in the county of Cornwall.
  Are you conversant at all with steam packets — No       ? never I
                                                                  ;
had any thing to do with steam packets; they are out of my
line.
     You have been long acquainted with steam-engines-? — Yes.
     You invented the one that     goes     your name — Yes
                                           by                 ?   got ;   I
a  patent  for that  steam-engine.
    Have you any thing to communicate to this Committee, as to
the object upon which we are met, which is, the safety of steam-
engines and boilers on board steam - packets — With the boilers
                                                      ?
I  have been in the habit of using for fourteen years, we never
have had any accident at all.
    Of what are they constructed ?— Of cast iron.
    Are your boilers      general made of wrought or cast iron —
                          in                                              ?
Of   cast iron wholly ;   I  approve of the cast-iron boilers in pre
ference to any mixture of metals.
    Do you consider that the cast-iron boiler, upon the common
construction,    is   equally safe with   a wrought-iron one — Not    ?
upon the common construction that have se"en
                                          I            some
                                                          ;    should
                                                                  I
have doubted very much             have seen some that are rather
                                     I
                                     ;
dangerous   ;   my patent consists of one composed of a number of
tubes.
    What    isthe difference between your construction of the boiler
and the common construction, which, in your opinion, renders
yours so much safer than the other —       ?    Italways necessarv
                                                     is                       in
boilers to have a certain quantity of surface exposed to the "ac
tion of the fire, to contain heat and steam and   ;     that be done
                                                          if
jn  one vessel, of course      must be. of considerable size, greater
                               it
                                                                              in

332                        Report    of the    Select Committee
in diameter than if composed of a number of tubes ; and the
risk of explosion is in proportion .to its quantity of surface.
   Dp you mean to say that, generally ? — With the same pres
sure, certainly.
   Would your boiler be as well adapted for a steam-boat, as
those generally made? — Yes, they are calculated for every pur
pose ; they are generally adapted to high pressure steam ; my
patent was taken out for a safe boiler for a high pressure en
gine ; indeed, in my own engines, I do not work the steam to
that height as is done in what is called the high pressure engine,
as the novelty of my engine             is,
                                    that work the steam twice over.
                                                 I
   What precautions do you take to prevent accidents ?—                            I   al
ways make my boiler to stand from 14 to 20 times the pressure
that ever make use of.
      I
   What precaution do you make use of, to prevent                   greater    a
pressure — The safety-valve
              ?                      what we depend upon
                                          is                         always;   I
apply two safety-valves, as        have seen incidents where the valve
                                      I
has accidentally stuck fast and would not act; and           have safety t-
                                                                       I       a
valve, of a particular construction, that never can stick fast.
    Do you use mercurial gauges — Never for     ?          safety-valve
                                                                   a               ;   I
never found       necessary
                   it         to  have one,  not  for  an  escape.
    Have you any other precautions besides those you have men
tioned — Not any, but as to trying boilers to see that they are
          ?
strong enough       that
                       ;     the point that
                                is                 recommended in my
                                                         I
specification, that they should be proved                    by
                                                      pressure every time
the boiler       emptied for cleansing
                  is                          then to fill up the boiler
                                                     ;
with cold water quite full, and put an extra load of five or ten
times the power of steam            and then,
                                        ;                    by
                                                      a forcing-pump, to
syringe water i:i till       lifts the valves
                                it                then there can be np
                                                         ;
danger, there can be no explosion.
   Suppose      cast-iron boiler, and
                  a                       wrought-iron boiler of about
                                                 a
the same form and capacity, to be exploded                the force of the
                                                                  by
internal steam, do you think that the mischief likely to be pro
duced     byeach of those, would be equal           taking any form you
                                                         ?
please, and exploding both, which would do the most mischief?
i^—l do not think the wrought-iron boiler would separate into so
niauy pieces as the cast-iron boiler.
   Then do you think that the explosion of the wrought-iron
boiler     attended with as much danger as the cast-iron boiler
          is                                                                            ?
—In every thing, excepting what depends upon the fragments
of the iron itself;      have no hesitation in saying, that east-iron
                            I
boilers are safer than wrought-iron boilers.
   Why — Because we can make them of
          ?                                              greater strength
                                                              a                         ;
you  cannot   make      wrought-iron
                           a           boiler  so strong   as    cast one. a
   For high pressure you may have a boiler of cast iron, stronger
                                                                                   than.

                                     on Steam-Boats.           333
than you can of wrought iron ? — I can make it stronger and
more to be depended on for great pressure ; but where great
pressure is not wanted, wrought iron can be made sufficiently
strong to depend on.
   Supposing an accident happened, would not a wrought-iron
boiler be attended with as great mischief as a cast-iron one ?— •
As great a number of accidents happen from the common boilers
or wrought-iron boilers, as from the cast oues. .
                       Mr. Andrew Vivian's Evidence.
  What        is   your profession ? — Miner and engineer.
   Where do you reside ? — At Cambourne, in Cornwall.
   Have you been long acquainted with the construction of steam-
engines? — For thirty years and upwards.
   You are then capable of giving an opinion as to those circum
stances by which danger is occasioned in the working them, and
the means of preventing it ? — I am. ,
   Be pleased to state them ? — The danger arises from making
the steam-vessel of insufficient strength for the steam ; every        •
engineer ought to be well acquainted with the power of the steam,
and make the steam- vessels in proportion to the strength of the
steam required.
   What precautions do you use to prevent explosion ? — Safety-
valves ; not less than two on every boiler where a high pressure
of steam is required, and that the boilers be made of sufficient
strength, and proved before used.
   To what proof are those boilers subjected, or to what proof
ought they to be subjected ? — By filling them with water, and
loading the safety-valves with, perhaps, ten times the weight
required for the engine, and then by injecting water into them,
so as to lift those valves with ten times the weight required.
   When you say ten times, do you mean exactly ten times ?—
Perhaps, ten or twelve times the weight it is intended to work.
   You conceive that a boiler which has been so proved and fur-            '
nished with safety-valves, properly adjusted to its contents, to be
perfectly safe in working with steam, whether high or low pres
sure ? — Yes, I do.
   Is there any difficulty in so adjusting the apertures or valves ;
that    is,
         in calculating of what size ^he valves ought to be, to pro
duce safety in     boiler of any given magnitude — No, no diffi
                        a                                  ?
culty at all       ; a plain and well-known thing to all engineers,
                       it   is
or to every one who ought to pretend to be an engineer.
   Is", usual to work
        it                 high pressure engine at all near to that
                                 a
point to which the valves are thus adjusted — We load the en
                                                       ?
gines in the mines under my directions, to about forty pounds
an inch  ; and the valves are then loaded to about forty-five, per
haps.                                                           But

334                Report of the  Select Committee
   But those valves are capable of being loaded up to the full ex
tent to which the engine has been proved ? — Yes.
   Is it not easy and common so to construct one of the safety-
valves, of which you have spoken, as that the engine-man shall
not be able to load it beyond the pressure intended ? — One may
be locked up, and very easily kept from the engine-man.
   When that one is so locked up and kept from the engine-man,
is it possible, according to the common calculation of events,
that the boiler should then explode if the valve works freely ? —
I do not conceive it possible that it could.
    I9 it not easy so to construct the valve as that its operation
shall not be hindered by any accident, such as adhering to the
sides or clogging from fouling, or any thing of that sort ? — Very
easily constructed, so as not to be liable to those accidents.
    Do you then see any reason ,why, in any situation whatever,
the use of an engine should be limited to the low pressure, or
that which is usually called the condensing engine ? — By no
means in the world.
    Do you conceive that there is any difference in the liability to
explode, between the boilers constructed of wrought and of cast
iron ? — I should cbnceive that cast iron could be made much
stronger than wrought iron, with less difficulty; I conceive it to
be a very difficult thing to make a wrought-iron boiler so strong
as we can have it cast : we have some of our boilers made two
inches thick ; and to make a wrought-iron boiler equally strong
as that, would be very difficult to be accomplished by workmen.
   Supposing a cast iron and a wrought iron to be of the same
form, and each of them to be exploded by too great an internal
force being applied, which of the two do you think is likely to
produce the greatest mischief in the explosion ? — Certainly, a
cast-iron boiler is likely to separate into more parts than a
wrought may be, and is likely to do more mischief.
    What accidents have happened to steam-boilers within your
own knowledge, working either with low or high pressure steam ?
— I have known of no accident with high pressure steam and
cast-iron boilers ; but I have known an accident happen work
ing with Boulton and Watt's low pressure engine, which was on
the 28th of November 181 1, in Wheal Abraham mine; a wrought-
iron boiler working with low pressure steam exploded there and
scalded six men, three of whom died in the course of a week
afterwards.
    Were any persons at that time killed by the fragments of the
iron ? — No ; it was entirely by the steam and the water. ..
    Do you recollect any instance in which a wrought-iron boiler
exploded, so as that any persons were killed by the fragments ?
— I do not.
                                                                 Do

                         on Steam-Boats.
    Do you at all know, whether there is any difference between
the power of the steam or water to scald, when under high or
low pressure ? — The steam from low pressure scalds much worse
than the steam from high pressure ; as to the water, I cannot
say.    I cannot conceive that water can issue to any great di
stance from a high pressure boiler, it must soon be steam ; it
must be converted into steam from its heat ; water cannot go
beyond 212 degrees of heat, unless it is confined; beyond that
it must be steam.
    Have you ever known any person scalded by the steam or the
water issuing from a high pressure boiler ? — No.
    Have you ever known any instances of persons being scalded
by the steam or water from a low pressure one, besides that
which you have mentioned ? — I have heard of a great number
of instances of this in different mines, but only that one came
directly under my own eye.
    You have given the Committee to understand, that when
boilers made of wrought iron are exposed to steam of high pres
 sure there is great difficulty in making them sufficiently strong,
 for that the rivets are apt to draw, and the joints to become
 loose ; do you not conceive it very possible for the boilers in such
 cases to become useless by permitting the steam to escape, and
ytt not to explode so as to produce any fatal accident whatever?
— I am quite of opinion, that boilers made of wrought iron for
high pressure engines will soon become leaky, and may not ex
plode.     I have known of an instance of a boiler of that descrip
tion made for Herland mine, and it soon became leaky, and un
fit for use in a very short timej the consequence of which            is,
the mine  is   knocked up, and    a  great number of people out of
employ.
    But no accident happened      in consequence of this,  by  which
any person was injured   ?  —  No.
    Supposing the only object to be safety to the lives or limbs of
the persons who should be surrounding the engine, would you in
that case prefer having the boiler of a high pressure engine of
wrought or of cast iron — would have cast iron, because
                         ?   I                                  itcan
certainly   be made  stronger   than  wrought iron for the  same  ex
pense.
   Do yon take- into that calculation the difference of the mis-
ehief which might be occasioned, supposing the boiler           by
                                                              any
accident to explode — consider that risk
                     ?   I                     so small as that
                                              is                      it
scarcely need be taken into the question, because all explosions
may be easily prevented      by
                            proving the boiler every time        it   is
cjeansed, which I think should be at least every month.
   Isthe operation of proving the boiler so easy as that    it
                                                             may
be performed on board    a steam-boat every month without ex
                                                                pense

336      Report   of the Seleet Committee on Steam-Boats.
pense or inconvenience      ?— Certainly ; it consists, as I have said
before, only   in  filling the  boiler with cold water, nutting great
additional weight upon      the safety-valves, and then injecting wa
ter by a forcing pump till the valve is lifted with the additional
 weight.
    Is it then your opinion, that every steam-engine ought to be
provided with those means of proving the broiler, and that they
ought to be applied as often as you have mentioned ? — Yes, they
should ; the very pump by which the boiler is supplied with wa
 ter may be used conveniently and sufficiently for this purpose ;
high pressure boilers are all fed in the common way by forcing*
pumps, and there is no difficulty in applying it to the low pres
sure boilers.
    Have you found the use of a high pressure engine of any ad
vantage to the Cornish mines ? — Of very great advantage, which
 can be proved by looking at the monthly reports, which I am
fully convinced are correct.
    Do you conceive that a low pressure engine can be reckoned
entirely safe, unless furnished with the safety-valves, such as be
fore described, and to one of which at least the engine-man has
no access ? — I conceive that every engine ought to have those
valves ; and one should be locked up to prevent careless engine-
men doing mischief, which low pressure engines are as liable to
as high.
    Have you any means of estimating the comparative -consump
tion of coals  by either high or low pressure engines?
                                                           — Yes.
    Be so good as to state your opinion upon that point ? — I con
ceive that a high pressure engine does greater duty with the
same coals than a low, which will also be proved by the monthly
reports.
    Have you any further information on this subject, which you
wish to communicate to the Committee? —- Being desired to
attend here on the part of the proprietors of three of the largest
mines in Cornwall, the united mines of Crowan, Dolcoath and
Wheal Unity, I wish to state their hope, that the Legislature wiU
not interfere to prevent the use of high pressure engines, either
on board boats or in any other way.
   You have not been used to steam-engines on board boats, but
in mines chiefly ? — Chiefly in mines. 1 have seen them on board
boats.
    Do your answers apply equally to steam-engines on board
boats as in mines, or may not more caution be necessary in boats
than in mines ? — I conceive the answers to be applicable to
boats as well as to mines.
                                                             LIV. On

                                 t   337      ]
 lAV. On extracting Alcohol from                  Potatoes,   and preparing
                       Potash from Potatoe-tops*.
The    simple process described in the following communication
deserves to be made very generally known, as a source of consi
derable emolument to the growers of potatoes.
              On extracting Alcohol           from Potatoes.
  A French lady, [the Countess           de   N***,
                                              whom political event*
compelled to change her chateau on the banks of the Saone for
a cottage eight leagues from Vienna, has established, on the
small farm she occupies, a distillation of brandy from potatoes,
which she has found to be very lucrative.     The brandy of twenty
degrees  of Reaumur    is very pure, and has neither taste nor smell
different from that produced by the distillation of grapes.     The
method she employs is very simple, and within every person's
reach.
    Take 100 pounds of potatoes well washed, dress them by
steam, and let them be bruised to powder with a roller, &c.       In
the mean time take four pounds of ground malt, steep it in
lukewarm water, aud then pour into the fermenting back, and
pour on it twelve quarts of boiling water ; this water is stirred
about, and the bruised potatoes thrown in, and well stirred about
with wooden rakes, till every part of the potatoes is Well satu
 rated with the liquor.
    Immediately six or eight ounces of yeast is to be mixed with
twenty-eight gallons of water, of a proper warmth to make the
 whole mass of the temperature of from twelve to fifteen degrees
 of Reaumur ; — there is to be added half-a-pint to a pint of good
brandy.
  •The fermenting back must be placed in a room, to be kept by
means of a stove at a temperature of fifteen to eighteen degrees
of Reaumur.     The mixture must be left to remain at rest.
   The back must be large enough to suffer the mass to rise seven
or eight inches, without running over.                If,
                                               notwithstanding this
precaution,  itdoes so,    little must he taken out, and returned
                             a
when   itfallsa little the back
                         :           then covered again, and the
                                         is
fermentation       suffered to finish without touching
                  is                                        — which it
takes place generally in five or six days.    This     known   isits     by
being perceived that the liquor      quite clear, and the potatoes
                                         is
fallen to the bottom of the back.       The fluid     decanted, and
                                                              is
the potatoes pressed dry.
  *    Fromthe Monthly Magazine for October 1,1817. Communicated by
 Mr.   B. Jones of Bath. — The additional experiments appeared in the
 Dublin Journal of the 25th of October, and were probably undertaken tra
 yerify those of the French chemist.     ,
    Vol.50.No.235.2Voi/.         1817.                   Y                Th«

338          On extracting Alcohol from Potatoes, and
    The distillation is by vapour, with a wooden or copper stvlf
on the plan of Count Runiford.           The product of the first distil-'
lation  is low  wines.
    When the fermentation has been favourable, from every TOO
pounds of potatoes, six quarts and upwards of good brandy, of
twenty degrees of the areometer, are obtained ; which, put into
new casks, and afterwards browned with burnt sugar, like the
French brandies, is not to be distinguished from them.
  . The Countess de N. has dressed          and distilled per diem 1000
pounds of potatoes      at  twice,   which gives sixty to seventy quarts
of good brandy.        We may judge from this essay what would be
the advantages of such an operation,, if carried on on a grand
scale, and throughout the year. -
    The residue of the distillation is used as food for the stock of.
her farm ; which consists of thirty-four horned cattle, sixty pigs,
and sixty sheep 1 they all are excessively fond of it when mixed
with water, and the cows yield abundance of milk. The sheep
use about five quarts per diem each ; viz. one-half in the- morn
ing, and one-half at night.          The malt must be fresh-ground v
the Countess has it ground every week.
      On the Means      of extracting Potash from Potatoe-tops.      ,
    One of the most important discoveries of the present day »
 that of a druggist of Amiens, by which Europe will be freed from
the heavy tribute she pays to America for the article of potash.
The author of this discovery has, in a truly patriotic manner,
 made known his discovery — after ascertaining, by a series of ex
 periments, the truth of his conclusions.        The French Society of
Agriculture, and the Society for Encouragement of National In
dustry, have both named commissioners to frame .official reports:
 in the mean time, we feel it important to give an account of the
 process, in the hope that, even in the present season, it may be
 turned to account — as it interests landlords, tenants, merchants
 and manufacturers.
    It is necessary to cut off the potatoe-tops the moment that
the flowers begin to fall, as that is the period of their greatest
vigour; they must be cut off at four or five inches from the
ground, with a very sharp knife. Fresh sprouts spring, which
 not only answer all the purposes of conducting the roots to ma
 turity, but tend to an increase of their volume, as they (the
 sprouts) demand less nourishment than the old top.             The tops
 may   be  suffered  to remain    on the ground  where   cut; in eight or
 ten days they    are  sufficiently dry without turning, and may be
 carted, either home or to a corner of the field, where a hole is
 to be dug in the earth, about five feet square and two feet deep
 (the combustion would be too rapid, and the ashes cool too

            •
                preparing Polask from Potaloe-tops;                       339
quick, and thereby diminish the quantity of alkali, were they
burnt in the open air).  The ashes must be kept red-hot as long
as possible : when the fire is strong, tops that are only imper
fectly dried may be thrown in, and even green ones will then
burn well enough.
   The ashes extracted from the hole must be put in a vessel, and
boiling water be poured upon          as then the water must be eva
                                       it,
porated :  for these two  operations potatoe-tops mav be used alone
as firing in the furnace, and the ashes collected.      There remains
after the evaporation    a  dry saline reddish substance, known in
commerce, under the name of salin; the more the ashes are
boiled, the grayer and more valuable the salin becomes.
   The salin must then be calcined in         very hot oven, until the
                                                 a
whole mass presents an uniform reddish brown. In cooling           re   it
mains dry, and in fragments — blueish within, and white on the
surface;   in which state     takes the name of potass.
                              it
   The ashes, exhausted of their alkaline principle, afford excel
lent manure for laud intended to be planted with potatoes.
   The following    is
                    a   table of the results obtained in France:
An acre planted with potatoes, at one foot distance,
   gives plants                                            40,000
                                             •
                                             •
These 40,000 plants yield, on an average, three
   pounds per plant at least, or of green tops        .. 120,000 lbs.
On drying they are reduced to                              40,000 lbs.
This quantity produces of ashes                                     7,500 lbs.
The evaporation gives of ashes exhausted of alkali                  5,000 lbs.
Salin                                                               2,500 lbs.
The salin loses ten to fifteen per cent- in calcination,
  which gives of potash        .   .                       2,200 lbs.
   All these estimates are taken at    the  lowest        which
                                                           ;   by        it   is
evident that upwards of 2000 pounds of potash may be obtained,
in addition to an increased crop, from every acre of potatoes,
or a  value far exceeding that of the crop itself.        Farmers of
course will next year turn this discovery to the best account, in
planting those potatoes which yield the greatest quantity of tops.
The expenses of preparing the potash, as above described, in
cluding every thing,    about six guineas per acre.
                        is
       I   cannot conclude these articles without inviting the cul
tivators of England and Ireland to instantly seize the immense
advantages afforded      the two discoveries here announced. The
                         by
former will free us from our tribute to France for brandies               ;   a
commerce which the Emperor Napoleon turned to such good ac
count during the war — insisting on British vessels, which carried
over staple commodities to France, to return with cargoes of
wine and brandy; and the latter will,             trusted, free com
                                                 it   is
merce;   and our  dvers   in
                           particular,  of the necessity of applying
                                       Y2                          to

340              On extracting Alcohol from Potatoes,              &c;
to Russia and America for potash, of which our consumption is im
mense.         I will, in •an early number, give the French methods of
making the best brandies, which I collected in the same capital.
                             Additional Experiments.
     About the 20th of last September, Mr. Rice, of Trinity Col
lege, cut down a quantity of the stalks of the apple potatoe, which
being carefully dried and burnt, and the ashes lixiviated, eva
porated, and (in part) analysed, gave results from which he con
cludes that 1000 parts of green stalk yield of stalk sufficiently
dry for burning, 102.87894, producing 7.96088 ashes, affording
3.90313 saline products.
     The produce of salt, per Irish acre, planted lazy-bed method,
about 245 pounds troy (201 pounds 8 ounces avoir.) .
      He obtained from 100 parts dried stalk, by incineration,
3.905130 ashes—
                              C 47.327 insoluble and earthy matter.
     From 100 ashes, < 3.619 carbonaceous matter.
                              1.49.054 soluble in water.
                               100.000.
      From the soluble part, concentrated in an iron, and evaporated
to dryness in a silver dish, in 100 parts —
                8.078 potash.
                                                 '
              66.437 muriate of potash.
              10.807 sulphate of potash.
                6.400 carbonic acid.
                4.900 water.
                3.000 earthy and metallic carbonates and silica.
              991522
Together with a small quantity of alumina, and a minute portion
of iron, the exact weights of which are not yet ascertained. The
potash is of a dark-gray tint, its solution very much coloured by
extractive, and exhibiting traces of manganese..
     To enable our readers to form a judgement of the relative pro
duce of potatoe- stalks, we lay before them an estimate of the
produce of a few trees and vegetables, calculated by those whose
names are annexed :
                                                             Saline
         Botanic Names.            Engl. Names.     Ashes.            Authorities.
                                                           Products
 tj    Salix cinerea - - -          Sallow   -      28.00       3.85
                                                                         Acad.Sci.
  ~    Pinus sylvestris - -         Fir              3 40      0 40    |
    |
 5=    Sonchus arvensis            Sow Thistle     105.00     19.66  Pertuis.
       Fumaria officinalis     -    Fumitory -     219.00    79.00   Wie^tel.
 X\    Artemisia Absinthium        Wormwood         97.40    73.00    Ditto.
     J
       Urtica dioica - - -         Nettle    r     106.70    25.00   Pertuis.
                          -    -   Heath       \
 °, 1 Erica vulgaris                                         11-50   Wildenhein.
                                    100 Ashes S
 *"
    l^Pteris aquilina
                           -  -          '
                                   Fern - -         50.00      6.20  Pertuis.
                                   Ditto - -        36.40      4.20  Home.

                   On the Physiology      of Vegetables.           341
   Not having the weight of green stalk subjoined, is a great im
pediment to calculations, as to the quantity likely to be produced
from a certain portion of land. However, the succulent plants, as
fumitory, generally lose by drying 8-10ths or 9-10ths of their
original weight; it is probable, therefore, that 1000 parts green
fumitory produce about 15.8 salt; 1000 parts green fern pro
duce about 14.33 ashes, or salts 1 .65.
    LV. On the Physiology of Vegetables.           By Mrs. Ibbetsun.
;                           To    Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,   -M
gome time
             y general task on the dissection of plants has been for
                                             I feel of showing how
          suspended by the extreme desire
highly serviceable this sort of knowledge may become to gar
 dening and farming.        My usual communications, showing the
 nature and form of vegetables in general, have therefore been
 suspended while I was writing and publishing a pamphlet on
 some of the most important points of agriculture; which are as
 suredly taught and enforced by phytology far beyond even my first
 expectations ; since there is scarcely a single dissection of plants
that may not be said to teach a lesson respecting their manage
 ment, to enforce a precept most salutary to farming in general.
    But I now return to that matter of which I am daily and
hourly receiving stronger conviction. — I have shown in the most
plain and perspicuous manner in my power, that what has been
-taken for the perspiration of plants      is,on the contrary, matter
drawn from the atmosphere and communicated to the vegetable            ;
that perspiration      as unnecessary as impossible to a cold-blooded
                       is
being like   a plant, since it    shown to be perfectly incompatible
                                 is
to the formation of even          a  cold-blooded animal   ;  that the
figures  taken  for  perspiration  are so  completely unlike   abubble
 of water, that no person seeing them could possibly deny that         a.
gross error must have arisen in the science to acquire for such
appearances such an appellation, since no one could expect to
find perspiration fixed on   a    pedestal, which all these apparent
bubbles are.       Ihave also shown that though to give out water
from the plant no sort of mechanism          isnecessary, yet to draw
it in from  the   atmosphere, and arrange          in the plant, great
                                                  it
contrivances are required, besides a powerful vacuum, valves,
&c. &c. and this at once accounts for the mechanic power of;
         :
the hairs, and the wonderful variety of the figures and appear
ance of these instruments.       1 have before shown that plants can
be fed only in two ways ;—rhy means of nutriment from the at
mosphere, and from the earth          and that in whatever situation
                                      ;
the plant    is,
               whether at the commencement of its formation, or
 •
                                  Y                         conclusion,
'
                                      3

  342                On the Physiology  of Vegetables;
  conclusion, this nutriment is so bestowed as to be yielded'to it in
  so visible and evident a manner, as always (if the vegetable be
  laid open) to be apparent to the eye, and clearly and easily un
  derstood by the mind, by the help of a small half-guinea mag
  nifier : — whether it is the bud, the flower, or the seed, they are all
  nourished nearly in the same manner, but at different limes;
  and the whole process to be traced by the eye, and when it is
  the nourishment of the earth, to be followed from the root up
  wards — if the dissector will take the trouble to investigate it :
  but in the seed-vessel it is peculiarly so. I have shown how the
  little heart of the seed is formed in the radicle, and carried from
  the root up the alburnum in the stem, and from thence to the
   seed-vessel at the bottom of the bud. (See fig. 1, Plate V.)         I
   shall now explain in how curious a manner part of the seed is
   filled up by the atmosphere, and afterwards- by the earth. — This
   is exemplified in no plants in a better or plainer manner than
   in the wheat and gourd. The nutriment is first bestowed by the
   atmosphere : the mechanism is then so wonderful and so beau
   tiful, that the dullest being would be struck with admiration and'
   astonishment, if viewing the graceful feather that performs the
   operation. (See fig. 2. Plate V.)    After fructifying the plant and
   partly filling the heart, the juices of the atmosphere fill up the
   bag of the seed more than one-third, before the vessels that run
   up from the, root open their mouths to bestow their quota of
   nourishment which is collecting in the pith for the purpose ;
   —But all this the print will best explain'
       As soon as the males or stamens appear hanging out of the
   scales, the wheat must be taken : it will then be found that the
    heart of the seed (fig. 2. a, a), has just entered the bag of the
   seed, which is then (except the eorculum) empty, or inflated
   with air only. As soon as the heart (a a) is fastened at the top
   of the bag, all the beautiful mechanism appears from which the
   nutriment of the atmosphere will arise : at that time the pollen
-
   spreads all over the feather of the stigma, dissolves when mixed
   with the sweet juice it there encounters, and runs down the feather
   for the impregnation of the seed : — it may be seen at fig. 4, of
   what regular pitchers the feather is composed, for its reception.
   As soon as the impregnation of the heart of the seed is com
  pleted, then the feather cleanses itself from the pollen, and the
   pitchers which had before beenso filled with the sweet juices of the
   liue of life, as not to admit the moisture continually falling from
   the heavens all around it; but the sweet juice now disappearing,
   and the pitchers being empty, open again to receive the juices
   of the atmosphere, and the bag of the seed begins visibly to fill.
   But it is not the feather alone which conveys nourishment from
   the atmosphere; the quantity of hairs which surround the grain

                              On ike Physiology        of      Vegetalles.            343
        of wheat,      and are in such numbers as completely to conceal and
           cover it (see fig. 2. II), pour in their nutriment at the bottom
           of the bag (c c) ; but it equally rises to replenish the seed : — the
           entrance of the two juices       is,   however, easily distinguished)
          they are both liquids, though .that which proceeds from the
.Ml       feather  is  infinitely thicker and richer than the other, which ap-
          pears like water, though with much gas in it. As soon as
      -* the feather and
                               hairs have completed their absorption, and that
          the whole has entered the bag of the seed, the apparatus dies
          away by   degrees; and all that graceful sparkling feather, with its
          attendant hairs 07a each seed     of  the whtat, all vanish, or leave
          such a    trifling vestige as to show that         is- no longer of use.
                                                               it
          The whole appearance of the plant becomes altered within, from
        a    number of vessels which almost fill up the interior; sometimes
          there are as many as eight they run up to the flower-stem within
                                      ;
          the pith, and the stem of course swells and enlarges to begin the
         next process, which    is   the yielding the nutriment from the earth,
          (See fig.  2. d,d,d.)
                              I     would not give two figures of the wheat. To
          show therefore this part of the process,          have taken the gourd,
                                                               I
         because   it  makes the filling up of »he bag of the seed still plainer
         than it   could have been in the wheat: — this plant having many
          seeds in   one seed-vessel,  it     more easily shows the nutriment
         flowing up the pith into each bag from the root, and entering
         the seed-vessel. See fig. 3. e,e,e,          aspecimen of the gourd cut
         horizontally, and showing the various seed-vessels already half-
         filledby   the atmosphere, and beginning to take in their nourish
         ment from the earth.         The whole process         exactly the same as
                                                                   is
        in the wheat; only that the vessels, which were six in number,
         and which poured in the nutriment from the atmosphere into the
        seed-vessel, have all disappeared, and the pistil has, dried off too
         much to send any more juices to the part            for the gourd equally
                                                               ;
         took in the atmospheric juices from the stigma and the watery
         nutriment from the hairs that for the time surrounded the seed-
         vessel.    The vessels
        powdered nutriment
                                ff
                                is
                                        contain the heart of the seeds, and the
                                      plainly shown at g, g,g, to pour into the
        bottom of the seed-bag, to which they are fastened, and after
         wards detach themselves when complete.               have laid them open
                                                                I
         merely   to  show    the  powder flowing     in—  this
                                                           :     nutriment may be
         traced running up from the root in any part of the stem adjoining
         the pith, provided the exact time nf its flowing            taken, and the
                                                                             is
        stoppage only takes place when the seeds are quite full                then
                                                                                  ;
        the vessels quickly disappear, and form n»w matter.                No mis
         take can be greater than to suppose the plant             always the same
                                                                        is
        iu   the interior but the changes
                          ;                     are so  quick   and immediate that
        they must be watched for, to be discovered.
             The cutting the specimens thus lays open all the vessels, and
                                            V     A    -
                                                                                      nl

                 On the Physiology of Vegetables.
of course explains the different process to which they are subject.
When the powder       is mixed  with the liquid in the wheat seed,
they soon form a species of thick milk, which as it hardens be
comes flour ; this flour may be traced from the root upwards, in
all the vessels formed for its reception in the pith which it sur-
Tounds; indeed it often almost engrosses the hollow stem for five
or six weeks preceding the cutting of the corn.
    Thus then the manner of receiving the nutriment from the
 atmosphere is totally different from that of receiving it from the
 earth ;— -it is impossible to mistake them. It is also equally un-
Jikely to take the nutriment bestowed by the earth (which is an
 extremely fine powder) for the hearts of the seeds, which are re
 gular balls.     I have shown that a a are the hearts of the seeds
 in the gourds. But there is never but one corculum to each
 seed ; and yet the amazing number of hearts are (like the seeds)
  scarcely to be reckoned ; Nature's astonishing prolific powers in
                                           '
  all these respects are quite wonderful. But one circumstance (a3
  much as any thing I have before mentioned) proves that it is the
  heart of the seed which is formed in the radicle which enters
  the seed-vessel, since(though it enters singly) it has still that string
  accompanying it with which it is always found ; and which soon
  runs up the pistil, and forms, by enlarging the very vessel which
  conveys the juice from the stigma to impregnate the seeds, and
  which never enters but a single heart to each seed : and though
 I   have dissected many thousands, I have never yet found two
  corculums : though several will come to the edges of the stalk
  (fig. 3. h, h, h) yet it is only in case the heart has died away,
  which often happens, that there may be another ready to suc
  ceed. As soon" as the case of the seed begins to form, all the re
  maining hearts agglutinate and thicken ; and, by degrees forming
  a mass, complete the outside of the seed.         They are therefore
  of use; there is no loss : and though Nature is so prolific, yet
  not a single ingredient is wasted. The over-abundance of seeds,
  if completed, have each their order of insects they were intended
   to nourish, or for which they were disposed as nests; and the
   hearts of the seeds    (if  superabundant) contribute to form the
   exterior of the seed. Attention to usefulness       ispeculiarly seen
"
   in the chesnut      there are always six seeds formed in every case,
   when first the flower appears; but there are never hardly more
   than two together, when the seeds are completed          j   when the
   seed-vessel has received the hearts intended for each seed,         it
   begins to take in the nutriment from the atmosphere; but soon
 it   isfound to select two only, and the others     by degrees pass off
   or conglutinate into the mass which surrounds            it, while the
   powder   from  the root  enters afterwards  and serves to fill up and
   nourish the two best seeds..    But no different sort of matter can

                        On the Physiology    of Vegetables.               345
form the important ingredients         that come from the root.         The
heart must always proceed from the radicle, and be formed there,
and running up the alburnum into the seed-vessels, but doing so
it is subject to get bruised and injured : therefore, when it is so,
another immediately supplies its place before it is fructified, but
not till the heart has got into its right place. It appears to go
through some trial, which not sustaining, it decays and disap
pears, and another takes its place. I have known three banished
thus, one after the other ; but they never pass further into the
bag than a, a, a, but dry away a»d disappear, while another
(the first in the line), h, h,h, fig. 3. takes its place; and the
others in the stalk in time form other vessels required.                The
corns and grasses are the only plants whose heart of the seed
moves after once entering the case.           In wheat it first enters at
 the top; and when it has taken all its nutriment from the at
mosphere, it falls to the stalk of the seed (d,d,d) and is there fixed
firmly and remains stationary.          The reason why the Gramma
 differ from all other plants in this respect            is,
                                                         that the seminal
 leaves are at the bottom instead of the top of the seed, and the
 heart must be placed close to them, or             could not take in its
                                                    it
 oxygen; and as          it  then (as leaves are ever) the lungs to the
                              is
 young plant,      it  constantly supplied not with food but with oxy
                        is
 gen from the seminal leaves.         This at once proves also that           I
 am right with respect to that point            indeed, unless botanists
                                                :
 will dissect progressively and daily, at least for two or three
 years,  it    quite impossible they should not continually take one
              is
 part for another, one ingredient for the one resembling it.
  I     have for the last two months watched from day to day this
  curious process         the gourd and the wheat, and followed each
                         in
 plant from the moment the bud began to appear till                      had
                                                                         it
 completed'    its  seed    and
                              ;  each  day  was     different
                                                    a          picture.       If
  then the process changes so perpetually in the interior, how                is
  a phytologist to know any thing of the matter,               he will not
                                                               if
  look into the plants continually? the exterior          the mere finish of
                                                          is
  the process without this interior
                   ;                        Ishould never have acquired
  the knowledge         Ihave gained of the manner in which plants
  form   ;  or feel so sure of being able thoroughly to depend on
  the facts   I advance in all this varied and complicated picture.
   If had not exactly copied from Nature- would not the facts
     I
Jong ago have contradicted each other              Their very consistency
                                                    ?
  proves their truth. Thus then, after all the trials        have-made, all
                                                               I
   the dissections      Ihave observed and drawn, and the constant
  watching and study of upwards of seventeen years, the whole re
  sult of the regulation           of
                                plants  isthis  ;That the root       the la
                                                                    is
   boratory        plants; that the vessels which run up being too
                  of
   small     admit whole seeds, whole flowers, —all these parts are
             to
'-   .>                                                        commenced,

346                        On the Physiology      of   Vegetables.
 commenced, and begun to be formed, in the root, and are then
  carried up to the part assigned for their completion ; where the
 ingredients necessary for their nutriment are conveyed and sent
 up to finish them, before they are obtruded at the exterior of the
 tree or plant.       I have just shown a proof of this sort of forma
 tion,   the  finishing of the seed and seed-case, by means of the
 nutriment bestowed by the atmosphere, and afterwards from the
 root, mounting into the seed-vessel, the place appointed by Na
 ture for the completion of the seed.           In the same manner the
 female flowers are formed in the root, then mount, and are com-                            .
 pleted in the flower-bud, when the seed-vessels are filled with
 the seeds and the stamen with pollen.              The leaves also begun
 in the root (though so very diminutive), when they quit                  re     it,
 move to the leaf-hud, receive their nutriment from the heavens,
 and a deep yellow powder from the root.                   not then in one
                                                             It   is
 matter only, but in every ingredient             the .ilant, that this fact
                                                       in
is   exemplified and proved.         But    will easily appear that
                                              it                         can     I
 know this only           watching daily, or many of the peculiarities
                            by
 would escape me. Thus all the different parts, though they have
 but one general laboratory, yet they have each               separate part
                                                                       a
 of the plant in which their different ingredients are completed.
 Is  it possible to conceive        more beautiful and more perfect sy
                                     a
stem     ? the interior of     tree
                                 a     the whole year as busy as an ant's
                                         is
 nest,, for every ingredient          in perpetual motion to form and
                                      is
 bring forward the earth's produce — this also admirably accounts
                                              :
 for why the root has double the number of sap-vessels the stem
 has ;  this  is the case in every sort of plant; and           probably to
                                                                     it     is
 provide for the formations in the laboratory.               Half the sap              is
 allotted to the formation of the flower, seeds, leaves, and nutria-
 ment the other half to the increase of the size of the tree. The
      ;
 more therefore proceed, the mere just find the thirteen axioms
                       I                               I
I   gave at the (almost) beginning of this work            every set of dis
                                                                 :
 sections seems to add to the proof of one or other of them              and     ;
it  can scarcely be denied that this serves (with other reasons
before given) to show the justness of two of them                First, that:
the root     isthe laboratory of all plants Secondly, that there
                                                   ;                      no     is
 perspiration         in
                     plants.    These  are also  some  of   the  plants said
 to perspire so much, merely because the hydrogen             always forced
                                                                       is
from     a plant the moment the vegetable              confined, and that
                                                            is
meeting the oxygen which had just quitted the vegetable, and
not being able to escape from the glass, they unite again and form
their original ingredient — water, on the cold glass which at
tracts them.        If the leaves perspired, would they not be con
stantly wet whereas they are ever dry, lucid, and clear, except
                  ?
when dew or rain has just fallen.              liquid protruded from the
                                                  If
leaves (the juice of plants           always
                                      is      glutinous),    would not thia

                         On   the   Physiology   of   Vegetables.                  347
fix the dust and dirt on them ? would not the drops thicken and
agglutinate, and run over the plant, marking it with stripes of
dirt and filth ? If the drops issued from the leaves, could the
dust be blown off as it may, leaving the plants shining and beau-
tiful,and its vivid green such as to delight the eye and vivify the
heart ? Conceive how different Nature would appear : How lovely
is the clear animated green in spring, when the delicacy of the
colour is such as would exhibit every defilement ; and yet, even
in dusty roads the trees soon throw off, by their motion (and
the constant action of the spiral wire) that dust which op
presses them, aud which the wind helps to disperse: — we are lit
tle aware how many important avocations of Nature would be
stopped by such a perspiration.         It is the leaves which receive
the nutriment from the atmosphere: — but if that defilement re
mained glued on the leaves, how could they take it in ? it would
he absorbed by the dirt; — and what then is all that beautiful glit
tering net that covers many leaves, — what that waxy covering so
conspicuous in all evergreen leaves ? — How will that agree with
perspiration ? — But it is in vain to pursue a theme where all the
reasons are on one side alone, and no answer is made but a sim
ple No. Would a plant in-doors collect dust like any other fur
niture, and that dust be blown or brushed off with a feather ?
No, it would stick to the leaves.          Every one knows what the
 honey-dew         is,
                   though formed         insects which conceal a few
                                             by
 eggs in each glutinous bubble;      jet     has in reality exactly the
                                                  it
effect that would ensue       leaves perspired
                                    if             for being
                                                           ;    parcel of a
glutinous balls, they   collect  the dirt  and  dust,  and the dampness
 of the leaves covers them with       sort of black Cryptogamia, aud
                                           a
 the whole plant soon becomes disgusting to the sight, and ex
 actly the same as all plants would be                if
                                               they perspired.
                       am, sir, your obliged
                          I
                                                      AgV;es Ibbetson.
      P. S.  may also be easily proved that that visible perspiration
              It
 talked of, and found now and then on a few trees — and which
I  have for the third time thoroughly examined this year, — the                   is
 transparent egg of     small insect, which
                              a                  at the time feeding
                                                           is
 under the leaf, while the eggs are left on the upper surface.                         It
 is really   matter worth watching — for they have
              a                                         phenomenon   a
 observable,    believe, just before the insects make their appear^
                   (I
 ance,) which well deserves being examined.               most asto
                                                                It   is
                                                                     a
 nishing rotatory motion in the eggs, which running round with
 great velocity continue to do this for above      minute at   atime          a        ;
;nor was when the mother insect was near
              it                                       have shown
                                                                :  I                   it
 tQ many.
                                                                                   Be

348                            On the Purification      of Mercury.
                                    Description     of the Plate,
     Fig.   1. is the germ              of   a gourd   when      the flower and seed-
vessels     are first beginning to form.
  Fig. 2. is the mechanism belonging to every single                                         seed or
grain of wheat, and intended to furnish nutriment to                                       the seed
 both from the earth and atmosphere : but this curious display
 belongs to the atmosphere principally, (a)               the heait of the
                                                                       is,
 grain when        first enters the almost empty bag of the seed
                      it                                                 b,b,                 b,
 which      isnow only inflated with air.      The feather           conveys       o   o
,the pollen to fructify the seed, and then takes with the hairs bbb
 the nutriment from the atmosphere, while the vessels                  after       d
                                                                                   d
                                                                                   d
 wards supply     the   powdered   nutriment  from   the   root.
     Fig. 3.     isspecimen of the gourd (before the flower passes
                      a
 off) cut horizontally, to show how the nutriment                 principally     is
'taken in from the root and pours up the vessels (formed for the
 time) in the pith, and thrown into tiie seed-vessels              means of        hy
 the pipes cc        which are seen to give
                      c,                          fine powder, and thus
                                                             a
 fill each seed-vessel: — cut them which way you will, they equally
 yield the same picture.
     Fig. 5.    the natural size of the wheat seed, when beginning
                 is                                                                                :   it
is   of no use to try when older, the process
                               it                       then over — when
                                                                  is                    :
 once the seed        ready for the earth,
                          is                    new process begins
                                                         a                all                 :
 then  is  forming   for the new  embryo,   which      indeed    even
                                                                  is  at this
 time preparing in the heart          the seed. But
                                              of          thought     Iwould            it
 make a confusion to show its curious mechanism here.
     Fig. 1. shows the gourd cut perpendicularly, with the seeds
 properly placed, receiving the juices of the atmosphere.
LVI. "Delia Purificazione del Mercurio Memoria del Sig. Dott,
  G.Branchi," fe*c. — Memoir on the Purification    Mercury.                       of
.
  By Dr. Joskph Branchi, Public Professor        Chemistry in                of
     the University     Pisa, Corresponding
                                of                               Member           of   the   Royal
     Academy      Science of Pistoja, &c*
                      of
The     mercury of commerce        generally in a state unfit for ex^
                                               is
periments in chemistry or physics, in consequence of being mixed
with various metals, particularly lead and bismuth.      In this state
of adulteration its lustre soon tarnishes        weighs lighter than
                                                           ;     it
when pure       leaves
                 ;       blackish spot when poured on an earthen
                                    a
plate ;  divides into drops which though roundish are generally
more or less compressed, and have an appendage or kind of tail;
and on being exposed to the action of the fire immediately aban
dons the metals with which       was amalgamated.
                                             it
   Distillation     the known
                          is    and generally-practised   method of
                 From the forthcoming Memoirs of the Pisa Academy.
            *
                                                                                        purifying

                            Oh the Purification         of Mercury. \                     349
 purifying mercury in the state here described.       Nevertheless
 Messrs. Guyton*, Brugnatelli f, VireyJ, and other chemists, have
justly observed, that in this operation a small part of the fixed
 metals rises with the mercury in the state of vapour ; and MM.
 Klaproth and Wolff§ assert, that it is extremely difficult by this
 means to separate all the bismuth.    The iron filings which, ac
 cording to Nollet, ought to be put into the retort over the mer
cury to be refined, in order that when the metal rises in vapour
it must  pass between the particles of iron, assuredly do not con
tribute to produce a better result ; and in fact, no modern au
thor whose works 1 have been able to consult, recommends the
above addition to the process.     The continued agitation of this
mercury in contact with the air was announced by Priestley as
capable of purifying it. If (said he) it is a long time agitated in
a stopped decanter of whose capacity it does not occupy above,
a fourth part, and the air in the decanter be repeatedly renewed
by means of bellows, the foreign metal will be converted into
oxide, and the mercury become so pure as to resist all proof of
extraneous matter by distillation.          Nicholson, who said that he
had repeated this method with success, recommended it to ma-,
theinatical-instrument-rnakers,         who had not the necessary ap
paratus   for  distillation.  But  Guyton with some very just observa
tions dissents from this, and is of opinion that the adulterated
mercury cannot by such means be liberated from all extraneous
matter       ||.
    In the year 179S, considering that at the temperature of the
atmosphere, some acids, as for example the sulphuric, do not
dissolve mercury, although they unite with more or less facility
to the above-mentioned metals,             occurred to me that
                                                   it               might           it
be practicable to purify adulterated mercury              immersing  by  in               it
one of these acids and repeatedly changing its surface.               The
.result obtained             by
                        this kind of parting having answered my ex
 pectations,     have
                   I    always used the same method on succeeding
occasions,    and        well known to many persons, who at my sug
                            it   is
gestion have put         in practice.
                             it           Nevertheless     do not pretend
                                                                 I
that    bysuch      process this mercury becomes perfectly pure, but
                        a
only in state fit for use in great number of experiments. The
             a                               a
most pure       justly considered
                   is                             by
                                          chemists as solely that which                        is
separated     from    cinnabar        the    by
                                           united action of caloric and
iron filings, or that which by the effect of caloric alone             ob                is
 tained from what        called red precipitate — that
                                 is                          the red oxideis,
of mercury, by means of nitric acid ^f.
  * Annate* de Chimie, xxv. 79.           Trattato Mkmentaire di Chbniea
                                                       t
Generate, iii. 136.       Traite de Pharmacie, ii. 356.
                                      %                       Dhionario         §
di Chimica del Sig. Prof.          Moretti, iii. 93, 101.             Annates de Ch'mie,
                                                                     ||
xxt.   77-              IT   Thus silver of cupellatiori  pure
                                                           is    ;but the purest    that ii
which   is   obtained       by    the decomposition of muriate of silver.
                                                                                     Neither

 360                On the Purification    of Mercury.
    Neither do       I pretend that the method of which I speak is
 positively  new   ; perhaps it may be known, and probably other
 artificers for private interest have kept it secret*.           But as I
 have not seen it noticed in any book, I have thought it proper
 to describe briefly the experiments which I have made on this
 subject, from which at least it may be more generally known that
 by means of some acids, the mercury of commerce may be puri
fied sufficiently to serve in a great number of experiments not
 only in general physics, but also in chemistryf.
    I put in different vessels the quantity of three pounds in each;
 over one I poured a sufficient portion of strong vinegar, and over
 the other diluted sulphuric acid. By agitating and often shaking
 the vessels the mercury divided into small globules, and pre
 sented more points of contact to the acids ; and I observed that
they became turbid, and that with reagents they indicated having
metallic matter in solution.           Continuing the purification and
renewing the quantity of acids, on the fourth day I separated
the mercury from them, and after washing, drying, and passing
it through a hole made with a pin in the bottom of a funnel of
 writing-paper, I placed it in different vessels.            The mercury
purified in this manner had a bright surface even after the space
«jf several days.
    This result encouraged me to try directly the same process
 on the adulterated mercury of commerce ; and I made the ex
periment with success.        I purified a great deal at different times,
preferring however the diluted sulphuric to the acetic acid, be
 cause it may be used even still stronger, and it has a more power
ful action on the extraneous metals. Such an operation, in which
 the sulphuric acid may be renewed a greater or lesser number of
times, succeeds in a longer or shorter period ; but it is not con
sidered as terminated until the mercury divides, and continues for
a considerable time in very minute globules, and without altering
the acid, which must retain its transparency, and evince no trace
of any metallic substance by reagents. In March 1813 I di
stilled in an earthen retort about' seventeen pounds of mercury,
which I used for various experiments, and which contained much
lead and tin. Although it had abandoned an abundant share of
these metals, yet by the pellicle on its surface it was evident that
it still contained much amalgam, an effect to which the still had
   * In 1806, my friend and colleague Sign. Savi, then Professor of Experi
mental Philosophy (now Professor of Botany, and the unassuming author of
several valuable tracts on the indigenous plants and forest and other trees
of Tuscany), observed that a Milanese barometer-maker, purified his mer
cury by means of a fluid, the nature of which he studiously concealed.
   f   My assistant in the laboratory annually constructs many barometers,
and thermometers, and he finds that mercury purified in this manner is of
great advantage.
                                                         ' •
                                                                  perhaps

                      On the Purification             of Mercury.              351
perhaps somewhat contributed, from its being so little curved
that some particles might escape in the ebullition into the re
ceiver. Not wishing to undertake a new distillation, I placed it
in six vessels, and covered the mercury in each about the depth of
an inch with diluted sulphuric acid.           After five days of repeated
and frequent agitation, having washed, dried, and passed it through
paper, I found that it left no black stain on a delft plate, that its
drops had no appendage or tail, and that it evinced a most bril
liant surface, which did not tarnish during the space of several
days that I kept it before applying it to use.
    But whoever wishes by this process to purify mercury much
amalgamated, should use sulphuric acid not diluted, in order to
hasten the operation.          In fact, having exposed mercury which
had been used for what is called the revival of sheet-lead, and
for the preparation of plain mirrors, to the action of this acid, in
the space of some days it became equal in goodness to that which
had undergone the preceding operation.               The facts, however,
which I have described, demonstrate that the above process is
sufficiently useful in purifying mercury adulterated by other me
tals ; and to confirm            was induced in May 1815 to resort to
                               it,
                                 I
 the following new experiments.
    First.I    made    by means of heat four amalgams of the following
 Compounds.       1.  Two    denari* of lead and two of bismuth with
 two ounces of mercury.         2. Four denari of lead with two ounces
 of mercury. 3. Four denari of tin with two ounces of mercury.'
 4. Two denari of lead and two of tin with two ounces of mer
 cury.  I    then added to each of these six ounces of mercury.
    Secondly.     I  put these amalgams, which had               dense and
                                                                     a
 wrinkled pellicle on their surface, in so many bottles numbered
with their respective numbers, and added concentrated sulphuric
 acid sufficient to cover each amalgam to the depth of two or
 three lines of   a     quarter of an inch.      Afterwards              by
                                                                   repeated
 agitation and changing the acid several times,              obtained in a
                                                                I
 greater or less number of days mercury, which            have, and which
                                                              I
 retained, after being kept many days, the mast beautiful bright
 ness.     The amalgam No.          was the first to yield pure mercury,
                                       2
 the last was No.       1.
    In this and in other experiments where              used concentrated
                                                           I
 sulphuric acid,  I    observed almost instantly around the amalgam
 a whitish, yellowish, or grayish powder, which always increased,
 and which  I    separated at the first washing,               by
                                                           putting into the
 bottle a   new quantity     of acid.    With agitation the mercury di
 vides into larger or smaller, globules; not immediately, nor in a
 given time, but usually when                somewhat purified.
                                            it   is                    In tha
 |>roces3-more    or less  sulphurous   acid    disengaged,
                                                      is      and   also  sul-
              *   A   denaro   is    the twenty-fourth part of an ounce.
                                                                           phuretted

352                On the Purification         of Mercury.
phuretted hydrogen gas, which is not only sensible to the smell,
but  is proved by the test of paper moistened in a solution of ace
tate of lead ; from which it appears that, besides the sulphuric
acid being decomposed, the water with which it was united is
also at the same time decomposed.
    Lastly. By the same means I have separated mercury from
the amalgam of mirrors*.
    This experiment, which is pleasing in theory and principle,
may even serve to demonstrate in the shortest period of time
 that, from sulphuric acid, sulphur may he extracted.       In fact,
putting in a two-ounce phial, for example, a quarter of an ounce
 (six denari) of the said amalgam, and adding concentrated sul
phuric acid sufficient to cover it from one to two inches deep,
 and aiding the operation by shaking the bottle, that all the amal
gam may mix with the acid, after a few minutes, particularly
when the temperature of the atmosphere is not low, a most vivid
 ebullition takes place, accompanied by copious vapours, by the
 disengagement of much caloric, of sulphurous acid, of sul
 phuretted hydrogen gas, and also of sulphur.     The last remaint
 attached to the neck of the bottle, and in the greater quantity
 the less the mouth of the bottle may be.      Separating the resi
 due, which is more or less whitish, by washing, the amalgam
 contained much less tin than at first ; and submitting it again
                                                               many
   • Van
            Engestrom to obtain the mercury from this amalgam proposed to
distil it with powdered charcoal or with sulphur. Ann. de Chimie, xxvi. 293.
\Note by the Translutor.~\  Another experimental proof of the purity of the
mercury thus refined, is the excellence of the thermometers made with it
by the enlightened author's assistant   -j-,with one of which I  was presented
at Pisa, and which I    found exacily corresponding to a very good one made
in London.    In all the experiments which have made with these two ther
                                               I
mometers, I   have not been able to discover, even with   a   magnifying glass,
the least difference in their sensibility.    Whether in the open air of the
plains, on the Pisa mountains, in the vale of the Arno, the insalubrious fur
nace (in winter perhaps   it   may be called basin) of Florence, the heights of
Feisole, the Apennines, the Pisa baths which aie at the spring 100", at that
of Jove 94, and that of Ceres 93, or the baths of Lucca, which at the spring
within the cave are l.'S0".7<>, at the hotbath 126° ,&c— the rise or fall of the
mercury in both instruments was identically the same.        The day on which
I examined the Lucca baths, when the thermometers were exposed to the
direct rays of the sun at the foot of the hill beneath the baths, and on the
sheltered bank of the river, they rose in      a very few minutes to 116", and
would have risen still higher had they been allowed more time.         Both the
Lucca and Pisa hot waters, like those of Bath, contain very little extraneous
m^tter.much less than might be inferred from their high temperature and their
respective situations near the base of lofty ridges of calcareous mountains   :
some depositions or incrustations of carbonate of lime appear at their source,
but they contain very, little gas and no iron. Dr. Franceschi, physician at the
                                                                          Lucca
    In Savoy, Piedmont, and even Tuscany, persons who make barometers
    -f-
and thermometers are wholly unknown.

                    Answer to Observations      on Vegetation.                 353
Hlatry times to the same process,          after having triturated       it,
                                                                       and
agitated  itwith the same acid,           itfirst became fluid, afterwards
divided into globules, and finally appeared purified mercury                   si
milar to that produced         by
                              the preceding experiments.       Hence
It appears that,    the action of sulphuric acid aided by the me
                        by
chanical division effected      agitation, the adulterated mercury
                                    by
of commerce, and even that which contains           greater poTtiou
                                                           a
of extraneous metals, may be purified in       manner sufficient to
                                                      a
serve all the common purposes of experimental philosophy and
chemistry.    This method does not require continual attention,
is not expensive, particularly where the mercury       little altered,
                                                                is
and does not expose the operator to any danger.
    LV1I. Answer   W. H. G.'s Observations on Mr. Tatcjm's
                       to
        Experiments on Vegetation.  By Mr.    Tatum.       J.
                              To    Mr.   Tilloch.
5ir, —    ~Y"ouR correspondent, W. H. G.,             in
                                               reply to the paper
I communicated to your Magazine of July, accuses me of " un
pardonable ignorance for pretending to enlighten one of the most
controverted subjects of experimental science,                 by
                                                    views and ex
periments   which have  been detailed in half  a dozen professed
treatises, and otherwise promulgated in every possible way."
Lucca baths has published some account of them but, as usual with writers on
                                                 :
baths, his worlds more panegyrical and historical than chemical — amuch bet
                                                                     ;
ter account may be expected from his relative Dr. Domen. Pieri, professor
of chemistry in the college of Lucca.      A very satisfactory ar.d able analysis
of the Pisa bath waters may alsobe expected from the modest and ingenious
author of the preceding memoir; who pursues the discovery of facts with
unremitting zeal, and leaves the development of crude theories to those
self-called chemists whose pen, ink, and paper are more useful to them
than acids, retorts, and furnaces. There are still persons who ascribe these
hot-baths to the influence of volcanoes; but there    is  not the smallest trace)
of any thing like volcanic matter, or even any combustible substance, to be
discovered within many miles of them nothing, that, either chemically or
                                          ;
geologically speaking, could sanction the belief that they owe their Warmth
to exhausted subterraneous volcanoes.       Vast ridges of mountains surround
them, entirely of earbonat of liine or hard and coarse marble, with occasion
ally veins of felspar, rock crystal, and very rarely traces of tourmaline but
                                                                           ;
very considerable intersections of these calcareous masses frequently occur,
consisting of various combinations of magnesia and lime, forming all the
gradations from the hardest to the most friable schist. Gypsum and pyrites,
particularly the former, are of rare occurrence, and never in such quantities
as would sanction the conjecture that the caloric developed        by the decom
position of the latter might contribute to raise the temperature of these
springs.  It   istrue that in the valleys adjoining, these hot springs inflamma
ble gas, chiefly carburetted hydrogen, abounds    ;   but whether cdnnecfed- as
« cause or ah effect   isnot so easy to determine.                          -
     Vol. 50. No. 235. Nov. IS 17,                    Z                    From

354                     Answer io Observations
From which I infer that he imagines I was unacquainted with
any of the six authors alluded to : but in this as well as several
other particulars he labours under a mistake,        i had consulted
" the ill-digested experiments of Dr. Ingenhousz," the excellent
and trulv valuable volumes of Mr. Ellis, and the still more recent
 publication of Sir Humphry Davy; nor was I quite ignorant that
Saussure,Scheele and Sennebier had entered the list of disputants,
on this controverted subject.        But should your correspondent
 ask, Then why advance opinions in opposition to the "old story
of the purification of the atmosphere by vegetation, which had
 been treated of by others?"          I would answer, that although
 the opinion is old, it is neither forsaken nor abandoned, nor is
 it left to sink without a powerful support to rescue it from obli
 vion: for, notwithstanding W. H. G. marshals the name of that
 truly excellent philosopher Sir Humphry Davy in the list of the
 half dozen who have opposed the old story of Dr. Priestley,
and who he says have so long anticipated my opinions, I have
 no doubt but that, with all my " unpardonable ignorance," I
 shall be able to prove that he has been most egregiously mis
 taken.     I will not retort hi? own language on Mr. W. H. G.,
 but content myself with remarking, that from the diversity of
 opinions displayed in the above authors, it was not very unna
 tural that I Bhould entertain a wish to investigate this contro
 verted subject/ and particularly as I thought many of their de
tailed experiments were not unexceptionable.           For example ;
who can approve of the effects of detached leaves while con
 fined under pump-water         being brought forward as a proof of
 the effects carried on by an entire and living vegetable while
exposed to air ?      In my experiments I endeavoured to obviate
objections    of this nature : — how far I have succeded, I shall leave
 to others to determine.       One of the motives which induced me
to commit their results to your Magazine, was, that during my
last course of lectures I was informed by a gentleman . attending
the lectures of the Surrey Institution, and who was present at
my lecture on vegetable chemistry when I introduced some of
those experiments, that the then chemical lecturer at that Insti
tution had promised to prove that vegetables improved the at
mosphere, but that he had not made good his promise or even
attempted it: on which several gentlemen who were present, ob
serving that the experiments militated so materially against the
popular opinion, expressed surprise that I did not make them
public.     Under these circumstances I communicated them to
your Magazine. — But to return to your correspondent, who says,
"   Dr. Priestley was the person with whom the old story origi
nated; but that even he seems afterwards to have been aware of
the inaccuracy of his conclusions :" for he says in vol. iii. p. 273,
                                                                 . «, In

                   on Experiments on Vegetation.                      355
        general the experiments of this year were unfavourable to
my    former  hypothesis; for whether I made the experiments with
air injured by respiration, burning of candles, or any other phlo
gistic process, it did not grow better, but worse ; and the longer
the plants continued in the air the more phlogisticated it was.
I also tried a great variety of plants with no better success."
From this one would imagine that W. H. G. thought the Doctor
was about to abandon his old opinion : but if he had taken thife
trouble of turning over one leaf, he would have found the Doctor
still firmly maintaining his " old story," for he says, " Upon the
whole 1 still thought it probable, from the experiments of this
year, that the vegetation of healthy plants, growing in situations
tiatural to them, has a salutary effect on the air in which they
grow } — for one clear instance of the melioration of air in these
circumstances should weigh against a hundred cases in which the
air is made worse by it."
    Is there here any reason to conclude that the Doctor was     "  aware
of the inaccuracy of his conclusions ?" Does not the above prove
that, so far from altering his opinion, he was determined to sup*
port
        " his old story" in the strongest possible language ?
    Your correspondent has seen fit to class Dr. Ingenhousz as
 well as Sir Humphry Davy among the half dozen authors " who
experimentally contradict the above opinion." Now, as W. H.G;
accuses me of " unpardonable ignorance," surely we ought not
to expect him to betray any in his criticisms on me. But let
us see what were the experimental opinions which Dr. Ingen-
housz promulgated in p. 2;J of his prefatory remarks.             He says,
" The discovery of Dr. Priestley, that plants thrive better in foul
air than in common and in dephlogisticated air, and that plants
have a power of correcting bad air, has thrown a new and im
 portant light upon the arrangement of this world.        It shows, even
 to a demonstration, that the vegetable kingdom is -subservient to
 the animal, and vice versa, that the air spoiled and rendered
 noxious to animals by their breathing          it,serves to plants as  a
 kind of nourishment." And at section 16, he says, 4i In order to
 put my conjecture to the trial,   I  placed at eleven o'clock, in       a
 warm sunshine, two jars of an equal size, each containing an
 equal quantity of sprigs of peppermint         in
                                                 pump-water.       In one
 of these   was  let up a  certain quantity   of  common     air.   In the
 other jar was let up the same quantity    of air fouled   byrespiration:
 at two o'clock the air of both jars was found much improved             ;
.and at four o'clock the common air was still more improved."
I  shall not make any remarks on the manner in which these ex
 periments were conducted;      I  merely quote the above to prove
 that your correspondent has erred         (I will not suppose wilfully)
 in representing Dr. Ingenhousz as       "  one of the half dozen au-
                                   Z   2                              thors

                        Answer to Ohetvatioits
 thors who experimentally contradicts Dr. Priestley."         So far"
 from this being the fact, it appears from the above quotations
 that he is endeavouring by all possible means to support him i
 indeed, the whole tenor of his work (so far from contradict
 ing Dr. Priestley) is intended to corroborate the same. I will
 not occupy your pages by remarks on Scheele, Saussure, or
 Sennebier, but proceed to Mr. Ellis and Sir H. Davy. Your cor
 respondent cannot approve more highly of the opinions enter
 tained in the two volumes of the former of these authors than I
 do.    But I think he again labours under a mistake when he
 represents Mr. Ellis's second volume as the last work on the sub
ject ; for my copy bears the date of 181 1. But that of Sir H.
 Davy on agricultural chemistry (which W. H. G. quotes), was
 published in 1813.      Under these circumstances I know not by
 what means    he  can  consider Mr. Ellis as the last author on 'hi
 subject.    But you will perceive that this is not merely the first,
 last, or greatest mistake W. H. G. has fallen into: for although
 Mr. Ellis has ably promulgated the same opinions (drawn from
Experiments differently conducted to what mine were) which I
 have since advanced ; yet I think it is most unwarrantable and
 unjustifiable to represent
                              " Sir H. Davy as being convinced that
 Mr. Ellis had not been deceived by his extensive researches ;"
and also of enrolling Sir H. in the list of half a dozen who had
experimentally contradicted Dr. Priestley. In order to prove the
error of the first statement, I must refer to Sir Humphry's work
above mentioned, p. 195, where Sir Humphry says, " Some per
sons have supposed that plants exposed in the free atmosphere
to the vicissitudes of sun-shine and shade, light and darkness,
consume more oxygen than they produce ; and that their per
manent agency upon air is similar to that of animals : and this
opinion is espoused by the writer on the subject 1 have just
quoted (Mr. Ellis), in his ingenious Researches on Vegetation.
But all experiments brought in favour of this idea, and particularly
hit experiments, have been conducted under circumstances un
favourable to accttracy of results."
    So far then was Sir Humphry from being convinced that
Mr. Ellis was not deceived by his experiments, that he actually
•condemns his experiments as inaccurate.      But to prove the error
of the second statement of W. H. G. ; namely, of Sir Humphry's
being one of the
                     " half dozen who experimentally opposed Dr.
Priestley's opinion," we need only refer to the latter part of the
above page, and also to p. 197.         In the first of these Sir H.
•ays,
       "  In some of  the early experiments of Dr. Priestley, before
he was acquainted with the agency of light upon leaves, air that
had supported combustion and respiration was found purified by
the growth of plants, when they were exposed in it for successive

                       on Experiments on Vegetation,                 357
    days and nights; and his experiments are the more unexception
    able, as the plants in many of them grew in their natural states,
    and the shoots or branches from them only were introduced
    through water into the confined atmosphere/'          And the next is
    Sir Humphry's own experiment, p. 197 : " The following experi
    ment I consider as conducted under circumstances more analo
    gous to those existing in nature. A turf four inches square from
    ati irrigated meadow clothed with common meadow grass, mea
    dow fox-tail grass, and vernal meadow grass, was placed in a
    porcelain dish, which swam on the surface of water impregnated
    with carbonic acid gas : a vessel of thin flint glass, of the capacity
    of 230 cubical inches, having a funnel furnished with a stop-cock
    inserted in the top, was made to cover the grass, and the appa
    ratus was exposed in an open place.      A small quantity of water
    was daily supplied to the grass by the means of the stop-cock.
    Every day likewise a certain quantity of water was removed by
    a siphon, and water saturated with carbonic acid gas was sup
    plied in its place, so that it may be presumed that a small quan
    tity of carbonic acid gas was constantly present in the receiver.
       "  On the 7th of July 1807, the first day of the experiment, the
    weather was cloudy in the morning, but fine in the afternoon,
    the thermometer at 67°, the barometer 30.2.            At ten on the
    morning of the 15th, I examined a portion of the gas; it con
    tained les« than l-50th of carbonic acid gas, 100 parts of it ex
    posed to the impregnated solution left only 75 parts;" (100 parts*
    of the air of the garden occasioned a diminution to 79) " bo
    that the air was four per cent, purer than the air of the atmo
    sphere; another similar experiment was made with equally de
    cisive result." p. 199.    " These facts confirm the popular opi-
.   nioti" (the old story)   " that when the leaves of vegetables per
    form their healthy functions, they tend to purify the atmosphere,
    in the common variations of weather, and changes from light
    to darkness."     Are not these principles or opinions the very
    same as those promulgated by Dr. Priestley ? Aye, and by Dr.
     Ingenhousz too? Yet W. H. G. represents Sir H. as one of the
     experimental opposers of that very system he is actually advo
     cating.    'From these repeated misrepresentations on. doctrinal
     points on the part of W. H.G., it is even difficult to believe that
     he himself knew which side of the question the above authors
     maintain.      We here see that Sir H. did not consider himself as
     betraying unpardonable ignorance by publishing his "Views and
     Experiments," although they had been detailed by Drs. Priestley
     and Ingenhousz, many years before, and of course had e< antici
     pated" his views.
        Again. He says, " The question still remaining     is, not whether
     plants have the power of counteracting the vitiation produced
                                     Z3                                bf

.358          Acknowledgements        to Mr. Westgarih Forsler
.by the breathing of animals         ; but whether they are able, during
  sunshine,   to reconvert   into   oxygen the carbonic acid they form,
  during'darkness and common daylight."
     The solution of this question 1 have attempted, and J hope
  one day to give a satisfactory answer to it.
     And, sir, I presume I may also add that I have attempted a.
  solution of the above question, particularly in the third and fourth
  experiment, as related in my first paper, in which the plants,
  inclosed in receivers, were exposed not to air vitiated by the
  breathing of animals ; but to common air, during darkness, com
  mon day- light, and sunshine ; the former of the abpve for seven
  successive days, and the latter for there successive days, in both
 .of which experiments it did not appear to me that the plants
  had the power during sunshine to reconvert into oxygen the
   carbonic acid they formed duxing darkness and common day
  light.
     From    these observations    it appears that the subject is yet a
  controverted    one, and that there are celebrated authors of the
  present day whose opinions are at variance with each other ; and
  I think it is meritorious in any one, amid this conflict of con
  tending opinions, to communicate his researches to the commofl
  stock; and most certainly I anxiously wait the coming day on
  which W. H. G. has promised to give to the public the results of
  his critical experiments.     But should he be inclined to»make any
  further remarks on me, and expect an answer, he will please to
 conclude with his real name and address.
                                 I am, sir, vours
                                              '     &e.
 Dorset-street, Oct. ?0, 1817.                               J. TaTUM.
     P. S. Since I last addressed you, I        have found that the small
 pustules on the ice-plant contain a very considerable portion
 of muriatic acid ; but the smallness of the quantity of the fluid
 which they contain has as yet prevented me from ascertaining
 with what it is combined.          I am not aware that any one has
 hitherto noticed it.
LVIII.    Acknowledgements /oMr.WESTGARTHFoRSTER;y«rMer
     Geological Queries, on the Basaltic Strata of Durham and
    Northumberland : and Suggestions regarding the Situation
    of the Granite Patches of the North of England, in its Series
    of Strata, By A Correspondent.
                             To   Mr.    Tilloch.
Sir, —     I  beg to return my best thanks to Mr. Westgarth For-
ster,  for  the answers which he has afforded in your last number,
page   216,  to my 2d Question, as to the true character and position
                                                                      of

                 as to the upper       Basaltic Stratum.                    359
of the " Great  Whin Sill," or upper Basaltic Stratum, interposed
in the lower part of the Coal-measures or Lead-mine Series of
Durham, Northumberland, &c. ; and for his promised intention -
of giving Answers, to others of the Questions which I have taken
                                                                   -
the liberty of putting, through the medium of your pages, as to
the Stratification of these northern parts of the Kingdom, with
which I was in a degree aware, that he had a practical and inti
mate acquaintance.      Satisfied of Mr. W. F's kind desire and in
tention, of fully and completely answering my questions, I shall
offer no apology, for troubling him with a few remarks, suggested
to me by his last communication, partly iu the way of modifica
tion of myQueries, in pp.122 and 252 of your last volume, in con
sequence of the new light that is now thrown on the subject ;
with some further Queries, for more clearly ascertaining the facts
of the Strata, in the parts alluded to.
     1st. I now I think clearly perceive, from Mr. W. F's Answers,
and what has been published by Mr. Winch and Mr. Buckland,
in the 1st part of vol. iv. of the Geological Transactions, that
the Basaltic Stratum, of which Mr. Winch shows so long a range
of the northern basset-edge, in his excellent Map in the -Geo.
Trans, really underlies- all the tract of Country to the South of
it,  into Yorkshire, and to the SW and W, into Westmoreland and
 Cumberland  ;    except, where approaching nearer to the surface,
 oh the tops of Strata-ridges or bumps, or where               has been
                                                               it
 locally Hffed   by  Faults, its covering Strata have been locally
 stripped off or denudated; viz.
     On the Tees River, from near the foot of Crook Beck, or
 of Trent Beck, (opposite the head of South Tyne River,) down
 to near Winch-Bridge     :  again, in the lengthened irregularly oval
 space, between  a   point somewhere         or NE of Melmerby on the
                                               E
 N, and  a    point somewhere      E  or SE of Murton on the            S
                                                                     (the
 precise ascertainment of which points             of very considerable
                                                    is
 consequence, as intimated in my 2d Query, at top of p. 124),
 to the eastern verge of which last denudated Tract, Mr. Forster
 has now traced this upper Basalt at Highcup Nick, and great
 Rundale Beck: again,     in  a local throw-up near Tynehead Smelt-
 ing-house (of which more presently) again, perhaps, at Dufton
                                                :
 Fell (see further on) again, near the Town of Stanhope
                      :                                            again,
                                                                    :
 perhaps,   near Eggleston   on  the Tees,  (quere any thing   more than
a   Dyke,   Geo. Trans,  iv. 73)   ?
                                   : and again, perhaps,   near  Riccar-
 gil   (Geo. Trans, iv. 10S)  ?;  as  suppose, in the southern branch
                                       I
  of the Raven Rivulet, near Selah         there being no such place or
                                           ?,
  stream as Riccargil, marked in any of my Maps: and again,
 deep in the sinking at Alstone Moor.
     To which list of detached local patches of the upper Basalt
 Stratum, appearing on the surface, or proved underground by
                                                             "
                                       Z   4               •          the

360       Further Queries on      the      Strata   of Durham, &c.
the Miner's operations, in the Mining district (where its proper
places are heneath the surface), I shdl be greatly obliged, that
Mr. Forster, Mr. Winch, &c. would add in your pages, . all other
instances that may be in their power; with the depths, thick
nesses and dips, in each instance.
     From this view of the subject it appears then, that I may now-
 add to my 1st Query in p. 123, the further request to be told,
whether the Coal and adjacent Limestone, which have been dug
betweenMelmerby Lane-end and Ardale Water*, belong or match
to those Coal and Limestone, stretching from the Coast, between
the Coquet and Weiisbeck, to Stublic, &c. ; the peculiar Organic
 Remains, and succession of Strata in each case, to be well con-
 eidered before giving such Answer; and, do not these same Coal
 and Limestone, match to those of Tindal-Fell ?, Querv 6 in
 p, 252.
     And for like reasons I now infer, with more confidence than
 is intimated at bottom of p. 123 of your last volume, that Mr.
 Winch's basaltic edge, traced from Causeway-Park to Timming
 or Temon, may be further traceable from thence north-westward,
  and then north, and north-eastward, perhaps round the western
  slopes of Bolton-Fell Hill ? and Kinkery-hi!l ? to Routledge
 Burn on English Kershope Farm, 1 m. S of the House (which                  is,
 on the very Border of Scotland), where       have myself seen this
                                                    I
  Basaltic Stratum, covered       by
                                   Limestone of several yards thick,
                                       a
 and perhaps underlaid       by
                              another Limestone, dipping very fast
 to the WN W, into the Liddesdale Trough. At Slaty-ford higher
 up on the same Burn (which the contrary way runs down to
 Bailey-head)    a   Limstone     seen, which perhaps may be the
                                  is
 game as here covers the Basalt             and in Craigv Cleuch,
                                               ?
                                               :
 ENE of Kershope-house, the Basalt appears again, forming bold
 cliffs.I   shall feel extremely obliged to any Gentleman, who
 may be able to trace forwards this edge of the upper Basaltic
  Stratum, to the north-eastward, towards Carter-fell.
     9th.
        J   have heard, that at Lewisburn and Plashets there are
          —
 Coals; which way do they dip and do they underlie the Basalt
                                           ?
 above mentioned, and belong to the lower division of the Coal-
series lapping round the Cheviot mass? see my 1st and 7thQueries
 in p. 122 and 2.52; or, do they over-lie               it,
                                                  and belong to the
 Lead-mine    series ?
     10th. Resuming now, as      jptimated
                                  I           should do, the consi-,
                                                    I
 deration of the vicinity of Tyne-head Smelting-house,       beg to
                                                                 I
 ask, whether,       by"the Back-bone or Great Sulphur Veip,"
 *    Geo, Trans, iv, 13. The rearing position of these Strata, seems unneces
                     1
sarily to have been ascribed to dislocation and tilting; because, such highly
Inclined positions of Coal-seams, on    great scale, we nqt very uncommon,
                                        a
gee WiUiams's Min. King, 24Ed,     i, 103,
                                                                     p.316,

      New Hints    as to the   Position   of Granite in England.   361
p. 216, Mr. Forster means the same Dyke and Fault, as is spoken
of by Mr. Winch, as "the vein called the Devil's Back-bone."
p. 80 of his paper in the Geo. Trans, ?     If these are one and
the same Dyke, in what direction does it range, exactly?,' and
if the regular Basaltic Stratum is denudated by its side (of which
circumstance Mr. VV. gives no intimation) what is the extent
nearly, of the patch of Basalt which is thus exposed ?
    1 1th. If the great Level to Dufton-feil Mines, commences in
great Rundale Beck, on the great Whin Sill (p. 217), and this
same Whin, is either the top Stratum at those Mines, as Mr.
Winch intimates in p. 62 Geo. Trans., or the top Stratum but
one (the Tyne-bottom Limestone) as Mr. Forster intimates p. 40
of his Treatise, (quere which is correct?); does not the said
Level, descendingly cut the series of Strata (either dipping to
wards the level mouth ? or thrown down all at once by a Fault?),
 so as to enter this mine, and effect its drainage, at some consi
 derable depth below the great Whin Sill ?.
    In hopes that Mr. Forster and Mr. Winch will spiritedly fol
low up, what they have so well begun, and that Mr. Fryer will
join in their efforts, for elucidating the Stratification of the north
ern part of England,
                     I remain,
                              ,     Your very obedient servant,
 October 20, 1817.                           A CONSTANT R.EADER.
   P. S. I beg to hint to Mr. Professor Buckland and others,
who seem, as Gcoguosts teach, to think that Granite wherever
it 'appears in situ, must be " either a Dyke, or the projecting back
                                              Trans, iv. 110), that
of a substratum of this substance (Geo.
nothing like a continuous Straltim of Granite has yet been
proved to exist in England, as Mr. Farey long ago asserted ; al
though, mistakenly (Phil. Trans. 181 l,and Derby Report, i. 151),
he then referred the Granite of Mount Sorrel, &c., to the Red
Jblarl; but which Marl he has since shown to be unconformably
overlying, there and elsewhere, like the Strata under and sur-
roundingCarlisle; — to such Gentlemen I say, I beg to point out,
that there is nothing the least singular, in the appearance of
patches of Granite at Bankey-Close, Hindrigs, &c. on the east
of Appleby, but that the same agrees exactly with the positions,
of the granite patches near Shap Fell, Carrick' and Caldbeck
Fells (P. M. xlvii. p. 43), near Ravenglass, and again on the
other side of the Carlisle Trough, at Criffel Hill ; all of these,
and others which I could mention elsewhere, occupying the
place, or part of  it,
                     of the range of the upper Basaltic Stratum,
which  it has been my chief object, in this and several previous
comi»i;nications, to trace out aud define; and suph Granites, do
                                                                   not

              -     '
    362                       Geological Observations
not occupy the central parts of theSlate Tracts*, as theGeognosy
teaches, we are told.     In short, the Granites in these cases, ap
pear • as huge nodular or imbedded masses, in this basaltic stra
tum ; which upper Basalt in other instances, as in the north
western slope of Arnton Fell in Liddesdale, and several others
of the Basaltic Hills of Scotland, is seen graduating or passing
into coarse Slatef, as I conceive is also the case, in the tract on
the east of Applebv, -of which three very extraordinary fancy or
Geognostic Sections are given, in plate V. of the Geo. Trans, vol.iv.
   I lament that Mr. Winch in p. 207 of your last volume, seems
to have declined the task, of attempting to explain, what appears
enigmatical, in the accounts of this tract E of Appleby, which
have been published by Mr. Buckland and Mr. Fryer : and I
heartily wish, that divesting himself of all undue deference to
great Names, Mr. W. would jn this ease, as lately with regard
to the pretended newest flcetz Trap of another Geognostic Gen
tleman (p. 123), freely communicate what he knows or can as
certain concerning this tract, and regarding the view of it which
I have ventured to offer as above.
                   LIX.   Geological Observations   on Strathearn%.
The           wonderful       to which the surface of the globe
                            revolutions
                           primary formation, have of late years
has been subjected since its
claimed the attention of philosophers.   Those changes, almost
every where apparent, have given rise to new theories no less sin
gular than satisfactory, and have excited a desire in mankind to
become acquamted with the causes by which those extraordinary
phenomena have been occasioned, and which, in former times,
      * On turning over the pages of your xlth volume, I find Mr. David Mushett
 aware of the fact, of what certain writers are in the habit of considering as
primitive masses, not occupying the central situations, which on such a sup
 position, they ought to be found in, &a& in p. 51 says, that on the contrary, in
 most mountainous districts, these primitive masses (as they have been
                                                              " great Red " boun
 called) are contained in the superficies ocoupied by the
 dary,  to the Coal-series ; and at the bottom  of p. 53   and  top of p. 54, Mr.
 M. more particularly refers to granite, amongst the pretended primitive
 masses above alluded to.     Now to me it seems plain, that the " Great Red"
of Mr. Mushett, underlying the Limestone, and that Limestone underlying
the Coals, of Staflordshire, Shropshire, South-Wales, and Forest Dean,
    51),
    (p.      no other than the same, with the series of Basalts in the South
              is
 of Scotland and North of England.
f
.     In your xliiid volume, p. 341, find that Mr. Farey in 1814 suggested
                                          I
this change, locally, of the upper Basalt or 1st Toadstone, into Slate with
                                                                         ;
reference to the High-peak of Derbyshire and the vicinity of Ingleborough
Hill in Yorkshire.                                                      '
J      rom Blackwood's Edinburgh Monthly Magazine.
          F
                                                                         either

                              on  Strathearn.                     '363
; either  escaped their notice, or appeared so mysterious and in
  scrutable as to preclude all research.
     The human mind cannot now form any conception of that
          '
  aspect which the surface of the earth originally had assumed,
  though it cannot be doubted, that from the various agents em
  ployed in the mighty operations of Nature, exerted in giving
  form and stability to our planet, considerable irregularity must
  all along have diversified it; but those immense masses, which
  constitute what are called the primary mountains, seem in a great
  measure to have remained unaltered during the subsequent'con-
  vulsions that produced the secondary structure, and gave to the
  universal body its present unequal appearance: — but a smooth
  and uninterrupted surface was incompatible with those laws which
  are supposed to have been called into action in the formation of
  the earth ; and though it is not necessary, on the present occasion,
  to enter into the merits of the contending Volcanic and Neptunian
  theories, we must still be conscious that many series of facts con
  stantly presented to our view on the exterior, as well as those
  that have been explored in the bowels of the earth, are consist
  ent with, and may very plausibly be attributed to, the influence
  of both powers.
     For the purpose of exhibiting an object of geology more im
  mediately within the reach of our own observation, we shall con
 fine our remarks to an extraordinary change to which the beau
 tiful and fertile valley of Strathearn has anciently been subjected;
 and which, though perhaps of less importance to the naturalist
  than the prodigious altitudes and extensive dales of the Alps and
  Andes, are still worthy of admiration, as this tract possesses a
  variety of subjects interesting to the student of nature, and to
  the lover of her sublime and picturesque beauties.
     The great chain of the Grampian mountains, which consti
  tutes the northern, as the Ochil hills do the southern, boundary
 Of this valley, are in many parts composed of primitive matter ;
 but in several places this formation is surmounted by secondarv
  rock of various character and diversity of alternation and position.
 The portion of those mountains in the vicinity of Locheam, and
 whatforms the immediate limitsof that lake, is not wholly granitic,
  their exterior being covered with wacke, different species of
 schistus, lime, and sandstone.      Some beds of trap are also visible
 jn its usual linear direction, traversing these rocks without regard
 to their stratification, and always disposed in vertical walls.
     But the most striking features in the district of Strathearn are, .
 the surprising changes that the ground has undergone by the
 different courses which the river has taken at various periods.
 These alterations are very evident in travelling along this exten
 sive tract, from the departure of the river out of its parent lake
                                                                      to

364                      Geological Observations
to its confluence with the Tay,      a distance of near thirty miles, as
the numerous channels by which it has run may be traced with
tolerable accuracy.
     It appears almost certain, that Lochearn at one time had ex
tended to more than double its present magnitude, having oc
cupied the whole of the flat from its south-eastern extremity tb>
Ochtertyre, covering the great plain on which the village of
Comrie, the remains of the Roman camp of Dalginross, the Vic
toria of Ptolemv, and many farm-houses now stand*.                    This
opinion is strengthened and rendered satisfactory by an examina
tion of the surrounding country, or what originally marked the
!»orders of the lake, where the soil and banks formed by the
water are visible, and still retain their first appearance, although-
for ages submitted to the operations of agriculture.        The soil over
all this flat is also of a decisive character, being composed of
water, gravel, and alluvion, as almost all the stones that have
teen dug. up are round or elliptical, the certain effects of water;
and this is particularly the case in the neighbourhood of Ochter
tyre, along the road from Crieff to Comrie.            On the south side
of the valley, near the House of Struan, there is a large concre
 tion of breccia, the composition of which is sand, and stones that
laeve undergone attrition by the action of water, and have been
 consolidated by the admixture of metallic oxide.           This species
 of rock is not commonlv to be met with in the interior of the
tingdom, and in no situation but where considerable bodies of
 water either now are, or have formerly been.            On the western
 shores of Scotland it is frequently seen ; but w e are not ae«
 qriainted with its appearance in masses of great magnitude at a
 (distance from the coast, nor in situations of very lofty elevation.
     The efflux of Lochearn, in its then extensive form, seems to,
have been different from the course which the river at present
follows in leaving the plain of Dalginross, and appears to have
passed from Ochtertyre, whose lakes are the remains of the an
 cient eastern boundary, along the hollow at the manse of Monif
vaird, near to which it was joined by the water of Turret. At
 the- present day, the old and perhaps original bed of the river
 Earn can plainly be traced along the west side of the town of
 Crieff, where it still intersects two of the streets, sweeping, in a
 circular direction, the base of the hill on which that town is built,
 and passing eastward, held its course upwards of 90 feet higher
than the present river.        Pursuing that direction, it appears to
 have made several windings until it reached Abercairney, whence
   ' * It has been supposed, by
                                many learned antiquaries, that on this spa
 cious plain was fought the celebrated battle of the Grampians, betwixt the
 Caledonian and Roman armies; and, certainly, the names of many places,
>n the neighbourhood go far tp sanction such a belief,
                                                                         it

                           m Stratftearn.                        JteS
It continued its channel, with little variation from a straight line'*
nearly due east, running along the tract of the Powaffery river*
now a retrograde stream, over the valley where moulder the ruins
of the abbey of Inchaffery; and, holding the same line, passed
below the House of Balgowan, and the Castle of Methven, until
it joined the water of Almond at Pitcairn Green, at that period
 probably an arm of the sea, which then certainly covered large
 portions of the flat land along the banks of the Tay near Perth-
Over the whole of this ground undoubted proofs of the effects of
water are evident, by an examination of the debris collected at
 different times, which form a variety of strata, and contain boul
der stones of many species, brought from the mountains by suc
 cessive floods and inundations of the river.
     Bat, after the river had eeased to flow by the course which it
has thus been supposed primarily to have taken, the valley ©f
 Stratbearn seems to have undergone other considerable revolu
tions from the changes of its river.
    We have said that Lochearn, according to its original ex
panse, formed a lake, from its western extremity to the House
-of Ochtertyre,   of twenty miles long, but of irregular breadth.
The catastrophe which diminished it to the present size, and!
gave the river a new direction, does not seem inexplicable.         It
is the opinion of many profound geologists, that the western
 mainland of Scotland, with its numerous islands and promon
tories, were anciently united, forming a compact and undivided
continent; but that, by tremendous convulsions, produced by
general as well as by partial earthquakes, a disjunction of tha
primary structure was effected, and occasioned that separatioa
of islands from the mainland, and on the mainland, that asto
nishing irregularity of coast, so indented with arms of the sea,
which renders its navigation so intricate, but gives to the mine
ralogist an ample field of research, and to the painter an admi
rable display of sublime scenery. — To the cause that has produced
such wonderful phaenomeua do we also attribute the reduction
 of ancient Lochearn.
    The departure of the river from the great level plain of Dal-
ginross, the former' bottom of the lake, is through a narrow
 chasm, the sides of which appear at one time to have been united,
as they are composed of the same materials, and were disjoined
by some of those, convulsions of the earth, which, even of late
years, have been so common in that vicinity. This disunion must
 have been sudden, though from the very remote period at which
we. may believe it took place, no calamitous consequences as to
human life could have happened, as the kingdom was probably
 hot inhabited for many subsequent ages.       By the sudden sepa-r
mion. of this hill, the north side of, which was washed by tlte

    886'                     On ihp. component Parts          of Light }
    lake, an impetuous and irresistible discharge of water would bfi
    the consequence, which, forcing its way through a different tract
    of country from the former stream, must have carried every op-*
    posing substance before          and speedily have formed
                                     it,                            new chan   a
    nel for itself.    But this latter course, from passing along         more          a
    enlarged plain     than   formerly,  has  produced    considerable  altera
    tions on the face of the country, which              evidently broken                    by
                                                               by is
    deep hollows that have been washed out               the stream.
       The river in the plain near Comrie has taken various chan
    nels after the ground was drained              the breaking out of the
                                                         by
    water that anciently covered              and when
                                                it  ;          descends below
                                                                        it
    Crieff,     the whole  low  land    marked
                                           is       the   numerous
                                                          by         courses                 it
    has pursued at different periods.         To trace these windings       not         is
    an arduous undertaking           but, excepting in
                                     ;                       few instances,
                                                                       a                     a
    particular description might not be generally interesting.             The
    deep     chasms,   however,     exhibit  some  objects   of  mineralogical
    curiosity, and the steep banks expose           series of alluvial strati-1
                                                         a
    fication, illustrative of    the revolutions to which the soil and sur
    face of mountainous countries are liable.
        Having exhausted too much of your time) on subject of lit          a
    tle importance perhaps to your readers, we have only to observe,
    that in pursuing" similar objects of inquiry, sources of rational
    amusement may be developed, which may ultimately lead to the
    acquisition of knowledge and the prosecution of useful science,
    while they must direct the mind to the contemplation of that
    Power whose wisdom has ordered, and whose omniscience has
    regulated, the magnificent and wonderful operations of Nature,
    so constantly under our observation.
       Criefi", Aug.    1,
                       1817.                                    DlCAl.EDON.
.   LX. On          (he component     Parts     of   Light, and        the Cause    Colour.
                                                                                   of
                     By Charles Carpenter Bomfass, Esq.*
    If    beam of solar light be passed through
          a                                            triangular prism,
                                                                       a
    it   divided into several parts of apparently different kinds." On
         is
    one side of the expanded sun-beam or spectrum are rays which
    are invisible, which have been named calorific rays         then are       ;
    seen various coloured rays, in the order of red, orange, yellow,
    green, blue, indigo, and violet    and on the other side are some
                                                ;
    other invisible rays, which have been called chemical rays, being
    of   adifferent nature from the calorific rays.      The rays in the
    centre of "the spectrum, Dr. Herschel has found, have the greatest
    power in producing vision        which power gradually diminishes
                                           ;
    towards  each  side.  Neither  the  calorific nor chemical rays are
              * From his Essay on the Nature of Heat, Light, and Electricity.
                                                                                    confined

                          Md    t lie Cause   of Colout.
confined to that part in the spectrum which is visible ; each ex
tends frOin its own side, in quantity gradually lessening, through
all the visible rays ; so that, as far as they are united, vision is,
produced; and when they are separated, it ceases- Nor does it-
appear ever to have been satisfactorily proved, that either the
calorific or chemical rays have been entirely separated from each:
other,. while the power of producing vision continued.                  And no
effects are produced by light, except those relating to vision,
which may not reasonably be attributed to one or both of the
invisible rays.      These circumstances would naturally suggest the
possibility,    that vision may be caused by peculiar combinations
of those rays which when separate, or so nearly so as to have!
the same effect to our senses, are invisible*.
    Dr. Herschel's experiments on the subject are by no means
conclusive against this hypothesis.              He has separated some of
the rays from the different coloured divisions of the spectrum ;
and has found, that the diminution in the power of rendering
objects visible, was in a different proportion, from the loss of
power to raise the thermometer.               But without here inquiring
whether the calorific rays are the same as caloric, it is evident,
that if the degree of light depend, not only upon the quantity, but.
also upon the proportionate union of the calorific and chemical -
rays, the excess of either might be lessened, without reducing
the power of producing vision, proportionately with the absolute
 quantity of the rays abstractedf.
                                                                       Another.
    * This                I believe, first before maintained by Dr. Hunter,    in
            opinion was,
 an inaugural dissertation at Edinburgh, in the year 1808; but which it has
not been my good fortune to be able to meet with.
    -(-The labour and attention bestowed by Dr. Herschel on the examina- ,
tion of the effect of the different coloured light, on the thermometer and on
vision, was very great ; and had it been possible to have obtained satisfactory
results, they could not have been better earned.       But the sources of inac
curacy in such a course of experiments are so numberless, that no depend-
 ance   can be placed upon them.      The careful mention of the mode of ex
 periment has, however, rendered the discrepancies too apparent to mislead.
    Thus, it is probable that the colour black, frequently arises from an al
 most exclusive attraction for the calorific ray; certainly it prevents the
 transmission of rays in their coloured state.    Yet in the first experiments,
 which were intended to ascertain the effect of the coloured rays of the spec
 trum upon the thermometer, its bulb was blackened.          - -            .
                                                                              %
                                                                                  '
    In the other experiments, innumerable causes of error are apparent. The
 temperature of the glass through which the rays were passed is unnoticed :
 yet perhaps it may be gathered from the experiments, that as that increased,
 the rays were transmitted with a rapidity equal to that with which they
 pass through the air alone.     The cause of the opacity of gla3s distinct from
its colour is unknown, and incapable probably of being at present ascer
 tained; glass made of the same materials not always vitrifying with the
 same transparency.     Nor, possibly, is the human eye capable of that ob-'
 serration which will .enable.it correctly to mark a difference so small as
                                                                     l-10,000dth

    368                      On the component Parts    of Light,
       Another objection to this hypothesis       that heat has neret
                                                        is,
    been  discovered  in the light from the moon.   But this has been
    ably shown       Sir Humphry Davy*, and other philosophers, to
                        by
    deserve no weight.     The small degree of light which   received   is
    from the moon in comparison with that from the sun, as          to            1
    300000, perfectly explains how, in the experiments hitherto
     published on the subject, no heat has been discovered.             must It
     also be remembered,     that the lens   probably stops     greater pro
                                                                    a
     portion of    small quantity of rays of light transmitted through
                    a
     k, than of larger quantity, its attraction for
                    a                                       being stronger
                                                               it                      ;
     consequently,      has not an equal power in concentrating rays of
                         it
     light from the moon, as from the sun.
        The prismatic colours once separated, are not further divisible
    by a second prism       and this fact has beeH urged as
                                ;                                   proof of
                                                                        a
     the distinct and homogeneous nature of each of the colorific
     rays.    But the passing of a coloured ray second time through
                                                        a
    a prism, does not separate from         the calorific or chemical rays;
                                                  it
    and therefore,      does not prove that they are unnecessary to
                         it                                                           vi
     sion.   For since they do remain united, notwithstanding the de
    gree in which they are usually refracted,           itcertainly possible
                                                              is
    that the cause of their continued union may be the only cause
    of their continued colour.               If
                                           be supposed that they remain
                                              it
     in combination from an attraction for the calorific ray, why. not
    suppose an attraction between the calorific and chemical rays                      ?
     The different colours would then arise from            combination of
                                                               a
    the calorific and chemical rays taking place in definite propor
    tions, analogous to innumerable chemical attractions.-         The con
    tinued union of the invisible rays, whether there be distinct co
    lorific rays or not, tends to show that there         no repulsion be
                                                              is
    tween the particles.
        There are on the other hand very great objections to the sup-
.   position that the colorific rays are homogeneous.         In most cases
    ]-10,000dth part.     For, as more practised and experienced one than that
                                    a
    of Dr. Herschel     cannot reasonably be expected, the discrepancies evident
     upon these experiments may prove its impossibility. Thus, out of 000 parts,
                                                                        1
     he found that
     Coach glass one side rough, stopped 464 parts of heat and 854 of light.
     Crown glass ditto                    571          ..   •*   885
     Coach glass both sides rough         667          ..        932
     Crown glass ditto                    735          ..        946
     All together they stopped            854          ..        995
    But if     calculation be made from the quantity which they stopped sepa
    rately,  it a
               will be found that they ought all together to have stopped 979.8
    parts of heat, and 999.938 of light.    In another part of the same paper in.
    the Philosophical Transactions,     would appear that the coach glass with
                                        it
    one side rough stopped more heat from the taper when alone, than the
    lame coach glass when assisted by crown glass also rough on one side.
       * Elements of Chemical Philosophy, vol.
                                                  i.part  p. 202,
                                                         i.
                                                                                      Of

                         and the Cause   of Colour*                369
  of the division of the ray of light, it would    seem from reasoning
  impossible that it should be so, notwithstanding that the com
  pound coloured ray may be repassed through a prism without de
  composition.     Thus suppose, for example, a triangular prism to
  have its side an inch in breadth.      Then let a solar ray of light,
  of the breadth of the side, be passed through the upper angle,
  and received at the distance at which the spectrum will be two
  inches broad.      Now it is not the whole ray which is at once di
  vided, but every part ; and as the degree of refraction depends
  tipon the angle of the prism, the red ray which. is refracted at
   the upper part of the prism, must be so in the same degree as
  the similar ray at the lower part, and consequently must be pa
  rallel with that similar ray. The red ray of the upper part, there
  fore, must in the spectrum be one inch from the red ray of the
  lower part, as well as when they first issue from the prism ; and
  the remaining part of the divided solar ray, which passed through
  the upper part of the prism, will be diffused through the whole
  upper inch of the spectrum.         In the same manner the violet-
•
   coloured rays of the solar beam of the upper and lower parts of
   the prism must be parallel ; and, consequently, must be one
   inch apart, and that of the lower part must fall exactly upon the
  red ray of the upper part ; and the divided ray of the lower part
  of the prism must be diffused through all the lower inch of the
  spectrum.      Those parts of the solar ray which are between the
  extremes of the prism, will in like manner be divided, and have
  their coloured divisions parallel to the similar coloured divisions
  of the extreme parts ; and, consequently, the red ray of the dif
  ferent parts will be diffused through the inch between the upper
  and lower red ray; and the violet through the inch between the
  upper and lower extremes of the violet colour ; and the inter
  mediate colorific rays of every part, between the extreme colours
  of that part.     In the centre of the whole spectrum, the ray will
  be compounded of every colorific ray of the spectrum, and there
  will be no part of the spectrum, except its utmost limits, homo
  geneous.     In this case, for the sake of simplicity, the prism has
  been supposed one inch, and the spectrum, two inches broad ;
 hut, whatever might be the breadth, if the solar ray passed
  through the prism were of any considerable extent, the effect
  must be, in its proportion, similar ; so that no part of the spec
  trum except the perfect extremes could be homogeneous.           Yet
  in all these cases, the ray of light seems simply divided into the
  common prismatie colours ; .and each of the colours seems as
 pure^ aud distinct, as. when the solar beam is more narrow ; and
  they are all equally capable of being passed through another
 prism without decomposition;
      In confirmation of this reasoning, the effect of different phos-
  Vol. 50. No.235. Nov, 1S17.                 A a,          phoreseent

370                On the compoveni Paris           of Light,
phorescent bodies would appear to prove conclusively, that eatffi
coloured ray contains the component parts of every other. Some
of these bodies, when exposed to light, are capable of absorbing
it to a considerable extent, and again emitting it in the dark ; and
this, for any number of times. . The light which each of them
emits, is always of the same colour ; and this colour it absorbs
and emits to whatever coloured ray it may be exposed ; so that
from every coloured light it is able to obtain light of its own co
lour. This seems hardly capable of explanation, except upon
the supposition that the coloured rays are not homogeneous, but
are capable of decomposition by the different attraction of bo
dies.
     That this is possible, is further confirmed by the fact, that
light of one colour may be formed by the combination of two
other differently coloured rays of light.            Thus the blue and yel
low rays combined, form green rays. This could not be the case
if the green were homogeneous ; but if the colour arise from the
proportions of the calorific and chemical substances, it would ne-
cessari!yfollow,that if a kind of light containing an excess of one
of the ethereal matters should be mingled with another kind of
light, containing an excess of the other, the combined light
would be of an intermediate kind, and accordant in its nature
with that which, from other causes, contained similar proportions.!
     If the hypothesis before mentioned be just, it should explain
the other phenomena of colour ; and the degree of ease and cor
rectness with which it does so, will' form the surest test of its
truth.
   , Sir Isaac Newton proved, that bodies attracted the whole                so
lar ray ; and as the ray is not bound together by attraction of
 cohesion, they must attract every part, and consequently both
the calorific and chemical ravs.             They do not, however, attract
 them with the same force.             This is evident, from the different
 chemical influences of the two rays, which must arise from the
 different degrees of attraction for different substances.                But if-
 bodies attraet both kinds of ethereal matter, and in different pro
portions, if they should be placed in an atmosphere containing
 an excess of both, they will attract, and consequently reflect both,
 in quantities proportioned to their attractions*.                The combi*-'
                                                                        nation
     * This is
               probably liable to some modifications, from a well-known dif-
 fenence in the energy of the two rays ; particularly in those substances, of
 which the colours seem in some degree tg change with the degree of light*
 The calorific ray is less impeded by opposition to its progress, than the che-
 mieal ray.    It is less easily reflected, less refrangible, less stopped by a
 misty atmosphere.      It is possible therefore, that from this cause, in some
 cases, exactly the same proportions which are attracted may not be reflected. .
 This different energy may perhaps     be accounted for, by supppsing that the
                                                                         calorific:

                          and the Cause      of Colour*                   3/  1
hation'df the proportions reflected forms their colours.               This is
stronglv confirmed by the fact* that where no chemical change
takes place, the mixture of different coloured substances, such as
pigments, invariably produces some intermediate colour; that
is, that two substances attracting different proportions, when
lnixed, always attract proportions compounded of those two.
    The absolute visibility of objects, therefore, mav be supposed
to arise from their attracting the calorific and chemical matter
from adistance, which are combined as they are reflected. Their
colour depends upon the proportions attracted, and its bright
ness upon the quantity reflected, which is produced by the force
of the attraction, and the polish of the body. The degree of vi
sibility of bodies depends upon the force of the attraction, the
polish of the body, and the equality of the proportions of the
ethereal fluids.                ,
    The colour black may arise from the attraction of either one
of the ethereal substances, or from the absorption of all which it
may have attracted.           It is probable, however, that neither of
these eases is ever complete ; and that the old opinion,                 that
there is no perfect blackness, is correct.            Darkness is the same
sensation in the eye as blackness; and so evidently so, that al
most all the words in the language applicable to the one, are
used to describe the other.            Perfect blackness, therefore, would
probably render an object           as  invisible as total darkness.     The
contrast however, between light and shadow, and whiteness and
blackness, frequently makes the apparent effect complete; and in
each case, that depth of shade and colour appears perfect, which
a more careful examination shows to be widely removed from it:
while no known palpable substance is absolutely invisible, except
from its transparency; consequently, none can be perfectlv black.
    The more frequent cause of the common degree of that colour,
seems to be the absorption of nearly all the light attracted ; and
this is sometimes occasioned by mechanical construction,                    it
has been observed, by        Thenard, that when apiece of phosphorus
of,a pale yellow colour       is melted in hot water, and then plunged
into cold water, it becomes perfectly black; but it recovers its*
original colour, on being re-melted.             Dr. Brewster also, in pre
paring prisms of realgar, by melting it between two plates of
glass, found that this mineral, which has naturally a dark orange
colour, became of a darker colour as the heat increased, till at a
Certain temperature it became perfectly black.             It always, how--
ever,   resumed    its original   colour   upon cooling,  even  though im-
calorific particles are the larger ; and if the force of every equal part be
equal, the united power of the parts of the larger particle will be more
effectual than the divided action of an equal bulk composed of smaller par
ticles.                                             .             . .,      . ;
                                                 '
                                     A a2                            m£rsed

3/2                 On the component Parts         of Light,
tnersed in cold water*.          The colour of charcoal, probably, de
pends chiefly,       or only, upon its mechanical form.           The experi
ments on the great power of acquiring heat possessed by the co
lour black, would also induce the belief, that it usually arises
from the absorption of light.
     Bodies of every colour, probably, absorb a part of the ethereal
matter attracted by them ; and as the reflection of the attracted
light is from a mechanical cause, the proportion of the two ethe
real substances absorbed, will be the same, or very nearly so, as
 those attracted.        This will produce an expansion of the bodies ;
which expansion cannot with reason be assigned to one only of
 the ethereal fluids, if both be absorbed, but must necessarily arise
 from the whole of the ethereal matter which enters into combi
 nation.      The ethereal fluid therefore, whieh causes expansion,
 must be of different kinds in different bodies. This may be shown
 by experiments.
      If bodies are luminous from the attraction of the eye for light,
 ihe colour of the light must depend upon the nature of that at
 traction ; consequently, all bodies which are luminous only from
 their containing an excess of ethereal matter, as where they are
 so from temperature, appear of the same colour f.                This is liable
 to some evident modifications.            For if by any means, such for
 example as chemical combinations, a quantity of light is disen
 gaged, the attraction of the eye must be affected by the greater
 facility of obtaining       peculiar proportions. And though light is
 never so absolutely disengaged, as to be wholly unattracted; yet
  substances may, by stronger chemical affinities, have the attrac
  tion for a portion of the ethereal fluid so weakened, that it may
  be considered, when under the influence of another attraction, a»
  if absolutely set free. Different substances, it is well known, in
  their combinations with oxygen, emit light of different colours j
  and as the ethereal matter in the oxygen must in all cases be of
  the same nature, the other substances must have emitted different
  kinds. Those substances, therefore, must have contained different
  kinds ; for they could not have emitted that which they did not
  contain.      And as all the ethereal matter whieh they contained
  must    have   tended to their degree of expansion, we are brought
  to the same conclusion as before, that caloric, or the ethereal
  tause of expansion, is not of the same nature in all bodies.
      * Journal of Science and the Arts, No- III. and see the observations-
   there.
      f  The difference of the colour of heated solids as their temperature is
   raised, probably arises from a cause before alluded to, the different energy
   ef the two rays ; whence it happens, that at first as the light is barely abler
   to overcome the difficulties in its reaching the optic nerve, the calorific ray
   is more prevalent, giving the red tinge, which gradually fades to white, as
   the eye is able to acquire the proportions naturally attracted by it.

                       and Ike Cause           of Colour.                        373
    Light prorluces the same chemical effects which are attributed
to caloric ; indeed a property always ascribed to light is, that it
occasions a rise in the temperature.         Some effects, however, are
usually esteemed peculiar to the operation of light, as distinct
from its action in producing heat. This may easily be explain
ed, by presuming a circumstance very probable to be the fact,
which     is,that the ethereal fluid commonly afforded to the cru
cible or retort, may be compounded of proportions different from
those contained in the solar beam. This             confirmed
                                                       is          the ex   by
periments of Count Rumford, who found that many of the effects
usually attributed to the peculiar operation of light as distinct
from caloric, may be produced in an oven, probably from the
difference in the nature of the heat *.
    On this hypothesis, chemical decompositions will take place,
either from one of the component parts of the body combining
with the ethereal matter with more force than with the other
component parts    ;   or from the attraction of the different com
ponent parts being for dissimilar proportions of the ethereal
fluid, and with an intensity greater than that with which the parts
attract each other. And possiblv the influence of these combined
 attractions, which always operate in chemical combinations, de
cides, in considerable degree, those specific proportions in which
          a
other bodies are particularly disposed to unite;            being evident,
                                                                  it
that if   a fourth substance be added to three others for which                   it
has  a  chemical affinity, the proportion in which           will be most
                                                                   it
disposed to combine, cannot be produced              an attraction which
                                                       by
it  has for one, but must depend upon the proportionate attrac
tion which it'has for each, and which they have for each other.
    To put, as an example, one of the simplest cases.            two sub   If
stances, having   a chemical affinity    for  each  other, should   attract
the same proportions of the ethereal fluids, but one should attract
them with double the force of the attraction in the other, the in
fluence of the ethereal fluids would be, to induce            tendency in
                                                                       a
the bases to combine      in proportions    as one  to two.       one par  if
ticle of one substance should attract the two fluids with forces
 as four and two, and       a particle of the otber with forces as six
and three, three particjes of the first would attract them with
forces as twelve and six, and two particles of the other would at
tract them with the same forces          consequently, the same quan
                                         :
tity  of  the ethereal  fluids would   attract  three particles of one of
the bases, with the same force with which              would attract two
                                                             it
particles of the other and, according to the general laws of tem
                        ;
perature, which produces an equalization of the acting force of
attraction in all bodies,   it would tend to cause their combination
in the proportions of three and two.
                       * Philosophical       Transactions.
                                   A     a   3                                   But

374            On the pretended       Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.
    •
       But bodies generally, or always, attract different proportions
    of the ethereal fluids; and all chemical attractions,   probable,    it.   is
    diminish in force towards each particle, as the number of those
    particles increase;     while the attraction which           other bodies have
for the ethereal fluids, at all times operates to regulate the acting
force of their attraction in the combining substances. The sim
ple effect above described must always be very materially modi
fied     by
        these circumstances, as well as           by
                                             the degree of attraction
which the bases have for each* other; not, however, so as to ren
der part icular proportions of no consequence, but, probably, so as
    to occasion several specific proportions, in which the substances
    would be disposed to enter into combination with different deT
    grees of intensity.
        If, however, the attraction between the bases should be very
    small in comparison with that which each of them might have for
    the ethereal fluid combined with itself,       probable that the
                                                       it   is
    only way      which their attractions for each other would act,
                   in
    would be as compound particles, formed of each base and the
    ethereal fluids in combination with it. And when, from circum
    stances, this very weak attraction could operate with effect, they
    would probably unite in every proportion.     This probably may
    be the explanation of the mode of combination of fluids, and of
    the solution of some solids, which may be mingled and diffused
    through each other      all quantities.
                             in
        LXI.       On the pretended   Parallel Roads        of   Glen. Roy.         By
                                A   Correspondent.
                                    To   Mr. Tilkch,
    Sir, —I  am an enthusiastic admirer of geological researches,
although     mere novice in the application of its curious and com
               a
plicated principles to practice in the field; and having lately read,
in Vol IV. of the Geological Transactions, Dr. MacCulloch's
very elaborate account of Glen Rov, Glen Gloy, and others in
the vicinity of Fort William in the Highlands of Scotland;        was               I
anxious to learn without delay, the opinion of mineral surveyor  a
of some eminence, with whom          am acquainted, as to the suili-
                                             I
ciency  of the explanation offered of thi* singular phenomenon                           by
Dr.MacCulloch, whose paper found he had read when the reply
                                         I                           ;
of my friend was,      The pretended parallel roads of Glen Roy
                           'f
are the edges of horizon/at strata, and were not occasioned
either     the labour 'of man or the action of the surface of wa
              by
ter, as has been supposed."     He went on to explain to me, that
such tracts of perfectly level strata, at any considerable elevation
above the present sea} as he believed to exist around Glen Roy,
N
                                                                                    were

                             On Cosmogony.                          375
   were not less rare than the phenomenon of these roads or lines,
   there, is said to be: but, that alternations of strata, inclined
   in different degrees, so commonly occasion a change of the in
   clination of the surfaces formed by their edges, when considered
   across or perpendicular to their planes, that it was the most com
   mon of geological phenomena ; and that mineral surveying, as
   it had been discovered near a quarter of a century ago, and
   taught by Mr. Smith, the author of the Map of the Strata of
   England and Wales, &c., most effectively availed itself of this
  phenomenon, in the investigation of the internal structure of di
  stricts, from the form and nature of what appears on their sur
 faces.
      I endeavoured, hut without effect, topersuade my friend to make
  Dr. MacCulloch's paper the subject of a communication to your
  work, and therein to offer,   at length, the reasons for the opinion
  he had formed as to the cause of the singular parallel and level
  lines on the surfaces of the hills in question. The too common
  plea of want of leisure was brought forward as his excuse; and
  thus I have been induced to trouble you, in order to throw out the
  above suggestion, while this paper of Dr. MacCulloch may be
  under the consideration, or fresh in the recollection, of your geo
  logical readers, some of whom, 1 hope, will enter zealously on the
  further investigation of the subject, and promote the putting to
  the test the explanation thus offered, by cutting trenches down
  through the alluvia (as miners formerly were wont to do, in search
  of mineral veins), and sufficiently into the strata, to ascertain
  their nature and positions, right across the lines or pretended
  roads, in several places.                                       .
                        I am yours,
                              '        &o.
  October 4, 1817.                            A GEOLOGICAL NoVICE.
            L,XII. On  Cosmogony.       By H. S. Boyd, Esq.
                              To  Mr.   Tillock.
  Sib, — '   An    eminent minei-alogut lately put into my hands
  Kerr's Translation of Cuvier's Essay on the Theory of the Earth.
  Although it lay quite out of the road of my ordinary studies;
  yet as it came recommended by such an authority, I was induced
  to peruse it with attention.        To this work Professor Jameson
  has prefixed a preface, in which he intimates that the Mosaic
  history is remarkably confirmed in four particulars : 1 . The or^
• der in
            which the different animals were created : 2. The oc
  currence of the deluge: 3. The precise period of its occurrence :
  4 The recent origin of the human race.         Yet in other respects
                                 Aa4                                the

376                        On Cosmogony.
French philosopher seems at variance with the Jewish historian.
It appears not only from him, but also from Jameson and from
Werner himself, that the creation occupied a period of some thou
sand years; that fishes were formed long before land animals,
and land animals long before man.         Jameson thus endeavours to
reconcile these apparent discrepances.         He supposes, with Bi
shop Horslcy,     that  when our  globe  was originally formed it may-
have revolved on its axis much slower than it does now : and con
sequently that each day of the creation may have been a period
of a thousand years, or even a longer term. Now if we admit
that this is a complete solution of the difficulty, we shall be grant
ing little; for there are other difficulties which appear far greater,
 and at which Jameson has not even glanced.           I will state those
which have struck me most.
     1. It is most evident, from. the account of Moses, that all the
 animals which were created on the fifth and sixth day were alive
 on the seventh and at a subsequent period.          But according to
 Cuvier,   fishes without  number   perished before the sixth day com*
 menced, and beasts innumerable perished before the sixth day
 was closed.
     2. It is clear, from the words of Scripture, that all living things
 were made for the use of man.          But Cuvier informs us, that a
 multitude of fishes, and most probably of beasts, also perished
 before the formation of man.
     3. If only some individuals of a species had perished, or even
 if some species of a genus had become extinct, it might have been
 said that, as the genus was preserved, the purpose of the Creator
 was accomplished.        But it appears from Cuvier that whole ge
 nera of   fishes became extinct, and that new ones succeeded them
 before the formation of !and-quadrupeds, and that whole genera
  of land-quadrupeds became extinct and were succeeded by others.
  Hence it is apparent that whole tribes, both of fishes and of beasts,
  were created without any reference to man.
      4. Moses teaches us, that the earth was adorned with its beau
  teous garniture of tree* and plants on the third day, but that no
  living thing knew the luxury of existence until the fifth. But
  Cuvier instructs us, that fishes, and crocodiles, and serpents',
  lived and died long before the earth was fitted for the sup
  port of land animals.       Professor Jameson is most decided on
  this point, His great work on mineralogy was published nine years
  ago.    In the third volume he asserted that fishes appear to have
  existed before land-plants were produced.
      5. According to Moses, the reptiles were formed at the same
  time with the beasts ; but Cuvier tells us, that serpents and ovi
  parous animals in general were contemporaneous with the fishes.
      (j.Frpm tlie account which Moses has given, us      of  the deluge,
                                                                      U

                            On Cosmogony.                         377
it is clear that the highest mountains were completely covered.
 Cuvier however says, that when the primitive mountains had
once appeared above the ocean, they were never again submerged.
Jameson, in the volume already cited, asserts the same thing.
    7. All orthodox Christians are agreed in this point: That if there
had been no sin, there would have been no suffering; that suffer
ing of every kind is the effect of sin ; that Adam was constituted
the head and representative of the whole creation ; and conse
quently that all the animals participated in the consequences of
his disobedience.     But in this respect the Christian doctrine is
overturned, and, I may say, annihilated, by the system of geo
logists. According to them, whole races of carnivorous animals
inhabited both the sea and the dry land before the creation of
man ; consequently the brute creation must have been in a state
of pain and suffering before Adam fell. Cuvier, indeed, allows,
that while the face of the earth was covered with successive races
of land animals, the human race may have been existing in some
narrow region of the globe. But this will not remove the difficulty;
for Jameson and Cuvier both assure us that the sea was peopled
with fishes before the dry land was capable of being inhabited.
    8. Nothing whatever in the Scripture is more clearly taught,
than that the whole human race has descended from one father
and one mother.      Cuvier has an interesting chapter, in which
he inquires what are the greatest changes which can be pro
duced in the race of animals by time or climate, or any other
cause. He decides, that the greatest possible difference which can
 be produced, is not so great as the difference between one species
 and another species of the same genus. I think it must be ac
 knowledged that an European and a Chinese differ as much from
 one another as two species of a horse, or a dog, or any other ani
 mal. . Now as no reason can be assigned why time or climate
 should operate greater changes on men than on animals, it fol
 lows that the European and the Chinese- could scarcelv have
 been of the same species. But the difference between an Eu
 ropean and a Negro is far greater and more decided. It is there
 fore scarcely possible, according to Cuvier, that they could have
 sprung originally from the same parents.
    9. At the time of the deluge the earth was covered with the
 same race of men and the same kinds of animals as those which
 now exist ; they must therefore have been overwhelmed together.
 But Cuvier tells us, that although the strata of the earth abound
 with fossil bones, there is scarcely a single instance of a bone
 being found which belongs to an animal of an existing species ;
 and he maintains that there is no instance whatever of a hu
 man bone being found in a fossil state.        He maintains at the
 same time, that no reason can be given why bones of ineu should
                                                                   not

 378                      Ntw Quadratic Theorem.
 not have been preserved, a? well as those of land animals.             It
 necessarily follows, that when the earth was inundated by the
 last deluge it was not occupied by the present races of men and
 beasts.     Cuvier and Jameson will perhaps endeavour to remove
 this difficulty, by saying that at the last deluge the ocean changed
 its bed ; that what is now the sea was formerly the dry land ; and
 consequently that the inhabitants of the antediluvian world are
 buried beneath the great deep.         But I would ask, Is this Scrip
 tural ? Is it not contrary to the general tenor of the Book of
 Genesis, and particularly to the description which is given of the
 garden of Eden ?
     I could point out one or two more difficulties ; but I think
 that those already stated are sufficient to exercise the ingenuity
 of even the ablest man that England or Scotland can produce.
 I shall certainly feel the highest gratification, if any man of
 science will reconcile one-half, or even one-quarter, of the con^
 tradictions which 1 have enumerated.
                         I remain, sir, your obedient servant,
 Margate, Nov. 4, 1817,                        ,           H. S. Boyu.
 LXIII.     New Quadratic Theorem.          By Joseph Readii, M.D\
                              To Mr.   T'dlocky
 Sir, — Should         the following method of extracting the square
root    from compound quantities meet your approval, you wilj,
please to insert it in your Magazine, The Editor's remarks wilj
oblige                                           Joseph Reade, M.D,.
                                    Rule,
    1st.   Arrange the compound quantity according tothe dimen-\
sions of some letter, and set the root of the first term in the quo-i
tient underneath.       2dly, Multiply the root by 2, and divide the
second term by the product, placing the quotient under the se
cond term.       3dlv, Multiply the last quotient by 2, and divide
the third term by the product, placing the quotient under the
third term.      4thly, Square the last quotient, and by the product
divide the last term.       If nothing remain, the square number is
measured by      the square root thus found.        Like signs give plus,
unlike signs minus.
    We have inserted Dr. Reade's rule, as it may be of use to some
mathematicians;       but it 1s evident from the consideration of any
compound term a+/i+c that is squared.                  The square being
always equal to the sum of the squares of each single sum added
                                                                       to

                       Notices respecting New Books.               3/9
£o;twiee the products of those terms taken two and two.              All
%he   instances  accompanying    the  rule are too  long for insertion;
but we have selected one.
                  a1— 4(1*1 + Sab* + 4b*
                   a* — 2ab — 2b1 — 0. square root.
     Here the root of the first term a4 is a-, which we place in the
quotient; secondly, we multiply this ropt by 2, giving for a pro
duct 2a2, by which we divide the second term — 4a'Z>; the quo
tient is —2ab, which we place under the second term ; thirdly,
 — 2ab x2 = 4ab and -^-Sab'-z- —4ab gives — 2b1 for the third
term; lastly, —2b1 squared = +4i:t, which subtracted from the
last term leaves nothing. Therefore the square root is a2 —
tab -2^-0.
                LXIV.    Notices respecting New Books.
A     Letter  to Professor Stewart, On the Objects        of General
     Terms,  and  on the Axiomatical Laws of Vision.     By J. Feaun,
     Esq. pp. 32.
 o    F the two subjects treated in this letter, the author states the
 latter, on the Axiomatical Laws of Vision, to be that to which
 he is more particularly desirous of attracting public attention.
 The matter of the Laws of Vision he presents as exhibiting what
 he considers to be a mathematical analysis of the constituents or
 cause of Visible Figure ; and as falling properly enough within
 our ran.ge of philosophical duty, to contribute to the general in
 vestigation of a view certainly somewhat novel of an interesting
 branch of physics, we shall extract at length that part of the
 letter which relates to it.
               " ON THE    AXIOMATICAL LAWS     OF VISION.
                                 Preface.
     •" The most proper preface to the following subject, on the
  present occasion, appears to be that of introducing the fact as
  serted by Proclus [alluded to in the address prefixed to this
  publication].     In stating this fact, however, it may be of no
  small consequence to note, very particularly, that although its
  truth must attest the truth of the laws of vision, (which is my
  reason for bringing it forward here,) vet if the fact could be ac
  tuallv disproved, this could not at all affect these laws, since
  they do not depend upon, but include, the fact asserted by
  Proclus. Yet, nevertheless, I must add, that I believe my
  self to have distinctly proved the fact in question ; which, it
  is to be remarked, is not proved by Proclus, but only asserted by
   him.
                                                                    «In

3S0                  Notices respecting New Books.
     " In Mr. Taylor's translation of the Commentaries of Proclus
on the first book of Euclid's Elements, vol. i. page 125, is this
            '
passage : We should admit the followers of Apollonius, who say,
that we obtain the notion of a line when we are ordered to mea
sure the lengths alone, either of ways or walls ; for then we do
not subjoin either breadth or bulk, but only make one distance
the object of our consideration.       But a line may become the ob
ject   of our  sensation,  if we behold   the divisions of lucid places
 from those which are dark, or survey the moon when dichoto
 mized ; for this medium has no distance with respect to latitude,
 but is endued with longitude, which is extended together with
 the light and shadow.'
     " The perspicuity of the description of this fact is highly con
 clusive and valuable.        But I cannot avoid remarking, how
 strange it appears that any philosopher who had adverted to this
 fact in the particular instances of ' the divisions of lucid places
 from those which are dark,' should not have intuitively discerned
 that the principle is general, universal, and sole: which it must
 be, since light and contiguous shadow produce in us two sensa
  tions of colours with a line between them, just as is and must
  be, done by any other two colours whatever. — His not discerning
  the universality of the fact was the only thing that could have
 Itept Proclus from advancing on, to discern the four laws of vi
  sion and their axiomatical nature, together with their direct
  consequences.
                 " OF  THE EXTERNAL CAUSE        OF VISION.
      "1.  Distant   bodies are not, by any medium, the generic cause
  of vision  ; since sensations  of colours, accompanied by Jigures,
  are as constantly, and as variously, excited bv experiments of
  pressure upon the eye, and by other bodily affections, as they
  are by light reflected from distant objects.
      " This general fact, being duly recognised, ascertains of itself
  the independence of vision upon external distant bodies, and re
  moves a very great and most pernicious stumbling block, which
  has strangely been suffered to remain an obstacle to all advance
  ment, although uniform experience has long demanded its ex
  pulsion from the subject.
      " 2. When the optic organ is stimulated, either by light, by
  sensible pressure, by certain bodily diseases, or by any other such
  impulse, the mind undergoes a set of sensations called colours.
  Such are those beautiful phantoms that appear to us when we
  look at a rainbow, or a landscape'. These phenomena seem to
   adhere to external distant objects, like a skin cast over them :
  but there is no fact upon which philosophers are more unani-
   mous, than, that they are nothing but our own sensations.         It is
                                                                therefore

                      Notices respecting New Booh,                                 33t
therefore here assumed,              as a     first principle, by universal consent,
that phantoms of colour are but ' a                    species of thought.'
 "3.      With this only settled principle, it has ever been one of
the greatest problems in philosophy to discover the nature and
place of those outlines, that are seen as it were surrounding the
phantoms of colours, and to which we give the appellation of
visible figure. — There now exist only two opinions concerning
this matter : perceived figures are either the real identical forma
-of external and distant bodies ; or, they are actually the forms
of our own sensations, which, if so, do not show, but only indi
cate, some unknown external cause. The highest authorities
of the last century have divided upon this point : and the literary
public, impressed by the untoward character of the schism, ap
pear to consider all proof, or foundation on the subject, as a de
sideratum utterly hopeless.    Such is the discouraging introduc
tion to the following principles.
                    " OF    THE POSSIBLE           CASES OF    VISION.
   **All the possible cases, or accidents,                    of primary vision
                                                              fell
under four general facts, or laws.
   "  Each of these four laws is also an axiom: its truth does
not depend upon the laws of Nature, but on the law of thought;
since, the moment it is apprehended, we discern that its con
trary is impossible.  This forms the most striking and important
character of the phenomena of vttiou.
   " Two of the laws of vision are unformative, either of any
figure, or of any element of figure.
   " The other two laws are formative, either of some figure, or
of some element of figure.
                       **
                               First Law. — Unformative.
   "   Prop. No one uniform sensation of colour can ever be ac
 companied by a perception of any visible figure, any line, or any
 point.
    .** Inst. If the eye traverse the unclouded heaven, or           skhn    if
                                                                              it
 the surface of the sea, we shall undergo          uniform sensation of
                                                            a
 one colour; and here.it          sell-evidently impossible we should
                                         is
 ever perceive any visible figure, any line, or any point, so long as
 the sight keep within the field of this one colour.
     "    It  plainly as impossible to conceive
               is                                   visible line, without
                                                              a
 calling up some second colour, as         is to conceive
                                                   it         boundary toa               ,
 an infinite surface      for, any colour we perceive, must be abso
                           :
  lutely .without end,         be not terminated
                               if   it                 our view of some
                                                                  by
 second colour.
                           "   Second         Law. — Formative.
    *'    Prop, When any tffd unblended                                of colours are
                                                         sensations
                                                                                  felt

 382                 Notices respecting New Books;
 felt at the same time, they must meet by therr nearest edges, antf
 this meeting we must perceive, as d line.
    " Inst. If the eye traverse either the firmament, or the ocean,
 until it arrive at, and take in, any second colour ; the evidence wcf
 have for this fact can be no other than our being conscious wliere
 one sensation of colour ends, because the other begins.           This
 meeting of the two      sensations of colours, is a  line of contrast
 aiid of contiguity in our view: and a perceived line, therefore,
 is purely nothing but a thought of discrimination, which we
 make between two of our own sensations.           At the same time it •
 is plain, that we can no more avoid perceiving the contrast, and
 the extended direction of tlds contrast, than we ean avoid being ,
 conscious of the two different sensations of colours which form
 this contrast.
                       "  Third Law. — Formative.
    " Prop.   When any two unblended sensations of colours are felt
                                                                         '
 at  the same   time, and are so disposed as that one of them em
 braces or surrounds the other, we must perceive a line of junc
 tion, which is where the embraced sensation meets that which
 embraces it.      Such a line must return into itself, and thus is-'
 fornied every complete figure that the visive faculty can strictly
 apprehend.
    "  List. When we look at the moon, surrounded by the azure
 sky, we suffer a sensation of silver while, embraced by a sensa
 tion of azure, and the line perceived between these two sensa
 tions returns circularly into itself; which people take for the
 circle of the moon.
    "  It must be an obvious truth (although it is overlooked by
 Proclus) that, whatever be the hues or tints of the two sensations
                                                                        -
 employed, there can be but one universal principle that gives any
 perception of a line between them; and this principle is a per-,
 ception of contrast.
                   "  Fourth Law. — Unformalive.
    " Prop.    When any two sensations of colours are felt at once,
 and are blended or softened at their nearest edges, they never'
 can be perceived as forming any line between them, not, even,
if their distant parts be of the most opposite colours.
    " Inst. Let any surface be conceived to be black all round its;
edge, and white in its centre, and let the two colours run gra
dually into each other: no line can ever be perceived from look
ing within the field of this surface.
    " Innumerable other instances of this fact may be had, as when-
we look at waving corn, or shot silks, spheres, mirrors, or drink-
ing-glasses.
    " This fourth law strikingly illustrates the other three ; -because
                                                               "
                                                                 herein

                                 Notices respecting New                  Booh,                  383
herein we suffer two sensations of colours with a negation of all
figure, or line, between them ; and here, therefore, we are, by a
 new result, more vividly (though not more certainly) convinced
 that      not cofonr, but. contrast that
            it.   is                          the creative principle of
                                                                    is
 any perceived visible figure, or line.
    " To conclude. Visible figure          positive thing to our view,
                                                               is
                                                               a
but only     relative thing in regard to the two sensations
                   a                                                 co                        of
 lours which combine to give        being         nothing
                                                      it  but the
                                                                :  local
                                                                    it   is
 or co-extended relation of one sensation to the other. — To say,
 therefore, that we perceive visible figure,       to say that we per     is
 ceive the co-local or co-extended relation which one sensation of
 colour bears to another one, felt at the same time.
    " follows, upon the highest kind of evidence, that visible.
           It
fimire\s nothing but       creature     the percipient, — thought of
                                        a                  of                        a
            —
 the mind, yet, a thought resulting from the action of some ex
 ternal cause stimulating our visive constitution.
            "     THE LAWS OF VISION ARE MATHEMATICAL AXIOMS.
       "
       The four general facts of vision are herein called only Iawsy
because their subjects are,          the first place, sensible or natural
                                                  in
phenomena. But          must    be insisted
                                  it         upon that they possess    far                     a
higher title, in being mathematical axioms.
    " What renders this consideration most important, is, that even^
could      be proved that visible lines are not mathematical as to
             it
the property of being void of breadth, this (as has been already
remarked) would not hinder the laws of vision from being ma
thematical axioms in the class of their evidence, the self-evident
necessity of their truth.
    " Physical laws           agreed) are not necessary, in our con
                                       (it   is
ception: they rule what                           is,
                                     but may not rule what shall be:
light may fail to excite sensations of colours in the human mind;,
and sensations of colours may, for aught we know, be excited in,
minds without eyes: all this             conceivably possible.
                                                          is     But, to
conceive any one sensation of colour with a boundary or line to
a it or, to conceive any two sensations of colours at once without
  ;line between them,          an impossibility of the very same class,
                                             is
as to conceive an infinite surface with         limit, or two contiguous
                                                                    a
mathematical surfaces without the line that makes them two.
    " Now this perceived necessity of the laws of vision, a pa                            is
ramount test that       visible line
                                  a      not an external thing; because,
                                                          is
it      not merely an object of sense, but
       is                                           also an object of in is
tuition; —        not merely
                       it   is     thing that now a      but   thing that      is,   a
ever must be,      its co-efficients exist. Every external object
                            if                                                                  is
                                                                                                a
thing that may not be at any future time; and, while               exists,               it
we know not its co-efficients         but, we absolutely know the co
                                                      :
efficients of    visible line, hy the same process of rationality,
                            a
                                                                      aud

58-t                     Notices respecting New Books.
and to the same perfection,     that we know that the co'efficients*
of any idea of relation must    be some two things, between ivhick
the mind perceives this relation.    Here I must refer to the small
tract I published some time ago upon ' necessary connection ;''in
which my object is to show that we absolutely know the co-effi
ciency of all our ideas of relation; and in which I suppose the
thing is rigidly proved.    Now sensations of colours are ideas;
and I repeat it here, that we have the same degree of cognisance
of their relations (one to another) that we have of the relations
of equal, double, or half, between any two mathematical quan
tities; that is, we perceive the necessity of the relation so long as
the two subjects exist, and we intuitively perceive that the rela
tion cannot exist unless its two subjects exist.
     "What a change in the assumptions of mathematics, to find,
that its conclusions are not limited to hypothetical or conditional
truth, but embrace also facts, — concrete facts! What an enlarge
ment of the field of demonstrable subjects!
                   "   VISIBLE LIKES ARE VOID   OF BREADTH.
     *'This general fact         always to be remembered)
                               (it   is                        wholly
                                                                   is
 subordinate to the laws of vision, being included in those laws
 but not necessary to their truth.     At the same time, however,           it
is   afact rigidly demonstrable.
    " mathematical line (of the schools) demonstrated to be
          A                                          is
 void of breadth, in consequence of its being defined to be       the   '
 common boundary of two contiguous surfaces.'         Now,     one of
                                                               if
 the two surfaces be supposed blue, and the other one yellow,               it
is  plain the mathematical line of contiguity, and the line of con
 trast of the two colours,       one same line; and since
                                     is                       has no
                                                               it
 breadth as the common boundary between the two sui faces,                  it
 can have no breadth as the common boundary between the two
sensations of colours.
    " To attempt to invalidate this upon the ground of the imper
 fection of sense, would only prove that the person who under
takes      does not apprehend all the terms of the subject.
          it                                                     The
subject       isline that we see: and (without any appeal to the
                   a
suffrage of Proclus) we may safely maintain that we don't see
what ~we don't see.      The imperfection of sense only makes us not
see breadth, in some instances where breadth really        before us,
                                                          is
and where     a  magnifying power makes        evident: but the im
                                                it
perfection of sense cannot make us see breadth when         makes us
                                                              it
not see it. In rigid truth, therefore, the imperfection of the or
ganic process of sense causes the perfection of the mathematical
line we see; for the organ will not convey a report of breadth to"-
the sentient, in some cases wherein the external object that we
look at really has some minute breadth.
                                                              "    A    visible

                        Notices respecting New Books.                   385
  tf A visible line cannot be of
                                 any one colour; because it is proved
(by   the  first law)  that no one  colour ever can have a line.    If
then a visible line have any colour, it must be a part of each of
two contiguous colours : but this would show a double line to
every object, which we know to be a result utterly contradicted by
the fact. — Moreover, if any such double or two lines be supposed,
it is plain that each one is but a rim of its own surface ; and what
is surface cannot be line; neither can two contiguous sensations
of colours appear to us as forming a line, until we mark the place
where both colours cease to be, by reason of their coming in con
tact.
     "   It is true that we   see instances enough     of breadth in what
are called softened lines,       or where two colours blend : but none
of these are visible lines     ; they are all visible surfaces,   and they
must be stript of the appellation of lines, in an inquiry like the
present. — Visible lines are all those lines which are void of breadth
to the naked eye, and which can further attest that thev are
breadthless to the naked eye, by showing no breadth when sub
jected to a magnifying pouter. — Such lines are raised in our sen
 tient by our looking at the letters of good printing, as divided
from the white field of the paper; and such, too, aie seen from
looking at most other objects.
    ,c
       It is here an obvious truth, that a visible line which shows
no breadth under a magnifying power, can have no breadth to the
raked eye.       It is therefore vain to try to overturn the fact, even
 if we could by the strongest power produce any evidence of
 breadth: for it must still remain, that the natural eye of man
 enables him to see no lines, but lines that are void of breadth in
 his apprehension of them.
   "Finally: But in the face of experiment and of common sense,
                      if,
any person choose to assert that a visible line has invisible breadth;
then,    (I repeat it  here) this absurd contradiction in terms,        suf
                                                                       if
fered to stand for an objection, could be of no concern to the
 laivs   of vision;   for these laws must still be axioms, and     a visible
 line must still be nothing but a line         contrast between two sen
                                               of
sations   :  and the contrast line must still, and for ever, be where
 the sensations arc which form           it,
                                          which     in the mind itself.
                                                    is
       Hereupon, (urged       by the  moment  of  the evidence, and    bythe
infinite magnitude       of the   consequence,)     I make  the appeal, in
this one question,     —  Will it  (against the four axioms   of vision) be
ever affirmed, that visible fgures are the distant things of an
extexnal tvorld    ?    or, Will    itbe ever affirmed that visible figure
is  not   a phenomenon of the mind? — This             an appeal that can~
                                                         is
 not die."
Vol. 50. No.235,        AW 1817-                    Bb         LXV.         In

                                E  3S6     }
           LXV. Intelligence      and Miscellaneous Articles.
                             SAFETY-LAMPS.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.                        i
Sir, —     Y our    last number containing a particular account of
the proceedings at an entertainment, when a superb service
ofiplate was presented to Sir H. Davy, by a number of the coal-
©wners possessed of mines in this part of the kingdom, as a par
tial remuneration for the discovery of a safety-lamp ; , may I re
 quest you to give publicity to the liberality of another part of the
 spirited body of men in rewarding Mr. George Stephenson, who
still disputes the priority of inventing a safety-lamp with his
 more opulent and scientific opponent ?
     A description of this lamp, as it was exhibited to the Literary
 and Philosophical Society of this place, in December 1815, will
 be found in your Magazine for January 1816.
     "At a meeting held at the Assembly Rooms, Novemberl, 181/,
for the purpose of remunerating Mr. G.Stephenson for the valu
 able service he had rendered to mankind by the invention of his
 safety-lamp, which is calculated for the preservation of human
 life in situations formerly of the greatest danger :
     " Resolved, That it is the opinion of this meeting, that Mr.
 G. Stephenson havtng discovered the fact that explosion of hy
drogen gas will not pass through tubes and apertures of small
dimensions, and having 'been the first to apply that principle in
 the construction of a safety-lamp, is entitled to a public reward."
     In consequence of the resolution, between six and seven hun
 dred pounds was immediately subscribed, and it is thought the
 amount of the gratuity to be presented to Mr. G. Stephenson will
 not fall short of a thousand guineas.         Such rewards do equal
honour to the donors and receivers. But as few benefits are con
 ferred on mankind unalloyed by some evil, such I fear is also
 likely' to be the result from the introduction of safety-lamps into
 the coal-mines ; for, what effect can be expected, as far as relates
 to health and strength, from the use of a lamp which will consign
a vast number of workmen to breathe an atmosphere surcharged'
with carburetted hydrogen ? Accustomed from infancy to alter
nate heat and cold, and compelled to work in contaminated air,
the pitmen are far from robust or long-lived ; but an invention
-which will facilitate the opening of old mines for the sake of the
coal left in them, but which would not repay the expense of
 being worked by the light of steel mills, mast ultimately prove a
curse rather than a blessing to this laborious and valuable class
 of miners.
    Newca»tie, Nov. 8, 1817.                                    H.

                   •    -              Safety. lamps.                   ~>
                                                                                  387
  P. Si When ether                  is poured upon a    lighted lamp covered by
a wire-sieve, a lambent blue flame may be observed playing above
the wire-gauze ; hut the flame is innoxious, as it will not set fire
even to ether.
  I should be glad to hear from youself, or any of your corre
spondents, the cause of this phenomenon.                 H.
  Though          I
             have decidedly declared, in former Numbers, that
as cool an examination as I could give to the evidence, had af
forded me complete conviction that Mr. Stephenson was not
the original inventor of the safety-lamp. I have complied with
the wish of my correspondent, in giving the foregoing a place.
It ought to be preserved as a matter of fact, connected with the
history of the sciences.  For the same reason I subjoin the fol
lowing     :                                                                 A. T.      .
" Resolutions of aMeeting               ftejd for considering iheFacts relating
                      to the Discovery     of. the Lamp      Safety.
                                                              of
                                                         "    Soho-square, Nov. 20.
  "An                                      in the Newcastle Cou-
               advertisement having been inserted
rant for Saturday, November     1817, purporting to contain the
                                           8,
resolutions of     meeting held for the purpose of remunerating
                            A
                        c
Mr. George Stephenson for the valuable service         he has rendered
to mankind        the invention otihis safety-lamp, which
                       by                                        calcu       is
lated for the preservation of human life,       situations formerly of
                                                         in
the greatest danger," and asserting,
   " '^That         the opinion of this meeting, that Mr. George
                   it   is
Stephenson, having discovered the fact, that the explosion of
hydrogen gas will not pass through tubes and apertures of small
dimensions, and having been the first to apply that principle in
the construction of safet-lamp, a      entitled to public reward
                                                 is             a
    " We have considered the evidence produced various publica     in
tions    byMr. Stephenson and his friends, in support of his claims                   ;
and having examined his lamps, and inquired into their effects
in explosive mixtures, are clearly of opinion,
    " That Mr. Stephenson not the author of the discovery of
      I.                                   is
 the fact, that an explosion of inflammable gas will notpass through
tubes and apertures of small dimensions.
  "   2.  That Mr. G. Stephenson was not the first to apply that
principle to the construction of a safety-lamp, none of the lamps
 which he made in the year 1815 having been safe; and there being
no evidence even of their having been made upon that principle.
   "3. That Sir Humphry Davy not only discovered, independently
 of all others, and without any knowledge of the unpublished ex
 periments of the late Mr* Tennant on flame, the principle of the
 non-communication      of explosions through small apertures, but
                                           B     b2                that

S8S-          Steam Engines in Cornwall.         — On Fuel.
that he has also the sole merit of having first applied it to the
very important purpose of a safety-lamp, which has evidently
been imitated in the latest lamps of Mr. George Stephenson.
                                   « Joseph Banks, P.R.S.
                                   " William Thomas Brande.
                                   " Charles Hatchett.
                                   " William     Hyde Woljlaston.
                                   "  Thomas Young."
                    STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
    The following were the respective quantities of water lifted one
 foot high with one bushel of coals by thirty-three engines, re
 ported by Messrs. Leans' in the month of October.
                                                      |
                                                        Load per square
                                    Pounds of mater.    inch in cylinder,.
 25 common engines averaged            21,502,796           various.
 Woolf's at Wheal Vor          . .     31,690,248            15- 5  lib.
 Ditto      Wh. Abraham        . .     42,639,545            16- 8
 Ditto        ditto     ..     ..      26,851,707             4-3
 Ditto       Wh. Unity         ..      36,450,897            13-1
 Dalcoath engine        ..      ..     44,192,139            11-2
 Wheal Abraham ditto           . .     38,399,332            10-9
 United Mines ditto . .        . .     29,903,937            18-1
 Wheal Chance ditto            . .     32,320,346            131
                           ECONOMY OF FUEL.
    Sir,— The approach of winter        has suggested the propriety        of
 making generally     known the following composition, as likely           to
 produce much public benefit, if adopted by the middle and lower
 classes of society.    You will at once understand the principle on
 which they will answer as fuel, and of course admit this into your
 valuable journal.
    A mixture of sand, clay, and coal-dust or charcoal, or saw
  dust, made with water into a moderately stiff compound, are all
  the materials required, and these may be obtained almost any
 where.    The following proportions may be assayed until another
 more preferable may be ascertained by experiment.
                                                          i
                                                          J
  Coal, charcoal, or saw-dust, or the whole mixed
                                                              ^ ^
     together
                 •
                                   ..         ..                  C
 Sand of any kind                                    ..       2^1^
  Marl or clay         v.          ..         ..               \\'
     These parts may be pecks, bushels, or baskets, or any other
 measure at hand.       The mass to be made into balls of a conve
 nient size, moderately dried, and the work nA accomplished.
     They will not answer to light a fire with ; but the fire once
 brought to nearly a white heat, these balls will support it, be
 very durable, produce a heat incomparably more intense than
                                                                   conuaoft

                  Iron Bridges on the Principle of Tenacity.              389
   common fuel of any kind, and increase the value of the ashes as
    a.manure.   The mud swept up in the streets of London, and
   other paved towns, will answer admirably in lieu of marl or clay,
  or with a little clay to give it adhesion, as such mud must un
  avoidably contain a considerable quantity of iron.
      It may be observed, for the advantage of those unacquainted
  with chemistry, that sand is principally an oxide, that carbon at
   tracts oxygen from almost every known substance at elevated
  temperatures ; and oxygen being the cause of combustion, every
  substance containing it, which can be decomposed, becomes a
 supporter: these balls therefore will prove of material consider
, ration as a cheap fuel, and will, I judge by estimation, if judici
 ously managed, produce a saving of one half the quantity of coals
.i^sed in general.    To thousands this must be of valuable consi
deration.
    When the fire is at a sufficient temperature, it will be of still
further advantage to sprinkle it occasionally with water; this will
afford additional oxygen and produce increased effect : for this
purpose a small watering-pot may become a part of the apparatus
usually attached to a common grate.       The balls also will pro
duce a greater effect moderately damp, than when perfectly dry,
$nd when formed they should not be too much compressed.
                                I remain, sir,
                                               Your obedient servant,
Hampshire, Nov. 3,        1817.                           A Subscriber.
.        P.S. Balls of   a similar   composition    have been used in Wales
from         a very remote period.
         IRON BRIDGES ON THE VRINCIPLE OF TENACITY.
    The following is an explanatory statement, which has been put
in circulation, of the principle of tenacity, on which the iron
bridges projected by Mr. Dodd, engineer, over the Thames at
Hammersmith and Rotherhiths, are designed to be executed.
   In the construction of the newly invented iron bridges, on what
is termed the principle of tenacity, the objects are, to form and
adjust their several parts with a particular view to that important
quality of the metal, which disposes               it,
                                            on being stretched, not
merely to resist and keep its hold, hut to appear to draw or pull
in direction opposite to that in which the force that sets upon
         a                                                                it
   applied.
    is
    In the construction of other iron bridges the metal employedis
like any common hard and bulky substance that            capable of
                                                               is
having its pieces connected together      and the several pieces of
                                              ;
it are so arranged to rest and press against each other, as    they  if
possessed no other property than their solidity, extension, and
weight. In the Southwark bridge, for instance, we see the plates
                                        Bb3                               of

390            Iron Bridges on the Principle of Tenacity
of iron that compose the arch, cast on   a similar plan, arranged
in   like order, and depending in the same way upon one another,
     a
as the blocks of stone in the arches of Waterloo bridge, and re
quiring, in consequence of that arrangement, a coresponding bulk
and strength in the piers and abutments, not only to bear the
perpendicular pressure or gravity of the materials, but to afford
an adequate resistance to what is termed the lateral pressure, the
pressure of the sides of the arch, or bridge, upon the bases on
which they rest.     In the construction, however, of such bridges
as are proposed to be erected at Hammersmith and Rotherhithe,
the iron is made use of so, as that its property of tension should
be most effectively and advantageously employed, and the pieces
of which the structures are composed, are so adjusted with a view
to the mutual dependence of the parts and the independence of
the whole, as to diminish the necessity of bulk, without injury to
the strength of the fabric ; and to promote a proportional light
ness in its appearance and effect, at the same time that it almost
annihilates the occasion of the lateral pressure. An illustration of
the manner in which the weight or pressure operates in reference
to such an arch, will enable the reader to perceive the way in
which these important objects are attained.
  Let the action of an archer's bow be considered, when the upper
side of the arch is pressed by the hand, while its ends or points
are resting on a table.     The force applied upon the bow would
produce a spread, which, in the case of a bridge, would be termed
its lateral pressure, and which in that case would require a cor
responding strength and resistance in the building of the abut
ments or piers.     If the cord, however, be attached to the bow,
and the same force as before be applied to press   it,the cord would
seem to pull and counteract the spread to which the bow would
be disposed, and prevent any lateral pressure being experienced
beyond its points.      In the structure of an arch,  if formed as a
bow of iron, or in that of a bridge composed of       aseries of such
arches or bows, the like result must be produced,     ifevery arc be
furnished with its proper chord of iron, and that chord be, as care
should be taken that   it  should be, of adequate strength.    A  fa
miliar and accurate idea of such   a   figure mav be conceived, from
recollecting that of the brass segment which usually composes
part of a case of mathematical instruments.        An iron structure
of that form,if  constituted so as to be made an arch of bridge,
                                                           a
would not on any scale require abutments to resist its pressure,
or the weight that might be laid upon it.        It  would rest at its
points upon the upright standards that would be provided to sup
port and raise  it above the water, and would press or act upon
them only in a perpendicular direction, and in a way that could
most easily and economically be resisted.

                         A von-descript   Fish.                       391
   In this manner, without entering into a detail that might !>e
fierplexiug if not illustrated by visible figures, some notion it is
sipprehended may be formed, of the shape and structure of an arch
of such a bridge as is constructed on the principle of tenacity ;
and of the wav in which it is supported and elevated.      The same
principle is resorted to in respect -to the form and arrangement of
the several other parts of the structure, wherever it is admissible,
by giving to the iron pieces the shape of ribs, and connecting
them so as to constitute as much as possible, an independent body
that may rest upon perpendicular standards, which are to pos
sess sufficient strength, but to be divested of extravagant bulk.
By this construction, the least practicable degree of impediment
is presented to the passage of the waters and the navigation of
the river ; and the greatest oeconomv may be promoted in the
expenses of materials and labour, and of course of time and mor-
ney.    In the article of iron, one half the quantity it is said,
may  be  saved, that would be requisite to complete a bridge of the
same dimensions on the ordinary construction.
   Mr. Dodd, the engineer, the inventor of the system, has it
seems estimated the expense of the proposed Hammersmith
bridge, which will be 600 feet over the river Thames, at .30,000/.
and that of the designed gigantic structure, the East London, or
bridge of Trafalgar at Rotherhithe, though its chord will be
3,400 feet, and its altitude, to allow ships to sail beneath    it,
                                                                will
probably be 110 feet above the tide at high water, he reckons
will not exceed the sum of 300,000/. The latter structure will
consist of three arches, of 320 feet each over the water, and eight
others, of more than 300 feet eacli on the average, over the land
on either side.
                      A NONDESCRIPT FISH.
   Captain Mudge, one of the gentlemen employed in the Trigo
nometrical Survey, has stated, that       a few days before he left
Shetland, he had received     letter from
                                a             gentleman of large pro
                                              a
perty there, informing him, that     a fish of very singular appear
ance had been taken off the island of Unst, where Captain Mudge
had been stationed with M. Biot. The fish was to have been sent
to Captain Mudge, but      did not arrive in time, and therefore he
                           it
knew only from the description given of               by
                                                    his correspondent,
                                              It it
      it
which was very minute and particular.          was of the flat species,
about four feet long, and was most amply provided with fins but  ;
its distinguishing peculiarities were two antennce or feelers,
about eight or ten inches long, standing erect from the head,
each crowned with    afine tuft resembling flower; whilst on the
                                                  a
under part, near the breast, were two hands exactly resembling
the human hand, except that they were palmated or webbed.
                                                              Captain

892                           Mammoth.
Captain Mudge not having time to stay, left instructions with
M. Biot, who remained behind for the purpose of contemplating
the aurora borealis, to have the fish preserved in spirits and sent
up to London. We may therefore hope to obtain an opportunity
of communicating a more detailed account of this very singular
fish, which does not appear to have been described by any writer
on Ichthyology.
                    ANOTHER     MAMMOTH       FOUNT).
    Dr. Mitchill, of New- York, in      a letter to   Dr. Clinton, dated
 Chester, 27th May      1817,  published   in  a  New-  York paper, an
nounces the discovery of the remains             of a  mammoth    on the
preceding day in the town of Goshen, Orange county, within
sixty miles of New- York, in a meadow belonging to a Mr, Yel-
verton.     "The soil," says Dr. M. " is a black vegetable mould,
of an inflammable nature, and in reality a good kind of turf. It
abounds with pine knots and trunks, and was about thirty years
ago covered with a grove of white pine-trees.             The depth be
low the surface, where the bones lie, does not exceed six feet.
 There is reason to believe the whole osseous parts are here, as
they can be felt by expSoring-rods in various directions round the
spot.     It may be expected, that with due exertion an entire
skeieton can be procured, surpassing every thing of the sort that
 the world has seen.
    " Tiie region extending from Rochester along the Walkill to
this place, is full of organic relics.    The fossils indicate the for
mer dominion of the ocean ; and many of them appertained to
 creatures not now known to be alive.           The dimensions of the
 parts as given  me  by Drs. Seely apd Townsend are as follow :
    " Length of the tooth, 6 inches. Breadth of the same,
                                                                      '6\
inches.     Circumference of the lower jaw, including the tooth it
 contains, 26 inches.     Length of the jaw, making allowance for
 some detrition, 35 inches. Breadth of the articulating surface of
the lower extremity of the humerus, 12 inches.            Breadth of the
outer condyle of the same, 7 inches.        Breadth of the inner con
dyle of the same, 5 inches.      Depth from the anterior to the pos
terior part of this articulating surface, 10 inches.       Length of the
                                                                \
cavity of the os ci anion, 7 inches. Breadth of the same, 5 inches.
Depth of the same, 2{ inches.          Length of the ulna, 32 inches.
 Circumference     of the upper articulating surface of the ulna,
32| inches. Circumference of the articulating surface of the
lower extremity of the humerus, 35 inches."
                       DE LUC, THE GEOLOGIST.
    Died on the 7th inst. at his house in Windsor, after a painful
and lingering illness^which he endured with exemplary fortitude,
                                                                    John

                     De Luc, the Geologist.                     303
John Andrew De Luc, F.R.S., aged 90.            That celebrated and
indefatigable geologist has committed the result of his laborious
and multifarious researches, unremittingly prosecuted for up
wards of fifty years, to numerous works which place him on a
level with the most distinguished philosophers of this enlightened
age. Having visited almost every part of Europe, in order to en
large his knowledge and increase his collection of facts by personal
observations of geological phenomena, Mr. De Luc has thereby
been enabled to demonstrate the comparatively small antiquity
of our continents, and the difficulty of carrying back their origin
to a period more remote than that which the Mosaic chronology
has assigned to the flood.      It may also be observed, that Mr. De
 Luc has not only extended the limits of geology, and established
fundamental points in that scietice, but has been a highly suc
cessful experimentalist in various branches of natural philosophy
intimately connected with    it,   and in which he has made very
valuable discoveries.      Those concerning the mode of action of
the Galvanic pile are particularly interesting: he has ascertained
that, in Volta's pile, the chemical effects can be separated from
the electrical  ;   and these last led that ingenious philosopher la
construct   a  new meteorological instrument, very desirable for ac
 quiring knowledge of atmospherical phenomena, and which he
        a
 called the Electric Column.       It   well known that Mr.De Luc
                                        is
was a    strenuous opponent of the new chemical theory known by
the name of Lavoisier's.       He has shown in his two " Memoirs"
on that theory, prefixed to his Introduction a    la  Physique Ter-
 festre par les Fluides expansihles, that meteorological pheno-
 niena strongly militate against   it   and, in general, that the hy
                                        ;
 pothesis of the composition of water (the fundamental point in
 the theory) has maintained itself only      bynumerous other hypo
 theses which are in contradiction       with known facts.    Mr. De
 Luc's theories on evaporation, on the dew, on the formation of
 the clouds, on rain, &c., are grounded upon the most accurate
 experiments and patient observation of the respective pheno
 mena.
     Mr. De Luc was not less amiable as a man than he was emi
 nent asa     philosopher.   To the powers of an understanding of
 the first order he united the most endearing qualities of the heart.
  The warmth of his feelings, and the habitual gentleness and ur
 banity of his manners, were admirably calculated to procure to
 him friends, and to retain them when gained.        In the varied re
  lations of life, as husband, father, master, friend, he exhibited
  the most edifying model of the social virtues.      From the situa
  tion he held as reader to the Queen, Mr. De Luc had for many
  years daily aceess to Her Majesty; and that his faithful services
  were justly appreciated, was rendered evident from the flattering
                                                           testimonies

 394            List of Patents for imv    Inventions.
  testimonies of attachment and regard with which he was at all
 times, and more especially during his last illness, honoured by
  his Royal Mistress.
     Mr. De Luc was a member of several academies and univer
 sities on the Continent, and maintained a correspondence with
 the most eminent naturalists and philosophers during the greatest
 portion of the last century.     Many of his writings lie dispersed
 through various literary and scientific journals, foreign and do
 mestic r among others, the Philosophical Transactions, the Jour
 nal des Spavans, the Monthly Review, the British Critic, the
 Philosophical Magazine, and the Monthly Magazine. The fol
 lowing works may be mentioned as the most important of Mr.
 De Luc's publications : — Lettres sur I'Histoire de la Terre et de
 l'Homme, 5 vols. 8vo, 1779; Recherches sur les Modifications
 de 1' Atmosphere, contenant I'Histoire Critique du Barometre et
 du Thermometre, 1784; Idees sur la M£teorologie, 2 vols, in 3,
 1786; Lettres sur l'Education Religieuse de l'Enfanee, 1799;
 Lettres sur I'Histoire Physique de la Terre, adressees au Profes-
 seur Blumenbach ; Lettres sur le Christianisme,, 1801 ; Precis
*ur la Philosophic de Bacon, 2 vols. 1802; Introduction a la
Physique Terrestre par les Fluides expansibles, 2 vols. 1803;
 Traite" El^mentaire sur le Fluide Electrico-galvanique,      2 vols,
 1804; An Elementary Treatise on Geology, 1809; Geological
Travels in the North of Europe and in England, 3 vols. 1810}
 Geological Travels in some Parts of France, Switzerland, and
Germany, 1303.
                                   " .
                                                  *
              UST  OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS,
    To John James Alexander MacCarthy, of Milbank-street^
 Westminster,   Middlesex, for his road or way for passage across,
rivers, creeks, and  waters, and from shore to shore thereof, with
out stoppage or impediment to the constant navigation thereof, and
across ravines, fissures, clefts, and chasms ; and a new method of
constructing arches and apertures for the running arid flowing of'
water through the same, or under bridges, to be used and applied
in the construction of the before-mentioned road or way or other
wise. --Dated 28th Ju!y,1817.--6 months allowed for specification.'
    To Jephtha Avery Wilkinson, late of New- York in the United
States of America, but now residing in Covent Garden, for cer
tain improvements iir the application of machinery for the pur
pose of manufacturing of weavers' reeds by water and other power.
— 6 months. — 23d August.
    To George Medhurst, of Denmark-street, Saint Giles, Mid
dlesex, for his arrangement of implements to form certain appa
ratus which he denominates The hydraulic balance/applicable to
mechanical and hvdraulic purposes.— 28th Aug.-r-6 mouths.
                                                                 To

                        Astronomy.— Meteorology.                           395
     To James Mason Champness and Henry Binks, both of Ches-
hunt-street, in the county of Hertford, for certain improve
ments on axletrees of carriages of various descriptions. — 28th
Aug. — 2 months.
    To Joseph Manton, of Davies-street, Berkeley-square, for
certain improvements in locks for fire-arms. — 26th Sept. — 6
months.
    To John Dale, of White Lion-fitreet, Pentonvil le, Middlesex,
for his application of a certain material hitherto unused for that
purpose to the making of rollers or cylinders of various descrip
tion. — 3d Oct.— 2 months.
           ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA, BECEMBER.                   1817.
   D. H. M.                               D. H. M.                   .
   1.   .       yl       *  13' S.       12. 6. 4 T> eV?
             ?       s±
  2. 6. 7    ,) xHJJ                     12.   .    s 625 Mayer *9'S.
  2.    .    9  v'i» 25' S.              14.  .    9 /3 nk
                                                               * 5' S.
  3. 9-47    ]) yn t>                    17.14.46   J)  0   K
  3.23.22    D  9  n;j                   20. .      ])  in apogee
   5. 2.10                               21.13.25
                f
                   T1JJ                              >  <?
  5.    .    S>         *22"N.
                               *
                                         21.15.19  0    enters yy
  5.    .
             5  603 Mayer        1 1' N. 22.11.22  I   ) of 125 «      *9S.of
  5.1Q.14                                22.12.29 E $         5 Cent.
  6 15.30                                24.14.42 » u n
  7. •       5  in perigee               25. 6. 0 J) ^      s
   8.18.20                               27.12.12
                           * 22 S.
   8.    .   c? 98 k 8                   29.12. 9
  9.10.53    5  «f                       30.14.42 I ) of 7 hr * 5       N. of >
  9-14.27    11 <r  /                    30.15. 0 E ]        Cent.
 .  J .                                  31. 6.34 l) 8 rt)j
Meteorological Journal kept at Walthamstow, Essex, from
                   September 15 to November 15, 1817-
[Usuallv between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
                (a second lime) between Noon and Two P.M.]
Pate. Therm. Barom. Wind.                                 '
 September.
 15     61    29-98      NE— SE.— Hazy; and very damp; cloudy
        66                 day; cloudy.
 HJ 63 30-00 SE. — Hot, clamp, and cloudy; cloudy, and
        66                 windy day; sunshine after 2 P.M.; dark
                           night.
 17     53    30-00      NE.— -Hazy morning; fine hot sunny day;
        69                 dark night.    Moon first quarter.
 18     56    29-77      N — NE.— -Gray; rain early; slight showers;
        60                 rainy.
                                                                   September

  396                          Meteorology,
  September
  19-   56      29-87 SE — W. — Clear, and c irroslralus and cumuli ;
       J63               gleams of sun; moon and star-light; slight
                          aurora borealis.
  2p    50      29-98 \V. — Sun and while dew, and clear sky; cirro~
        62               stratus and sun ; very dark ; then sunshine
                          again ; cloudy.
  21   55     30-00   NW — -W. — Gray morning; fine day; cumuli^
        64                perfectly clear ; moon- and star-light.
  22    42      29-98  N.— Sun' and white dew; hot sunshine; aler
        61               2 P.M. gray and windy; cloudy but light.
  23    50      29-97 NW. — Gray morning ; clear; cumuli and
        63               gleams of sun ; fine day ; cumuli.
  24    51      29-98 N — S. — Hazy; fine sunny day; mottled cirro-
        66               cumuli ; moon and stars.
  25    59     29 60  SE — N. — Cloudy; wind and showers; fine
        63               day ; cloudy and windy.       Full moon.
  26   55      29'22  SE — SW. — Showery, and cirrostratus; very
        59-              showery day, and sun between the showers j
                         clear moon and star-light.
  27   52      29-43  SE. — Gray morning; showery after U A.M.
       56                till 4 P.M.; moon, stars, and cirrostratus.
  28   48      29-76  SW— W.— Gray and windy, and cirrostra-
       57                tus; sun and cirrns ; very fine day; clear
                         moon- and star-light.
  23   41     30-00   SW. — Hazy; fine sunny day; moon visible,
    ,  57                but not the stars.
  SO   46     30-00   N. — Gray morn; a slight shower early; sunny
       54               fine day; 7 P.M. star-light; 9, moon in a
                         corona ; no stars visible.
  October
    1  44     29-87   N.— Gray morning; fine day; bright star-
       57                light.
   2   34     30-00   N.— White dew; sun and hazy;            fine day;
       47               sun and wind; clear red sunset; star-light.
   3   29     30-00   S— N. — Sun and white frost and wind; fine
      51                  day; star-light.
   4  89      30-20   NE. — Clear sunshine;       fine day;  clear star-
      43                light.
   5   40     30-22   E. — Clear above; stratus low NW.         ;  sunny
      53                morn; cloudy; some drops of rain at 1 P.M.;
                       sun again ; star-light.
   6  35      30-22   NE—E.— Clear, and cumuli ; very fine day;
      54               star-light; aurora borealis 11 P.M.
.  7  45      30-10   NE—E.— Clear; cumuli, and wind; flue
            '  '
      56                day;    starlight.
                                                                 October

                        Meteorology.                             39/
October
 8   39  30-22 E.— Gray; cirrostratus;          fine day; cirrus;
     S3          wind and sun    ; cloudy, and dark after 3 P.M.;
                 star-liglit ; very beautiful aurora borealii at
                 ill p.m. cumuli;
 9   41  30-00 Clear and                   very fine <lay; cloudy;
     51          slight aurora borealis.
10   40  29-90 N — N by E. — Fine morning; clear and cu
     58          muli ; gray day, but some sun ; dark night ;
                 aurora borealis.       New moon.
il   42  29-90   —            —
               N N by E. Fine morn; windy ; a star early;
     52          sun and slight showers; very bright star
                 light.
12   43  3000  W — N by E. — Fine morn; showers, sun and
     53          wind ; bright star-light.
13   38  30-10 W — E. — Fine morn; cumuli, and slight
     51          showers and wii.-.l; bright star-light.
14   37  30-22 N. — Hazy and sun; fine day; sun aud cama/i;
     52          dark.
15   45  30-00 N by W. — Cirrostratus ; showers; star-liglit.
     48
16   42  29-88 N. — Showers and wind; very rainy till about
     43          2  P.M.;    fine afterwards;    rainy evening.
17   40  30-00 E — NW — N. — Fine        ;  wind and cirrostratus  j
     49          showery;     star-light.    Moon first quarter.
18   42  29-98 N. — Fine ; windy      ; showery day ; cloudy.
     44
19   43  29-88 N — NE. — Cloudy;           gray cold day;      soma
     47          drops of rain ; cloudy.
20   42  29-88 NE. — Cloudy ; showery ; cloudy.
     42
21   41  29-S8 N —.S. — Hazy; fine day; cloudy, but light.
     51
22   41  29-88 S — N. — Hazy, and cirrostratus; gray day;
     49          moon- and star-light ; bright.
23   43  29-88 N — NE. — Clear, and cirrostratus ; rain; fine
     49          afternoon ; light, but cloudy.
24   42  29-88 NE. — Damp, and cirrostratus ; showery day;
     42          cloudy.
25   40  29-86 NE — SE. — Hazy        ; gray day ; cloudy.      Full
     51          moon.
26   43  29-76 >SE.— -Gray morn ; clear, and       cirrus ; and sun,
     50          and wind ; fine day ; moon- and star-light.
27   35  29-75 S. — Foggy morn; fine day; rain.
     50'
26   35  29-44 SE. — Hazy low; cirrus and clear; high cloud*
     50          and wind    j rain ;   moon, stars, and cumuli.
                                                             October

398                            Metewologifi
October
29     39   29-45     SE. — Hazy low; clear and cirrostratus         high5 \
                         very fine dav ; bright moon- and star-light.
30    47    29-34     SE— SW— W.— Rain till about 2 P.M. ; fine-
      56                 after 2 P.M. ; moon in a corona ; stars, and
                         CtT TOStvCttliS-
31    46    29-55     SE— NW— W.— Rain ; rainy till after 2 P.M.;
       53                4 P.M. clear; windy, and some cumuli {
                         clear moon- and star-light.
 November
   I 33 30.22         SW. — White frost, and sun ;        Very  fine day   ;
       47                star-light.
  2    41   30-20     SE. — Hazy; cloudy day; dark night. Moon
       51                last quarter.
  3    50   30-20     S. — Hazy ; very damp and cloudy day ; dark
                         and damp.
  4    57   30-10     SE. — Hazy; cirrostratus and sun; dark
       55                night.                                    *
  5    47   30-10      S by E. — Foggy ; leaves fall very fast ; very
       56                fine day ; star-light.
  6    51    29-90    S by E. — Hazy ; cloudy; rain and wind,
       56
   7   53    29-87    SE. — Clear and cirrostratus; very fine day          ;
       58                rain.
   8   51    29-44     SE. — Clear and cirrostratus      ; a shower       at
       53                 1 P.M. ; fine day ; windy ; star-light.
   9   46    29-61    S — W. — Hazy ; sun and wind ; very fine day ;
       51                 dark night.     Full moon.
 10    46    29-97     S. — Hazy; clear above; gray day; some
       54                rain ; dark night.
 11    47    29-87    E — SE. —Fine sun-rise, cirrus and clear; rainy"
       57                 after 10 A.M. till after 2 P.M.; star-light.
 12    46    29-77     S — SE. — Clear and cirrostratus ; fine day,
       56                but damp; dark.
 13    41    29-77     S — SW. — Clear sunrise ; some stratus low ;
       50                 fine day ; star-light.      <.   '
 14    52    29-55     Clear and cirrostratus ; hazy low ; very rainy'
       53                 after 9 A.M.
 15    55    29-32     SE — NW. — Rainy ; showers and some sun
- s    55                 and wind ; star-light.     Moon first qunrter.
     Nov. 15. Ranunculus Flammula, Geranium Pyrenaicum, and.
 Geranium sarlguineum shooting forth fresh buds, and many
 plants still in full flower at Walthamstow ; a single swallow, seep,
 at Clapton the week before the last ; very few butterflies, wasps,
 &c. have been seen during the summer ; but in October many
 small flies made their appearance in windows.
                                                               METEORO-

                                Meteorology.                          ggj
          METEOROLOGICALX JOURNAL KEPT       K       AT BOSTON,
                              LINCOLNSHIRE.
                              LINCOLNSHIRE
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, Is at 1
                                                                P.M.]
          \ge o f
  1817.     the     Thermo  Baro    State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon       meter. meter.             of the Clouds.
          DAYS
Oct.   15     5       49-   30-14 Rain- -heavy at night.
       16     6       50-5  30-17 Fine
       17     7      47-5   30-27 Rain
       18     8       48-5  30-10 Cloudy
                                                      x
       IP     9       51'   30-15 Ditto
      20    10       49-5   30- 11 Rain
      SI    1 1       53-   30"    Cloudy
      22    12       50-    30-01 Ditto
      23    13       50-    30-13 Fine
      24    14       48-    30-06 Cloudy
      25   full      48-    29-95 Ditto
      26    16       50-    29-85 Ditto
      27    17       47-    29-66 Rain — heavy at night— rime frost
      28    18       40-    29-50 Ditto— heavy P.M.
      29    19       45-    29-59 Fine
      30    20    ,  52'    29-25 Rain
      31    21       40-    29.80 Ditto — heavy A.M.
 Nov. l     22       48'    30-41 Fine
        2   23       48-    30-19  Cloudy
        3   24                                                          3
                     57-    30-34  Fine
        4   25       51-    30-17 Cloudy
        5  26        50-    30-04 Ditto
        6   27       54'    30-05 Foggy
        7  28        58-    29-81 Ditto
        8   29       54-5   29-55 Stormy
        9 new        51-    29-79 Cloudy— fine      P.M.
      10     1       53-    3007 Very fine
                '
      11     *       50'5   29-81 Rain
      12     3      .53'    29-79 Cloudy
      13     4       49-    29-88 Fine
                                                                MKTBORO

40Q                                                   Meteorology.
                                           meteorological table,
                                By Mr. Gary, of the Strand,
                                                For November 1817*
'       1
                        '1      heruiotm,ter.
                                                                               7
                                                                             ^
                                                                             Q       0
    Days of                                              Height of
                                                ££                                   g
                     o'Cluck,
                                                                                                 Weather.
                                lorning.
                                           05
                                                         die Barom
    Mo.itii.                                    <->,Sf
                                                           Inches.
                                                =    2                              g
                     »f                         1                            M>8
                                                T~t
    Oct.    27       40                    50    42      29.45                 17         Fair
                                                                                                                .
            28       38                    50    42         •35                0         jRain
            29       40                    47    38         •37                10         Cloudy
            30       50                    57               •20                          Stormy
                                                                               0 0
                                                4 7
            31       46                    51    38         •52                           Rain
     Nov.    1       38                    52   44       30-30                 14         Fair
                     46                    55    55         •12                12         Cloudy
             4 3 £
                     54                    54   50          •07                4          Cloudy
                     52                    55   48          •02                 8         Fair
                     49                    57   50       29-87                16         Fair
             6 5                           58                                 21         Fair
                     54                          52         •78
             7       54                    57    50         •56               22         Fail-
                     53                    55    50         •40               10         Stormy
             9 6     52                    52                                            Fair
                                                49          •69               17
            10       48                    55   50          •96               22         Fair
            1
            1        50                    54   50          •61                          Rain
            12       50                    55   52          •79               10         Fail-
            13       47                    50   50          •72               21         Fair
            14       53                    55   55          •4                           Rain
                                                                               0 0
                                                                 2
            15       55                    54   50          •46                          Showery
            16       50                    55   52          •9-1              10         Fair
            17       54                    59   52       30- 20                6         Cloudy
            18       53                    56   47          •32               10         Cloudy
            19       40                    50   40         •40                14         Fair
            20       38                    50   48         •30                 5         Fair
            2)       45                    50   47       29-86                17         Cloudy
                                                                                                            •
            22       42                    46   45       30-14                16         Fair
            23       45                    47   46          .01               10         Cloudy
            24       46                    50   40       2972                1
                                                                             1           Cloudy
            25       35                    40   41         •91                14         Fair
            26       40                    52   46       30-01                6          Cloudy
                                                                                     j
                 N. B. The Barometer's height                        is   taken at one o'clock,

                                   [  401    ]
  LXVI.         On a volatile concrete Oil existing in the Nut-galls of
        the Oak.      By Dr. Jos. Branchf, Professor of Chemistry in
        the Imperial and Royal University of Pisa. Contained in a
        Letter from Dr. Branchi         to Sig. R. Gerbi, Professor      of
          Theoretical  Physics.
  w hen           I spoke to you some time ago of      a volatile concrete
  oil which I had obtained       from  oak-galls by  the  same means with
  which other volatile oils in general are extracted from aromatic
  vegetables, I promised to give you a more extensive description
  of it. I now fulfil mv promise in this letter.          In the beginning
  of 1814, having distilled a few ounces of oak-galls broken and
  steeped in a sufficient quantity of water, I observed swimming
  on the odorous and turbid fluid which had passed into the re
  ceiver some drops of an oil, which in a short time became solid.
  Various occupations, especially those of my professional chair,
•
  and a series of experiments which I had' commenced on the che
   mical properties of -colouring matters, hitherto prevented me
   from investigating this fact.       But having repeated the distilla
   tion of galls, I obtained, as before, some drops of oil sensibly yel
   low, swimming on the surface of a whitish odorous and saporific
   liquid, which in the space of some hours became- sufficiently clear,
   by the precipitation of a whitish substance in flakes heavier than
   the liquid itself.      On filtrating the fluid through blotting-paper,
    these thin semitransparent and shining flakes remained, and
    were the same drops of oil which had taken the character of a
    white odorous opaque unctuous matter, and of a consistence
    nearly similar to what is called butter of cocoa.            This white
    matter, it appears, differs from the above-mentioned thin flakes
    by having less specific gravity, and by its aspect, which is not
     shining ; but both have the property of volatile oil — both have
     the following characters :
      ,    1st. They have a bitter caustic taste, and the same odour as
     galls when pulverized.
           2d. They are slightly soluble in water, which imbibes their
      smell and taste.
           3d. They readily and copiously dissolve in alcohol.      The so
      lution which results is rendered turbid by a small quantity of
      water, but in more or less time it reassumes its transparency by
      the addition of a proportionate quantity of water.
           4th. They unite to fixed oil, as that of olives; and to the vo
      latile oils, as turpentine and lavendor.
           5th. Exposed on a piece of biotting paper (or even writing
       paper) to the action of a slight degree of heat, they liquefy and
    •
       anoint the paper so as to render it diaphanous.            Continuing
        ,  Vol. 50. No.236. Dec. 1817.               C  c            however

 402                     On   a volatile concrete  Oil
 however the heat, they rise in a visible odorous vapour, and the"
 paper becomes opaque without retaining any trace of unctuosity.
 Moreover, this oily spot entirely disappears from the paper by
 the action of the solar rays, and even by the mere temperature
 of the atmosphere.       By the latter mode the spot did not vanish
till after twentv-eight days, during which the thermometer of
 Reaumur did not indicate a temperature above 14".
     6th. Liquefied and absorbed by a cotton thread, they inflame
 when brought into contact with the flame of a candle.
     7th. Spread and pressed on paper coloured with turnsole, the
paper reddens very sensibly.
    Lastly. The solution of sulphat of iron neither makes them
become violet nor black.
    These properties, however, sufficiently prove that this sub--
stance is a volatile concrete oil, and consequently canuot be con
 founded with gallic acid.       Nor does the circumstance of its red
dening the paper containing tincture of turnsole furnish any
objection, as M. Vogel asserts that he has found no volatile oil,
however recent, which wants the property of changing to red
this tincture *.
    The liquid from which this oil was separated by filtration, had,
like what is called aromatic water, the same taste and smell as
the oi'l itself.   It did not change to violet or black the solution
of sulphate of iron, — hence, did not contain gallic acid; and it
gave a slight tinge of red to the blue of turnsole.         This redden
ing was owing perhaps to the acetic acid, which is found free in
galls, and passes over with the water in the distillation, as Bouil
lon Lagrange has shown f.
    The galls from which I extracted the above-mentioned volatile
oil are small, heavy, of a reddish-yellow or orange colour, more
or less tending to dark or to blackish, wrinkled externally with
some protuberances, and not spongy internally.             The next ob
ject was to know if the same oil existed in the nut-galls of the
oak in general ; and with this view I procured galls of different
qualities which are distinguished by the following appellations :
Italian or luscan galls, Istria galls, yellowish and black, Alep
po or Smyrna galls.
    Wishing that the experiments about to be performed should
be comparative, I distilled separately six ounces of the above-
mentioned kinds of galls with eight ounces of water J, in a glass
retort placed almost superficially on a sand-bath, the mouth of
which touched the bottom of a small receiver which I had united
   * Journal  de Physique, lxxx. 2S6.     + Annates de Chbnie,lx.  1/3-5.
    X The same quantity and quality of galls do not absorb an equal dose of
water, so that in the above eight ounces there was more or Jess superabun
dant.
                                                                          to

                existing in the Nut-galls    of the    Oak.             403
to the neck of the retort with a moistened bladder; and tied             it,
after having put a slender thermometer for security.            The re
ceiverI    kept always cool with wet cloths, and           Istopped the
distillation when about two ounces of the liquid had passed over,
that  is, as soon as the galls became apparently dry.
    The Italian galls (galli nostrali) are generally larger than
those already described, almost entirely round, as the con
striction which forms the point of union with the stem or leaf           ia
very short  ;   they are light, not covered with tubercles or ex*
crescences, more or less smooth, spongy internally, and of yel      a
lowish colour, more or less deep they yielded an odorous, sapo-
                                    ;
rific, and whitish liquid*, without the drops of oil. Preserving
this liquid in  a  bottle with a  ground-glass stopper, after several
hours some small white flakes were precipitated, #hich were
heavier than the liquid itself, and on their surface were seen two
small particles equally white.         The liquid being then filtered
through paper,    I  observed that the paper      by   aslight heat be
came in some parts oily and diaphanous, and that by             agreater
heat these same parts resumed their opacity, while an odorous
vapour ascended from them.
    The Istria galls, which did not perfectly resemble those with
which made the first experiment, furnished an odorous, saporific,
      I
very opaque and white fluid with drops of oil on its surface.            It
is  to be observed, that some small drops of oil also appeared in
 the neck of the retort.       This fluid after reposing threw down
many heavy particles, and in two or three days became limpid.
 By filtration  I  separated about      1| gr. of concrete volatile oil,
 partly in the state of drops, and partly in that of brilliant flakes,
 which had all the above characters.
    The black Istria galls are small, more or less wrinkled, na
 turally blackish, somewhat compact internally, and similar to
 those which, according to Klaproth and Wolff (Dictionary of
 Chemistry) ,    come from Aleppo and Smyrna.          The odorous and
 saporific fluid obtained    by distillation from them was less white
 and opaque than the preceding      ;   it had on its surface   a greater
 number of drops of oil, which appeared           by the numerous oily
 particles on the neck of the retort, and on settling deposited a
 few white particles.     These particles with the oil weighed if-gr.,
 and had all the properties of the concrete volatile oil already de
 scribed.
     Lastly, the Aleppo and Smyrna galls are of various sizes and
 colours, as whitish, and inclining to yellow, red, green, and
  *  This odour, which is  owing to the volatile oil, becomes more sensible if
we make a decoction of the galls in the matrass. When the liquor has
boiled a little, the odour diminishes in consequence of having evaporated
the greater part of this oil.
                                   C   c
                                       2                            brown;

404                     On a volatile concrete Oil
brown; not entirely     smooth", but with protuberances sufficiently
considerable :    and their cellular tissue is in general of a medium
consistence between that of the Italian and the Istria galls.-
These galls yielded a fluid saporific, odorous, a little whitish, and
without a drop of oil. After settling, there appeared visible, near
its surface, a very small part swimming, which, with agitation, be
came more conspicuous.       Separating this by nitrating paper, and               .
then exposing the paper to a moderate heat as usual, an odorous
yapour arose, but less copiously. .1 have obtained a similar re
sult from another kind of Aleppo galls, which differed from the
preceding in being all of a greenish colour.
    From these experiments, therefore, it appears that the volatile
oil here spoken of is contained in all the above kinds of galls,
but not in ?he same quantity ; and it is to be observed, that those
called Istria galls and black Istria galls, which yielded the
greatest quantity, are also those which have more odour when
pounded.
    I have twice repeated the same experiment without the least
essential difference*.   The odorous fluids, which reddened more
or less the paper tinged with turnsole, by containing a greater or
less dose of acetic acid, sometimes became limpid in a short
time, and sometimes remained turbid many days.         Some have
had no sensible colour, nor did they blacken the solution of sul
phate of iron ; others were slightly yellowish, and evinced by
means of this sulphate that they* contained a small quantity of
gallic acidf. Perhaps these last characters were in consequence
of some little of the powder of the galls remaining in the neck                        -
of the retort, notwithstanding the pains which I took in clear
ing it.
   The bark of oak and the gland seem to contain a very small
quantity of our volatile oil, as, having submitted them separately
to the same process of distillation J, they yielded a fluid some-
   * In the second distillation of six ounces of Istria galls I obtained some
what less than a grain of volatile oil, and a little more than a grain from the
same quantity of Istria black galls.      It is also to be remarked, that the li
quor in the former was less turbid than in the latter, and that the volatile
oil separated from the last did not appear in the receiver like drops, but
formed on the surface of the liquor a thin film which became more opaque
as it cooled.   Deyeux from the same quality and quantity of galls did not
always obtain the same quantity of extract, but sometimes more and some
times less .
  -f-This liquid, wli'ch
                       I    filtered and preserved in bottles with ground-glas*
stoppers, became more or less altered in the course of month. Such an
                                                           a
alteration, and particularly in odour, appeared very conspicuous on com
paring     with that recently distilled.
          it
 \    i'or the distillation of six ounces of bark, eighteen ounces of water"
we/e necessary to have some superabundant, and fourteen ounces for tha
giauds.
                                                                          what

                  existing in the Nut-galls        of the  Oak.             405
.what    whitish, and with     a slight odour analogous to that of the
oil,   as  has been    observed by many of my friends and pupils to
whom I have shown it.           After settling, there appeared in the
bottoms of the bottles in which I had placed these distilled fluids
some verv small white particles, but the pieces of paper used for
filtering them, when exposed to heat, did not yield any sensible
odorous vapour.
     I believe that I do not deceive myself in saying, that no notice
relative to this concrete volatile oil is to be found in Chaptal's
Elements of Chemistry, in Deyeux's Memoir* on the nut galls
of the oak, in Fourcroy'.s System of Chemical Knowledge, in the
Chemistry of the Encyclopedie Mcthodique, nor in Thomson's
Chemistry.         It is true, Bouillon Lagrange in his Fails pour
 servir a V Hisloire de I' Acide galiique, published in 180t>, has
 observed, that when this acid is extracted from galls by the me
thod of Deyeux, that is by sublimation, it contains a small quan
tity of volatile oil, which he considered merely as a product of
the sublimation ; saying, " it cannot be doubted that there is
formed in the liquor some acetic acid, which acting on a portion
of tannin and extractive matter, constitutes the gallic acid of
Scheele ; but this combination becomes more intimate, and even
varied, by the aid of caloric. We have a proof of it when we ob
tain this acid by means of sublimation ; not only the tannin is
decomposed, but the acid remainsjombined with a volatile oil
which is formed f."          In confirmation of this, I have not found
any mention made of a volatile oil, as a constituent part of the
nut-galls of the oak, in any work subsequent to the publication
of this memoir ; such as, among others, Rrugnatelli's Chemistry
and Pharmacopoeia ; Klaproth and Wolffs Chemical Dictionarv;
the Annotations of Professor Morelli ; Thenard's Chemical Trea
tise, published last year in Paris; and lastly, Sir Humphrv
Davy, who has recently analysed these galls without speaking of
any volatile oil contained in them.            The latter found that 500
grains of Aleppo nut-galls yielded 185 grs. of soluble matter,
which was composed of tannin 130 ; gallic acid united with a lit
tle extractive matter31 ; mucilage and matter rendered insoluble
by the evaporation 1 2 ; carbonate of lime and a saline sub
stance 12 : add to these, the ligneous part when burnt contained
much calcareous carbonate J.
                                                                    Notwith-
   * Ann. its Chimle, xvii. 3. According to this author, Aleppo galls are
composed of a raucous body, of a true extractive matter, of a pai titular kind
of resin, of a green colouring part, of gallic acid, and a ligneous tissue. Af
terwards he observes that it is possiile that other substances may have
escaped his research.          + Ann. dtt Chimle, lx. 180.
   J  Thenard, Trade de Chimie, iii. 343.     Note by the Translator-   This oil
keeps very well in a properly-stopped bottle, i3 of the consistence and co-
                                     C c3                                  lour

406                       On   tfie   Atomic Theory,
.
      Notwithstanding the silence of      many most respectable
                                                  so
writers authorizes me in believing that none before me has ex
tracted from the nut-galls of the oak a volatile concrete oil ; yet
it is still possible that some chemist, especially a foreigner, may
have anticipated me, not only in obtaining                  it,
                                                 but in announcing
it to the public, without my having any knowledge of the fact.
    In such          shall always reflect with pleasure on my hav
              an event,
                      I
ing rendered   more common        this letter the knowledge of
                                       by                                              a
fact certainly not contemptible, inasmuch as       appears to have
                                                              it
been unknown to the above chemists as well as to myself.
                                      I     am, &c.
Pisa, June 1816.                                                    J.   BraNCHI.
LXVII.                            An Extract
              On the Atomic Theory.              M. H. Gaol-       of
      tier    de   Claubry, from  " Journal de Physique" for
                                           the
      May 1817, page 392. Translated, with Remarks,   W. B.                 by
It     often occurs in the sciences, thatdiscovery rests unknown
                                                  a
even in the country which gave     birth, and that
                                             it          long time      a
afterwards, the same  object having drawn attention,     men dis
cover    former work written on the same subject. For example,
         a
in 1630, John Rey discovered the cause        which lead and tin,
                                                       by
increase in weight when sufficiently heated, and     was not until it
the immortal labours of Lavoisier that chance drew attention
towards the work of Rey.       might also happen that two scien
                                      It
tific men engaged in similar researches should arrive precisely at
the same results without knowing any thing of each other's la
bours*; but, under all circumstances, the discovery of right be
longs to the person who had first published on the subject, more
especially when the author has not only observed          principal     a
fact, but at the same time developed the consequences which
flow from it.   Under this point of view,    appears to us incon
                                                       it
testable that Mr. Higgins was the first who developed and pub
lished the Atomic Theory, and anticipated that of Definite Pro
portions, which the labours of MM. Proust, Dalton, Berzelius,
Gay-Lussac, &c. have afterwards fully established.     In the work
under our consideration Mr. Higgins claims priority as to the
Atomic Theory, the base of which he announced to the public
lour of good old honey,    and has evidently the aroma and taste of galls.
Placed on paper and exposed to the flame of a wax candle,     instantly melts,
                                                                   it
and the paper becomes oily and transparent     in this state, when again ex
                                                  ;
posed to the flame,   immediately evaporates, and leaves the paper so clean
                     it
that one may afterwards write on     with the greatest ease.
                                       it
   * It possible indeed for two
         is                      persons to hit upon the same solitary fact
or discovery, but not on new system which engaged an octavo volume.
                          a
                                                                                 Tn.
                                                                                   in
                                                                             "
                                                                            i

                           On the Atomic Theory.                          407
in 1789, in a work entitled " Comparative View of the Phlogistic
and Antiphlogistic Theories," and which Mr. Dalton has on hi*
side presented in his New System of Chemical Philosophy, and
which generally has been called the theory of Mr. Dalton.
   The character of so distinguished a philosopher as Mr. Dalton
will not allow us to suppose that he acted the part of a plagiarist
towards Mr. Higgins.      Still however we must in truth say,
that the work cited of the latter contains in nearly the same ex
pressions the hases and the principal facts which Dalton brings
forward as the foundation of his theory.       These two Savans
have, therefore, arrived at the same result ; but the work of
Higgins remained little known, having appeared at a period when
it was almost impossible to understand views so ingenious and
novel in the theory of combinations, whilst on the other hand
that of Mr. Dalton, dated only a few years back, attracted public
attention,     and the theory which         he   expounded   had taken his
name.
   Mr. Higgins (in the Philosophical Magazine) justifies his claim
by citing a great number of passages from his old work, in which
appear views exceedingly remarkable on the combinations of
metals and oxygen ; but particularly on the important facts re
specting the combinations of azote and oxygen.                 That work
being  scarcely  known    in  France,  it is  not surprising  that, on the
occasion of the theory proposed by Mr. Dalton, nobody should
revert to the labours of Mr. Higgins; but what appears to us
very astonishing     is,
                       that in England no person ever mentioned
any thing about     it
                     ;but above all, that Dr. Thomson, who knew
the work of Mr. Higgins, should say in his Journal,              in conse
quence   of a  work   of   Professor   Berzelius    on  determinate   pro
portions, that Mr. Higgins had only made known some remark
able facts on .the combinations of gas in definite proportion-!       ;but
that Mr. Dalton was the first who generalized that doctrine
glanced at     by
                Bergman, Cullen, Black, &c., and also determined
the weights of the atoms of bodies *.
   Mr. Higgins, in drawing the attention of the public to his first
work, has decidedly removed all doubts respecting the question
of priority but that does not diminish the importance of the
               ;
work of Mr. Dalton, who arrived at the same results, and had
developed them in so learned        a manner.
   The theorv of defmite proportions            one of the most beauti
                                                 i*
ful results to which one could hope chemistry should lead one         ;
cannot arrive at     it,
                       like all the discoveries of the human mind,
but  by
     a    suite of researches and       acollection of great number of
                                                        a
   * Dr. Thomson's conduct towards Mr. Higgins on the whole of this busi
ness appears very unfair and unjust, as Mr. Higgins himself has shown in
preceding numbers of the Philosophical Magazine. — Ta.
                                C c 4                                 correct

40S                         On the Atomic Theory.
correct analyses : but this theorv is now supported by so great
a number of facts, that there is very little fear of its being er
roneous. Perhrps some' exceptions will be found to established
rules, but they cannot subvert the great mass of facts which
eerve for its br^e.       The same law of defmite proportions extends
itself also to a;.imal and vegetable substances, as the interesting
labours of M. Che rcnl have recentlv shown; and it is very
probable that, in continuing to examine carefully the combina
tions of all bodies, it will be found that they constantly combine
agreeably to the same law.
     Mr. Higgins appears to be the first who has considered com
binations under this point of view.               Unfortunately, as we have
already said,     his  work    being  little  known,     his name has never
been inscribed amongst the number               of  those who have engaged
themselves on the subject of combinations in definite propor
 tions.
     The Atomic Theory is very curious ; and although by its na
ture it may be subject to great variations according to the man
ner in which we view the composition of bodies, it may be con
 sidered as very important.
     Here, even Mr. Higgins has proved himself to have conceived
 and developed the base of that theorv at a time when chemistry
 was scarcelv emerged from a chaotic state, and at the moment
 when the results of Lavoisier had been still contested by so many
 distinguished philosophers, particularly by Mr. Kirwan in Eng
land.      This is what renders his ideas the more important, al
 though they may not be so well developed as Mr. Dalton had
 afterwards done * .        We should often estimate the importance
 of a discoverv less by its absolute value than by the state of the
 science at the moment it was made ; and under this point of
 view, the application which Mr. Higgins made in 17&9, of the
                                                                         recent
     * I beg leave to differ from the learned author of this article ; for, if he
 more carefully peruses the work of Higgins, he must readily perceive that
 Dalton brought his doch'ine forward in a mutilated state ; for he omitted
 what appears to me. to be the most important part of Mr. Higgins's beauti
 ful doctrine; namely, that of the relative forces of attraction of the ultimate
  particles of bodies to each other, particularly when they are found to be ca
  pable of uniting in more proportions than one and one.      To mal e this part
  of the subject intelligible to common readers, it must be stated, that Mr.
  Higgins supposed, like many philosophers who had written before him, that
  the attraction of bodies one to another is mutual; but he also observed that,
  in chemical science, there were important modifications of th s law. In
  stance : An ultimate particle of hydrogen and an ultimate particle of oxygen
  united form an atom of water ; — here the attraction of both particles is
  mutual; that is, they attract each other with equal force, and the compound
  atom is incapable of uniting to any more of its constituent elementary par-      -
  tides, having already arrived at its delinite proportions. Again : A particle of
  sulphur unites to a particle of oxygen with a certain force, the compound
                                                                                is

                             On the Ring     of Saturn.                      409
                                                                 i
recent discoveries, to a theory of the intimate composition and
combinations of bodies, appears to me to have been extremely
happy ; at the same time that it may not be correct in some
points ; that its different parts may not be perfectly connected ;
in short, that it may be an outline rather than a theory well
established: — this is our opinion, but it does not diminish the
value of this application.
      We regret that the extent of this article does not permit us
to cite some passages from the work itself, in which Mr. Higgius
 has developed his ideas, and which would serve much better
 than all we could say to make known the importance of this
work : but that would lead us far beyond our limits.
      Mr. Higgins presents also in the work before us some view!
 on the mode of action of electricity, which he considers as dis
 engaging a portion of the caloric of gases, and by that means
 producing the phenomena of thunder and lightning, of volcanic
 eruptions, of earthquakes, of combinations, &c. We do not
  feel ourselves called upon to follow him on this object, which he
 offers only as an hypothesis equal to the explanation of the facts
 which have also been explained in so many different ways.
       LXVIII.      On  t he Ring  of Saturn.      By Count Laplace.
  Two         principles are necessary" to maintain the ring of Saturn
  in equilibrio      round this planet.        One of them relates to the
  equilibrium of its own parts, which requires that the particles of
   the surface of the ring should have no tendency to detach them
   selves; and if we suppose this surface to be fluid, it is maintained
   in consequence of the different forces by which it is acted upon.
   Without this, the continual effort of its particles would end bv
   detaching themselves, and the ring would be destroyed, like all
   the works of Nature which have not in themselves a sufficient
   cause of stability to resist the action of contrary forces. 1 I have
   proved in the third book of the Mecanique Celeste, that this
    is an atom of sulphurous acid : a second particle of oxygen unites so as to
    produce an atom of sulphuric acid; — the one particle of sulphur and the one
    of oxygen are combined with greater force than the one of sulphur and the
    two of oxygen in the atom of sulphuric acid.       He extends the same prin
    ciples to bodies which unite 1 and 3, 1 and 4, and I and 5. He instance!
    the different compounds of azote and oxygen in nitrous acids and nitrous
     gases ; and so on, to the union of oxygen to the different metals.      These
     principles being once developed, it is easy to conceive the play of affinities,
     and the phenomena which are produced during the chemical action of
     bodies on each other.    This part of the doctrine has been demonstrated by
     means of diagrams and numbers, &c. It is extraordinary that this valuable
     part of the system should be passed over in silence by those who have en
     gaged themselves on the subject of definite proportions. — Tn.
                                                                        property

i
    <10                       On the Ring   of Saturn.
     property can only be rendered complete by a rapid motion of
     rotation of the ring in its own plane, and round its own centre,
     which is not very distant from that of Saturn.                 I have also
     shown, that the section of the ring by a plane perpendicular to>
     itself passing through its centre is an ellipsis, elongated towards
     this point.                                               -
         The second principle relates to the suspension of the ring;
     round the body of Saturn. A hollow sphere, and generally a
     hollow ellipsoid, whose interior and exterior surfaces are similar
     and concentric, would be in equilibrio round Saturn, whatever
     might be the point of concavity occupied by the centre of the
    planet; but this equilibrium would be indifferent, that                  is,
                                                                            being
    acted upon,   it  would neither tend to take its primitive state again,
    nor to remove away; — the slightest cause, such as the action of
    a satellite, or of a comet, would therefore be sufficient to preci
    pitate the ellipsoid on the planet.           The indifferent equilibrium
     which takes place for a hollow sphere enveloping Saturn, would
    not exist for a circular zone, surrounding this planet.                  haveI
    shown in the above cited book of the MUcanique Celeste, that
    if  the two centres of the circular ring, and the planet, do not co
     incide, they will then repel, and the ring will end               by
                                                                      being pre
     cipitated on Saturn.       The same thinu would take place what
     ever might be the constitution of the ring,            ifwere without any
    motion of rotation    :  but  if   we conceive that  it it   not similar in
                                                                 is
    all its parts,   and  so   constituted   that   its centre of gravity does
    not coincide with that of its figure        ;—  if moreover we suppose            it
    to be endowed with        a rapid motion of rotation in its plane, then
    its centre of gravity would turn round the centre of Saturn, and
    gravitate towards this point like      a  satellite, with this difference,
    that  it  might  move   in  the  interior of   the planet    :  would then
                                                                      it
    have    a permanent   state   of motion.       Thus, the two properties           I
    have mentioned, concur in showing that the ring turns in its
    plane, on itself, and with rapidity.         The duration of this rotation
    ought to be nearly that of the revolution of           a  satellite moving
    round Saturn at the distance of the ring itself and this dura
                                                             ;
    tion  is  about ten hours and      ahalf.     Dr. Herschel has confirmed
    this result  by  his observations; but how are we to reconcile these
    facts, and the theory, with the observations of M. Schroter, in
    which, points of the ring, more luminous than others, have ap
    peared stationary for     a  long time  ?I    believe we may account for
    this in the following manner.
        Saturn's ring   is composed of several concentric rings              with,
                                                                                 ;
    good telescopes two may be perceived very distinctly; but irra
    diation confounds these into one, in bad telescopes.                    It
                                                                             veryis
    probable that each of these rings      is  itself formed of several rings,
    so that Saturn's ring may be considered as an assemblage of
                                                                          several

              On forcing    Fruil-Trees   to bear, £s*c.              411
several different concentric rings.      Such would be the whole of
the orbits of the satellites of Jupiter, if each satellite left a per
manent light in its path; the partial rings must be like these
orbs, differentlv inclined to the equator of the planet: and then,
their inclinations, and the positions of their nodes, changing in
periods of greater or less time, embracing several years, their
centres must in like manner oscillate round that of Saturn; all
 this would cause the apparent figure of the whole of these rings
 to vary.    Their motion of rotation would not change this figure
 sensibly, since it only replaces one luminous part by another si-
tuated in the same plane.       It is very probable that the pheno
 mena observed by M. Schrdter are caused by variations of this
 kind.    Rut if a point, more or less luminous thai- the others, be
 adherent to the surface of one of the partial rings, this point
 ought to move as rapidly as the ring, and appear to change its
 position in a few hours.    We may suppose with great probability
 that it is a point of this kind that Dr. Herschel has observed.
 I request observers furnished with good telescopes to notice the
 appearances of the ring of Saturn with this view.        The variety
 of these appearances were a great plague to mathematicians and
 astronomers before Huygens had found out the cause : the ring
 was first seen by Gallileo in the form of two small bodies adhering
 to the globe of Saturn ; and Descartes, who unfortunately wished
 to explain all things with his principles of philosophy, attributed,
 in the third part of his work, the stationary state of these pre
  tended satellites, to Saturn's presenting always the same side to
  the centre of his vortex.    We now know that this state is con
  trary to the law of universal gravitation ; which is a sufficient
  reason for rejecting the explanation given by Descartes, even
  although we do not know the precise cause of these appearances.
  I do not consider the immobility of the ring as less contrary to
  this great law of Nature ; and I do not doubt but that future
  observations, made with the view I have just pointed out, will
  confirm the results of the theory, and the observations of Dr.
 Kerschel.
 LXIX. Jin   easy, simple, and infallible Method to force every
   Fruit-Tree  to blossom and to bear Fruit.   Translated from
   the German of the Rev. George Charles Lewis Hempel
   (Secretary to the Pomological Society        Altenburgh in
                                                     of'
   Saxony)    by   George Henry Noehdew,         LL.D.F.L.S.&c*
 In  my early years  I  saw my father, who was fond of pomology
 and skilled in that science, cutting  ring on several branches of
                                        a
       *   From Transactions of the London Horticultural   Society.
                                                                      trees,

412              On forcing Fruit-Trees io bear,        &c.
 trees, which already were in blossom, for the purpose of pro
                                         '
 ducing, by that means, larger fruit than usual.         This was not
 his own invention, but, as far as I recollect, derived from a
 French journal. Thirty years ago, when I was a bov, I practised
 this operation, in imitation of him, and thereby obtained larger
 pears and plums.      In repeating this operation -of ringing the
 branches, which I did merely for the purpose of getting larger
 fruit, I observed that the branches so operated upon always bore
 the next year.     By this reiterated appearance I was led to the
 idea, that perhaps this mode of ringing the bark might be a
 means of compelling every unproductive branch to yield fruit.
 With this view, I cut rings upon a considerable number of
 branches, which as yet showed no blossom ; and found by re
 peating the experiment the truth of my supposition indisputably
 confirmed by experience.
    The application of this experiment, whereby upon every bough
 or branch fruit may artificially be produced, is very simple and
 easy, and the mode of proceeding as follows.
    With a sharp knife make a cut in the bark of the branch
 which you mean to force to bear, and not far from the place
 where it is connected with the stem, or, if it be a small branch,
 or shoot, near to where it is joined to the larger bough; the cutis
 to go round the branch, or to encircle  it,  and to penetrate to the
 wood.   A    quarter of an inch from this cut, you make      asecond
 cut, like the first, round the branch, so that,        by
                                                       both encircling
 the branch, you have marked    a   ring upon the branch,     quarter
                                                              a
 of an inch broad, between the two cuts. The bark between
these two cuts you take clean away with        a  knife, down to the
 wood, removing even the fine inner bark, which immediately lies
 upon the wood so that no connexion whatever remains between
                 ;
the two parts of the bark, but the bare and naked wood appears
white and smooth. But this bark-ring, which        to compel the tree
                                                   is
to bear, must be made at the right time, that is, when in all
nature the buds are strongly swelling or are breaking out into
blossom.      In the same year a callus  is   formed at the edges of
the ring, on both sides, and the connexion of the bark, that had
been interrupted,    isrestored again without any detriment to the
tree, or the branch operated upon, in which the artificial wound
soon again grows over.
    By this simple though artificial means of forcing every fruit-
tree, with certainty, to bear, you obtain the following important
advantages   :
   1.  You may compel every young tree of which you -do not
know the sort, to show its fruit, and decide sooner, whether,
being of a   good quality,it  may remain in its first state, or re
quires to be grafted.
                                                              2. You

                      On the Resistance of Solids:                     4 13
   2. You may, thereby, with certainty, get fruit of every good
»ort, of which you wish to see the produce, in the next year.
   3. This method may probably serve to increase considerably
the quantity of fruit in the country.
   The branches so operated upon are hung full of fruit, while
the others that are not ringed, often have nothing, or very little
on them.     This effect is easy to be explained from the theory
of the motion of the sap.     For, when the sap moves slowly in a
tree, it produces frui^-buds, which is tiie case in old trees ; when
it moves vigorously, the tree forms wood, or runs into shoots, as
happens with young trees.
   Though I arrived at this discovery myself, in consequence of
trying the same process with a different view, namely to increase
only the size of the fruit, but not to force barren branches, that
were only furnished with leaf-buds, to bear, this latter application
being before quite unknown to me ; I will on that account by
no means give myself out for the first inventor of this operation;
but I was ignorant of the effects to be produced by this method,
and only discovered them by repeated experiments of my own,
which I made for the promotion of pomology.            Frequent ex
perience of the completest success has confirmed the truth of
my observations.     Nor do I think that this method is generally
known ; at least, to all those to whom I showed the experiment,
 the effect produced appeared new and surprising. At ail events,
 that method, supposing it even to be an invention of older date,
has, as far as I know, not yet been fully described by any one,
and published in print.
LXX.   On the Resistance of Solids; with Tables of the specific
   Cohesion and the cohesive Force of Bodies. By Mr. Thomas
   Tredgold*.
                               Definitions, is'c.
 1.   Cohesion,   or attraction of cohesion f, is that force              by.
means of which the particles of bodies are held together.
  When the particles of a body cohere so slightly that they             are
                                                                  by
easily moved among one another, in every direction,               a very
small force, the body     is  called fluid.
                                        a
  * Communicated     by  the Author.
f    Of the nature of attraction of cohesion, nothing
                                                    isknown but the phe-
                                                            ;
 nomena prove the existence of that property of bodies to which the name  is
applied.    It known that the parts of bodies do cohere, and that, when ac
            is
cidental circumstances are excluded,    determinate force will separate them
                                        a                                 ;
and this force being given, the, theory of the resistance of solids consists
in nothing more than applying the principles of mechanics to deternvne
the power which will destroy that cohesion, when the direction of the power,
and the position and magnitude      the body, are given,
                                   of
                                                                '
                                                                  N    When

4t4                         On   the Resistance   of Solids.
    When the particles of a body can be moved only in a very small
degree, without destroying their cohesion, the body is called a. solids
    2. The absolute cohesion of solids is measured by the force
necessary to pull them asunder.      Thus, if a rod of iron he sus
pended in a vertical direction, and weights be attached to its
lower extremity till the rod breaks, the whole weight attached
to the rod, at the time of fracture, would be the measure of its
cohesive force, or absolute cohesion.
    3. The particles of solid bodies, in their natural state, are
arranged in such a Manner that they are in eqtiilibrio in re
spect to the forces which operate on them.          Therefore, when
any new force is applied, it is evident that the equilibrium will
be destroyed, and that the particles wiil move among themselves
till it be restored.                              ;
    When the new force is applied to pull the bodv asunder, the
body becomes longer in the direction of the force ; which is
called the extension ; and its area at right angles to the direc
tion of the force contracts.
    When the force is applied to compress the body, it becomes
shorter in the direction of the force, which is called the com
pression; and the area of its section, at right angles to the force,
expands*.
   In either case, a part of the heat, or any other fluid, that oc
cupied the pores or interstices of the body, before the new force
was made to act upon               it,
                           will be expelled                 f.
   4.  The  depth of   beam, or bar,
                             a            the dimension in the di-
                                                  is                                 .
rection of the pressure.
                                         Phcenomena.
   5.    All bodies,        as far as experience       reaches, are extended of
compressed        by   an adequate force.
   The extensibility of the most brittle bodies may be rendered
sensible     by
             forming them into thin plates.   Plates of glass bend"
considerably when they are only supported at the ends; and this
bending could not take place unless the body were l>oth com
pressible and extensible.  Maniotte succeeded in extending some
   * The resistance to compression does not arise from any repulsive power
in the particles   ofbodies   indeed, we have not any facts to prove that the
                               ;
particles of any class of bodies actually repel each other — as, whenever
                                                                     ;          a
body     forced into
        is             less space than
                        a                occupies in its natural state, one of
                                             it
its constituents, at least,    always expelled; and
                                 is                   restored by species of
                                                             is is
                                                                         a
capillary attraction, as soon as the external force   removed.
  •f- The disengagement of heat in experiments on the direct cohesion of
bodies, appears to have been first noticed by PerrOnet in his experiments
on the strength of iron.     Mr. Barlow has lately observed the same pheno
mena in      agreater degree, owing to the large sire of the bar that was ex
perimented upon — (Ann. of Phil. x. 311) — as       obvious that the quantity
                                                       it   is
of heat disengaged must be proportional to the magnitude of the body.
                                                                             canes

                       On the Resistance    of Solids.                       415
canes of glass, in the direction of their length, whieh returned
to their original length when the weight was removed*.
    6. The extension or compression of homogeneous bodies is
directly proportional to the force which occasions it ; at least irt
the first degrees of extension or compression.
    Thus, if a wire of any metal be extended 1- 10th of an inch
by a weight of 100 pounds, it would be extended 2-10ths by a
weight of 200 pounds ; 3-10ths by 300 pounds, &c.f ; also,
if a body be compressed 1-1 0th of an inch by 100 pounds, it
would be compressed 2-10ths by 200 pounds, &c.
    7. In the first degrees of extension or compression, all homo
geneous bodies are extended and compressed in an equal degree
by equal forces.       That  is,    a force of 1000 pounds would ex
                                   if
tend     body l-10th of its natural length,
         a                                      it  would be compressed
 l-10th of its natural length       by the same force.
     It  justly observed
          is               by   a late writer on this subject, that "so
far as this doctrine has been investigated           by  experiments, its
general    truth   has   been  amply   confirmed;   the  slight deviations
from the exact proportion, which have been discovered in some
substances, being far too unimportant to constitute an exception,
tmd merely tending to show that these substances cannot have
been perfectly homogeneous, in the sense here attributed to the
word %."       In making experiments on the extension and com
pression    of  bodies, the times of action have not often been at
tended to with     a sufficient degree of accuracy.      It    well known
                                                              is
that a certain time must elapse before the weight produces its
full effect upon the body, particularly when the weight              consi
                                                                    is
derable     and from
               ;       a    few experiments of my own,    I    am inclined
to think, that were the weight suffered to produce its full effect
at each operation, we should find the extension exactly propor
 tional to the force, even to the time of fracture, and            it most
                                                                        is
 probable that the same observation will apply to compression.
    8. When a bar or beam           fixed at one end, in
                                   is                          ahorizontal
 position,  and   a sufficient  weight   suspended  at the  other end, the
bar will break at the point of support      ;    and the following phe
 nomena will take place.
     9. The bar will bend, and the bending will be proportional to
 the extensibility of the material.
    10. The upper side of the bar will be extended, and the lower
     *
     Traits da Mouvcment des Eanx, Sect. v. Diacours ii.
f    Some experiments of this kind were made by Emerson, — Mechanics,
Prop. 76. Ed. 1773.     Bernouilli has attempted to demonstrate that the
Compression cannot be proportional to the force but his reasoning applies
                                                ;
to extreme cases only and the result of the solitary experiment he mnda
                       ;
iscompletely different from those of every other writer that have consulted.
                                                          I
See his paper in the Mem. do TAcad. des Scien. Paris 1705, p. 1,79.
J    Supplement to Encyclop. Britannica, art. Bridge, p. 497- 1817-
                                                                             side

 416                  On  the "Resistance  of Solids.
side compressed; but a horizontal stratum of particles, at or
 near the middle of the depth, will neither be extended nor com
pressed.      Hence the line representing this stratum, in the sec
 tion of the bar, is called the neutral line.
     11. The extension and compression of any part of the section
is proportional to its distance from the neutral line.
     The quantity of extension and compression, and the position
 of the neutral line, may be observed in some soft woods, with a
 considerable degree of accuracy, by drawing two vertical lines,
 very near to each other, against one of the vertical sides of the
 bar at the place of fracture, before the weight is applied.
     Sometimes the paits that have been extended may be distin
 guished from those which have been compressed by the fracture,
 and in fibrous substances, by stopping the descent of the bar be
 fore the fracture is completed, the position of the neutral line may
 be observed.     The last is the best method.
     Du Hamel made some experiments on bars of willow, with the
 view of determining the position of the neutral line, by cutting
 the bars to different depths, with a saw, on the compressed side*,
 but this method is not susceptible of much accuracy.
     12. From many observations, I have found that when the sec
 tion is rectangular or circular, the neutral line passes through the
 centre of gravity of the section, or extremely near it. Or, more
 generally, that when the neutral line divides the section into two
 parts, that are equal and similar, it passes through its centre of
gravity, — and that in triangular sections the distance of the centre
 of gravity from the vertex is about seven-tenths of the height.
 On    the transverse Strength   of Beams when     the neutral Line di
    vides the Section into two   Parts that are equal and similar.
     13. Prop. To determine the strength of a beam fixed at one
 end to support a weight suspended at the other end.
     Let ABC represent the beam; where C is the point of sup           -
                            B
                                                         W
•port,   BC   the place of fracture,   and  D the place of [the neutral
                                                            1
line.
                        *
                          Transport du Bois, p. 419.              Then,

                         On the Resistance     of Solids.                   417
    Then, the weight W will act with the leverage AD ; and D
will be the centre of motion.          Now it is evident, that when the
weight at A causes the b'eam to move round the centre D, the
upper side at B will be extended and the lower side at C com
pressed (art. 10) ; and the strain on any part above or below
the neutral line will be directly as its distance from that line ;
and the extension or compression will be as the strain (arts. 6
and 11).
    Also, as the compressed part is the fulcrum which supports
the lever till the extended part is torn asunder; and bodies are ex
tended and compressed in equal degrees by equal forces (art. 7) J
therefore, the neutral line must divide the section into two equal
and similar parts, because the forces on each side of the neutral
line must be equal*.
    Put I = the length of the beam AD ;
         a s= the distance of the neutral line from the upper side;
        jy = the breadth of the beam ;
            = the cohesive force of an unit of the area ;
        yi = a variable part of the section of fracture ;
and      x = its distance from the neutral line.
    Then the force of any variable part of the section is as its dt-
stance from the neutral line, or a         : x  :
                                                   xf : —;     and as its area
yi;    hence, its whole force is     = ZlfJL       •
                                                      which being multiplied
by its distance       from the     centre of motion, gives      ill-l    = the
fluxion of the force exerted by the part of the beam above the
neutral line.      But the forces on each side of the neutral line are
equal ; therefore, in the case of equilibrium, we have
    Fluent of    *i^l?=       /Wj'   or flu.   Vl£±       = W.
                     a                               la
   * Most of the writers on the strength of materials have considered the
point of support C, as the fulcrum to the extending forces, but the support
is a fulcrum only in respect to a force at E ; — this mistake arises from the
absurd method of demonstrating the properties of the lever, by supposing
it to be an inflexible line ; had the properties of the lever been sought for
in the lever itself, this could never have happened.
   In the natural order of science, the resistance of beams should occupy
the place that is now assigned to the doctrine of the lever, as its properties
are merely so many corollaries which naturally flow from propositions in the
doctrine of the resistance of beams.     For the strains excited in a beam may
be investigated directly by means of the properties of the parallelogram of
forces, without referring at all to those of the lever ; and the properties of
a beam considered as a lever, may be deduced from the strains excited in
the beam, which sippears to be the only legitimate mode of demonstrating^
its properties.   See ait. Carpentry, p. 167.     Supplem. Encyclo. Brit. 3d ed.
1811 ; or art. Carpentry, p. 633, New Supp. 1817.
    Vol. 50. No. 236. Dec. 1817.                      D d           14. When

418                           On the Resistance                 of Solids .
    14. When the beam is rectangular,                                     and its depth                           = d;
a   = — ; and makmg y=b, we have                                       ——              =                 ;        ;   the
      <&                                                                  I   (I                    I   ft
                            4   b
fluent of which is                  'T',   and when         x    —
                                                                       ^
                                                                          ,
                                                                          it        becomes                            =
W   ss the transverse strength of the beam.
    15. When beam    a    supported at both ends, its strength to
                                    is
bear    weight in the middle of its length,
        a                                     to that of    beam              is                             a
of the same length, supported at one end, as       to      Hence                   4   is           1.
2
        — =W=           the strength of a beam supported                                   at both ends.
    3
    16. When the beam                   is   square, and the force acts in the di
                                                                                                              \/
rection of its diagonal                 BC; EF will              be                             B
the neutral line, BD=a, and EF=2a.
Also, bv sim. trians. a: — x :': 2a
2{a-x)=y.
                                             a                    :
                                                                   /                /      /^N.
                                                                                                \
                                                                                                   :D
                                                                                                             N.
                                                                          E
    Therefore                       =                             /                 \
                                                                                                    /
                         la                       la
                                                                                              \y' ! j
                                                             '
and, when          x = a,     the fluent         is              or,
because          2a=d = the diagonal;                      ~-    —                               C
W=          the strength        of the beam supported at one end.
    And when        a   beam    of the same length supported at both ends,
                                                                  is
                 = the strength of the beam.
£^=W
  17. When the beam        cylinder, and its radius
                                        is
                                        a                                                          =r; a=r,
and,   the  by
           property of the circle,  =     (»'*—            y      2    s/
    Therefore        i£££5
                       la
                           =               4/**^('—
                                               Ir                    7;       and       its      fluent when
xxr,        and    p=3-141=5, &c.                     is             =W=            the strength of                    a
cylinder supported at one end; or,                          ^~ =W=                     the strength sup
ported at both ends.
   18. From the preceding examples        appears, that when theit
length and the areas of the sections are the same, the transverse
strengths of the beams will be nearly in the following propor
tion    viz. .
        ;
   The strength of square beam being unity, or .
                              a                              "000                               .             1
   The strength of the same beam when the force                                               is
     in the direction of the diagonal, will be . .   ..
                                                                                              j\
   And that of cylinder a      .     .       ..       .    0-846
                                                            .             .              .
    It   not, however, to be expected that these proportions will
         is
perfectly agree with experiments, unless the material be homo
geneous.     For this reason, timber    very unfit for the purpose
                                                            is
of making experiments to establish pure mechanical theory.  a

         ,              On ihe Resistance       of Solids,               4   la
  When    a beam is compressed in the direction of its length, the
deflexion is always in the direction of the diagonal, when the,
section is nearly square ; this has been shown by the experiments
of Girard, Laniande, and Navier; and it is only a modification
of the transverse strain, which confirms the general principles of
the theory, and at the same time shows that a cylinder is the
best form for an insulated post *.
 .   19. When the neutral line divides the section into two parts,
that are neither equal nor similar; assume the distances of the
upper and lower sides of the beam from the neutral line, and
find the force exerted on each side of the neutral line by art. 13.
Make those forces equal to each other, and from this equation
the distance of the neutral line from the upper side may be ob
 tained ; which being substituted for the assumed distance in the
expression for the force of the part above the neutral line, will
 give. half the strength of the beam.                                     .  .
      In this manner the rule for the strength of a triangular beam
 has been found, which is inserted in the Philosophical Magazine,
 vol. xlvii. p. 22. f
      20. As the cohesion of their parts not only serves' to charac
 terize different substances, but also to determine their relative
 value in the various uses to which they may be appropriated ; I
 have endeavoured to collect from various sources, the best experi
 ments on this important subject ; and to present them in the
 form which appeared to me best adapted to render them capable
 of universal application.
      For this purpose they are reduced to a common standard, from
  which, by a simple operation, they may be reduced to any kind
  of weights or measures.                                                     v
       I have adopted plate glass as a standard, because it is a sub
  stance tolerably uniform in its nature, its defects may be readily
  perceived, and it is not used where its strength need be calcu
  lated ; and therefore, the strengths of different kinds of it will
  not be required.       The experiments were made on the transverse
   strength,   and  the  direct cohesion was calculated by art. 14. The
   pieces were loaded by letting sand run slowly into the scale till
   they broke. The results were regular, and the highest was taken.
      * This remark extends only to the form of the section,
   -j"   The rule for the resistance to crushing (Phil. Mag. xlvii. 22) was an
   attempt to apply the principles which M. de Prony has used in his investi
 gation of the push of the earth against retaining walls to the resistance to
 crushing—neglecting the effect of the cohesion in determining the angle of
 fracture.    Since that time
                            I    have found that the angle of fracture will vary
 with the cohesion ;    therefore any rule where   it    neglected can only be a
                                                        is
 rude approximation. — It may not be improper here to state, that in M. de
 Prony's investigation of the push of the earth, one very material element    is
 omitted viz. the friction against the back of the wall.
             ;                                                The existence and
 effect of this friction may readily be seen from the results  of  Q<A. Pasley's
 experiments.      " Course of Military Instruction," jij. 563.
                                 D  d
                                    1       .                         Experi-

  420                     On the Resistance      of Solids .
       Experiments on the direct cohesion of bodies require to be
   made with much care, in order to obtain correct results, parti
   cularly when they are brittle ; and it is also very probable that
   the strength of bodies, to resist being torn asunder, is not ex
   actly as their areas.       For if the cohesion be as the area, it does
   not follow that the strain excited by a force tending to pull the
   body asunder should be in the same proportion.                Indeed, Count
   Rumford's experiments led him to conclude that the strength is
  hot in the simple proportion of the area*, and Perronet found
  that when a bar of iron was strained in the direction of its
  length, a very slight incision made with a file on one side, some
  times reduced its strength more than one-half; which could not
  have been the case had the strain been equally diffused over the
  section f-
       Hence I conclude, that the length being taken so that the de
  flexion   J  does not sensibly affect the result, the cohesion calcu
  lated from the transverse strength, is as near or nearer the real
  cohesion than that obtained by pulling the body asunder.
      Morveau very jjistly observes that the maximum cohesion of
  the metals ought not to enter into the calculations of the artist
  who employs them, as it is known that accidental imperfections
  always accelerate the rupture in a greater or less degree, and
  render it necessary to augment their dimensions ; but it is not
 less true that their proportional          tenacity being known, it would
 assist the artist in his choice, and furnish the valuable means of
 ascertaining the degree of purity, and the qualities which are
 imparted to them in the course of their manufacture^
      It will be seen from the following Tables, that the cohesive
 force of metals is much increased by wire-drawing, rolling, and
 hammering ; and that the strength of woods of the same kind
is extremely variable, depending on the nature of the soil, the
 situation, and the climate where they are grown.
     A complete table ought to exhibit the limits of these variations,
and might be made to contain much useful information for the
planter and landed proprietor, — but not till experimentalists
give better descriptions of the specimens they try, than they have
hitherto done.
     In the following tables the specific cohesion of plate glass it
denoted by unity; and,
The cohesive force of a square inch is 9420 pounds avoirdup.
..                    .. of a squ. millimetre is 6-62 kilogram, nearly.
..          ..        . . of 25 squ. centim. is 16543-625 kilograms.
 ..         . .       . . of a square police is 9906-26 Paris pounds.
    Hence the specific cohesion of a substance multiplied by one
of these numbers will give the cohesion in the corresponding
weights and measures.
   • Phil. Mag. x. 51.
                                    f CEuvres de Gauthey, ii. 160.
   J  Oft the effect of the deflexion, see Phili Mag- xlvi, 191.
   §  Ann. <k Chimie, butt. 190.

                                  On the Resistance                        of Solids,                              421
          TABLES OF THE COHESIVE FORCE OF SOLID BODIES.
                                          TABLE I.-METALS.
  (A) and    (Z)   mark the highest and            lowest result which Muschenbroek ob
                                      tained frnm p^rh   inH of iron.  V
                                              Cohesive Force
                                  u   C   —
                                              of a square Tucli
          Metals.                 Si O
                                  &•€
                                          s                                             Authority.
                                                                  .a   0
                                               in lbs. avoir.
          Steel.                                                   t
Razor temper.                     15-927 150,000 7-78                      Muschenbroek, Encyclo. Brit.
                                                   to                                        art. Strength.
Soft                              12-739 120,000 -84                       Idem.
          Iron.
Wire                              12-004      113,077                      Sickingen,   Ann.de Chimie ixv. 9.
 German bar, mark
                                                                           Muschenb. Int.adPhil.Njt.i.426.
                          )
  BR (h)                           9-880       93,069
                          J
Swedish bar (A)                    9-445       88,972                      Idem.
German bar, mark          ?
                                  9-1 19       85,900
   M*J                    S
                                                                           Idem.
Wire                              9.108        85,797                      Buffon .CEuvres deGauthey,i
Bar                               8-964        84,443                      Emerson, Mechanics, 115.
Liege bar    (Vi)                 8-794        82,839                      Muschenb. Int. ad Phil. Nat. i.426.
Spanish bar                       8-685        81,901                      Idem.
Bar                               8-581        80,833                      Soufflot.Rondelet's L'Art deB&tir,
                                                                             iv. 500.
Bar                               8-492       80,000                       Edin. Encyclo. art. Brirf?e,^44.
Oosement     bar          . .     8-142       76,697                       Muschenb. Intr.ad Phil Nat. i.42*.
Cable                             7-752       73,021                       Annals of Phil, vii.320.
German bar, mark          1
                                  7-382
   L (0              J                        69,538                       Muschenb. Intr.adPhil Nat. i.426.
German bar.common                 7-339       69,133                       (dem.
Swedish bar,  \      '/ ;
                      ' \         7-296       68,728                       Idem.
Oosement bar   J
'Bar o: best quality .            7-006       66,000                       Rumford. Phil. Mag.x. 51.
 Liege bar   (i
             )                    6-621       62,369                       Muse henb.Intr.adPhil.Nat.j.            426.
 German bar, mark         )
                                  6-514       61,361                       Idem.
   BR(i)                  S
Bar*                              6-480       61,041                       Perronet, CEuv. deGauthey,         ii.
                                                                                                        154.
Bar of good quality               5-839       55,000                       Rumford, Phil. Mag.x. 51.
Cable                             5-7S7       54,513                       Annals of Phil. x. 311.
Bar, fine-grained     .. .        5-306       49,982                       Rondelet, L'Artde Batir.iv. 502.
        medium fineness           S-618       34,081                       Idem.
        coarse-grained            2-172       20,460                       Idem.
       Cast Iron
French                    J       7-470        70,367                      Navier, CEuv. de Gauthey, ii. 150.
German                            7-250        68,295                      Muschenb Intr.adPhil Nat. 417.     i.
French, soft              J       6-754        63,622                      Rondelet, L'Art de Baiir, iv. 514.
English                           5-520        52,000                      Banks, Gregory's Median.,     129. i.
                                                                             Ex.   i.
 French                      f|    5-412       50.981                      L'Ecole desPonts,&c. Gaut.    150. ii.
                                   4-540       42.666                      Gauthey, CHuvres. ii. 150.
 English, soft                     4-334
                                  40,824                                   Banks, Greg. Mech.    128. Ex, iii.
                                                                                                   i.
  f    Kirwan, Elem. Miner, ii. 155.
   * This    isthe mean resul.t of thirty-three experiments.
      Calculated from experiments on the transverse strength,
   %                                                                                         by   arts.   H   and   IS.
   §   Yielded to the file without difficulty.
                                                                  Dd3

422                                 ©fl the Resistance                                      of Solids.
                                             TABLE I.— (continued.)
                                             <5fl
                                             °
                                                  i
                                                s o
                                                  1
                                  Specific
                                             S
                                                      KS
                                                                 Specific   Gravity.
                                             B .
          Metals.                Cohesion.                                             -9                Authority.
                                                  W JO
                                  Glass 1.    3   *   d                                s
                                             0     . -9
   Cast Iron.
French gray                  $   4-000       37,680                                         Rondelet,    L'Artde Batir,iv.5l4.
Gray, of Cruzot,            ?
                                 3-257       30,680                                         Ramus, Gauthey, ii. 150,
  2d fusion       ....}>
Gray, of Cruzot             I    3-202       30,162                                         Ramus, Gauhey, ib.§
  1st fusion   t   .    .   )
                                                                                                                                      .
          Copper.
Wire                             6-606       61,228                                                  Ann.de Chimie, xxv. 9.
                                                                                            Sickingen,
Cast, Barbary                    2-396       22,570 8-182                                   Muschenb. Imr. ad Phil Nat. i.417.
                                 2-152                                                 St Idem.
      ,   Japan                              20,272 8-726
      Platinum.
                                 5-995       56,473 20-847                                  Morveau, Ann de Chimie, xxv. 8.
Wire                             5-625       52,987                                         Sickingen, Ann. de Chim xxv. 9.
          Silver.
Wire                             4090        38,257                                         Sickingen, Ann de Chim. xxv. 9.
                                 4-342       40,902        1
                                                           1        -09       1             Muschenb. lntr. ad Phil. Nat. 417.i.
           Gold.
Wire                             S->79       30,888                                         Sickingen,   Ann.   de Chim. xxv. 9-
                                 2-171       20,450 19-238                             6f Muschenb lntr.        ad Phi I.Nat 417.
                                                                                                                              i
            Tin.
Wire                0-7568                    7,129             Morveau, Ann.de Chim Ixii. 194.
Cast, English block 0-706                     6,650             Muschenb. lntr. ad Phil Nat. i.4 17.
                                              5,322 7-295   <'A Idem.
                    0-565                                                        <
-     ,Banca        ....
                    0-3906                    3,679 7-2165      Idem                              ,
      ,Malacca . . 0-342    .                 3,21  6-1256,
                                                      1         Idem.
       Bismuth,
                                 0-345         3,250 9-8101                                 Muschenb lntr.      ad    Phil Nat. i.417.
                                                                                            Idem,!. 454.
                                                                                        7
                                 0-3193        3,008 9-926              j              1|
           Zinc,
Wire                          2-394 22,551                                                  Morveau,     Ann de Chim IxxL          194.
Patent sheet                  1-762  16,616
                                                                              7-2is|
                                                                                       St   By my trial.
Cast, Goslar,          from 0-3118    2,937
                       to . . 0-2855  2,689                                                 Muschenb. Intr.ad PhiI.Nat.i.417.
           Lead.
Milled                           0-3533       3,328 1M07>                                   By my trial
Wire                             0-334        3.- 146            1-348                      Muschenb      lntr. adPhil.Nat.i.452.
                                                           1 1
Wire                             0-274        2,581  1.28V                                  Idem.
Wire                             0-2704       2,547                                         Morveau ~Ann. de Chim lxii. 94.       1
Cast, English                    0094           883 11-47°                                  Muschenb. lntr ad Phil. Nat. i.452.
Antimony,         cast . . 0-1126                 1,060          4-500 6f Muschenb. lntr ad Phil Nat. i.417.
 §    In the operation of casting, the surface of the iron always becomes much
harder, and     more tenacious than ihe internal parts; hence, the strength of a
                  is
smaH specimen       always greater than that of laree one.
                        is                                   Tho9eof M. Ramus,              a
however, are unexceptionable in this respect, as the area of the section at the
place of fracture was above nine square inches                   .                                                                ;
   N. B. When the specific gravity     not referred to separate authority,
                                                           is               is tq                  a                          it
be considered that of the specimen of which the cohesive force      given.
                                                                                                                     j. is
f     Kirwan's Miner, vol. ii.          Thomson's Chemistry, vol.
                                                             ||

                                    On the Resistance               of Solids.                            423
                                        TABLE II.— ALLOYS.!
                                                                     o re              Authority.
   Alloy of                                              o a —
                Parts.               Part;               6 a- c
Cold        .          Silver                  2- 972 28,000                   Musch. Encych
Cold..               5 Copper       . . .      5-307 |50,000                   Idem.
Silver.              5 Copper       . . .      5-148 48,500                    Idem.
Silver.              4   Tin                 1 4-352 41,000                    Idem.
                                               4-870 45,882                    Muschenb.,Colson,   i. 242.
Copper               lOTin            ...    1 3- 407 32.093                   Musch. Intr. ad Phil. Nat.
Copper           .   8|Tin                   1 3- 831    36-.088               Idem.                  428.
                                                                                                    [i.
Copper               6|Tm .                    4- 687    44,071                Idem.
Copper               4   Tin    ,              3-794     35.739                Idem.
Copper               2!Tin .                   0-108      1,017                Idem.
Copper         1 Tin                           0-077        725                Idem.
Tin, EnelishjlO Lead . . .                     0-733      6,904                Musch. Intr. ad Phil. Nat.
Tin,             Lead ...                      0-841      7,922                Idem.                [i.
                                                                                                      438.
Tin,           6|Lead ...                      0- 849     7,997                Idem.
Tin,             Lead , . .                    1- 126    10,607                Idem.
Tin,             Lead ....                     0-793      7,470                Idem.
Tin,           1 Lead                          0- 751     7,074                Idem.
Tin, Banca, 10 Antimony                        1- 187    11,181     7-359      Musch. Intr. ad Phil. Nat.
Tin,           8 Antimony                      1-049      9,881     7-276      Idem'.                 442.
                                                                                                    [i.
Tin,           6 Antimony                      1-341     12,632     7 228      Idem.
Tin,
Tin,        -    Antimony
                 Antimony
                                               1-431
                                               1-277
                                                         13,430
                                                         12.029
                                                                    7-192
                                                                    7-105
                                                                               Idem.
                                                                               Idem.
                       Antimony                0- 338     3,184     7 060      Idem-
Tin',             ,10 Bismuth . ,              1- 347    12,688     7- 576     Musch. Intr.ad Phil. Nat.
Tin,                4j Bismuth .               1-772     16,692     7 613      Idem.                [i.
                                                                                                      443.
Tm,                 2] Bismuth . ,             1-488     14.017     8- 076     Idem.
Tin,            -, 1 Bismuth . ,               I -276    12,020     8- 146     Idem.
Tin,    -       -, I Bismuth . ,               1-063     10,013     858        Idem.
Tin,    -       -, 1 Bismuth . ,              0.836       7,875     9 009      Idem.
Tiu,            -, 1 Bismuth . .               0- 411     3,871     9- 439     Idem.
Tin,    .
                ->i" Zinc, Indian,             1- 371    12.9H      7-288      Musch, Intr. ad Phil. Nat.
Tin,    -       -, 2 Zinc                      1-595     15,025     7-000      Idem,             [i.444.
Tin,    .       -,   1   Zinc                  1-682     15,844     7 321      Idem.
Tin,            -.   1   Zinc                  1-701     16,023     7 100        lem.
Tin,             , 1     Zinc                 0-602       5,671     7-130      |ldem.
Tin, English,      1     Zinc, Coslar         0- 9-58     9,024                 Musch. Intr. ad Phil. Nat.
                                                                                     .
Tin,                     Zinc                  1- 164    10,964                 Idem.              [i.446.
Tin,                 4 Ziiinc                  1-089     10,258                 Idem.
Tin,                     Zinc                  1-126     10,607                [Idem.
Tin,             Antimony              . .    0-154       1 ,450    7-000       Mnsch. Intr. ad Phil. Nat.
Tin,             Antimony              . .    0- 338      3,184                 Idem.               [i.448.
Tin,             Antimony             . .     1- 202     1 1 .323               Idem.
Lead, Scotch, 1 Bismuth .             , .     0-777       7,319     10-931      Musch. Intr. ad Phil. Nat.
Lead,        , 2 Bismuth .             . .    0-620       5,840     1 1 -090    Idem.                 454.
                                                                                                    [i.
Lead, -       10 Bismuth ,                    0-300       2,826     10827       Idem.
                                                        Dd4                                         TABLE

                                          On the Resistance                                                of Solids.
                                                   TABLE III.— WOODS.
                                                  a
                                                              square Inch-
                                                  of
                                      .a o —
                                      l'l                                          Specific
                                                                                              Gravity,
         Woods,                                                                                                        Authority.
                                                  Cohesion
                                            1
                                                             in lbs. avoir.
                                      «   oc
Lance- wood . . . . { 2-621                       24,696                      1       022                Layman, Nich. Journal, xxxv. 54.
Locust-tree           2-185                       ^(>,582                                                Muschenb. Intr. ad Phil. Nat. 415.
Jujube (Ziziphus) 2-008                           18,915                                                 Idem,       ..        ..      414.     i. i.
  Ash (Fraxinus.)
Red, seasoned . . J                   1-899       17,892                       0-812                     Layman, Nich Journal,           xxxv. 54.
Ash              ,                    1-804      1 7,000                                                 Barlow, Rees's Cyclop.         art. Strength.
White, seasoned                       1-509       14,220                       0-685                     Layman, Nich. Journal,         xxxv. 54.
Ash                                   1-274'      12,000                                                 Muschenb. Ency. Brit       ,    art. Strength.
  Oak (Quercus)
Oak                                   1-891       17,820                                                 Emerson's Mechanics,114. Ed. 1773.
                                      1-861       17,532                                                 Banks, Gregory's Mechan.      127.
                                                                                                                                          i.
                                      1-836      1 7,300                                                 Muschenb. Ency. Brit., art. Strength.
                                      1-707      ! 6,079                                                 Duhamel, Transport du Bois, p. 212.
                              t       1-559       14,685                       1-164                     Idem,         ..      ..          434.
                                      1-509       14,220                       O-880                     Layman, Nich. Jour. xxxv. 54.
 Oak                                   1-481      13,951                                                 Rondelet, L'Art de Batir, iv. 65.
Trench,       season.   f              1-450     ! 3,659                                                 Duhamel, Trans, du Bois, 213.
Provence,season.|| '                   1-444      13,602                       0-828                      Idem,     ..     ..      423.
Proveuce,season.
                +                      1-563      12,839                       0-771                     Tdem                             230.
   young           ,
                              ;        1-274     1 2,000                                                 Muller, Pract. Fortification, 76.
Baltic,      seasoned                  1-211      11,412                       0-673                     Layman, Nich. Jour. xxxv. 54.
                                       1-146      10,800                                                 Banks, Gregory's Mech.      127.1 i.
                                                                                                         Belidor, Scien. des Ingen.3   Ed.18 3.
                              .
                                       1-107      10,428                                                                                 9.              1
                              ; t        085      10,224                                                 Beaufoy, Ann. Phil. ix. 286. Ex. No. 4.
Oak,     .                       I     1-076      10,136                                                 Belidor, Scien. deslng. 321. Ed.1813.
                              :        1-060       9,985                       1-068                     Buflbn, Mem. de l'Acad. Paris, 1741,
White American,             1
                                                                                                                                                        [329.
   seasoned
                                       1-009           9,504                                             Layman, Nich. Jour. xxxv. 54.
                  . .   t 'J
Oak,                                  1-009            9,504                                             Barlow, Rees's Cyclo. art. Strength.
                              ;       0-960            9,043                                             Buflbn^, Mem. de l'Acad. Paris, 1741,
                                                                                                                                                        [328.
Oak                              0-955                 9,000                   0-774                     Barlow, Rees's Cyclop, art. Strength.
English                        ; 0-936                 8,820                                             Beaufoy, Ann. of Phil. ix. 297. Ex.10
                              .
Dantzic                       ;; 0-818                 7,704                                             Idem,     ..     ..        283. Ex.1                9|
Beech      (Fagus     J
                                       1-880      17,709                                                 Muschenb.    Intro,   ad   Phi). Nat.      i.   415.
  sylvatiflus) . . (                                                                          Ij
Arbutus,      from .                  1   -845     17,379
—        ,        to.                 0-814         7,667                                     \
                                                                                                         Idem,                                           414.
Orange (Auran- ?
                                       1-764      16,616                                 I               Idem.
   tium)                      S
                        to.            1-629      15,345
 Bay (Laurus)           . . .          1-547      14,572
                                                                                                         Idem.
                        to.       .    1-085      10,220
   * Its colour         brown          j    and      it         was hard and large-veined,
   •)•This specimen lay six months in water after    was cut, and was afterwards                                 it
dried. When the trial was made       had been cut four years.                 it
     Middle-aged timber, fine-veined, light and pliant.
  § ||
     To find the distance between the supports, in Buflbn's experiments,        de                                                                  I
ducted one-twelfth of the length of the piece, according to the notice he has given
in the beginning of his memoir   the two results given are the highest and lowest
                                                             j
from the eight-feet lengths.
                                                                                                                                                 TABLE

                                        On the Resistance           of Solids*                        -425
                                             TABLE III.— (continued.)
         Woods.                                                                 Authority.
  Teak (Tectona
        grandis).
Java, seasoned, .               +
                            .       1-509    14,220     0-697   Layman, Nich. Journ. xxxv. 54.
Pegu, seasoned,                     1-4-00   13,194     0-619   Idem.
MaIabnr,seasoned,f                  1-395    13,140     0-688   Idem.
Alder (Bet. Alnns)                  1-506    14,180             Muschenb. Intr. ad Phil. Nat. i. 414.
Mulberry(Morus)                     1-492    14,054
                                                            ?   Idem.
                                  1-221       I 1,501
Elm (Ulmus) ...                 . 1-432      13,489             Idem.
  Firs (Pinus).
Pitch pine,                     j   1-398    13,176             Layman, Nich. Journ. xxxv. 54.
Fir                                 1-380    13,000             Barlow, Rees's Cyclop, art. Strength.
Fir (strongest) . . }               1-318    I 2,420            Banks, Gregory's Mech. i. 127.
Pitch pine, ... .J                  1'284    12,096             lieaufoy, Ann. of Phil. ix. 304, 305.
Pine (Pin du 1
                 + f 1-264                    11,913            Duhamel, Transport du Bois, 460.
  Nord)
Larch      (Pinus ) 1-177
   Larix),       +
                   $
                                             11,093     0-636   By my trials.   f
Fir, 9trong red, . . 1-172      J            1 1,040            Muller, Piact. Fortification, 76.
Fir,Meme!,season    f 1 154                   10,876            By my trial.
Fir, Russian . . .    i or.2                  10,008 0-459      Layman, Nich. Journ. xxxv. 54.
Fir                               1-061       10,000            Barlow, Rees's Cyclop, art. Strength.
Fir                             , 1-039        9,792            Idem.
Fir, Riga                       + 0-963        9,072            Bi-aufoy, Ann. of Phil. ix. 290, 291.
Fir, American           .           0-942      8,874 0-416      Layman, Nich. Journ, xxxv. 54.
Fir                                 0-903      8,506            Muschenb. Intr. ad Phil. Nat. i. 414.
—,      yellow deal                 0-900      8,478 0-472      Layman, Nich. Journ. xxxv. 54.
Fir, weakest .                      0-879      8,280            Banks, Gregory's Mech. i. 127.
Larch, Scotch,              "1
                                    0-837               0-496   Layman, Nich. Journ. xxxv. 54.
   seasoned . .      JJ
Pitch pine        ....              0-830                       Muschenb. Intro, ad Phil. Nat. i. 414.
Larch,    Scotch,
                                    0-745      7,020    0-470   By my     trial, very young wood, the la
   very dry,      ..J                                             teral   cohesion    between the annual
                                                                  rings   was 1760 lbs. per inch superfi.
Fir,  Scotch (P."|
   sylvestris)
Fir, white deal . ,
                    J           J   0-711
                                    0- 455
                                               6,600
                                               4,290
                                                        0-550
                                                        0-498
                                                                By my     trials, it was seasoned.
                                                                By my trials, very dry.
Sissor, of Bengal                   1- 395    13.140    0-889   Layman, Nicb. Journ. xxxv. 54.
Saul, of Bengal                     1-375     12,960    0-962   Idem.
—
Plum, (Prunus)
                    to
                                    1-357
                                    T205
                                              12,782
                                              11,351
                                                                Muschenb.       Intr. ad Phil. Nat. i. 415.
Willow (Salix)   .|l-357  12,782                                Idem.
Willow, dry .... + 0-8098 7,628                                 Duhamel,     Trans,   du Bois, 419.
  •)-The specimen was taken from the middle between the centre and sapwood,
about three feet-from the root; — the diameter of the tree was nearly 18 inches,
and the wood from which the specimen was taken had been cut into two-inch
planks about six months. The wood was tough, hard, and weighed 39J pounds
per cube foot — the distance of the annual rings was about an eighth of an inch,
                    ;
 and the wood appeared silky when planed.       It was grown upon the Duke of
Athol's estate at Blair, in Scotland and the experiments were made at the desire
                                                        ;
of William Atkinson, Esq. Architect to the Ordnance, &c,
                                                                                                   TABLE

426                           On the Resistance       of Solids.
                                  TABLE    III —(continued.)
        Woods.                                                   Authority.
                                    85"
      Mahogany
      (Swietenia)
Spanish,                J  1-283   12,186  0-753   Layman, Nich. Journ. xxxv. 54.
Citron (Cilreum)         . 1-357   12,782          Muschenb. Intro, ad Phil. Nat. i. 414.
                   to..    0-868    8,176          Idem.
  Chesnut, Sweet,
  (Fagus castanea.)
 100 years in i         t 1-291    12,168  0-877   Layman,   Nich. Journ. xxxv. 5*.
Jasmine(Jasminum) 1-276            12,020
                   to.   . 1-248   1 1,756         Muschenb. Intro, ad Phil. Nat. i, 414.
 Pomegranate           J   1-221   11,501
    (Punica)       . . ^
                                                   Idem.
                   to..    0- 882   8,308
 Tamarisk       (Ta-   )
                           1- 194  11,247
    mariscus)     . .  $                           Idem.
                    to..   0- 732   6,895
   Maple (Acer).
Norway       ......     J 1- 123   10.5S4 0-793    Layman, Nich. Journ. xxxv. 54.
 Elder (Sambueus)          1-086   10,230          Muschenb. Intro, ad Phil. Nat. i. 415.
 Lemon (Limon)             1-004    9,457          Idem.      ..      ..      ..       414i.
•Quince (Cydouia) 0-841             8.S22
                                                   Idem.
                   to..    0-624    5,878
Cypress(Cupressus)         0-732    6,895
                                                   Idem.
                    to. . 0 542     5,105
Poplar (Pop. alba) O-705            6,641
                                                   Idem.
                    to. . 0-488     4,596
Poplar (P.nigra)-)
    lateral    cohe-    {
    sionof the ani-
                           0-189     1,732 0-421   By my trials — the specimeus very dry.
                     JJ
                        (
    nual   rings . .
Cedar                      0-528    4,973          Muschenb.   Intro, ad Phil. Nat. i. 414.
    % Those to which this mark is added were calculated          from experiments on the
traasverse strength.
                                                                                   TABLE

                             On the Resistance                   of Solids,                               427
                  TABLE IV.— MISCELLANEOUS SUBSTANCES.
                                   te fl                                                              .
                                    5 3 o
                                    !0 M a™
                                           "     w >.
                                                 c —
    Substances.                                  '3 5                         Authority.
                            —-
                                       1   si    w «
                                                 xn   £
                                       U " .=
Hemp      fibres  J
   glued together {
                    9-766              92,000                 Rumford, Phil. Mag. x.
Paper     strips  )
                    3-134              30,000                 Idem.
   glued together J
Ivory               I 765              16,626                 Muschenb. Intro, ad Phil. Nat. i. 463,
Slate,  Welsh, )
   (clay slate) .+ \ 1-358
                                       12,800                 By my trials.
Plate- glass        + 1000              9,420 2-453           By mv trials.
Marble (white) J 0-955                  9,000                 Robison, Gregory's Mech. i. 129.
Horn of an ox         0-95(i            8,949                 Muschenb. Intro, ad Phil. Nat. i. 463.
Whalebone                 "•814         7,667                 Idem.
Bone of an ox             0-559         5,265                 Idem.
Hard stonef of 1
                                        2,166 2'357           Gauthey,Roz.Journ.dePhysiq.iv.413.
  Givry        +
                 f 0-230
Portland stone, 1
  (compact lime-          0-083            784                By my trials.
               +
  stone)         }
Soft stone * of {
                          0 041            385 2071           Gauthey.Roz.Journ.dePhysiq.
  Givry,          }   /                                                                           iv.313.
Brick from                0 031            300                Coulomb,    Young's Nat. Phil. ii. 174.
      tc                  0 030            280
Brick from Dork-      I
                                                          j   By my trial,— colour deep-brick             red,
                                           275
   in?.           H       0 029                                 brittle.
Stone.homo^ene- }
   ons white, of a > 0022                  207                Coulomb, (Euvres deGauthey, i. 277.
   fine grain . . . . )
Plaster of Paris. . . 0-0077               72                 Rondelet,   L'Art   de Batir, i. 314.
Mortar    of  sand }
  and    lime, 16 >       00054            50                 Idem.
  years made . .      )
  In our inquiries respecting the laws which regulate the phe-
nomena of nature, we must always exclude certain circumstances
which are not necessary, nor do not always accompany the phe
nomena.
  This principle of exclusion is one of the most prominent fea-
    This stone
  •f-             was hard,       of
                                red colour, and the beds distinctly marked.
                                       a
  * This stone    was white, rather soft, and the beds not  distinctly marked. These
numbers were calculated from experiments on the transverse strength, because
the experiments which Gauthey made on the suspending strength are so extremely
irregular.  He appears to have been aware of the principal cause, which was owing
to his mode of fixing the pieces. The results of Gauthey's experiments on the
suspending strength of stones have been, by mistake, copied as experiments on
crushing, by Professor Robison, in his article Strengtli nf Materials, Encyclo. Brit.
See 4th edition, p. 759.   This mistake has been copied by some other writers
from the article above mentioned, a      among others by the writer of the article
                                                 ;d
Strength, Rees*s Cyclopaedia.
   Gauthey's experiments on crushing are much more numerous and regular.
See Rozier's Journal dc Physique, iv. 406.
                                                                                                  tares

 428          Some further Olservations on the Use        of
 tures of Bacon's method of reasoning*;              and has been the
 guide of Newton in his noble discoveries.
    In the resistance of solids, we must consider them homoge
 neous — that they maybe extended and compressed in equal de
 grees by equal forces and proportionally by proportional forces,
 at least till it is shown by unexceptionable experiments on ho
 mogeneous bodies, that these principles are not consistent with
 the pha?nomena.
    The effect of the deflexion should not be excluded in a per
 fect theory; but it has been omitted in calculating the preceding
 tables to save calculation, as it doubles the labour, while the
 corrections from introducing are too trifling to sensibly affect the
result.    Besides, such niceties are not needed for practical pur
poses,   where   simplicity is much more esteemed.
    Timber is not homogeneous ; and therefore it is not a pro
per material to verify the theory.        I have found the transverse
strengths of two pieces, of the same size, cut from the side of
each other, to be as 9 to 12.         Duhamel found pieces of the
same size, and from the same zone, to be as 57 to 66            f; — these
different results were caused by varying the position of the an
nual rings.      The difference of specimens, from the same tree,
both in weight and cohesive force, has been shown by Buffon .           J
Now when such differences are found in the same tree, is it
wonderful that experiments, made in different countries, on
wood of different ages, seasoned by different methods, and grown
on different soils, should differ from one another ? — Is it not
rather to be wondered at, that they should agree so nearly as
they do? Yet, how often has the correctness of these experi
ments been called in question where it was almost impossible that
the writers could be mistaken !
LXXI.      Some further Observations on the Use of the Colchicum
     uutumnale in Gout.        By Sir E. Home, Bart., V.P.R.S. §
I laid     before the Society, some experiments        and observations
in favour of this medicine acting upon the gout through the me
dium of the circulation, and not by its effects directly upon the
stomach and intestinal canal.
    The object of the present paper is to show that the infusion
throws down a deposit, the separation of which does not appear
to diminish the specific effects upon the gout, and renders those
upon the stomach and intestines milder than when the deposit
is taken along with the infusion.
   • Nov. Organ, lib. ii. Aph. 18.
                                     f  Transport du Bois, p. 460 and 4/0.
   % Mem. de l'Acad. Scien. Paris, 1741, p. 328—332.
   § From the Transactions of the Royal Society, 1817, part ii.
                                                                      Tho

                the Colchicum autumnah in Gout,                   429
   The bulb of the Colchicum autumnale contains a certain quan
tity of extractive matter, and a large portion of mucilage, both
of which    are taken up by the wine, in the first instance : when
 the strained liquor is allowed to stand, a considerable deposit
 almost immediately takes place.
    In the first trials that were made with this medicine in St.
 George's hospital, it was natural to inquire whether this deposit
 contained any medical virtues ; and upon trials frequently repeat
ed, it was found to have none.
    This led to the opinion that the extractive matter suspended
 in the wine, was alone the active part of the medicine ; and not
 only the first deposit was inert, but also that which from time to
 time was afterwards found to take place.
    Of this opinion I was led-to entertain considerable doubts, in
 consequence of having found upon one occasion, in which I took
 half a bottle of the Eau Medichiale which had been poured off
 without shaking the bottle, that the sensible effects were very
mild ; those produced by the other half, in which the deposit was
mixed, were unusually severe, the nausea being greater, and a
greater number of stools being produced.
    These doubts were much strengthened, when I found that the
effects of the Eau Medichiale are more violent upon many sto
machs than those of the vinous infusion of the Colchicum, which
probably arises from the Eau Medichiale being kept in small
bottles, in consequence of which all the deposit that takes place
is given along with the infusion, while the vinous inftision of Col
chicum being kept in large bottles, the deposit falls to the
bottom. If such deposit increased the powers of the medicine in
counteracting the symptoms of gout, it would be unnecessary to
prosecute this investigation further, since it would be absurd to
diminish the violence of a medicine,     if,by so doing, its efficacy
                                                                    is
to-be diminished in an equal degree.
   To ascertain this point, gave sixty drops of the vinous infu
                            I
sion of Colchicum, in which there was no deposit whatever, to a
man labouring under     a   severe paroxysm of gout, to which he
was a   gTeat martyr, and whose paroxysms were usually of several
weeks continuance   ;    he was sixty years of age.
   The medicine was exhibited on the 17th of January 1817, his
pulse being 115.       In half an hour he had slight nausea, which
soon went off.      In five hours,
                                 a   profuse perspiration enme on,
and the pain of the gout entirely subsided, leaving       a soreness in
the parts that had been affected.       In twelve hours the bowels
were gently moved, his pulse 105 and irregular         ;   in fourteen
hours his bowels were acted on       a    second time ;   in nineteen
hours his pulse was 92, and natural      ;   in forty-eight hours he
                                                                    was

480"         Some further Observations on the     life of
was quite well, and has continued so a period of more than three
months.                                                         • .• '•
   The result of this case satisfied me that the infusion contained
the specific remedy for the gout, and that the deposit is not ne
cessary for its removal.                                                ;
   This rendered it probable that, where the deposit is taken
along with the infusion, its solid form prevents it from being
carried into the circulation of the blood, and it remains in the
stomach, producing more or less mischief in that viscus, without
being any way concerned in driving away the disease for which
the medicine was exhibited ; in this respect resembling many of
the salts of mercury, which irritate the bowels, without relieving
the svmptoms of the venereal disease.                                 j
   I explained these opinions to Mr. Gatcombe, who gives me
his assistance .in my professional pursuits, and requested him to
investigate this subject.
   To do this more completely, he began by repeating the three
experiments detailed in my former paper, substituting the Eau
Medicinale for the vinous infusion of Colchicum, so as to de
termine with more precision whether they are or are not the
same medicine.
    Exp. 1. Thirty drops of the Eau Medicinale with the de-.
posit were injected into the jugular vein of a dog : the effects
were the same as in my experiment with the same quantity of
the vinous infusion of Colchicum, only the animal was two hours
longer in recovering from them, and was purged for nine hours
afterwards.                                                           ,
    Exp. 2. Sixty drops of the Eau Medicinale were given by
the mouth to the same dog : the effect was less than in my ex
periment with the vinous infusion of Colchicum exhibited in the
same quantity : this arose from a very copious evacuation of
urine having been produced.
   Exp. '6. One hundred and sixty drops of the Eau Medicinale,
injected into the jugular vein of a dog, produced rather more
violent effects than in my experiment with the same quantity of
vinous infusion of Colchicum ; the animal died in six hours, and
after death the appearances of inflammation in the bowels were
more violent, approaching to mortification.
   Mr. Gatcombe having found so exact a similarity in the ef
fects of the two medicines, in these trials, I requested him to
make the following comparative experiment on the effects pro
duced upon the stomach and bowels by the Eau Medicinale, in
 which there is a deposit, and the vinous infusion of Colchicum, in
which there is none.            •
   Exp. 4. One hundred and sixty drops of the Eau Medicinale,
                                                              taken

                tie Colchicum autumnalein Gout.
taken by the mouth, produced the same effects, and left the
same appearances after death, as when that quantity was injected
into the vein, only the animal lived nine instead of six hours.
   One hundred and sixty drops of the vinous infusion of Colchi
cum were given to a puppy of the same litter ; they produced
vomiting, purging, and a great flow of urine ; but the animal very
soon recovered.
   Two hundred drops of the same infusion, after an interval of
several days, were given to the same dog, and the effects were
the same ; the dog had become much improved in his looks and
condition.
   Three hundred drops, after an interval of several days, were
given to the same dog : effects, corresponding with those of one
hundred and sixty drops of the Eau Medicinale, were produced.
The dog died in nine bours, and the appearances of inflammation
after death were of the same kind, but not nearly so extensive.
   From these experiments the Eau Medicinale with the deposit,
produces double the irritation on the coats of the stomach and
intestines, that is brought on by the vinous infusion of Colchicum :
this probably arises from the local inflammation brought on by
the deposit, upon the internal membrane of these viscera.
   To determine as nearly as possible the effects of the deposit,
when applied in a solid form to the coats of the stomach and
intestines, the following experiment was made.
   Exp. 5. Six grains of the deposit of the vinous infusion of
Colchicum were given to a dog in bread and milk ; in three
hours it produced vomiting and purging, which lasted twenty-
four hours ; during the latter part of that time, there was blood
in the stools, as well as in what was brought up from the sto
mach.
   I wished to repeat this experiment with the deposit from the
 Eau Medicinale, but found in bottles that had been kept seven
years, the wine had become vapid, and, in this decomposed state,
the acrid part of the deposit had been taken up again ; so that
in twelve bottles, containing different quantities, only five grains
could be procured, which was quite inert.
   Being at a loss to know whether the extractive matter depo
sited from the infusion is in reality more acrid to the stomach
than that suspended in   it, or the circumstance of its being ap
plied ina   solid form renders it so,
                                    I   requested Professor Brande
to acquaint me,  ifit  could be the effect of any chemical decom
position having taken place.
    He favoured me with the following explanation, which    ishighly
satisfactory.
                 " There are certain vegetable bodies which, when
infused in water or diluted spirit, furnish  a  solution which lets
fall sediment,
   a              in  which their activity, as purgative medicines,
                                                              chiefly

432       On the Use    of the Colchicum autumnale        in Gout.
chiefly resides ; this is remarkably the case with the wild cucum*
her or Elaterium.        The sediment is a very drastic purge ; the>
part that remains     dissolved  is comparatively mild in its operation
upon the bowels." This explanation of Professor Brande ap
plies to the Colchicum, and we are now enabled to separate the
purgative qualities of the vinous infusion of Colchicum and Ecat
Medicinale, from those which prove a specific for the gout, in
the simplest possible manner, by keejwng them in large bottles,
instead of small ones, and not going too near the bottom.
    Is also explains what is asserted by Prosper Alpinus *, that the
Egyptian women eat the fresh bulbs, that they may grow fat ;
an effect which was found to take place in the dog, while the
dose was confined within such limits as not to act too violently
upon the bowels.
    The bulb3 of the Egyptian Colchicum, when long kept, weigh
one drachm each ; on being steeped in water they double their
weight; so that the quantity of extractive matter contained in
two or three recent burbs, while combined with the mucilaginous
matter, of which the bulbs are principally composed, is not likely
 to be sufficient to do more than act as a brisk purgative, the
 occasional use of which tends to make people grow fat.
    Since this paper was read, the patient who is mentioned as
having had the gout in January, has had another attack : it came
on the 10th of July, and was removed in the same manner as the
former, by the same dose of the medicine.             The President of the
 Society also, convinced by the evidence contained in this and the
former paper, that the Vinum Colchici, in which there is no de
posit, must be a less hurtful medicine than the Eau Medicinale,
thought it a duty to himself and the public to make trial of it;
 and on the 20th of July, when the gout in his left hand and the
whole of the joints of that side of the body was very severe, al
lowed me to give him ninety drops of the Vinum Colchici, and
found that the symptoms of gout were sooner and more com
pletely removed than they ever had been by the Eau Medicindle,
of which he has an experience of seven years, having taken it
regularly ever since the 17th of February 1810, and during that
time kept a regular account of the doses, their effects, and the
intervals between them.
                 * Hist. Nat. Egypt, pars 1. lib. 3. cap. 14.
                                                            LXXII. Ex.

                                 f  433  ]
  i
 LXXII. Experiments and Observations upon the State of the
     Air in the Fever Hospitals of Cork, at a Time when they were
     crowded with Patients labouring under Febrile Contagion. —
     By Edmund Davy, Esq. Professor of Chemistry, and Secre
     tary to the Cork  Institution.
 From     numerous experiments made on air collected in different
 countries by the most enlightened inquirers, it seems to be ge
 nerally admitted that the chemical constitution of the atmo
 sphere is nearly the same at all seasons of the year and in all
 parts of the globe.    Nitrogen and oxygen gases form its princi
 pal component parts ; and it also contains a minute portion of
carbonic acid gas and a variable quantity of aqueous vapour. Aa
 oxygen gas is essential to animal and vegetable life, and to the
processes of combustion, fermentation, &c. ; and as it is con
stantly entering into new forms, by which its peculiar properties
are modified or destroyed, it is considered the most important
and most active part of the atmosphere.       The most general and
important change that the oxygenous portion of the air under
goes, is its conversion into carbonic acid gas, a substance which,
though obnoxious to animals, is yet made subservient to vege
table life ; and this change is invariably connected with the ex
ertion of the vital functions of organic beings, and with the
burning of coals, wood, candles, &c.
    The salubrity and healthy state of the air depend in a great
 measure upon the quantity of oxygen gas it contains, and this
 quantity (about twenty-one per cent.) appears to exist in all
 places exposed to the free atmosphere and the influence of
winds.     But the same uniformity of composition does not pre
vail in the air of confined dwelling-houses,      crowded theatres,
 and hospitals that are badly ventilated.    At a time when typhus
was very prevalent in Cork, and there were in the two Fever
 Hospitals about two hundred and eighty patients labouring for
the most part under febrile infection, it occurred to my friend
 Doctor Daly, whose active exertions in the cause of humanity are
 well known, and likewise to myself, that it would be a desirable
 object to ascertain the state of the air in the fever wards ; and I
 immediately undertook a series of experiments on the subject.
    To give in detail all the minutie of my experiments would
far exceed the limits of this paper ; I shall therefore briefly no
 tice my methods and results, and close the communication with
 a few observations connected with the subject.
    I procured air from five large and small wards in the House of
 Recovery, and from the two wards in Peacock Lane Hospital.        I
collected it from different parts of the rooms 3 as in the middle,
    Vol. SO. No.236. Dec. 1817.              Ee                   at

434     Experiments and Observations upon                    the   Slate         of the Air
at the sides, near the floor and at different heights from        and.                     it,
ciose to.the beds of the patients.     In every instance, the air was
obtained          by
              emptying on the spot bottles that had been pre
viously hMed with distilled water, and immediately closing them.
'.Ehe bp^tles were perfectly air-tight, being all furnished with well
ground glass stoppers.      The air was examined soon after       had                      it
 been collected.
:    Tlie first' and most important object of my inquiry was to as
 certain the quantity of oxygen gas in the several bottles of air.
 For this purpose           Iemployed hydrogen gas, and the electric
 spark,      amethod that seems to unite more simplicity and ele-.
 gance than an other, and with due precaution
                       v                                          susceptible of
                                                                         is
 great accuracy.         As the purity of the hydrogen used in experi
  ments of this kind        isof consequence to the accuracy of the re
 sults,  it may    be   proper to notice the mode           which  by  was ob         it
 tained, especially       as    has,
                                it       think,
                                         I         some   little  novelty, and
 seems to         be
                  quite unexceptionable.            put some small pieces of
                                                         I
 zinc into        glass, and nearly filled it.with water that had been
                  a
 boiling for some time then filled
                                ;               tube with the boiling water,
                                                     a
 aud inverted         in the glass; and after adding sulphuric acid,
                       it                                                                        I
 shortly after collected the gas.
  ••I  made       agreat number of experiments, using in every in
 stance   an,   excess of hydrogen gas.          In every trial mixed 0.30.  I
 of a cubic inch of the air under examination, with 0.80 of pure
 hydrogen gas; and after agitating the mixture in a thick deto
 nating tube furnished with wires, the charge of                  Leyden phial
                                                                             a
 was passed through the tube, and the residual air, on being trans
 ferred to the cubic inch measure, occupied about 0.40 of it.                                    I
 venture to state this as         general result for though
                                     a                   ;            few cases  in   a
 there was a difference of about            per cent- more or less, yet this
                                                 1
 difference was rather apparent than real, owing to the difficulty
 of measuring uniform quantities of air, and               was corrected by
                                                                  it                              a
 careful repetition of the experiments.              Now, as two volumes of
 hydrogen     and   one    of oxygen gas enter into the composition of
 water;       the foregoing results are made the basis of calculation,
             if
the apparent quantity of the oxygen gas                 the air from the dif
                                                             in
 ferent fever wards will amount to about 22.22 per cent. — but
 this    iixit the real quantity.
        is                                  slight allowance must be. made
                                                 A
for a. minute portion of air disengaged from the water, after the
detonation of the mixed gases; and when this                    taken into ac
                                                                        is
count, the oxygen may be fairly estimated at about 21 per cent*
And according to the statements of Sir Humphry Davy, and other
able chemists, 21 per cents,           the actual quantity of oxygen gas
in the external atmosphere               in is
                                        different parts of the globe.                            It
May    be  remarked      that the variations in the temperature and pres
sure o£ the atmosphere, during the preceding experiments, we**
<U+25BA>                           -                    .   .                                           so

                 "
               •
                   in  I he Fever Hospitals of Cork.             435
so small as not    to influence the accuracy of the general results
                                                                   '
stated.     With a view to confirm the preceding statements, I
made comparative trials upon air collected from the open atmo
sphere at the t'-p of the observatory belonging to the Cork In
stitution ; a situation, perhaps, not less salubrious than any other
in Cork. — The experiments were cotulucted in a manner pre*
cisely similar to those I have noticed ; part of the same hydrogen
Was employed, and every precaution used to insure accuracy.
And in every case in which the electric spark was passed through
a mixture of the air under examination and hydrogen gas, in the
proportion of 0;30 of each, the residual air measured about 0.40.
I collected air from Hughes's Lane, a place notorious for the
number of eises it had furnished of typhus; but it yielded, on ex
amination, the same uniformity of result.
     I have made some trials on the other gaseous constituents of
the air collected from the different fever wards, and compared
them with similar experiments on air from the observatory of the
Institution, and I have found a very near coincidence in both se
ries of results.    Thus, judging from the absorption that took
place in the bottles of air from the fever wards,' when placed for
some time in water, and when agitated in this fluid, and espe
cially from the effects of lime water on the air ; and comparing,
by similar trials, air collected from the atmosphere in salubrious
situations, I could scarcely, in either case, discover a perceptible
difference in the quantity of carbonic acid gas. In one instance,
 I filled a two-quart sround-stoppered bottle with the air from a
large ward at the House of Recovery, and, on the spot, I put
into the bottle a small phial of lime water and well closed it. —
After much occasional agitation and an interval of about two
 days, I examined the carbonate of lime formed, and compared it
 with the quantity produced under similar circumstances from the
 same bottle filled with air from the Observatory; and treated with
 lime water : and I was unable in this way to detect any appre
 ciable difference.     If this method may be relied on, I think I
may venture to state, that the air from the ward did not con
  tain nearly 1 per cent, more of carbonic acid gas than the air
 from the observatory.
     After I had separated oxvgeri and carbonic acid gas from the
 different airs examined, I could not detect the presence of any
 other gas than nitrogen, which exhibited its characteristic nega
 tive properties.     The want of leisure prevented me from varying
 and multiplying my experiments, so as to ascertain the exact
  proportion of the carbonic acid and nitrogen gases in the airs;
  taid it may be proper to observe, that during the time I was en
 gaged in this inquiry, the variations of temperature, moisture,
 and pressure of the atmosphere were very small, and too often
                                    Ee2                     connected

436 "Experiments and Observations on the Slate        of the Ah,   \*?c.
connected with accidental circumstances to be accurately no-
                                                                      -
ticed.                     Observatimis.
    Though   I did  not indulge  any sanguine expectations as to the
benefit likely to  result from  a chemical examination of the air ii* .
the Fever Hospitals, I thought the inquiry might be useful.            If
the air in the wards had been found impure, means certainly
ought to be adopted in order to improve it > but as this is not the •
case, the very knowledge of the fact may tend to hill suspicion
                                                                      •
where it is alive, and create some degree of confidence in the
public mind.      In this point of view, my investigation may per
haps have some little value, though I am far from attaching any
undue importance to it.         All my experiments seem to lead to
this gratifying conclusion, that there is no material difference in
the chemical constitution of the air in the crowded fever wards of.
this city, and the atmosphere in places that are very generally-
supposed to be more salubrious.       I certainly was not prepared to .
 expect this uniformity of result ; but it seems to me to be inti
mately connected with the situation, and more particularly with
 the ventilation, of both Fever Houses.         The site (as might be
 expected) is certainly very good in both cases, and the ventila
 tion, especially in the House of Recovery, seems to be quite un
 exceptionable.
    The necessity of a thorough ventilation in sick chambers, hos
 pitals, &c. is universally felt and acknowledged, and the tendency
 of this inquiry is to prove its importance.       It shows that the air
 of fever wards crowded with cases of infectious disease may, by
 a well regulated ventilation, still preserve its salubrity.
    Respiration being in all cases a consumption of oxygen or vital
 air ; this process, especially in crowded fever wards, is attended
 with great loss of oxygen; and a deficiency of this principle is
 equivalent to an excess of the other two noxious gases, carbonic
 acid and nitrogen.      In circumstances where the uniformity in the
 composition   of the   air is every instant destroyed, it is difficult to
 conceive   how   it  can   be momentarily     renewed, except by the
 quick and uninterrupted circulation of its parts.           Perhaps, a
 thorough ventilation    is,   of all others, the most simple, and at
 the same time the most effectual means of preserving the salu
brity of the air in crowded sick wards; and ventilators on the
most approved construction, that allow       a  free ingress and egress
of the air,   and  fire* that quicken the circulation, would seem to
be the most efficient methods for securing this desirable object.
    In close moist weather, and in cases when, from different
causes, the air of crowded sick chambers may be damp, or con
tain an excess of aqueous moisture, the use of quick lime in
powder, I    presume, will be found very beneficial    ;   itwill absorb
the excess of moisture, and render the rooms comparatively dry.
                                                                     Foe

          Upon the Extent       of the  Contraction,  &c. of Timber. 437
  For this purpose, large surfaces of it may be exposed in shallow
   earthen vessels, in tubs or boxes.         The lime will also exert the
  salubrious effect, of absorbing carbonic acid gas from the air.
     Cork Institution, Dec.  6, 1817.
      %* To      these   remarks   of Mr. Davy I beg to add, that the
   results of his experiments tend to establish this truth : thut'the
   matter of contagion is imponderable, as those substances which,
  in their state of greatest dilution, merely affect the olfactorv
  organs ; but 1 may also add, like these too, they may be capable
  of being taken up, neutralized, and precipitated, by chemical
  agents.     Not only effluvia may be added to gases fmd liquids,
  but gases to gases, and liquids to liquids, without increasing their
  apparent volume.         It is true that by the instruments of science
  the mixed gases and liquids may be presented separate ; but it
  would be unphilosophical to infer, because our means cannot yet
  separate and weigh or measure the matter of contagion, that
 therefore it has no -existence.                                         T.
  LXXIII.      Upon the Extent of the Expansion and Contraction of
      Timber in different Directions relative to the Position of the
      Medulla of the Tree. By Thomas Andrew Knight, JE,y,
      F.R.S. In a letter addressed to the Right lion. Sir Joseph
      Banks, Bart. G.C.B.P.R.S.*
 My DKar Sir, — "Many               attempts have been made by writon
  on vegetable physiology, to account for the force with which the
 «ap of trees has been proved by Hale to ascend during the
 spring, without any hypotliesis having been offered which has
 been thought satisfactory : and almost all which have been offer
  ed have been justlv rejected as wholly inadequate.             I have sug
 gested    in the   Philosophical    Transactions    of 1801,  second    part,
 page 333, the expansion          and    contraction of  those cellular, pro
  cesses which proceed from the bark to the medulla, which J have
'there called the true or silver grain of the wood; aiid which
  have generally, though most improperly, been called medullary
  processes.      1 have there shown, that this substance expands and
  contracts verv considerably under changes of temperature and
  moisture ; and I have stated that a board of oak, which has beeii
  formed by cutting across the supposed medullary processes, can
 scarcely be made, by any means, to retain the same form and
  position when subjected to various degrees of heat and moisture.
  1 had not at that time ascertained, with accuracy, the compara
 tive expansion and contraction of timber when divided in different
     * FroiatUe Transactions of the Philosophical Society for 1517, part    '
                                        E e3                      direction*

438      Upon the Extent      of the Expansion  and Contraction
directions     relative to , the medulla of the tree, and I was not
in possession of any fact which enabled me to prove the existence
of any such power, in a state of action, in the living tree\ But
 experiments, which I have made at different subsequent periods,
have afforded very satisfactory evidence of the presence of this
 power in a state of action in living trees, and have also enabled
 me to ascertain some facts, which appear interesting, and likely
 to prove useful in directing the proper mode of application of
 wood for various purposes, in which it is important that it should
 permanently retain its primary extent and form.         These expe
 riments were made upon timber of many different kinds; but as.
 the results were all very nearly the same,- 1 shall confine myself to
 those made upon the oak, the ash, the beech, and poplar.
     Some thin boards of the wood of two of the abovementioned
  species of trees, the ash and the beech, were cut in opposite di
  rections relative to their medulla, so that the convergent cellular
  processes crossed the centre of the surfaces of some of them at
  right angles, and lay parallel with the surfaces of others ; by
  which means I became enabled to mark the comparative extent
  of their expansion and contraction when they were subjected to-
  various degrees of heat and moisture.        Both were placed under
  perfectly similar circumstances in -a warm room, where those
  which had been formed by cutting across the convergent cellular
  processes soon changed their form very considerably, the one
  side becoming hollow, and the other raised; and, in drying, these
  contracted nearly fourteen per cent, relative to their breadth.-
  The others retained, with very little variation, their primary
   form, and did not contract more than three and a half per cent.,
  in drying.      Both were, subsequently, several times subjected to
   various degrees of temperature and moisture, and each expanded
   nearly in the same degree that it had contracted, the form of the
   one remaining very nearly permanent, and that of the other con
   stantly changing.
      A beech and an ash tree, each somewhat exceeding twenty
   inches in diameter, were felled in the end of January, (at which
   time the buds of both had become sensibly enlarged,) and a trans
   verse section qf about an inch in thickness, and necessarily of a
   circular form, was immediately cut off from the trunk of each,
   near its base.      An incision was then attempted to be made with
   a saw from the bark to the medulla, directly in the line of the
   Convergent cellular processes, with the expectation that these, on
   each side, would expand, and impede the action of the saw. The
   result was just what I had anticipated, and long before the saw
   approached near the medulla, it became so strongly compressed
   that my assistant could scarcely move it.      A much thinner saw,
   which I had in readiness, was then employed ; and the incision,
          - .--                                                 which

                  of Timber in different Directions v               439>
 which was kept open by a wedge, was extended to the medulla.
 The wedge was then withdrawn, and the opposite sides of the di
 vision instantly came in contact with great force.     A second in
cision, similar to the preceding, was then made to commence at,
the hark, about an inch distant from the preceding, and to ter-,
minate, like that, at the medulla; by which means, a wedge of
wood, an inch square .at the bark, and ending in an edge at the
medulla, and ten inches in length, was wholly detached.        This,
nevertheless, did not quit its position, being retained in it by the
expansion of the wood from which it had been separated.
  . The opposite sides of the same transverse      sections of wood*
were   divided  by the saw in a direction diametrically opposite to.
that above mentioned ; under which circumstances, the expan
sion of the convergent cellular processes could not, as in the pre
ceding cases, occasion any pressure upon the sides of the saw,,
which consequentlv continued to move with perfect freedom.            ,
    These circumstances led me to infer, that the medullary canal,
must be subject to considerable variations of diameter, with the
increase or diminution of the quantity of moisture in the wood i
and  J   conceived that I should easily be able to ascertain the
truth or falsehood of this conjecture by the following means.       I
selected, in winter, some part s of the stems of young trees as soon
as they were felled, which I retained in such a situation as might
occasion them to lose a considerable part of the water they con
tained, though not to such an extent as to destroy, or endanger,,
life.   The medulla of these was then removed ; and the space it
had occupied was filled with cylindrical pieces of metal, which;
were so large that they could not be introduced without consi
derable force.     The pieces of wood were then deposited in a.
damp soil, from which they absorbed much moisture ; and at the.
distance of ten days I found the medullary canal so much en
larged, that the pieces of metal dropped through without any
pressure being applied.                                                 :
   I am prepared      jto
                        prove, in   future
                                    a       communication,    that  the
quantity of moisture in the alburnum          subject to great varia
                                                 is
tions in the living tree, and therefore     conclude that the'.medul-
                                                I
lary canal frequently changes the extent of its diameter.
    It appears probable that,    by means of this kind of expansion,   .'
the internal parts of timber trees so frequently become rifted or^
cleft.   Winds have been assumed           some, and frost
                                            by                byothers,
as the cause of these injuries.    But winds cannot possibly be the
cause, as pollared oak trees, upon which these can exert but
very little power, are almost always rifted and the frost of this
                                                      ;
climate     rarely, or never, sufficiently intense to congeal the;
             is
winter sap of trees. This agent must also,          conceive, act sud--
                                                          I
denly,   if act at all, and the trunks of large oaks cannot suddenly
             it
.;       ,                       E      e   4                        lw

44Q            On the Nautical Almanac        for  1S30.
be cleft asunder in silence.        The oak timber of England »
also much more frequently rifted than that of the nottl&ef Eu
rope. The force with which the cellular substance of timber
expands, is fully equal to produce the preceding effects.        I have
often seen it overcome the pressure of many tons : it is therefore
greatly more than equal to give the impulse to the sap, which
was observed by Hale ; and as it is obviously in action in the
living tree, I must retain the opinion which I formerly gave, that
it is the agent by which motion is given to the ascending fluid.
How it immediately acts upon the passages through which that
fluid ascends, and whether that fluid passes through the cells
themselves, or through the intercellular passes described in the
elaborate work of Dr. Kieser*, 1 confess myself to be wholly ig
 norant ; and the slow motion of the fluid, the excessive minute
ness of the passages, and the varieties of directions in which it is
 often moving at one and the same time, will ever render this a
question of extremely difficult solution.
    There is another kind of contraction in timber whilst drying,
 and of expansion when subsequently wetted or moistened, which
 is observable only in lifeless wood ; and which has apparently no
 connexion with the power by which the sap is raised in the
 living tree. The interior and older layers of wood are much
more solid and specifically heavy than the external layers in the
Same tree ; and the latter, consequently, contract more longitu
 dinally in drying than the former, and the edge of everv board
 (that has been cut with surfaces nearly pantilel with the line of
the convergent cellular processes) which lay nearest the medulla
in the tree, will therefore in drying become convex, whilst the
opposite edge will become concave.           The ill effects of this are
often felt when oak timber is employed to form joists, part of
these in drying always rising above, and others sinking below the
first and proper position.      The cause of some musical and other
instruments being put out of order by changes of weather, whilst
others, apparently similarly coi.-ytr.icted, are free from such de
fects, may probably be traced to one of the sources above men^
tjbned.            I am, my dear Sir, &c.
Downton, April 26, 1817.                             T. A. Knight.
The Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bt.           G.C.B.P.R.S.
         LXXIV.      On the Nautical Almanac        for   1S20.
                           To   Mr. Tilloch.
T                                                     December 20, 1817-
1 have just    seen the   Nautical Almanac for the year 1S20; and
am happy to find that the attention of the Commissioners of the
                * Mc'moire sur
                               TOiganization des Plantes.
                                                                 Board.

                On the Nautical Almanac        for 1S20.             441
"Board of Longitude has been at length turned towards the nu
 merous errors with which that work has lately abounded.           I was
 in hopes, however, that when a reformation had commenced, it
 would have been complete ; and that the Nautical Almanac
 would have assumed a character and appearance similar toother
 works of the same kind which are published at Paris and Berlin ;
  and thereby have prevented the necessity of referring to either of
 those works for information, which is actually the case in the
 present ephemeris, as we are referred by Mr. Pond,' in his pre
 face, to the Connaissanre des Terns for a catalogue of stars which
 together with many other tables &c. ought to accompany our
 own publication.       As the Commissioners        however have not
 thought proper to enlarge the work, I shall confine my observa
 tions to such matters as actually appear in it.                          -
     My attention was very soon attracted to the singularity of two
  prefaces : that of Dr. Maskelyne being ordered by the Commis
 sioners to be retained, out of respect to his memory.         How the
 retention of the few lines which he has there written can add anv
 respect to his memory I am at a loss to conceive.            They are
 chiefly historical, and have nothing to do with the present vo
 lume. Surely the material part of what he has there stated might
 have been more properly engrafted in any new preface, and would
  have prevented that confusion and ambiguity which arise from
  the two prefaces as they now stand. — For Dr. Maskelyne assures
  us that the Tables, edited bv Mr. Vince, " will be used for the
  calculations of the Nautical Almanac for succeeding years :"
  whilst Mr. Pond, in his preface, hints at the tables of Burckhardt
  having been used in computing the place of the moon : but whe
  ther such practice commenced in the year 1817, 1818, 1819 or
  1 820, does not appear tpiite clear, as he is not so explicit on these
  points as his illustrious predecessor.     It is most probable like
  wise that Mr. Pond, or Mr. Hrown, or Messieurs the Commis
  sioners, (for we are wholly a.', h loss to conjecture under whose
  management the work is now pi. lushed,) may think it right to
  make use of Delambrt's new tallies of Jupiter's satellites ; as well
  as of other tables which have been published since those of Mr.
  Vince.
     But it appears that Mr. Pond was directed to retain the pre
 face only ; he has therefore retailed the whole of the explanation
  at the end, on his own responsibility : and any stranger taking up
  the work would naturally consider it as the production of Mr.
  Pond.     But, how must the reader be amused at the present day
  with the description (page 151) which he gives of himself in his
  voyage to Barbadoes in the year 1763, sitting in Mr. living's
 •marine chair, with a telescope from fifteen to twenty feet long,
  fvhich he assures   us is the proper    telescope for observing the
                                                                 eclil.sei

                        On the Neuttical Almanac              1S20;
44'Z                                               for
  eclipses of Jupiter's satellites ! Surely such incongruities and ab
  surdities ought to be banished from any work which professes to
  be written for the instruction of mankind.
     Mr. Pond, in his preface, makes a feeble attempt to justify the
  omission of the occupations of the fixed stars ; and hints that
  Dr. Maskelyne was convinced of the little iurportance of such
  occupations. But, Dr. Maskelyne has (in the explanation above
  alluded to) expressly stated that they are inserted in the work
  in order " to instruct mariners or travellers to look outfrequentlif
  for such observations : which, if they happen to prove occupa
  tions and are carefully observed, will afford a certain means of
  determining the longitude of the place of observation."          indeed
   I believe it will be found that they afford the best means of dis
  covering the longitude of any given place : and as such occupations
  are very numerous (and not rare, as Mr. Pond would seem to
  insinuate) it is to be hoped that the attention of travellers will
  be drawn towards this branch of the science more than it has
  hitherto been. In addition to• which 1 would remark that
  M. Oagnoli has (in the Memoirs of the Italian Society) attempted
  to show that the true figure of the earth may be ascertained by
  a connected series of such observations.       Rut, how does it hap
  pen   (if the Commissioners    have  given  directions  that these oc
  cupations shall be inserted as formerly) that we find them wholly
  omitted in the present volume       For there
                                      ?             not a single occupa
                                                    is
  tion of any fixed star announced throughout the whole of the
  year: neither are the conjunctions of the moon with any of the
 fixed stars stated, except as to five of the principal ones of the
 first and second magnitude; viz.          0y ,     /3   a$, a1}?, and
                                                         U,
  a"!Vl .     It   true that the editor announces an occupation of
                   is
  one of the planets (Jupiter) in that year     : but why      the occul-
                                                                      is
  tation of another of the planets (Mars) in January omitted                      ?
  the true conjunction of which will take place twenty minutes
 later than      stated in the Nautical Almanac.
                   is                                     would observe
                                                              I
 likewise that the commencement of the solar eclipse in Septem
 ber   is set down full one minute later than         ought to be; and
                                                         it
 the point when the moon makes the first impression on, the sun's
 disc (48j° from the vertex)         omitted.
                                     is
     Whatever apology might       be  made for the careless manner               in
 which the late volumes of the Nautical Almanac have been
 published, arising (as Mr. Pond informs us) from the confusion
 incident to the death of the Rev. Mr. Hitchinsj and the delay
 attending the necessary instruction of the Rev. Mr. Brown, bis
 successor    ; yet as this successor has now passed six years of his
 astronomical education,        was ,to be presumed that such gross
                                it
errors and omissions would not have been suffered to disgrace the
future volumes of the Nautical Almanac.                   ...                  ....
       • ~ .
                                                                     shall I

              Prospectus  of a new System   of Beaconing.        443
    I shall close this long letter, by observing that on casting mv
eve over the configurations of Jupiter's satellites for the month
of January, I find the position of almost all of them to he erro
 neous.     1 am, sir,                                             • ,
                          Your obedient servant,
                                                    ASTRONOMICUS,
    P.  S, —    In the preface to the Nautical Almanac it is stated
that " all the articles were computed by two separate persons/
and examined by a third :" perhaps it may exercise the ingenuity
and abilities of some of your readers, to determine the- probabi
lity that three persons should commit precisely the same mis
take in any calculation ; and that a repetition of similar errors
should occur several times in a work of 144 pages ! J !.               -
 LXXV.      Prospectus   of a  new System   of Beaconing,     By Hist
  - Majesty's Royal Letters Patent granted       to Robert Dickin-
  . son, Great Oueen-Slreet, London.
T here       is something so new in this Prospectus, and the benefits
 to be expected from the adoption of the system it recommends
 are so many and so important, that we cannot too earnestly re
 commend it to the attention and speedy adoption of those who
 from their situation possess the means of giving efficacy to any
 plan calculated to benefit the interests of navigation and hu
 manity.       Induced by the statements in the Prospectus to ex
 amine for ourselves the models of the patentee, we waited on the
 inventor, and bestowed on them a very careful inspection ; and
 we have no hesitation in stating that, in our opinion, the system
 is quite scientific, and so perfect as to leave little or nothing to,
 be desired, but its speedy and universal adoption by the common
 consent and patronage of all the maritime powers. — Edit.
                               prospectus.                           . :
     The design of this Prospectus is to propose a new beacon, of
 the following description and uses, with a view to beaconing the
 seas of the world.
     1st. Every beacon on this construction will tell the longitude,
 latitude, soundings, bearings, and distance from land ; how to be
 approached, currents, &c. with every other particular which the
  most elaborate and correct survey can describe.
     2dly. Every beacon, and the particulars belonging thereto,
  will be as well known and as familiar to navigators of the re
  motest climes, and of all nations, as to those of its own country.
     3dly. It presents the figure of an erect pillar (see the Plate),
  dnd can he placed in all fathomable depths of any reasonable size
  and elevation, say from 6 to 18 or 20 feet in height.
            5                                                   4thly.

 444             Prospectus   nf a   veto System      of   Beaconing.
     4thlv. It will always lie found precisely in the spot where i%
  was first laid down.
     Sthly. Being erect, it can be seen at a much greater distance
  than the present buoy.                           • .
     6thly. It will remain completelv water-tight.
    .7thly. While it defies alike the raging tempest, the fields of
 ice, weeds, the shock of a first-rate man of war, or any other
 body with which it may be assailed; that of the ordinary size
 is so reed-like and yielding, that the smallest jolly-boat would
 not, if suffered to run against       it,
                                     be in the least injured.
  •
     8thlv.   Lastly, perhaps not least to be regarded, (as        may            it
 tend to- its being more disseminated over the ocean ami different
 seas,)it   can be put down at a small expense; and, incredible as
 the foregoing may appear, the patentee (after one month's pre
 paration) will engage to furnish twenty beacons a week with all
 their appendages, and send to any quarter of the globe*.
     To show how the superiority now described            effected, the
                                                                   is
 following observations are offered — consists, 1st and princi
                                             :   It
 pally, in the singularity of its shape, which       not very unlike
                                                            is
 that of shoulder of mutton before the shank
         a                                             cut off.
                                                              is  2diy,
 In the systematic arrangements respecting its moorings; and,
 3dly, In its speaking an univcral language.
     In giving the bodies intended for sea beacons the form of                         a
 cone, (as has always been done,)     great error was committed, as
                                         a
 no shape affording so much ipsistance, and therefore so badly
calculated for the passing of the water, could have been found.
The neect error was, in loading this ill-formed body, which ought
to have been as light as possible, with tremendous heavy chain.
                                                 a
 Both these evils are here avoided, the shape offered being much
sharper in the water than the sharpest Thames wherrv           and not  ;
being loaded         by
                    the chain, as will be shown, the resistance                        is
much less than that of a wherry, and       rides considerably lighter
                                                 it
in the water.
     The annexed engraving will convey some idea of the improved
form-given to this beacon      which also, in what regards floatage,
                                :
presents,         presumed,    new practical principle, and which,
                 is is
            it                  a
the patentee      vain enough to imagine, wHl be thought to possess
considerable novelty, .is hitherto the effect now produced, viz.
the floating of a pillar, has never, that he knows of, been accom
plished, without the very objectionable incumbrance of an enor-
bvous bulk, aiid a quantity of counterpoising ballast, proportioned
to the elevation of the object to be raised,'    Indeed,        hardly  it   is
credible, after the numberless improvements that have been in-
   * Corporate bodies, and such individuals as desire to see the models,
with their description, will he pler.sed to apply      by
                                                   letter, addressed
                                                                     " To
the Patentee, 63, Greut Queen-street."
                                                                             troduced

               Prospectus   of a  new System      of Beaconing.           44&
traduced into nautical science, that the beacon should have re
mained, for so many centuries, in a state so defective, seeing as
cue does {vide Lloyd's List) that more casualties and ship
wrecks are occasioned by getting aground, (which beacons are
intended as, and perhaps are, the only means of preventing,) than
from any or all other causes united. — Heine, it is a duty in
cumbent on mankind generally, to endeavour to render this
system perfect, or as nearlv sous can be attained by human in
vention, by human assiduity, and by .in accordance of sentiment
 in all the maritime nations of the world; and, seeing that the
benefit to the human race and the advantages of such a union
would be reciprocal, it cannot fail, soon or late, of being carried
 into effect.
     The part of the beacon represented out of water, is a pillar,
 of three or four equal sides, on each of which is painted tlve same
 number, whether it be one or one thousand, in such a manner
 that, when the units are exceeded, the figures must be written
 downwards:       10 thus, 0: — 15 thus, 5: — 999 thus, 9: — and,
 from the form of the pillar, it is difficult to take any position in
 which the figures will not on one side be seen, and distin
 guished at a considerable distance; and shins beyond reading
 distance, if they want information, wid approach nearer to ob
  tain it.                             .   > .    .
  .  A Beacon Book, or Formula of References, is to he printed in
 various languages, wherein will be laid down, by means tof cor
 responding numbers, all the particulars relating to every beacon,
                             '
 and which book, when referred to by the bewildered mariner
  meeting with a beacon, will, of course, instantly acquaint him
 with his situation, the dangers, and difficulties by which he is
  surrounded, &c. &c.*               .
                                                                  f.
     A writer in the American Philosophical Transactions truly re
 marks, that "the duties of a buoy (meaning a. beacon) are
  most impel ions; to the performance, however, of which, it
  lamentable to reflect, from their construction and appointment,
 ihey are wholly incompetent ; for, in fact, all they tell »-r-
  *
    Hereabouts is danger ;' but on what side, or to what extent,
 the bewildered stranger is left to guess and find out."             And, iu
  truth, it would be difficult for the imagination to conceive an
  idea of any thing so rude, shapeless, ill-chosen, and unmeaning,
  4s the canu-buoy, the present beacon, as it is called.           .
     * To say
              any thing •especting the mode of distributing such books, would
  at present be premature.   Those with whom it must lie, to give efficacy to
  the system, wilt be at no loss to give them circulation by means of the
  Custom-houses whence vessels are cleared out for sea.
                                                                       <i n

446                      Prospectus       of a     Hew System          of Beaconing.
 .   " But'      may be objected)
                        (it                 to be expected that all'th*
                                                         is   it
 nations of the earth can be brought to concur             the establish      in
 ment of such       system "—To this
                              a           ?   may be answered, that, all
                                                                  it
 having an obvious interest in such establishment,                not un               it       is
 reasonable to beiieve, that every civilized state may be easily in
 duced to lend its aid to the perfecting of         plan which promises a
 so many benefits to the human race generally.              In the mean
 time,      itconsoling to humanity to know, that, among ourselves,
                   is
 there      no want of either heads or hearts to patronize and che
              is
 rish any rational plan, which has for its object the saving of the
 lives of thousands of our fellow-creatures (now sacrificed to a
 system left detective, merely because the possibility of         remedy                        a
 was not contemplated), and adding much to the comfort and
 happiness of all who are doomed to traverse the ocean.              The
 Right   Honourable     the  Lords of  the  Admiralty,  the  Minister for
 the Foreign Department, the Brethren of the Trinity House, are
sufficient to call      into action without any foreign concurrence.
                                  it
 On our own coasts there          much occasion for
                                              is           nor can     be    it   ;                  it
 reasonably doubted, that, meeting with the countenance of our
own Government, most of the European maritime powers, and
 also the United States, would easily be induced to lend           hearty
                                                             ....
                                                                                                 a
 eo-operation.
    In favour of any exertion that may be made for establishing a
general system of Beaconing               to be remarked, that the con
                                                    ;   it   is
trivance already alluded to, of employing buoys attached to dif-c
terent parts of        chain (see the engraving), to act as carriers,
                                  a
besides furnishing        means for planting beacons in comparatively
                                      a
deep seas,       calculated to promote the undertaking
                        is                                      the faci                   by
lities which      affords in point of expense.
                         it                        The chain, as already
stated, may be very small for each carrier hears its own portion
                                              ;
of    it,
        and the ultimate strength wanted          only what may be re  is
quired   to   withstand    the current   (when   there    one) and the        is
wind     neither
          ;         of which can ever exercise any power upon the
beacon, at all to be compared with what             now required to sus is
tain    common beacon chain *.
          a                              The beacon itself has nothing
to carry but       few links of that portion
                              a                    which       united to
                                                                       by             it   is
the upper carrier; and from its form, and the material of which
it   ismade, (viz. metal f,) suffers any vessel or other floating
                                                                                                     body
   • The strength required when
                                    only the strain occasioned by wind and
 current    to be provided against,
              is                         much less than most people would
                                                        is
imagine.    In an experiment made at sea, off Southend, in twelve-fathom
water in very high wind,
               a               piece of common jack-chain (unable to sustain
                                          a
two hundred weight without breaking) was found perfectly adequate to keep
a beacon exposing six feet of height abovi the surface, in its place, the chain
being borne by three carriers.
f    Experience has >hown that wood, as       material,     but Ul adapted for
                                                                  a          is
                                                                        marine

                 Prospectus     of a   new System         of Beaconing         .             447
body which may come in contact with                       it,
                                          to pass, without any
other effect than moving to one side, or passing over
                                   it                     after                    it   ;
 which,     will instantly recover its position, and perform its duty
            it
 as before so that the expense of maintenance will be trifling.
             ;
 Nor the saving in weight (which in every case will be at least
       is
 £0 per cent.) the only benefit that results from the use of car
 riers: the greater part of the expense of manufacture can also be
.dispensed with, straight rods linked to each other at their ends,
 answering as well as the most expensive chains.
    The advantages which will present themselves to the minds of
 those acquainted with nautical matters, as likely to result from
 this system, must be manifold beyond any thing that the author
 (who   is no sailor) can conceive     bttt one thing
                                                  ;    obvious, that  is
it   must prove highly                          beacons (instead of
                                beneficial that these
rolling about like        so many porpoises, scarcely visible,)
                                                           are always
standing erect, exhibiting height of from six to twenty feet above-
                                   a
the surface, and may be seen to intercept the line of the horizon
at several miles distance.
   Nor     the proposed system applicable to shallows only*
            is                                                      As
it provides means for sustaining chains of any length,            novV             it   is
possible to plant beacons in any seas that can lie sounded.       And.
it deserves particular notice, that the method which has been'
devised for sustaining chains, however heavy, proves at the same
time,   ameans for rendering chains that are comparatively lighty
able alike now to perform all that duty which formerly required
very heavy and strong chains. Nay, more light chains can now be
                                                          :
made to perform what could not be done at all formerly          for ire             ;
proportion   to the depth, so   was  then
                                       it  necessary  to increase  the
strength, not merely  to enable the chain to restrai the buoy, unne  11
cessarily bulky, &c. and improperly loaded, but even to sustain its
own weight*. From thiscircumstance,the utmost depth that could
                                                                                                 be
marine beacons.      It   apt to admit water, and need tapping, easily da
                          is
maged by worms, subject to rapid decay, and birt ill suited to be worked
into the best form for    beacon.
                          a        The patentee has adopted iron, as     ma              a
teria) subject to none of these objections, being homogeneous, impervious
to water and worms, and expanding or contracting equably in all its parts,
when exposed to changes of temperature.       Should    be objected that iron,
                                                                it
will soon b« destroyed by rust,      answered, The patentee has
                                       it   is                       method        a
of coating his iron, so as to defend     for   great number of years
                                                 it   a                 as i»           ;
proved by some beacons furnished        him for Government, and which have
                                                 by
 been for a considerable time in uss at the Island of Bermuda,
   * The common beacon, having        great weight to carry,
                                            a                     necessarily is
obliged to be made very bulky; and in consequence, there            constant
                                                                               is
                                                                               a
struggle between the buoy and the chain at the passing of every wave by                      ;
which repeated tugging action, the block to which the other end of the
chain  ismade fast, is,    by
                           innumerable and constantly repected hitches, gra
dually removed from its place, sometime* .a. mile or two       an e^-ent that
                                                                          ;
.
    ,                                                                   never

448          Prospectus        of a   new System            of Beaconing.
be reached was, comparatively, very limited ; no means being
known before, whereby it could be accomplished.           The thing,
however, is now practicable ; and, sooner or later, it will be ef
fected ; for it is equally rational that the seas should be furnished
with navigation-posts, as that travellers by land should have the
convenience of mile-stones and finger-posts provided for them*.
The Star Newspaper, nf the 29th of Seplemler 1817, contains
      the following Extract of a Letter from Derry.
                                  " SHIFWHECK.
                         "Ferry   Side, Carmarthen,          September 26th, 4 p.m.
     " 1 am sorry to inform you, that at about four miles distance,
 a brig with yellow sides, and about two hundred tons burthen,
 has got on a point of sand : her masts are gone overboard, and
 she must be a total loss, as the wind is strong from the S.W.
with a heavy sea : — a boat is ohserved full of men, going into
Kidwelly ; but whether it is the crew of the vessel, or some mea
 intending to go to her assistance, we are unable to ascertain.
    " Seven o'clock, P.M. The tide is now on the turn, not a
vestige of the vessel is to be seen, she totally disappeared about
an hour ago, and our opinion              is,
                                   that the captain     a stranger on
                                                                    is
our coast."
     Itdoes not follow, because the present system     of great antiis
quity, enormously expensive, and has been got up with wonder
ful and praise-worthv labour and attention, that           complete it   is           ;
nay,   thatit    not
                is   most lamentably defective, as, indeed,  we know
it to be, from the melancholy accidents arising almost daily from
the single circumstance of getting aground — The pains which    :
have been taken, only prove that the necessity for doing some
thing was so urgent, that something must be done, and the best
has been done that happened to be thought of.          Nevertheless,
were this system under the exclusive control of one individual,
it would not be surprising to find him clinging to       for no otherit,
reason but because        was old, laboured, and expensive
                          it                                      buc         ;
under the enlightened management of corporate body, like that
of the Trinity House, composed as                    is a
                                            of talent and respecta
                                                it
bility, which true merit alone can influence, defeat and delay on
this occasion are not to be apprehended.      The present proposal
never can occur with the telegraphic or pillar beacon, which having no belly
above the water line,     not affected by the waves
                         is                           and having only its own
                                                            ;
fastening to carry, requires from the block and its chain no more than simply
tb resist the current;   apressure to which the strength of one man      more is
than equal. The consequence of beacon changing its situation is, that
                                      a                                               it
changei also its character, and instead of being the mariner's beacon and
friend, becomes  a  deceiver, and a decoy to his destruction.
    * The summits of the new beacon are made conical and
                                                               sharp pointed,
to prevent birds from resting on them, and obliterating the figures.                  >
                                                                                   will

                   Notices respecting New Books.                    44j£>
Will no doubt be scrupulously examined ; and, if found worthy,
adopted.     The expense will not then be thrown away upon a
system comparatively worthless, and which has been submitted
to, only for want of possessing better means : and when the system
now recommended shall have become general, there will be
ho longer  "  strange captains on any coast :" and also it should
be considered, that as the light expense at which it can be car
ried into effect will allow an increase of beacons,     (itthought
                                                              is
of nearly ten to one,) the security will be increased in tenfold
                                                              a
ratio, independent of the duty being so much better performed.
               LXXVI.    Notices respecting New Books.
The Second     Part of the Philosophical Transactions   of
                                                       the Royal
    Society of'London,   for 1817, has just been published, and
    contains the following papers :           . ,
XIII. Description        of  thermometrical Barometer for mea
                              a
suring Altitudes.   By   the Rev. Francis John Hyde Wollaston,
             —
B.D. F.R.S. 'XIV. Observations on the Analogy which subsists
between the Calculus of Functions and other Branches of Ana
lysis.   By Charles Babbage, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. —XV. Of the
Construction of Logarithmic Tables. By Thomas Knight, Esq.
Communicated by Taylor Combe, Esq. Sec. R.S.—XVI. Two
general Propositions in the Method of Differences.     By Thomas.
Knight, Esq. Communicated          Taylor Combe, Esq. Sec. R.S.
                                  by
— XVII. Note respecting the Demonstration of the binomial
Theorem inserted in the last, Volume of the Philosophical Trans
actions.   By Thomas Knight, Esq.       Communicated           by
                                                            Taylor
Combe, Esq. Sec. R.S. — XVIII. On the Passage of the Ovum
from the Ovarium to the Uterus         Women. By Sir Everard
                                       in
Home, Bart. V.P.R.S.— XIX. Some further Observations on the
Use   of Colchicum autumnale in Gout. By Sir Everard Home,
Bart. V.P. R.S. — XX. Upon the Extent of the Expansion andCon-
traction of Timber in different Directions relative to the Position
of the Medulla of the Tree. By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq.
F.R.S. In      aLetter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph
Bank-,,  Bart. G.C.B.  P.R.S.— XXI. Observations on the Tem
perature of the Ocean and Atmosphere,      and on the Density of
Sea-water, made during        Voyage to Ceylon.
                              a                      In Letter to
                                                          a
Sir Humphry Davy, LL.D. F.R.S.       By John Davy, M.D.F.R.S.
i— XXil. Observations on the Genus Ocythoe of Rafinesque, with
a. Description of    new Species.
                     a                By William Elford Leach,
M.D. F.R.S. — XXIII. The distinguishing Characters between
the Ova of the Sepia, and those of the Vermes testacea, that live
in Water, explained.   By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S.—
XXIV.    Astronomical Observations and Experiments tending to
investigate the local Arrangement of the celestial Bodies in Space,
   Vol. 50. No.236, Dec 18.17.              F
                                            f                   and

 450                 Notices respecting New Books.
 and to determine the Extent and Condition of the Milkv Way
 BySirWm. Herschel, Knt. Guelp. LL.D. F.R.S.— XXV. Some
 Account of the Nests of the Java Swallow, and of the Glands that
 secrete the Mucus of which they are composed.                 By Sir Everard
 Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. — XXVI. Observations on" the Hirudo
 complanata, and Hirudo stagnalis, now formed into a distinct
 Genus under the Name Glossopora.               Bv Dr. Johnson, of Bristol.
 Communicated by Sir Ev. Home, Bart.V.P.R.S.— XXVII. Ob
 servations on the Gastric Glands of the Human Stomach, and
 the Contraction which takes place in that Viscus. Bv Sir Everard
 Home, Bart. V.P.R.S.— XXVIII. On the Parallax of the fixed
iStars.    By John Pond, Esq. Astronomer Royal.
 Sui Congiamenti di Colore della Tintura             del Turnesoli,&c. Ob
    servations and Experiments          on the Changes    of Colour in Tinc
    ture of Turnsole, and oilier Vegetable Tintlnres.                By Pro
   fessor    Branchi    of Pisa.      8vo.   IStfj.  pp.  112.
    The universal use of tincture of turnsole as a test, seems to
 have induced the universal belief that it was good and sufficient.
 Our Pisa Professor, who alwavs ventures to think and observe
 for himself, discovered the fallacy of this notion, and on investi
 gation found that very little was known on that subject, and that
 the opinions which have been promulgated respecting it are re
 markable for nothing but their contradictoriness and absurdity.
 Turnsole being a manufactured substance in which Lichen Peril-
 lus, Croton tinctorium, Variolaria orciva, or other Lichens, may
 form the basis, it is not extraordinary that its chemical elements
 should be different.      Chevreul * found it consisted of colouring
 matter, of muriate, sulphate, and subcarbonate of potash; of car
 bonate of lime; of alumina and oxide of iron and of silica.              The
 author analysed three different kinds, and found nearly the same
 results except the muriate of potiish, of which he only found
 some traces. Of 2S8 grs. of turnsole of three different qualities,
 the first yielded a residuum insoluble in water 226^- grs. ; the se
cond 163|, and the third 1S4t grs.              Of a residuum insoluble in
acetic acid, the first gave 209}, the second 134, and the third
151  J  grs.    Of a residuum insoluble in muriatic acid, the first
left 202, the second 123          and the third iS 2$ grs.          But it ap
pears   that  in turnsole  of the  same     quality  there  is not always the
same quantity of insoluble matter, and that the colouring matter
is soluble in alcohol in the inverse ratio of its strength: when-
dissolved however in strong alcohol, by refracted light it had a
blue colour, more or less violet ; with reflected it was red.             The
Professor proceeds to collate all the opinions of the different che
mists who have treated of turnsole, and brings them to the test of
experiment, in which he evinces equal ingenuity and address.
                            * Ana.  tie  Chimis, 88.
                                                                          The

                     Notices respecting New Books.                451
The idea of Chevreul, that the colouring matter of turnsole, is
the result of a colouring principle being united to an acid, is
experimentally disproved; but the opinion most remarkable for
self-contradiction and more than usual absurdity, is that quoted
from the French translation of Dr. T. Thomson's Chemistry.'
In it the author confounds tincture of turnsole and syrup of
violets, and says that the acids change vegetable blue colours into'
red; but that, if these colours have been rendered green by the
alkalies* the acids make them re-appear and restore them. Turn
sole is not changed into green by alkali, and even the restoring
of the colour to syrup of violets must depend on a very exact sa
turation.      The tincture of turnsole, it appears, spontaneously
changes    its  colour from blue to yellow, and then blue again, whe
ther exposed to or excluded from the air, and at the same time
some sulphuretted hydrogen gas is evolved.        These spontaneous
changes of colour take place in the course of a few days ; sub-
carbonate of potash or alcohol, added to the tincture, will pre
vent it from changing its colour for two years.      The change into
yellow is attributed to the sulphuretted hydrogen, which is derived
from the decomposition either of the vegetable or animal mat
ter, urine being used for the preparation of turnsole. - The final
result is, that the tincture of turnsole is subject to change its'
colour and become vellowish in more or less time ; that it does
not always experience this alteration more rapidly in conse
quence of being prepared with hot water ; that it loses its colour
 oftener when entirely excluded from the air than when partially
exposed; that an alkaline solution of carbonate of potash in a'
sufficient dose prevents it from losing its colour, and that alcohol
 has the same effect; that being reddened by acid and kept in a
 close vessel, it suffers no further change ; that it is discoloured
 with a little acid and takes the colour of red wine, which finally
 becomes blue on exposure to the air or to ebullition ; that by this
means it is more capable of indicating the existence of an acid in
 a small quantity ; that the red vinous colour is owing to car
bonic acid ; that by means of phosphorus it becomes red on ex
 posure to the atmosphere ; that when exposed to the solar rays
it undergoes much greater changes in open than in close vessels;
that in repeated changes of colour it precipitates some flakes of
insoluble matter ; that when its colouring matter is almost en
 tirely decomposed in a dose vessel, it has then experienced the
 greatest number of discolorations ; that on becoming yellow in .
 a vessel containing atmospheric air, it abandons part of its carbon,
 which with the oxygen of the atmosphere and caloric forms car
 bonic acid gas ; that the alkalized or acidulated tinctures do not
 sensibly alter the air with which they are in contact ; that the
 discoloured tincture has sometimes the smell of sulphuretted hy
 drogen gas, which is manifested by paper moistened with a solu-
                                  F f2                            tion

452                 Notices respecting New Books.
tion of acetate of lead, or by a piece of silver ; and lastly, that
this sulphuretted hydrogen seems owing- to the spontaneous dis-
colourmcnt of t he tincture itself.
    The Professor proceeds to examine the changes of colour in the
tinctures of orchella, violet, Brazil and Campeachy woods, &c.
The orchella owes its name to a native of Florence, its reputed
discoverer about the beginning of the 14th century, called Orri-
ceilaria or Rucellai ; but, like most of the Florentine arts, is most
probably of Greek origin.        Both the aqueous and spiritous tinc
tures of orchella manifested the same changes and characters as
the tincture of turnsole.       The orchella of commerce is of two
kinds; one called "vegetable or Canary orchella," which is pre
pared by fermenting the Lichen rocella with urine, and the other
 *fearthyorchella," prepared from the LichmParillm of Auvergne.
 The aqueous tincture changes colour morcVapidly than the spi
 ritous ; but the other results are similar, and prove that the co
 louring principle of turnsole and orchella is the same as alleged
by Chaptal, who learned the fact from an English tract on co
lours, by Wilson, published about half a century ago, a work al
most unknown in England at present, but which has been deeply-
 studied by Chaptal and other French chemists, and in which
 will be found the germ of many of their professed modern disco
veries.      The tincture or infusion of violets, sometimes called sy
 rup,   because  the latter was formerly used in medicine, changed
from blue to purple or violet, at the same time it evolved carbonic
acid gas, and regained its colour by the addition of a very small
quantity of a solution of common potash or tin. The infusion of
violets may therefore be kept in a tin vessel several years, and be
 still fit for chemical purposes. The colouring matter in the roots
of Anchusa tinctoria L. is soluble in alcohol and in oil, but not
in water. A strong spiritous tincture kept seven months in an air
tight bottle without undergoing any alteration. Similar and even
still more extensive experiments were performed on the colouring
matter of Brazil or Pernambuco wood (Ccesalpinia echhata),
Brasiletto {Ccesalpinia Sapari) or wood of St. Martha, Cam-
peachy wood (Hcematoxylon Campcchianum), and on nephritic
wood, the Moringa Zeylanica.             The aqueous infusion of the
last is celebrated by Newton for having the property of refracting
the yellow or orange rays of light and reflecting the blue, of be
coming yellow even with reflected light by means of an acid, and
of re-assuming the blue by the addition of an alkali. The au
thor has found that several varieties of ebony, sandal, and iron
wood have the same properties, and his observations on guaiacum
confirm those of Mr. Brande, It appears that a little Brazil
wood sawdust mixed with some natron or impure carbonate of
soda, and put into a tumbler of water, immediately communi
cates to it the colour and appearance of red wine; and that when

                      Notices respecting New Boohs,               453
  this coloured fluid is poured into another glass containing a few
  drops of lemon-juice, it instantlv becomes like white-wine, or co
  lourless.   The Italian mountebanks have used their knowledge
  of this fact to delude the vulgar or the ignorant. Professor Bran-
  chi relates manv other curious phenomena, and refutes many ge
  nerally received erroneous opinions respecting the colouring mat
  ter of these woods. But of a work which consists entirelv of facts
  and original experiments, without any admixture of fine-spun
  theories, it is impossible to convev any adequate or just idea by
  means of a brief analysis : we must therefore be content here to
  close the notice we have been induced to take of this highly in
  genious and scientific work.
 An Essay       on  Electricity, by Ferdinand Elicr, Doctor in
     Philosophy    and Medicine, Member of the College of Philoso
     phy and Polite Literature, formerly Assistant Professor of
     Experimental Philosophy in the University of Genoa, Rector'
     and Professor of Philosophy in the College of Cava, &>c. —
      Genoa 1817.
     This is a very clear and comprehensive view of the history and
  principal phenomena of electricity and galvanism — a work which
  must be of great utility in Italv, where hooks of sc ience are very
 scarce and dear, where communication with men of science is
  difficult, and where the votaries of pleasure greatly preponderate
 over the few and comparatively obscure admirers of experimental
 philosophy, physical truth, or the phenomena of nature.         It is
 not indeed to be expected, that any branch of human knowledge
 which requires the exercise exclusively of the rational faculties
 can flourish in a country devoted solely to sensual enjoyments, to
 the slaverv of fashion, and to a puerile luxury in dress more
 characteristic of people just emerging from barbarism, than of
 those who have readied the noontide of civilization.       We need
 not therefore be surprised that all chemical and other scientific
 knowledge is confined to the Professors of the colleges ; and it
must always remain so when a ballad-singer and a fiddler can find
 300 auditors to attend their lectures, while at the lectures of an
enlightened chemist there ate only three ragged boys. — Professor
 Elice however has been more fortunate, and has been honoured
by the attention of some persons of rank : he has therefore pur
sued his researches with more spirit; and from the sum of his la
bours he has extracted this Compendium, and systematically
condensed much varied information on electricity into 70 pages.
He adopts in general the Franklinian theory, and admits with
candour some of its insuperable difficulties.        In speaking of
the identity of effect which both positive and negative electri
city have on the animal ceconomy, he confesses his inability to
conceive (or to reconcile this hypothesis with the phenomena)
                                  Ff3                           how

454                Notices respecting New Boobs.
how the total want or the diminution of a substance should pro
duce the same effect as its accumulation.           But this is not the
only instance where sameness of effect is apparently produced
by opposite or different causes in the- animal ceconomy, and it
originates, perhaps, in our very limited knowledge of the latter.
Other phenomena are more difficult to explain, such as the per
meability of glass by the electric fluid, &c. The author, in com
mon with most of the electricians in France, seems to have known
something of the discoveries of the Rev. Mr. Lyon of Dover,
whose writings and researches on electrical phenomena from
 17(»7 to 1807 are much better known on the continent than
 they are in England.       It is an error of some original writers to
despise too much contemporary fame, in consequence of which
their discoveries are appropriated bv others ; and foreigners often
avail themselves of this circumstance to profit by their labours
without acknowledgement.            In justice to the Genoa Professor
it may    be observed, that    he  has followed the French; and that
he is extremely careful,     ip  quoting authorities, (such as he finds
them in French translations of English books,) in assigning to
each his true merit and portion of discovery, and in tracing the
progress of knowledge respecting this still half known science.
    Dr. Crichton   has  just published An Account of some Experi
ments made with        the   Vapour of Boiling Tar in the Cure of
Pulmonary     Consumption.
    Mr. Accum has in the press a second Edition of his Che->
mical Amusement, comprising UiO curious and instructive ex-*
peri men ts in chemistry, which may be performed with safety in
the closet, and the exhibition of which does not require the aid
of costly and complicated instruments.          The work will be illus
trated with plates engraved by Lowry.
    The First Part of Mr. William Smith* Stratlgraphical System
 of Organized Fossils, with reference to the Geological Collection
 deposited in the British Museum, showing their use in identify
 ing the British Strata, has just made its appearance, price lbs.
    To simplify and elucidate Geology, by exciting the attention
of the curious to numberless new objects in nature, which may
 call forth the industry, talent, and capital of others, to explore
 and extract the subterraneous wealth of the country, when the
 employment of the people is an object of legislative inquiry,must
 be nationally useful ; nor can any one doubt the utility of such
 minute researches, who considers that his food, his clothing, and
 every article around him, comes directly or indirectlv from the
 soil. — Part II. which completes Mr. Smith's work on this branch
of Geology, will be speedily published.
                                                                    The

                        Notices respecting Neiv Books.             455
  The Eight!) Number (which completes the second volume) of
The Memoirs of the Caledonian Horticultural Society has just
teen published.   Contents :         *
   History. — Discourse by Dr. Duncan senior, read 4th De
cember 1S15       — Discourse
                          by the same, read 3d December 1816..
Memoirs — Report of the Committee      for Experiments  on the
Naturalization of Useful and Ornamental Plants under the Cli
mate of Scotland ; with Prefatory Remarks on the Character and
Economical Uses of Forest Trees, already introduced, and an
Enumeration of certain Exotic Plants which have lately with
stood the Winter of North Britain ; drawn up by John Yule,
M.D.F.R.S.E. —Mr.Wales's Account of an easy and sureMethod
of raising Mushrooms, either with Dung or without it.
   Dr. MacLean has just published a very interesting work on
Epidemic and Pestilential Diseases ; the principal doctrine of
which  is,  that the cause of epidemics resides in the qualities of
the air;   in this respect    itcorrespondent to the doctrine of
                                     is                                a
Small tract just published        Mr. Thomas Forster, on Atmo
                                          by
spherical Diseases.     Dr. MacLean, however, has entered very
minutely into the erroneousness of the general practice in these
kind of disorders, and has shown         masterly manner, that the
                                                    in   a
practice now prevalent       not only useless, but
                                is                     the principal
                                                             is
cause why such      anumber of people are every year carried off
 by the plague and other epidemics.       One of the most curious
facts mentioned       Dr. MacLean
                     by                             is,
                                       that the doctrine concerning
contagion owes its origin to a Catholic stratagem in the middle
of the sixteenth century, wherebv an endeavour was made           by
                                                                 the
Legates of Pope Paul III. to remove the Council of Trent to Bo
logna,  by spreading     report that an epidemic disease then pre
                          a
valent at Trent was infectious.     His observations on quarantine
 are highly deserving the notice of all who have the direction of
medical police.
  A   Synoptical Catalogue of British Birds has been published
by  Messrs. Nicholls and Co. intended to identify the species
spoken of     bydifferent provincial names in various counties of
Great Britain.       contains also the valuable additions and ge
                    It
neric arrangement of Dr. Leach, from a Catalogue he recently
printed.
   Mr. Abernethy has just published his Third Course of Lectures
at the London College of Surgeons, on Mr. Hunter's Theory of
Life, and on his Museum.         appears that many of the most
                                          It
important discoveries assumed      recent physiologists have been
                                               by
plagiarized from that celebrated  surgeon.
  Mr. W. Hooker and Dr. Taylor have just published a work
             J.
on the Mosses of Great Britain and Ireland, entitled " Musco-
                                      F
                                      f        4                  logia

 456''                        Royal Society.
 logia Britannica,"      which contains figures and descriptions of
 each Species native of these islands ; together with plates illustra
 tive of the Genera. 8vo.
      Mr. Hooker has likewise published the first Number of a work
 on the new and rare or little-known exotic Cryptogamic Plants;
  with which will be incorporated those collected in South America
 by Messrs: Humboldt and Bonpland, and various other interest
 ing subjects in the possession of the author and his botanical
 friends.     This will have numerous plates, and appear in an Svo
  form.
              LXXVII.     Proceedings   of Learned Societies.
                             ROYAL SOCIETY.
 St.    Andrew's day falling this year on a Sunday, the Royal
 Society held their annual meeting December 1st at their apart
 ments in Somerset Place, when the President the Right Hon.
 Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. G.C.B., after a very able speech on the
 Determination of an Invariable Standard of Linear Measure, pre
 sented, in the name of the Society, the gold medal called the Sir
  Godfrey Copley's medal, to Captain Henry Kater, for his Experi
 ments for determining the Length of the Pendulum vibrating
 Seconds in the Latitude of London.            The Society afterwards
 proceeded to the choice of a Council and Officers for the year
 ensuing; when, on examining the lists, it appeared that the fol
 lowing gentlemen were elected :
                           Of the Old Council.
   .  The Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. G.C.B. — William
 Thomas Brande, Esq. — Samuel Goodenough, Lord Bishop of
 Carlisle. — Taylor Combe, Esq. — Sir Humphry Davy, Knt. LL.D,
Sir Everard Home, Bart. — Samuel Lysons, Esq. — George, Earl
of Morton. — John Pond, Esq. Astronomer Royal. — William
 Hyde Wollaston, M.D. — Thomas Young, M.D.
                               New Council.
      George, Earl of Aberdeen. — Davies Gilbert, Esq. M.P. —
Charles Hatchett, Esq. — Capt. Henry Kater. — William
                                                              Howley,
Lord Bishop of London. — Right Hon. Charles Long, M.P. —
John Reeves, Esq. — Richard Anthony Salisbury, Esq. — Edward
Adolphus, Duke of Somerset. — Glocester Wilson, Esq.
                                 Officers.
        President, Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. GiC.B.
                   Treasurer — Samuel Lysons, Esq.
                            l^laylor Combe, Esq.
     After the election, the members dined together   as usual at the
Crowu and Anchor Tavern, in the Strand.
                                                               ROYAL

                       Royal Society of Edinlurgh.                457
                    ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
     Monday, 15th December, a paper was read before the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, which had been announced at the first
meeting in November, by Dr. Murray, containing Experiments
on Muriatic Acid. He had repeated the experiment performed
by Dr. Ure, of subliming muriate of ammonia over ignited me
tals, with the variation of operating on the salt formed by the
combination of muriatic acid and amnioniacal gases, instead of
the common sal ammoniac, which from its mode of preparation
might be supposed to contain water.          He obtained a similar re
sult, water appearing     when  the muriate  of ammonia was sublimed
over iron at a red heat in a glass tube.         His attention having
t>een    thus recalled   to the subject,  he repeated  the experiment
which he had performed some years ago, of obtaining water from
muriate of ammonia by heat, employing an apparatus somewhat
on the principle of Dr. Wollastou's Cryophorus, and with a suc
 cessful result.    He then submitted muriatic acid gas to experi
 ment in various modes.         Iron filings perfectly dry and clean
having been put into a glass tube, surrounded, with sand, and
placed across a furnace, so as to be raised to a red heat, muri
 atic acid gas extricated from a mixture of supersulphate of potash
and muriate of soda, and conveyed through a tube containing
  dry muriate of lime adapted to the other, was transmitted over,
the ignited iron.       Moisture immediately appeared in the tube
beyond     the ignited   space, and soon collected in globules, and
 hydrogen gas    was  disengaged. In another experiment the gas was
 previously kept    in  contact with muriate of lime for a number of
hours, and was then passed from the jar over the ignited metal
 with a similar result.      And in another form of apparatus, still
better adapted to afford a perfect result, and to obviate any fal
 lacy from the presence of aqueous vapour, muriatic acid gas
 was conveyed, from a jar in which it had been exposed to dry
 muriate of lime, through a bent tube, into a tubulated retort con
 taining dry zinc filings ; heat was applied by a lamp to favour
 the action of the metal on the gas : moisture condensed in the
 curvature and tube of the retort, and hydrogen gas was collected
 at the extremity, which terminated under mercury.           The heat
 was renewed at intervals for three or four days, with the requisite
  addition of fresh quantities of the muriatic acid gas, and the
  production of moisture increased, until a very sensible quantity
  of water was obtained at the end of the experiment.        The pro
  secution of the subject is announced in a continuation of the
  paper to be read at a future meeting of the Society.
                                                       LXXVIII.    In

                                [  458   ]
       LXXVIII.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    SAFETY -LAMP CONTROVERSY.
In   oar last Number we laid before our readers the Resolutions
of Mr. Stephenson's       friends, held at Newcastle on the 1st of
November ; also the Resolutions of a Meeting held at the house
of Sir Joseph Banks, on the 20th of the same month, for con
sidering the facts relating to the discovery of the Lamp of Safety.
Since that time we have received a " Report upon the claims of
Mr. George Stephenson relative to the invention of his safety-
lamp,' published by his Committee, to which are prefixed the
Resolutions first alluded to above.
   At present we can only find room to notice in this Report a
palpable case of piracy elicited by the questions as put by Mr.
Stephenson's own Committee.          Mr. Stephenson admits his hav
ing published sketches of lamps different from those he really
tried, and having adopted the safety-screw and trimmer of Sir
H. Davy.       His friends did not venture to ask him whether he
had   not  also given a texture of metal the same as Sir Humphry's
gauze to his chimney and air-feeder.
    In our next we shall lay before our readers some further ob
servations on the groundless claims of Mr. Stephenson.            In the
mean time we submit to their inspection the proceedings of an
other meeting held at Newcastle since Mr. Stephenson's friends
published their Resolutions.
                           "  Assembly  Rooms,
                                           " Newcastle, Nov. 26, 1817-
"  At   a General   Meeting of the Coal-Owners of the Tyne and
    Wear, convened ' for the purpose of taking into consideration
    certain Resolutions passed at a Meeting of the_Friends of Mr.
    George Stephenson, on the 1st inst. the tendency of whicli im
    pugns the justice and propriety of the proceedings adopted at
    a Meeting of the Coal Trade on the 31st August 1816/
         " John George Lamhton, Esq. M.P. in the Chair:
    " It was resolved, — That this Meeting feel themselves called
upon, as an act of justice to the character of their great and dis
interested benefactor Sir Humphry Davy, and as a proof that
the Coal trade of the North in no way sanctions the Resolutions
 of Mr. Stephenson's friends on the 1st November 1817, to state
 their decided conviction, that the merit of having discovered the
fact that explosions of five- damp will not pass through tubes and
apertures of small dimensions, and of having applied that prin
ciple to the construction of a safety-lamp, belongs to Sir H. Davy
alone.
    " That this Meeting is also decidedly of opinion, from the evi-
                                      *
                                                                  dence

                       Sleam Engines in Cornwall.                       459
dance produced in various publications by Mr. George Stephen
son and his friends, subsequently to the meeting of the Coal-trade,
which was held on the 18th of March 1816, and from the do
cuments which have been read at this meeting, that Mr. Stephen
son did not discover the fact that explosions of fire-damp will
not pass through tubes and apertures of small dimensions, and
did not applv that principle to the construction of a safety-lamp;
 and that the latest lamps made by Mr. Stephenson are evident
 imitations of the lamps of Sir H. Davy, and even with that ad
 vantage are so imperfectly made as to be actually unsafe.
     "That theResolutions now passed be published thrice in theLon-
 don, Newcastle and Durham papers, and in theEdinburghCourant;
 and that printed copies thereof be sent to the Lords Lieutenants
 of the two counties, the Lord Bishop of Durham, and the prin
 cipal owners and lessors of collieries upon the Tyne and Wear.
                                         " J. G. Lambton, Chairman.
      "  The chairman having left the chair, the thanks of the meet
  ing   were unanimously    voted to him for hjs able and proper con
 duct in the chair."
                     STEAM ENGINKS IN CORNWALL.
      The following were the respective quantities of water lifted one
  foot high with one bushel of coals by thirty-four engines, re
  ported by Messrs. Lean in the month of November.
                                                          Load per square
                                                        |
                                       Pounds of water.   inch in cylinder.
  26 common engines averaged             21,290,401           various.
  Woolf's at Wheal Vor           . .     34,376,633            19-4 lib.
   Ditto       Wh. Abraham       ..      34,251,269            10-9
   Ditto        ditto    ..       ..      41,289,317           16-8
   Ditto        ditto   ..       ..       2a,220,603            4-3
   United Mines engine            , .     35,247,309           18-1
   Treskirby ditto       ..       ..      34,169,262           10-4
   Wheal Unity (Woolf's)           . .    34,323,944           131
                              To   Mr. Tilloch.
      Sir, — My visit to the Isle of Man has precluded me the plea
   sure of perusing the latter numbers of your journal ; this circum
   stance must be my apology for not earlier noticing some remarks
   preferred on the opmion 1 advanced relative to the results of the
   functions of vegetable being.        Absence from home prevents any
   reference to my authorities, nor in my estimation is any thing
   like this called for, in a particular manner now, seeing there is
   nothing new elicited, as has been very properly observed by your
   correspondent.
       If my memory does not much deceive me. Sir Humphry Davy
                                                                            has

      460               Vegetation. — Safety Lamp.
      has always inclined to the opinion I have advocated — to me no
      longer a problem.      The air from the coast of Guinea was, I be
      lieve, submitted    to  Dr. Beddnes, not to Sir H. Davy. The
      quotation from that able naturalist Brisseau Mirbel stands re
      commended by its own merits, and demands no eulogy from ms.
      It would have been more wise and becoming to have treated it
      with the respect it was so well entitled to receive. The compensa
     tion provided by this transportation finds a thousand beautiful
     analogies amid the harmonies of nature.         The witticism which
     wields a term employed by myself calls for no replv, — the expres
     sion " floods of oxygen" I see no cause to change.         There are
    many incongruities obtaining in experiments of this nature, ai's
     ing, it may be, either from the unnatural position of the plant
    secluded from the influences which minister to the healthy forms of
    this curious organization, or the imperfect and faulty eudiome-
    trical test.   It requires no mean judgement to wield the (e. q.
    the nitrous gas) test, so as to balance the results aright.   The ex
    periments hinted at, on one occasion, by Mr.Brande, would seem
    to intimate that some plants produce the same effects on atmo
    spheric air as animals, while others exhibit no alteration, and a
    third class refine the medium.       It is impossible to comprehend
   these anomalies, and I have merely adverted to this gentleman's
   results, in order to show that inaccuracy must exist somewhere.
   I have no right to assume, far less to decide. On a future occa
   sion I shall renew the subject: meantime, in answer to the posi
   tion that plants eifect the same change upon the atmosphere as
  animals, I mav observe that animals constantly and without am/
  intermission enhance a noxious atmosphere, while plants emit
  the destructive gas only at night, when, succumbing by its native
  weight, being cooled by the dews of even, it sinks harmless on
  the bosom of the earth. Hut as a conclusive set-off, meantime, to
  these unnatural experiments on imprisoned vegetation, I have
  to adduce testimony of the highest authority, — that from a series
  of repeated experiments made at Madras, it was invariably
 found, that the land breeze contained five per cent, more oxy
 gen than the sea breeze.
        You have, Sir, added a note to the appendage of the inter
 cepting partition of wire gauze; but you forgot for the moment,
 the change of character exhibited by flame when so bisected, as
 deduced from the experiments of Sir H. Davy and Mr. G. O.
 Sym, and which I have varied in results of my own : — extension
of surface might be a better expression of my meaning. It may
still, indeed, be doubted whether the term cooling is appro
priately applied, notwithstanding the highly ingenious and mul
tiplied experiments of Sir H. Davy. I would not be deemed a
plagiarist, and in justice to myself must assume the priority of
                                                               attaching

                         Mineralogy.  — Geology,                     461
 attachmg tho cage of platinum wire to the wick.            It would ap
  pear, though the contrary might at first seem to he the case,
  that suspension from the roof of the cylinder was previously con
  templated by this eminent philosopher : in proof of this, please
  he referred to page 23 i of your September Number.           The safety
  lamps provided     in  this manner  by Mr.   Newman     for others and
  myself prove the same thing ; and I have reason to believe that
   those forwarded by Sir H. himself were similarly constructed.
 This remark has been elicited by the plate illustrating Sir H.
  Davy's interesting paper on flame, inserted in a recent number
  of your journal. Unless the platinum wire wind immediately round
  the wick, the effect cannot be accomplished, and then it cannot
 be pronounced unequivocal in every case ; my last appendage is
 calculated to supply. the desideratum.
      By clearing awav the rubbish, I discovered a fern of the ''po
 lishing powder" traversing gneiss.       It appeared in joints varying
 in length from one tenth to one inch: the vein was slightly in
 clined to the horizon ; the silken fibres disposed longitudinally,
 and sometimes having their disposition altered by fragments of
 quartz interspersed with needle khorl.        A more minute account
 will appear in my paper on the mineralogy of the Isle of Man, to
 be shortly submitted to the Wernerian Society of Edinburgh. I
 think it intermediate between actinolite and asbestine tremolite,
 I made more minute inquiry respecting the meteorolite of Pulros.
 It fell twenty-five years ago during a tremendous thunder storm,
 burst in its fall, and scattered its fragments over an area of three
 hundred yards in circumference: this space was ploughed up by
the effects of the lightning in a zigzag manner, and the ridges
 were tinged of a blueish colour. The animals seem to have been
 killed by the lightning which preceded the descent of the me
 teoric stone, exhibiting but slight evidence of external injury.
                       I have the honour to be, &c.
     Whitehaven, Nov. 21, 1817.                         J.  MURRAY.
                                GEOLOGY.
     The island of Great Britain presents  a richer field for geological
inquiry than any other country that has yet been examined,
comprising in a comparatively shorte xtent a succession of all
theprincipal rocks, from those which have been regarded the
most ancient to the very newest formations.         There is scarcely
any    one species of rock of importance, except those of recent vol
canic origin, that may not be found well characterized in some
part of our island.      Our mineral treasures, too, far exceed in an
nual value those of any country on the continent of Europe. With
these inducements for research, and the great facilities that our
iusular situatiou affords for the study of geology in the bold and

462       (Economy     of Fuel.— Boiling Springs of Java.
well defined sections which our coasts frequently present, yet
the progress of the science has been hitherto greatly impeded by
the variety of names given to the same species of rock, and from
the want of characteristic and well arranged specimens.       Many
persons who have felt the truth of these remarks, and have read
Mr. Bakewell's " Introduction to Geology,'' or attended his lec
tures, have repeatedly requested him to supply them with such
rock specimens and descriptions as might enable them to pursue
the study.    He has therefore been induced to devote a consider*
able time to visit distant parts of our islands, purposely to select
a series of instructive specimens in order to form geological col
lections, showing the principal rocks in their most characteristic
form, and also their gradations and transitions into each other.
These collections are accompanied with a descriptive catalogue
by Mr. Bakewell, which, besides containing the names of each
rock as given by the English, French, and German geologists,
and marking their localities, will also notice peculiarities    that
serve to elucidate any striking fact in the science, or have a re
ference to prevailing theories.
   Collections varying in size and value may be had by applying
to Mr. Bakewell at his house, 13, Tavistock-street, Bedford-
square.
                         (ECONOMY OP FUEL.
   The gentleman      who sent us the article inserted in our last
under this head, writes us, that he had then only speculated on
the possibility of the balls which he recommended answering the
intended purpose ; but having since tried them, he finds that, with
the proportions therein stated, they resist combustion.
                     BOTUNG SPRINGS OF JAVA.
   The Penang Gazette of Feb. 10, 1816, contains the following
article on the volcanic springs of boiling mud in Java :
   " Having received an extraordinary account of a natural phe-
rfomenon in the plains of Grobogna, fifty paals north-east of
Solo ; a party set off from Solo, the 25 th Sept. 1814, to exa
mine it. — On approaching the dass or village of Kuhoo, they
saw between two topes of trees a plain, an appearance like the
surf breaking over rocks with a strong spray falling to leeward.
Alighting, they went to the ' Bluddugs,' as the Javanese call
them.    They are situated in the village of Kuhoo, and by Euro
peans are called by that name.      We found them to be on an
elevated plain of mud about two miles in circumference, in the
centre of which, immense bodies of soft mud were thrown up to
the height of ten to fifteen feet in the form of large bubbles,
which, bursting, emitted great volumes of dense white smoke.
These large bubbles, of which there were two, continued throw-

                              Boiling Springs of Java.                            46$
Trig  up and bursting seven or eight times in a minute by the
watch — at times they threw up two or three tons of mud. They
got to leeward of the smoke, and found it to stink like the wash
ings of a gun-barrel, — As the bubbles burst, they threw the mud
out from the centre, with a pretty loud noise, occasioned by the
falling of the mud on that which surrounded                it,
                                                      and of which the
plain     composed.
           is              wasItdifficult and  dangerous to approach
the large bubbles, as the ground was all a quagmire, except
where the surface of the mud had become hardened                     by
                                                               the sun             :
— upon this we approached cautiously to within fifty yards of
one of the largest bubbles or mud-pudding as             might properly
                                                               it
be called, for     was of the consistency of custard pudding, and
                     it
was about one hundred yards in diameter — here and there,  :
where the foot accidentally rested on a spot not sufficiently hard
 ened to bear,     sunk — to the no small distress of the walker.
                     it
    " They also got close to small bubble, (the plain was full of
                                        a
 them, of different sizes,) and observed         closely for some time.
                                                      it
It  appeared   to heave   and  swell,  and,   when  the internal air had
 raised    to some height,
               it               burst, and
                                   it        the mud   feK down in con
 centric circles: in which state      remained quiet until
                                            it                  sufficient
                                                                     a
 quantity of air again formed internally to raise and burst another
 bubble, and this continued at intervals of from about half            mi     a
 nute to two minutes.
    " From various other parts of the pudding round the large
 bubbles, there were occasionlly small quantities of sand shot up
 like rockets to the height of twenty or thirty feet, unaccom
 panied by smoke — this was in parts where the mud was of too
                          :
 stiff consistency to rise in bubbles. The mud at all the places
           a
 we came near was cold.                                                             .:
    " The water which drains- from the mud collected        is         the    by
 Javanese, and, being exposed in the hollows of split bamboos to
 the rays of the sun, deposits crystals of salt.    The salt thus made
is  reserved exclusively for the use of the Ernperor of Solo in dry       :
 weather     yields thirty dudgins of 100 catties each, every month,
                it
 but,  in wet or cloudy weather, less,
       "
       Next morning we rode two paals and a half to a place in a
 forest called Ramsim, to view          salt lake,
                                             a        mud hillock, and
                                                           a
 various boiling pools.
    " The lake was about half mile circumference, of- a dirty-
                                        a        in
 looking water, boiling up all over in gurgling eddies, but more
 particularly in the centre? which appeared like          strong spring.
                                                                 a
 The water was quite cold, and tasted bitter, salt, and sour, and
 had an offensive smell.
    " About thirty yards from the lake stood the mud hillock,
 which was about fifteen feet high from the level of the earth.
 The diameter of its base was about twenty-five yards, and its top
                                                                    about

                                  '
                          •
 484                                  Lithography.
 about eight feet — and in form an exact colle.      The top is open*
 and the interior keeps constantly boiling and heaving up like
 the bluddugs.     The hillock is entirely formed of mud which has
 flowed out of the top ; — every rise of the mud was accompanied
 by a rumbling noise from the bottom of the hillock, which was
 distinctly heard for some seconds before the bubble burst ; — the
 outside of the hillock was quite firm.     We stood on the edge of
 the opening and sounded              it,
                                 and found     to be eleven fathoms
                                                     it
 deep.     The mud was more licpiid than at the blnddugs, and no
 smoke was emitted either from the lake, hillock, or pools.
    " Close to the foot of the hillock was small pool of the same
                                                     a
water asthe lake, which appeared exactly like potof water boiling
                                                          a
violently — was shallow, except in the centre, into which we
            ;   it
thrust a stick twelve feet long, but found no bottom.       The hole
not being perpendicnlar, we could not sound         without a line.
                                                              it
    " About 200 yards from the lake were two very large pools or
springs, eight and twelve feet in diameter        they were like the
                                                          ;
small pool, but boiled more violently and stunk excessively. We
could not sound them for the same reason which prevented our
sounding the small pool.
    " We heard the boiling thirty yards before we came to the
pools, resembling the noise of      waterfall.
                                            a   These pools ciid not
overflow — of course the bubbling was occasioned by the rising
of air alone.    The water of the bluddugs and the lake          used            is
medicinally     by
                 the Javanese."
                                  LITHOGRAPHY.
   The art of lithography continues to make most rapid progress
in France from the rival exertions of Count Lasteyrie and M. En-
gelmahn  :   their spirited emulation has done for     what    monoit        a
poly  would   not  have accomplished in      century.
                                                 a      Under Count
Lasteyric's care,    itrivals copper in almost every line of engrav
ing, and possesses, besides, advantages peculiar to itself.                           A
series of lithographic prints,              by
                                     Count Lasteyrie,     now pub       is
lishing fn  Paris, under the title of "       Collection of different
                                                     A
Kinds of Lithographic Impressions, which may be advantageously
applied to the Sciences, and the Mechanical and Liberal Arts."
The second number, containing six plates, has just appeared;
an account of them cannot fail to interest our readers.    The first
is the original design of great master, — pen-and-ink drawing,
                              a                      a
which  is  rendered with perfect fidelity and spirit.    This plate
offers, too, another species of interest, and that very important;
the design has been traced on the stone upwards of sixteen years,
and the proofs are as fine and spirited as    had not been done
                                                     if  it
so many days.   This      triumphant proof that lithographic de
                          is
                          a
signs upon stone may be kept any length of time, like    copper              a
                                                           plate,
                                                                                      //

                                  Lectures.                          46S
plate.    The second plate is a pencil-drawing of a plant ; we hare
seen an engraving    of the same plant in a botanical work of great
luxury   of execution,  and we hesitate not to prefer the lithogra
phic impression.      The third plate presents various specimens of
writing — Italic, Roman, &c. and fac-similes of old Greek manu
scripts. In this department the lithographic art is unrivalled ;
it presents the originals with an accuracy in every way that it is
impossible for any other branch of art ever to attain.       The fourth
plate is a topographic plan     cut  in stone, which produces a very
striking and peculiar effect.        The Count Lasteyrie's Battle of
Austerlitz may be cited as a model of perfection in this way.
The- fifth plate is a pencil-design of a nosegay of roses: litho
graphy seems excellently calculated to render with truth the va
rious parts of flowers with a softness and precision resembling
nature.     The sixth plate is written music, or, as the lithographers
denote        it,
              autographed music.         The method        by
                                                            which this
plate     executed displays one of the most important advantages
         is
of lithography: — person writes a letter, composes music, or
                        a
makes    a drawing on paper in the ordinary way, excepting that
he uses    peculiar ink; this      istransferred to the stone by.simply
          it a
passing     through the press, and the stone, without further pre
paration,    ready to print off thousands of proofs, all equally perfect.
              is
Itis this quality of Jithography that has secured its admission into
all the French public offices       :    by
                                          its means 60,000 or 70,000
proclamations,    in the  autograph    of the minister, may be taken off
and dispatched before the plate even could be engraved.            In the
branch of landscape, the Count Lasteyrie has recently surpassed
his former efforts so far that they will not bear any comparison
with each other     :   it difficult to fix the limits of genius, united
                             is
with application, or we should be inclined to believe that he had
very nearly attained the perfection at which     it   is possible for the
art to arrive.
                                LECTURES.
   Mrs. Lowry, whose lessons        in Mineralogy are exemplified
                                                                    by
                                                                    a
systematically arranged and extensive collection of minerals and
models, will recommence her instructions directly after Christ
mas, at her house, 57, Great Titch field-street.
   Mr. Taunton's Winter Course of Lectures on Anatomy, Phy
siology, Pathology, and Surgery, will commence at the Theatre
of Anatomy, Hatton Garden, on Saturday, January 24, at eight
o'clock   inthe evening precisely, and be continued every Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday, at the same hour.
   Mr. Thomas Bell, F.L.S. will commence his Lectures on the
Structure and Diseases of the Teeth, &c. at Guy's Hospital, on
Friday the 9th of January, at half past five o'clock. Tickets may
   Vol. 50. No. 236. Dec. 1817.                 G
                                                g                      be

 466              List of Patents for  new Inventions.
 be obtained by applying to Mr. Stocker, at the Hospital, -or to
  Mr. Bell, 17, Ferichurch-street.
     Mr. Guthrie, Deputy Inspector of Military Hospitals, will com
  mence his Spring Course of Lectures on Surgery, on Monday,
  the 19th January, at Five Minutes past Eight in the Evening,
 in the Waiting Room of the Royal Westminster Infirmary for
  Diseases of the Eye, Mary-le-bone Street, Piccadilly.        To be
  continued on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
     Medical Officers of the Navy, the Army, and the Ordnance,
 will be admitted gratis, on obtaining a recommendation from the
  Heads of their respective Departments, which must be presented
 to Mr. Guthrie between the hours of Two and Half- past Four,
  at his house, No. 2, Berkeley Street, Berkeley Square.
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     To William Harry, of Morriston, near Swansea, Glamorgan
 shire, for his improvement in the building, constructing or erect
 ing the roofs or upper parts of furnaces used for the smelting of
 copper and other ores, or any of their metals, or for any other
 purposes requiring strong fires. — 3d Oct. 1817- — 2 months.
     To John Oldham, of South Cumberland-street, Dublin, for his
 improvements in the mode of propelling ships and vessels on
 seas, rivers, and canals, by the agency of steam. — 10th Oct. —
 6 months.
     To Robert Dickinson,     esq. of Great Queen-street,  Lincoln's-
 inn-fields,  Middlesex,  for his  improvements   in sea-beacons and
 their moorings.  —  1st November.   —  6 months.
     To Frederick Dizi, of Crabtree-street, in the parish of Ful-
 ham, Middlesex, for his improvements on harps. — 1st Novem
 ber. — 6 months.
     To Francis Marcellin Molle, of Bucklersbury, in the city of
 London, merchant, in consequence of a communication made to
him by a certain foreigner residing abroad, of certain improve
 ments in propelling boats and other vessels. — 1st November. —
6 months.
    To Henry Meade Ogie, esq. of Turnham-green, Middlesex, for
his improvements in and on tea and coffee biggins. — 1st Novem
ber. — 6 months.
     To George Clymer, late of Pennsylvania, but now of Cornhill
in the city of London, mechanic, for certain improvements in
writing presses. — 1st November. — 6 months.
    To Thomas Curson Hansard, of Peterborough-court, Fleet-
street, in the city of London, printer, for his improvements on
and additions to printing presses, and also in the processes of
printing.— 1st November. — 6 months.
                                                                 To

               List of Patents for   new Inventions,              467
    To Daniel Towers Shears, of Fleet-market, in the city of Lon
don, copper-smith, for his invented machine for the cooling of
liquids, which may he applied to the condensation of vapour, and
 may be of great utility in the condensing of spirits in the process
of distillation, and in cooling worts, beer, and other liquids. —
 1st November. — 2 months.
    To Samuel Hall, of Basford, Nottingham, cotton- spinner, for
his method of improving thread or yarn, as usually manufac
tured, of every description, whether fabricated from flax, cotton,
wool, silk, or any other vegetable, animal, or other substance
whatever. — 3d November. — 6 months.
   To S. Hall, (as above) for a certain method of improving every
kind of lace or net, or any description of manufactured goods
whose fabric is composed of holes or interstices made from thread
or yarn, as usually manufactured, of every description, whether
fabricated from flax, cotton, wool, silk, or any other vegetable,
animal, or other substance whatsoever. — 3d November. —               •
 6 months.
   To Joseph Claude Niepee, of Frith-street, Soho-square, for an
invention communicated to him by his brother, Joseph Niepee,
a foreigner resident abroad, with certain additions of his own, of
certain improvements in the means of propelling boats and other
vessels, and which improvements are also applicable to machi
nery of various descriptions. — 25 th November. — 6 months.
    To Francis Baisler, of Oxford-street, for certain improvements
on machinery used for cutting paper, which he intends to deno
minate Baisler's Patent Plough. — 28th Nov. — 6 months.
   To John Hague, of Pearl-street, Spital Fields, for certain im
provements in the method of expelling molasses or syrup from
sugars, and also in refining of sugars. — 2Stli Nov. — 6 months.
   To John Turner, of Birmingham, for certain improvements in
the plating copper or brass, or a mixture of copper and brass,
with pure or standard gold, or gold mixed with a greater portion
of alloy; and in the preparation of the same for rolling into
sheets. — 5th December. — 6 months.
   To William Buck, of Ponsburn Back, in the county of Hert
ford, and Robert Harvey, of Epping, in the county of Essex, for
certain improvements in the means or mode of making pipes and
tubes of porcelain clay or other ductile substances. — 5th De
cember. — 6 months.
   To Mr. Stratton, of Gutter-lane, Cheapside, for improvements
in certain part or parts of gas apparatus. — 5th December. — 6
months.                                                         ,
   To Joseph Wild, of Pylewell House, in the county of South
ampton, for a machine for separating corn, grain, and seeds from
the straw. — 5th December. — 2 months.
                                  G  g 2                           To

468          List of Patents for      new Inventions. — Astronomy.
     To Stephen Price, of Stroud, in the county of Gloucester, en -
gineer, for his improved substitute for teasles to be used in the
 dressing of woollen cloths or fabrics which require dressing. — 5th
 December. — 2 months.
      To Moses Poole, of Lincoln's-Inn, for certain improvements
 in steam engines, communicated to him by a certain foreigner
 residing abroad. — 15th December. — 6 months.
      To Jean Frederick, Marquis de Chabannes, of Drury-lane,
 Middlesex, for certain improvements upon the inventions for
 which letters patent were granted to him, the first bearing date
  the 16th day of January in the 55th year of his majesty's reign,
  and the second bearing date the 5th day of December in the
  56th year of his reign; which improvements are applicable to the
  purposes of warming, cooling, and conducting air in houses and
  other buildings ; and also of warming, cooling, evaporating, con
  ducting, and taking the residuum from liquids, and to other useful
  purposes, partly of his invention, and partly communicated to him
  by a foreigner residing abroad. — 19th Dec. — 6 months.
       To Jean Frederick, Marquis de Chabannes, of Drury-lane,
   for his new method of constructing pipes or tubes of copper,
   sheet lead, sheet iron, tin, or other metals or mixture of metals,
  capable of being reduced into sheets. — 19th Dec. — 2 months.
        To John Lewis, Wm. Lewis, and William Davies, all ofBrins-
   comb, in the county of Gloucester, for certain improvements on
   wire gig mills for the purpose of dressing woollen and other
   cloths that may require such process. — 19th Dec. — 6 months.
      , To Arthur Howe Holdworth,           of Dartmouth, Devonshire, for
   an improvement or improvements on gazometers. — 2 months.—
   19th Dec.
               ASTRONOMICAL PHENOMENA, JANUARY 1818.
    D. H. M.                                  D. H. M.
     I.i0.21     ([ x mi                     16.   .   d in apogee
     1.14 29         A. Ttu                 17-15.26
                                                                       f S.
                 5                                     d  <?
    2. 4. 7      (t  a  =s«                  18.   .   2 776 Mayer*
    3. .        H        in contact          18.18.46  I  125
                 I
                      $                                        H
    3. 8. 53        Jm,                     20.  1.42 © enters zz
    4.13.25      d   6  Ophiuchi            20 21.30   dun
     5. '.       d  in perigee              23.18.1    d rj SI
                            * 26'  N.       26.21. 46 d y rig
     7. .           a- as
    8.16. 6 d £ Yf                          27.ll.52   {
     g. .                    * & N.         28.20.20 d ^ 1*X.
                \i 58 xx.
   11.14. 9       t  29X                    29.10.20 d a &
   11.     .     a 740 Mayer* 18' S.        30.14.14 Im ) S'm 6      N. of  <t
   14.    .     b!  stationary              30.15.15 Em J      Cent.
   14.    .     (J  stationary
                                                                     A BRIL

                                   Meteor.                            469
                           A  BRILLIANT METEOR.
                                                Ipswieh, Dec. 18, 1817.
     SlR, — It may not be uninteresting to     some of your readers to
have an account of a brilliant meteor I observed on the morning
of the Sth instant, at three minutes before one o'clock. I was
looking at Mars, whose position is near to the star in the bull's
northern horn. About midway between the two horns I sud
denly perceived a fiery body resembling a red-hot ball of iron,
four or five inches in diameter, which having passed three or four
degrees in a direction between the principal stars of Capella and
 Canis minor, burst into a spherical body of white light nearly as
large as the full moon, of so great lustre as scarcely to be borne
by the eyes, throwing out a tail about three degrees in length of a
beautiful rose colour tinged round the edges with blue.           It thus
proceeded in its course without apparent diminution towards the
principal star in the head of Hydra, (very near to the ecliptic,) a
 little beyond which it suddenly disappeared (I believe) with an
 explosion ; as I distinctly heard a rumbling noise like that of
 cannon discharged at a distance, about ten or twelve seconds
 afterwards.      Its duration as nearly as I can estimate was about
 five seconds, during which it traversed a space of nearly sixty de
 grees.     It is scarcely possible to give an adequate description of
 the vivid splendour which characterized this extraordinary phe
 nomenon.        It cast a light around equal to the noon day's sun :
 1 could compare it to nothing so well as the beautiful dazzling
 light exhibited by the combustion of phosphorus in oxygen gas ;
 its effect upon the organs of light being analogous.         The baro
 meter was falling at the time, and in the course of the night fell
 altogether an inch and one tenth; the thermometer 42°. Within
 a quarter of an hour afterwards the atmosphere became entirely
 obscured by clouds ; violent tempests of wind and rain succeed
 ing, although the stars were previously visible and the zenith free
from vapours.        The short period elapsing during the meteor's
 course renders it difficult to be more particular in description, as
 it may scarcely be possible altogether to resist the influence of
imagination upon a phenomenon so unexpected, so striking, and
 so beautiful.      Astonishment and pleasure not unmixed with awe
 oppress the mind with a variety of reflections, not the least of
 which is our total inability accurately to account for these blazing
 wonders of the aerial regions.
     As this part of Meteorology appears to be in its infancy, I
should think it would be very desirable if a plan could be pointed
 out for more particularly observing and noticing these bodies ;
bo that a series of tables might hereafter be made of them.             I
should suppose the distance of this meteor must have been about
two miles, and height rather more than a mile and a half.
                             I am, Sir, &c.                     J. A.

                    1
 470                            Meteorology.
 Meteorological Journal kept at Wdllhamstow,                    Essex, from
                  November        15 to December    15, 1817.
 [Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
               (a second time) between Nuitn and One P.M.J
 Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
 November.
 15    55    29-32       SE — NW. — Rainy; showers, sun and wind ;
       55                  bright star-light;     a shower at 9| P.M.
                            Moon first quarter.
 16    43    29- IS      SW. — Hazy; sunshine; some rain after dark;
       51                  dark, damp, and windy.
 17    52    30-10      SW. — Hazy; damp hazy day; light, but
       59                  neither moon nor stars visible.
 18    52    30-21      SW. — Beautiful red sunrise      ; cloudy day ; stars
       57                   and cumuli.
 19   39    30-34       NW. — Clear morn       ; very fine day; clear moon
       50                  and star-light.
 20    35   30-43       NW. — Foggy and white dew             ; sun through
       43                  fog; light, but neither moon nor stars visible.
                        SW. — Gray morning; cirrostratus and clear;
                      '
21    46    29-88
       50                  fine day; light, but no moon nor stars visible.
22    39    30-11       NW. — Fine sunrise; very fine day; cloudy,
                           but light.
23    41    SO- 11      W. — Gray morning ; gray day; cloudy. Full
      46                   moon.
24    49    29-93       W. — Gray morning; gray day; slight rain;
      50                   cumuli; stars and moon.
25    33    29-76       W — NW. — Clear moon-light morning; fine
      40                   sunny day; some rain after 4 P.M. ; cloudy,
                          but light.
26    41    30-00       W— NW— SW. — Cirrostratus;              ground very
      52                   wet ; fine day; light, but no moon nor stars
                          visible.
27    47    30-10       SW. — Gray morning; and gray day; very
      52                  dark at 3 P.M. ; corona round the moon, and
                          stars.
28    46    30- 10
      50
29    48    3001        S. — Hazy;     foggy; gleams of sun; fine      day;
      53                  dark night.
30    51    29-98       S. — Wind and showers; hazy day;               dark
      54                  night.
                                                                  December

                             Meteorology.                             471
Decembe r
  1  53   29-88    SW. — Rain; very rainy day; rain till after
     54              9 P.M. ; very dark night.          Moon last quar
                     ter.
 2   45   29-66    SW — N. — Rainy till about noon         ; light orange
     48             sunset    ; star-light.
 3   32   29-54    NW. — Clear at 7 A.M.         ; at 8 slight snow and
     40               rain ;   sun and showers; fine star-light.
 4   30   29-88    N — SW. — Clear, and white frost; fine day;
     37              foggy at 6 P.M. ; 7 P.M. star-light; 9 dark ;
                     at midnight star-light.
 5   43   29-86    SW. — Cloudy; cold gray day; dark night.
     45
 6   39   29-43    SW — NW. — Very damp and foggy; fine day;
     43             sun and cirrus; bright star-light.
 7   33   29-43    SW — W. — Foggy, and white frost ; sun and
     41             some showers ; star-light.
 8   37   28-73    SW. — Clear and cirrostratus ; foggy; showery;
     45             very dark night. New moon.
 9   46   29-90    NW. — Cirrostratus, and wind; fine day;
     48              brown orange sunset ; star-light.
10   30   29-21    NW. — Clear ; and white frost ; some snow
     36             and rain before 10 A.M.; fine'day; star
                    light.
11   24   29-43    SW. — Clear     ;   white  frost ; fine day ;     clear
                    star-light.
12   24-  29-64   SE. — Foggy; fog very thick          at 9   A.M.;    sun
     29             through fog; dark night;            some    rain and
                    snow.
13   39   29-55   E — SE. — Cloudy; cold cloudy day; and small
     41             rain ; rain.
14   41   29-53   SE. — Damp, and cloudy; small rain almost
     45             all day; rainy; storm, hail and wind at 9
                    P.M.
15   30   29-54   W — SW. — - Fine clear star-light morn            ; fine
     43              day ;   showers    afternoon  ;  stars  ; moon    and
                    stars.      Moon first quarter.
   *** 1st and 4 th of December grass in the garden mowed               —
not common after October.
                                                               METEORO

472                          Meteorology.       .
          METEOROLOGICAL       JOURNAL KEPT AT BOSTOK,
                           LINCOLNSHIRE.
    [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
          Age of
  3817.    the   Thermo   Baro    State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon    meter.  meter.             of the Clouds.
          DAYS.
Nov.  14     5     53-    29-60   Rain
      15     6     53-    29-49   Ditto
      16     7     53"    30-     Very fine
      17     8     57-5   30-30   Fair — the air very damp
      18     9     56'    30' 26  Fine
      19    10     49'    30-53   Cloudy
      20   11      44.    30-48   Very fine
     SI    12      51-    29-94 Ditto
     22 13         46-    30-23 Ditto
     23 full      48'     30-15 Ditto
     34 15         48'    29-85 Cloudy
      S5 16        39-    29-04 Fine
      86 17        50-    30-12 Cloudy — rain      A.M.
      27   18      51-    30-15 Ditto
      88    19                    Very fine
      26   20      55-    29-98 Ditto
      30   21      53-    30-05 Cloudy
 Dec.   1  22      35-    29.83 Ditto — severe frost in the morning
        S  23      46-    29-63 Fine
        3  24      44.    29-66 Rain — hail stormP.M. — rime frost
        4  25      38-5   30-83 Very fine
        5  26      46-    29-71   Cloudy
        6  27      41'    29-46   Fine
        7  28      44'    29-46   Cloudy — heavy rain A.M.
        8 new      40'    28-71   Fine — rain P.M.
        9    1     39"    29-26   Fair
      10     2     35-    29-39   Fine — rime frost
      11     3     33-5   29-15   Very fine — ditto severe
      12     4     33-    29-60   Ditto — ditto        ditto
      13     5     38-    29-78   Cloudy   —  rain P.M.
      14     6     43-    2963 Rain
      15     7     44-    29-72   Very fine
                                                               METEORO-

                                              Meteorology.                                                473
                                     meteorological table,
                           By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                             For December 1817.
                     Thermometer.
                                              O    .    Height of
Days of                                      —    JS                                           Weather.
                 o'Clock
                                                        the Barom.
                           Morning
Month.
                                     Noon.
                                             o    <*.
                                                         Inches.
                 8
Nov.   27         46                 52       46        30.08                9         Cloudy
       28         47                 50       47           •02               16        Fair
       29         48                 55       50        29-92                          Small Rain
                                                                             6 0 0 0
       30          52                55       54           •90                         S. Rain
 Dec,    1          55               55       50           •72                         Rain
                   48                52       40           •42                         Cloudy
         4 3 2
                   35                39       38           •53               10        Showery
                   34                37       39           •72               10        Fair
                   43                46       42           •58                9        Cloudy
         6 5       43                44                    •35               14        Fair
                                              37
          7        38                43       39           •31               13        Fair
                   40                45       38        28-51                          Stormy
                                                                             0 6 0
          &
         9          38               42       35        29-17                          Cloudy
        It.         32               37       30           •46                         Snow
       1
       1             27              35       28           •50                8        Fair
         12          25              35       40           •60                         Fair
                                                                             0 0 9
        13          40               42       40           •58                         Rain
        14 40                        47       47           •42                         Rain
        15 38                        47       42           •60               10        Fair
        16 42                        50       47           •61               0         Stormy
        17 42                        45       40           •60               14        Fail-
        18 43                        40       40         28-84                         Fair
                                                                              0 9
        19 40                        46       42            •78                        Showery
        20 42                        42       36         29-50                         Cloudy
        21 32                         37      34           •40                9 7      Cloudy
        22 31                         35      35           •45               12        Fair
        23 28                         35      30            •46              12        Cloudy
        24 23                         34      31            •70              14        Fair
         85           29              36      29            •90              17        Fail-
         26           27              33      32         30 09               15        Fair
                                                                    is"
                    iN.B. The Barometer's height                          taken at one o'clock.

                                       [     m     ]
                            INDEX to VOL. L.
Acetate          of potash. New process       Cellinge' s evidence    on   steam-engines,
   to prepare,                           314                                             95
Adamson's horizontal water-wheel, 256          Colours.     On,         72, 128,241,366
Aerial navigation.       On,               27  Cosmcgeny . Boyd on,                     375
Air in hospitals. Experiments on, 433         Davy (Sir H.) on flame,                      3
Alcohol to extract from potatoes,        337  Davy (E.) New tinder box, 230 ; on air
Analyses.     Malvern waters,             149    in hospitals,                          433
Annuities.    Theorems for value of, 164      Dawson on steam engines,                  287
Asthma. Galvanism a remedy for, 226,           Deaths. Mr, Singer, 75 ; Werner, 75 ;
                                         297     De Luc,                                392
Ast'onomy, 76, 155,233, 236,318, 395,         D e Luc.      Death of                    392
                               409, 440, 468  Dickmson's patent beacon,                 443
Atomic theory.       On the,             407  Dudd's iron bridge system,                389
BakeweWs safety-furnace,                 211  Dodd's (G.) evidence on steam engines,
Barometer. A new one, 154; Mountain,                                                    243
   New scale for,                        316  Donkm's evidence on steam engines, 52
Beaconing.      New system of,           443  D logons blood.     To extract the colour
Beams.     On transverse strength of,416         of,                                   314
Bemvell on life annuities,               164  Dyspepsia.      Galvanism a remedy for,
Biography.      Werner, 182 1 Deluc, 392                                          226, 297
Blow pipe. On the oxi-hydrogen, 106           Eau Mediiinalr. Experiments wiih, 429
                                         145  Ebbing and flouring springs.       Cause of,
B  ats, steam.      Parliamentary Report                                           81,267
   on,50,    83, 167, 243, 327; queries       Ecmxorry <f Fuel,                   388,462
   respecting, 114, 149; answer to, 287       Electriiily. Elice on,                    453
Boiling spiings of Java,                 462  Ether.      Phenomenon connected with,
Bompass on heat, light, and electri                                                     387
   city,                            136, 366  Fea^n.      On general   terms, and on vi
Books, New, 65, 130, 224,297, 379, 449           sion,                                 379
Boyd on cosmogony,                       375  Fish, a non-descript                     391
Bramah's evidence on steam-engines, 87        Flame, . researches on                       3
Branches process to purify mercury,           Forster (Westgarth) on strata,           21 6
   348J on an oil found in nut-galls,40 1;    —   — — (Thomas) on a new species of
   on colour in vegetable tincture, 450          wren,                                 296
Bralhwaite's evidence on steam-engines,       F-uit-t'ers, to force to bear,           411
                                         177  Fuel, ceconomy of                  388, 462
Bridlington.     Strata near,            200  G.ilUwuy's evidence on steam engines,
Brunt it's evidence on boilers,          251                                            174
Cary's Meteorological Tables, 80, 160,        Galls.     On an oil found in            401
                          240, 320, 400, 473  Galvanic Trough improved            145, 312 -
Cnyley on aerial navigation,               27 Gnlva;i.nx identified with nervous in
Chapman's evidence on steam-engines,             fluence                          225, 306
                                         167  Gases,   inftimmable.   Ex per. on          4
Chemical Ph loiophy.        Walker's,      38 Geil-jcy, 45, 122,124 200,216,269,
Chevreul on mineral cameleon,            291                                274, 359, 362
Chlorine.    What ?                      23 1 Glas<,  luminous at 1C350                   9
Chromatics.     On,             72,128,241    G'enRny.       On Parallel Roads of      374
Coal-mine-, ancier.t. Discovered,        149  Granite Hints on position of             361
Cohesion, Specific.     On,              413  Gravitation denied             35, 101,  2 19
Cohesive force.     On,                  413  Ghallier, on the Atomic theory,          407
Colchicum autumnale,         a  remedy    for Hare on oxi-hydrogen blow pipe,           106
  gout,                                  429  Halt's evidence on steam engines,        179
Collections,   geological.     On forming,    Hwg eaves on chromatics,                  128
                                         269                                            eat.

                                       INDEX.                                              475
    lit at.
          Effect of, in combustion, 3 ; Ex         Platinum.      New compound of,       230
      per. on 7 ; Work on               136        Poisons.    On,                        144
    Heming on origin of nations,   65. 130         Potash, to prepare from potatoe tops,
    Hempel's method of forcing fruit-trees,                                              338
                                             4ll   Potatoes Alrohol to extract from, 337;
    Higgins,        the   author   of the Atomic      Potash from tops of,               338
        theory,                          407       Prize Question,                       155
    Hume, on medicines for gout.         428       Quadratic The.*em.       A new,       378
    Hunt's evidence on steam engines,     83       Rarefaition.     Effects of, on flame and
    Ibbrtstm's physiology of vegetables, 341          explosion                             4
    Jnglis on ebbmg and flowing springs, 8 1       Reade's quadratic theorem,            378
    Iodine.    Ure's process to obtain   161       Rii hier's evidence on explosion in Well-
     Iron Bridge, on principle of tenacity,           close-square,                      249
                                         389       R'.ynlSiaety,                  449,456
    Java.     Boiling springs of,        462       Royal Sociity <>fEdinburgh,         457
    Je stop's evidence on boilers,       327       Rusnel on Phillips's hypotheses of mo
    £night on expansion and contraction of            tion,                           204
        timber,                          437       Safely furnace. BakeweU's,211     ;Mur
    Laplace on Saturn's ring,            400          ray's,                            217
    Lean's evidence on steam engines      61       Safety-lamps.     Davy on, 3, 232; Mur
    Life Annuities. Theorems for value of,            ray on, 74, 143, 313; rewards be
                                             164      stowed for, 307, 386; testimony as to
    L'ght.  Bofflpass on,                    136      original inventor, 387 controversy
                                                                             ;
    L-ghU   On component parts of           S66       concerning,                       458
    Lightning. Queries on death by          3J5    Saturn.     On ring of,-             409
    Lithography,                        464        SUiiman's    exper. with oxi-hydrogen
    Mn'ivern Waters.   Analysis of      149           blowpipe,                         106
    Mammoth.     Another found          392        S'ght.    Case of, restored,         316
    Mathematical question,              115        Solids.   On resistance of,          413
    Maudtslay's evidence on steam engines,         Spence's Manuscripts,                307
                                        ) 73       Springs, ebbmg and flowing.    Cause of,
    Meat, to preserve,                    74                                        81, 267
    Mercury. On purifying               348        Steam- engines.   Report of Committee
    Meteor seen in December,            469           of House of Commons on, 50, 83,
    Meteorology. 77, 156, 236, 319,395,470            167, 243,327;      work by, in Corn
    Mmeral Cameleun. On change of co                 wall,      74,150,231,312,388,459
       lour in                              291    S'ee.'s evidence  on boilers,     251
    M'.neralcgy,                       116,189     Steele's Nooth's apparatus.   On,   73
    Mountain Bar meter. New scale for, 316         Swallows.    Hibernation of,      317
    Madge on Trigonometrical survey,40;            Tatum on vegetation,          42, 21 3, 353
       on non descript fish                 391    Taylor'^ (J.) evidence on steam-engines,
    Muriate of Ammonia.      Decomposition                                                  90
      of,                                   213    Taylor's (P.) evidence on steam-engines,
    Muriate rf Mercury, tec.                457                                            169
    Murmy (J ) on safety lamps, 74, 143 ;          Temperature, animal. On,                225
       on vegetation, 144, 460; on blow-           Tillnch's evidence on steam-engines, 180
       p pe, 145; on galvanic troughs, 145,        Timber. Expansion and contraction of,
       81     2l;
              on safety furnace, 217: on                                                   437
      chlorine,                             457    Tinder box.     A new,                  230
    Music,                             115,321     Tiedgotd    on Phillips's hypothesis of
*   Nautical A'mnnac.    Errata in. 233, 440           motion, 35, 208; on stratification,
    Nervous influence identified with gal              12;   on resistance of solids,      413
       vanism,                         ^25, 306    Trees,F   ult, to force to bear,        411-
    New Book', 65, 130, 224, 297, 379, 449         Tiigono metrical survey.     On the, 40,
    N.mmo's evidence on boilers,            329                                            232
    Northumberland     Geology of, 122, 358        Turnsole. Exper on,                     450
    Nut-galls contain    volatile oil,
                           a                401    Upington on mus:c and oratory,          32
                                                                                            1
    Od   >fNut-galls.  On                   401    Ure's process to obtain iodine, 161;
    Patents,     76, 154, 235, 317, 394, 166          on chlorine,                         231
    Philip on vital functions,         224, 297    Vegetati n, 42, 121, 144, 206, 213, 341,
    Phiu'pSsNew Theory. On, 35, 101,204,                                              353, 459
                                            219                                       Vesuvius.
                                                         i

                                 INDEX.
Vesuvius.   Eruption of,            232    Williams's " Mineral Kingdom,"      On,
Piston.   On the axiomatical laws of,                               116, 189, 274
                                    379    Winch on geology of Northumhei land,
Vivian's evidence on boilers,       333                                        122
Walker's Chemical Philosophy,         38   Hood on hibernation of swallows, 317
Water-spout.   Formation of,         146   Woolj's evidence on boilers,        331
Water-wheels, horizontal.   On,     256    Wren.    New species of,            226
Werner.    Biograph. memoir of,      1 80  Wright's evidence on steam-eugines,24S
                     END OF THE FIFTIETH VOLUME.
                 Printed by R. and A. Taylor, Shoe-Lane,  London.


    -
i
  r
     t

   I
 i
\
     I




       C     2/
005 2bb OSfl
 H~   if A


